ABOUT THE COVER Today, more than ever, Ayala is committed to innovation. Our investments in the digital economy are moving into the mainstream as consumer preferences shift to technology-enabled services. Informed by insight and deep analytics, our data-driven strategy has helped us respond to the disruption confronting parts of our business. Aggressive competition, changing business models, evolving customer expectations, and climate issues are transforming industries at an accelerated pace. As the Ayala group undergoes a digital transformation journey, we aim to continue to deliver value to our stakeholders as we strive to remain as a catalyst for progressive growth in the Philippines. We hope to walk alongside you as we continue to navigate this path to an exciting future. AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT ABOUT THIS INTEGRATED REPORT The opening spread for this IR’s Value Creation chapter is a map that shows the correlation among all factors involved in the process of creating shared value. The 2019 Ayala Integrated Report (IR) offers a holistic view of our businesses and how our performance and With the intention to assess how we have influenced movements in the country’s economic and social the values we have created for our stakeholders give a meaningful impact to the economy, environment, and landscape and of optimizing opportunities, we evaluated data culled from a rigorous collection process. society. It shows our strong focus on and commitment to sustainability. This report is a company-wide, group-wide effort brought about by the collaboration of different departments In this report we mark milestones in our UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) targets guided by the and business units across Ayala. Our Investor Relations team, Risk Management & Sustainability team, and Ayala Sustainability Blueprint: Bridging the Filipino to 2030, highlighting the role of bold leadership and Management reviewed all information in this report and was duly approved by the Board of Directors shared vision in achieving our 2019 results. Moreover, we reviewed and reconfigured our Sustainability for publishing. Reporting Framework considering ESG material topics with more depth. OUR APPROACH TO EXTERNAL ASSURANCE Our Board’s Audit Committee is mandated to review and REPORTING SCOPE approve the audit, audit-related, and non-audit services from This report details the consolidated financial, economic, Additional references for specific external auditors. It provides oversight on the performance environmental, social, and governance performance across stakeholders are available at of external and internal auditors. our business units from January 1 to December 31, 2019. www.ayala.com.ph. Notes and further explanations accompany the text and tables. Included are disclosures on business expansion from ON OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS our unlisted subsidiaries and affiliates. SyCip Gorres Velayo & Co., a member firm of Ernst & Young More information about our audit International Ltd, is the external auditor of the company’s process is found on pages 197-199. financial statements, with Lucy Lim Chan as the partnerFor Management Discussion and REPORTING STANDARDS in-charge. In accordance with Securities and Exchange Analysis of Financial Condition and In our commitment to align our non-financial information For more details about the various Commission (SEC) regulations, the audit partner principally Results of Operation, go to pages report to global best practices, this report was guided by frameworks referred to, check handling the company’s account is rotated every five years. 217-222. principles and content elements of the Integrated Reporting www.integratedreporting.org, <IR> Framework provided by the International Integrated www.globalreporting.org, Reporting Council (IIRC). The report on our performance www.sasb.org, www.unglobalcompact.org, ON OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE on material topics and disclosures are framed according to www.fsb-tcfd.org and www.wbcsd.org. DNV-GL, an independent organization and global provider The full Independent Assurance the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 10 principles, of certification, assurance assessment, and training Statement is on pages 223-226. Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and services, validated the figures and information related to our Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Standards. The World sustainability performance and <IR> Framework. The Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) group-wide assurance process was done in two phases, programs for business transformation helped highlight our which included site visits and interviews with executives target for specific UN Sustainable Development Goals and from the Ayala group. Due to COVID-19 concerns, the underscore the interconnectedness of our disclosures. second phase of the assessment was done remotely. Starting 2019, we phased in the Financial Stability Board The TCFD disclosure of Ayala Corporation (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures can be found on pages 75-78. FEEDBACK (TCFD) recommendations for voluntary climate-related We welcome feedback and inquiries to help us You may e-mail your feedback and financial disclosures aimed at providing useful information improve our future reporting. comments to: investorrelations@ to investors, lenders, and insurers. ayala.com.ph, sustainability@ayala. com.ph, and esg@ayala.com.ph. A copy of our financial statements can be accessed at www.ayala.com.ph. 1 2 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT STATEMENT FROM THE BOARD The Board ensures that this report maintains integrity and confirms that all performance and impact disclosures made are presented fairly. Together with the Ayala management, the Board gave high-level supervision to the internal teams responsible for the reporting process and production. The internal parties with relevant skills and experience devoted significant efforts in the reporting process NOTE ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS to guarantee that it duly follows particular standards and that the Ayala story is presented in a fair manner. Ayala also engaged external parties, SyCip Gorres This report contains statements describing the company’s Velayo & Co. and DNV-GL, to validate and assure financial and non-financial objectives, projections, estimates, and expectations, which disclosures to improve accuracy, objectivity, and overall report quality. The report may be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning was prepared under the supervision of the Chief Finance, Risk, and Sustainability of applicable securities laws and regulations. Actual results Officer, Jose Teodoro K. Limcaoco. could differ materially from those expressed or implied. Important factors that could make a difference to the The Integrated Report contains certain forward-looking statements which, company’s operations include, among others, economic by their nature, involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events conditions affecting demand or supply and price conditions and circumstances that may be beyond Ayala’s control. In addition, regulations of in the domestic and overseas markets in which the company the Philippine Stock Exchange prohibit making price sensitive forecasts without operates, changes in government regulations, tax laws, considerable independent review and process. The directors therefore advise and other statutes and incidental factors. readers to use caution regarding interpreting any forward-looking statements in the report. The Board unanimously approved this report on 12 March 2020, and authorized its release on 14 April 2020. Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala Fernando Zobel de Ayala Chairman & CEO President & COO Jose Teodoro K. Limcaoco Chief Finance, Risk & Sustainability Officer 3 4 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 About this Integrated Report 4 Statement from the Board 7 Ayala At A Glance 9 Our 2019 Milestones 11 Geographic Presence OUR VISION OUR CORE VALUES 13 Our Portfolio We will be the most relevant, innovative, Integrity and enduring Philippine-based business We do the right thing in every OUR LEADERSHIP group, enabling shared value and decision that we make. 21 Message from the Chairman prosperity for the many stakeholders 25 Message from the President we serve. Long-term Vision 31 Board of Directors We build sustainable businesses. 43 Management Committee OUR MISSION Anchored on values of integrity, Empowering leadership OUR VALUE CREATION long-term vision, empowering leadership, We bring out the best in each 47 Creating Shared Value Map and with a strong commitment to national other as leaders at any level. 55 Our Strategy development, Ayala fulfills its mission to 61 Business Model, Outlook, the Vision Pillars ensure long-term profitability and value Commitment to National Development 67 Risk Management creation. Ayala creates synergies as it We respond to the country’s 79 Stakeholder Engagement builds mutually-beneficial partnerships changing needs. 87 Materiality and alliances with those who share its 89 Sharper Focus on ESG philosophies and values. OUR PROMISE 105 The Ayala Sustainability Blueprint Reinventing Businesses, OUR PURPOSE Transforming Communities BUSINESS REVIEWS To improve lives through resilient 127 Ayala Land businesses and risk-calculated 133 Bank of the Philippine Islands investments that have a meaningful 139 Globe Telecom and lasting impact on the country’s 145 AC Energy economic and social landscape. 151 Manila Water 157 AC Industrials 163 AC Infrastructure 169 AC Health 175 iPeople 181 AC Ventures 187 Ayala Foundation 193 OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 213 AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS 215 ANNEXES 5 Circuit Makati, a 21 hectare development featuring a world-class indoor theater, multipurpose entertainment spaces, and open grounds 6 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT A view of the Makati skyline by night. AYALA AT A GLANCE “History has shown Ayala’s resilience across multiple business cycles over the 186 years that we have been in operation. This ability to deal with adversity has been built on our fundamental strengths of adhering 15.8% 11.3% 12.9% 10-YEAR 10-YEAR AVERAGE RETURN 10-YEAR TOTAL to the highest standards of corporate governance, always looking to develop value over the long term, NET INCOME CAGR ON COMMON EQUITY SHAREHOLDER RETURN CAGR remaining flexible to adjust to changing circumstances, and constantly aligning our business objectives with the broader development needs of the country. These fundamental values have stood us in good stead through the years, defined Ayala as a successful multi-business group, and ensured our continuity and relevance throughout the years.” ₱1.47 ₱420.8 ₱205.9 TRILLION IN 10-YEAR BILLION IN 10-YEAR TAXES BILLION IN 10-YEAR Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala, Chairman and CEO GROUP-WIDE CAPEX PAID BY THE AYALA GROUP PARENT CAPEX SPENT ₱1.34 ₱93.4 ₱295.3 NET INCOME RETURN ON COMMON EQUITY TRILLION IN BILLION IN CASH BILLION IN REVENUES TOTAL ASSETS AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (in billion pesos) 13.2% ₱57.59 6.5% ₱54.12 12.2% BILLION EMPLOYEE 11.9% LOAN TO VALUE RATIO EARNINGS PER SHARE 12.6% WAGE AND BENEFITS 12.1% 12.2% 11.0% 8.8% 9.1% 9.8% 60 1,758 GIGAWATT HOURS OF 72,013 TOTAL TRAINING HOURS TOTAL DIRECT HIRES PER PERSON ATTRIBUTABLE RENEWABLE 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ENERGY GENERATED 7 8 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT OUR 2019 • AC Energy and BIM Group commission the 330MW JULY SEPTEMBER MILESTONES solar farm in Ninh Thuan • AC Energy enters into a • AC Infra begins the actual province, its maiden binding agreement with construction and civil works Vietnam project. Power Partners for the of LRT line 1 Extension transfer of its indirect project. • AC Energy and The ownership coal-fired power • AC Energy launches its Blue Circle enter into a projects in Kauswagan, • AC Infra’s Entrego US$400 million senior JANUARY MARCH shareholders’ agreement to Lanao del Norte inaugurates its 12,000 sqm perpetual fixed-for-life green develop the 40MW Dai Phong sorting and distribution bond issuance, the first US • Manila Water receives the • GCash partners with CIMB facility in Laguna Technopark. dollar-denominated FFL Wind Farm in Vietnam. Notice to Proceed from the Philippines for the bank’s AUGUST green bond issued globally. Municipality of Manaoag in digital savings wallet called • Ayala buys back • Globe strengthens its Pangasinan for the provision GSave, which gives Filipinos • NEDA Board approves the 3.8 million shares from efforts to provide nonof water supply operation easier access to a bank NAIA rehabilitation proposal Mitsubishi Corporation. telecommunications services and septage management in account. of the NAIA Consortium, by rebranding Globe Capital the municipality. subject to a Swiss challenge. Ventures to 917 Ventures, • Manila Water energizes the JUNE the largest corporate • AC Energy launches US$410 Cardona Water Treatment • AC Industrials, through AC incubator in the Philippines. million in Green Bond, the Plant at an initial supply Motors, launches Maxus OCTOBER first Climate Bond Initiativeof 24 million liters per day certified, publicly listed following the completion of Philippines to complement • AC Energy and Yoma US Dollar green bonds in Phase 1 of the project. its product portfolio. group forge partnership to Southeast Asia. jointly explore developing • BPI establishes its Green renewable energy projects • Ayala signs a definitive Finance Framework, in Myanmar. agreement to acquire a 20 highlighting its percent stake in Myanmarlong-standing commitment • Manila Water signs a 30-year • Globe acquires 77 percent based Yoma Group for a total to fund projects with clear raw water supply offtake equity interest in leading consideration of US$237.5 environmental benefits. agreement with the MWSS electronic payment service million for the investment. and WawaJVCo, which provider EC Pay, enhancing • AC Health increases its stake • AC Energy completes the involves the supply of raw Globe’s distribution in the Generika group from acquisition of the PHINMA water from the Wawa and • AC Industrials, through AC network with over 9,000 50 percent to 52.5 percent. energy group, effectively Tayabasan rivers. Motors, re-launches Kia partner outlets. Philippines, adding a globally bringing its ownership to leading brand in its portfolio. APRIL 66.3 percent. • Globe expands its MSME • Ayala issues its second fixedfoothold with 17 new for-life senior perpetual • AC Health announces plans partnership deals with bond of US$400 million • Ayala reissues its Class B to build the first dedicated various resellers across with a fixed coupon of 4.850 Series 2 Preferred shares cancer specialty hospital in the country. percent. worth ₱15 billion at a rate of the Philippines, envisioned to be a fully integrated, 4.82 percent. • BPI receives ‘BBB+’ long100-bed facility offering term and ‘A-2’ short-term NOVEMBER comprehensive high-quality issuer credit ratings from • AC Health invests in DECEMBER cancer care services at more • Globe launches its Globe At S&P Global Ratings. pharmaceutical distributor FEBRUARY affordable prices. Home Air Fiber 5G postpaid • AC Health acquires plans, making the Philippines IE Medica and its affiliate • BPI issues its CHF100 Healthway Philippines, one • Manila Water partners with as the first Southeast Asian MedEthix. of the leading clinic networks the Tanauan Water District for MAY country to experience million ASEAN Green Bond, the first ever public Swiss in the country. the construction, operation, the fifth-generation fixed • AC Infra’s LRMC launches • AC Energy completes franc-denominated and the and management of the wireless broadband. IkotMNL, an app that allows the sale of its 60 percent first negative yielding bond water supply and sanitation LRT-1 passengers to plan economic interest and 49 out of the Philippines. facilities in the city. their trips, provide updates percent voting interest in on train schedule, and enable its thermal assets under AA crowd monitoring across 20 Thermal to Aboitiz Power. stations. 9 10 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT OUR GEOGRAPHIC PRESENCE WORLD MAP LEGEND Pampanga Zamboanga del Norte Ayala Land Tarlac Zamboanga del Sur BPI Zambales Globe REGION 10 NORTHERN MINDANAO AC Energy REGION 4A CALABARZON Bukidnon Manila Water Batangas Camiguin AC Industrials Cavite Misamis Occidental AC Infrastructure Laguna Misamis Oriental Canada AC Health Quezon Lanao del Norte iPeople Rizal AC Ventures REGION 11 DAVAO USA Korea REGION 4B MIMAROPA Compostela Valley China Japan Morroco PHILIPPINES Marinduque Davao del Norte British Virgin NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION (NCR) Occidental Mindoro Davao del Sur Mexico Islands Saipan Caloocan Oriental Mindoro Davao Occidental Las Piñas Palawan Davao Oriental Navotas Romblon Rwanda Kenya Makati REGION 12 SOCCSKSARGEN Fiji Malabon REGION 5 BICOL Sultan Kudarat Seychelles Mandaluyong Albay North Cotabato Australia Palau Botswana Manila Camarines Norte South Cotabato Chile Marikina Camarines Sur Saranggani Muntinlupa Catanduanes Gen. Santos City Pasig Masbate New Zealand Parañaque Sorsogon REGION 13 CARAGA Pasay Agusan del Norte Pateros REGION 6 WESTERN VISAYAS Agusan del Sur Quezon City Aklan Surigao del Norte San Juan Antique Surigao del Sur Hong Kong Taguig Capiz Dinagat Islands Taiwan Valenzuela Iloilo Norway Myanmar Guimaras REGION 14 CORDILLERA Thailand REGION 1 ILOCOS REGION Negros Occidental ADMINISTRATIVE REGION (CAR) Vietnam Ilocos Norte Abra Kuwait Ilocos Sur REGION 7 CENTRAL VISAYAS Apayao United Kingdom Germany Cambodia La Union Bohol Benquet Israel Jordan Bahrain Ireland Pangasinan Cebu Ifugao Czech Republic Malaysia Negros Oriental Kalinga Switzerland Qatar Dubai (UAE) Singapore REGION 2 CAGAYAN VALLEY Siquijor Mountain Province Serbia Bulgaria France Saudi Brunei Batanes Arabia Oman Cagayan REGION 8 EASTERN VISAYAS REGION 15 AUTONOMOUS REGION Isabela Biliran OF MUSLIM MINDANAO (ARMM) Indonesia Nueva Vizcaya Eastern Samar Basilan Quirino Northern Samar Lanao del Sur Samar Maguindanao EUROPE MIDDLE EAST SOUTHEAST ASIA REGION 3 CENTRAL LUZON Leyte Tawi-Tawi Aurora Southern Leyte Sulu Bataan Bulacan REGION 9 ZAMBOANGA PENINSULA Nueva Ecija Zamboanga Sibugay 11 12 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Ayala Corporation is the oldest and one of the largest conglomerates in the Philippines with core interests in real estate, banking, telecommunications, and power. It also has portfolio investments in various industries including water, industrial technologies, infrastructure, health, and education, which are envisioned to drive growth in the long-term. Additionally, Ayala has a social commitment arm, Ayala Foundation, which is focused on bettering the lives of Filipinos primarily by strengthening education, youth leadership, sustainable livelihood, OUR PORTFOLIO and arts and culture in the country. With headquarters in Makati City and operations mainly in the Philippines, it continues to grow its regional and global footprint, serving millions of customers across all market segments. CORE VALUE DRIVERS REAL ESTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS Leading and most diversified property Purveyor of the Filipino digital lifestyle developer in the country with the largest landbank 44.5% supported by a robust telecom infrastructure 30.9% Market cap: ~$4.6B Market cap: ~$11.1B % of equity earnings: 13% % of equity earnings: 30% POWER GENERATION FINANCIAL SERVICES Fast-growing regional energy platform with Pioneering financial institution and one investments in renewable and conventional of the most profitable banks in the country 48.6% power assets and development, operations 100% Market cap: ~$6.2B and retail supply capabilities % of equity earnings: 26% % of equity earnings: 24% PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS LONG-TERM VALUE DRIVERS SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE DIGITAL ENABLERS REGIONAL PLATFORM Regional player in Industrial technologies Portfolio of key water infrastructure investments focused infrastructure 51.4% services and 100% on electronics 100% projects and development manufacturing, vehicle public-privateMarket cap: ~$442M retail, and enabling partnerships technologies (PPPs) in the Philippines 13 *Ownership & Market Cap as of March 2020, % to equity from FY2017-FY2019 14 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT EMPOWERING MSMEs A LITTLE HELP FROM HER FRIENDS for a loan. Aling Melinda was apprehensive – her business was, after all, very small. Interest rates may be too high especially since she did not have any collateral to offer. She was worried she might not be able to produce the documents needed for her loan application. But Aling Melinda was in for a surprise. She learned that BPI Banko, BPI’s microfinance arm, provides loans to self-employed micro-entrepreneurs. BPI Banko representatives took notice of her good, marketable products as well as her capacity and One of Aling Melinda’s crab stalls in Occidental Mindoro with BPI eagerness to expand. She obtained an initial loan Banko manager, Laiza Jayne Perino of ₱100,000 at friendly interest rates; she used this immediately to open another store. Aling Melinda’s grocery store. Crabs are Melinda Dilag Belinario’s means of The returns were brisk. In the next three years, she livelihood, but it is the opposite of crab mentality because they help me become a more discerning Aside from being her financial advisers, BPI Banko was able to avail herself of three more loans ranging that has allowed her to prosper in the business. entrepreneur.” professionals have become Aling Melinda’s personal between ₱100,000 and ₱150,000. She used the coaches. They tell her, for instance, not to get She only had ₱10,000 in capital in 2006 when she proceeds to open other stalls in Occidental Mindoro Aling Melinda is one of some 277,000 other small disheartened when some challenges come her decided to start selling crabs at a public market in as well as a grocery store. and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the Ayala way. For example, when her crabs die in transit to San Jose, Occidental Mindoro. For 11 years, she network. Over the years, Aling Melinda’s business thrived, Manila, she now finds it easier to recover the loss. worked hard, thankful that she had a source of not only because of the funds made available to When people fail to pay her back after she lent them income even though she was restless and dreamed Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are her, but because of the support and encouragement money out of the goodness of her heart, she now of something bigger. an increasingly significant contributor to economic she got from BPI Banko. “They give me advice on is more discerning on whom to trust. She is able to growth in the country. They account for some 99.5 Sometime in 2017, a fellow seafood vendor told her how to use the loans for the business and make handle her money better. percent of the total number of Philippine businesses about BPI Banko and suggested she try applying smart investments,” she says. “I value all their input today. They corner about 60 percent of total annual “Charge them to experience, that’s what they tell revenues of Philippine businesses and contribute me,” she says. They are patient with her questions, about 35 percent of the country’s total gross helpful with their advice – and most of all, they domestic product. MSMEs employ 63 percent of themselves are long-standing customers of her crab working Filipinos. business. For the Ayala network of SMEs, inclusivity and “My daughter is in college studying accounting, and support are common themes. she helps me in the business with the things she has learned in school. My sons drive me around and help “We want to help achieve a shared prosperity. Ayala me manage my stores.” has always believed that true success is inclusive and benefits many businesses beyond our own “I am very thankful to BPI Banko for its trust and companies within the group,” says Jaime Augusto support. I was able to provide a better life for my Zobel de Ayala, Ayala Chairman and CEO. family. I learned that you can achieve anything you want if you are determined and if you have people “We believe that success must ripple throughout around you to make your load lighter and pull you entire ecosystems, to eventually create and help up.” Melinda Dila Belinario’s crab farm. accelerate the growth of other entities like selfemployed micro-entrepreneurs.” 15 16 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT EMPOWERING MSMEs movement of products was easy to monitor, there healthcare services such as consultations, blood PLEASANT SURPRISES was a retail expert point of sale system ready to pressure and wellness advise, including blood sugar assist her when she needed help, and control monitoring and body fat analysis services for an systems were in place. affordable fee. FROM UNEXPECTED Leah is one of the 277,000 small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the Ayala network. In the “Beyond the revenue, it’s being able to serve the community,” Leah says. “It’s not really about chasing TURNS Philippines, micro, small and medium enterprises the money, but being of service to those who need (MSMEs) account for some 99.5 percent of the total you.” number of Philippine businesses. They corner about 60 percent of total annual revenues and contribute These days, Leah likes telling people about Generika It was while waiting for her visa that she worked with and even encouraging others to open their own about 35 percent of the country’s total gross Engr. Ben C. Monteiro and helped him open three of stores. She is thankful that she found a stable domestic product. MSMEs employ 63 percent of his first Generika Drugstores. corporate partner in Ayala who shares her goals of working Filipinos. helping others while also improving her capability as Just before returning to the US, Leah re-evaluated All this economic activity aims to include as many an entrepreneur. her plans, pondering her future. And then she players as possible. surprised even herself when she decided to take a “Everything is about collaboration,” she says. different route. “Our role is to help achieve a shared prosperity. Ayala has always believed that true success is “Nothing comes easy, you need to work hard, create “I was all set on working in the US, but being an enabled team because you can’t do it alone, inclusive and benefits many businesses beyond exposed to Generika changed my view,” Leah work on the relationship and be worthy of the our own companies within the group,” says Jaime says. “When I was helping Sir Ben set up his own partnership.” Augusto Zobel de Ayala, Ayala Chairman and CEO. Generika Drugstores, I saw that pharmacy was not just another job or a way of earning money. With “We believe that success must ripple throughout Where she is now may not be where she had it, I could really make a difference and help other entire ecosystems, to eventually create and help envisioned herself to be ten years ago. Indeed, people.” accelerate the growth of other entities like selfthere have been many surprises along the way. employed micro-entrepreneurs.” Deep in her heart, however, Leah knows she made Leah used her and her husband’s savings, money the right decision in staying in the Philippines. Now they received as wedding gifts, money from a In four years, Leah has opened five stores – Talipapa, she is building a life here with her husband and two property in Tuguegarao which she had sold, and a North Fairview, Krus na Ligas, Bagbag and Pulilan children. friendly loan from Engr. Monteiro – who not only – and has reached out to more people in these became her mentor but her godfather in marriage. communities. Most of Generika’s customers come Partnership with Ayala has changed her, and Leah With the encouragement from her parents and from low-income families, and Leah takes comfort makes sure she pays it forward by being, herself, an Leah conducts free blood pressure monitoring to a walk in siblings, she opened her first Generika franchise in in the fact that her Generika stores provide free agent of change. customer. Talipapa, Novaliches in April 2012. Leah Clara Maquiraya Yabis used to believe she had But funding, she learned, was not her greatest everything figured out. challenge. Leah knew that educational attainment After obtaining her BS Pharmacy degree from the and professional experience did not guarantee University of Santo Tomas and passing her Pharmacy entrepreneurial success. She was thankful for Licensure Examination, she worked for six months the system and support that Generika offered its as a pharmacist at St. Paul Hospital in Tuguegarao franchisees: there was a central commissary, the City. She then worked part time as an instructor for St. Paul University Philippines while taking up her Master in Public Health from Cagayan State University. She quickly rose from the ranks and became program coordinator for the SPUP College of Pharmacy. When she had amassed all this experience in the academe, she went to the United States, spending a year working on obtaining her Foreign Pharmacy Graduate Equivalency Certificate so that she could Leah’s Generika Drugstores offer an Adult Care Program which provides health counseling and medication review for elderly customers. work there as a pharmacist. And then she returned to the Philippines to process her US work visa. Leah with her Generika Talipapa Novaliches team. 17 18 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT OUR LEADERSHIP 19 20 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Fellow shareholders, The events of the past year have challenged the corporate momentum we have built over the last decade. However, history has shown Ayala’s resilience across multiple business cycles over the 186 years that we have been in operation. This ability to deal with adversity has been built on our fundamental strengths of adhering to the highest standards of corporate governance, always looking to develop value over the long term, remaining flexible to adjust to changing circumstances, and constantly aligning our business objectives with the broader JAIME AUGUSTO development needs of the country. These fundamental values have stood us in good stead ZOBEL DE AYALA through the years, defined Ayala as a successful multi-business group, and ensured our Chairman and CEO continuity and relevance throughout the years. While the challenges of the past year have resulted in one of the most difficult periods in our corporate history, it is also during trying times that the strength of our diversification initiatives and massive expansion program are put to the test. Recall that in 2011, the Ayala group set in motion a strategic agenda that led to the expansion of our established franchises in real estate, banking, and telecommunications to capitalize on the strong momentum we saw taking place in the domestic environment. In parallel, we invested in energy generation as a new growth platform from which we would derive future sources of earnings and value creation. These initiatives have cemented our competitive advantage, maintained our relevance in our markets, and established the foundation for long-term growth and value regardless of the prevailing macroeconomic or competitive environment. In particular, we have seen how the strong performance of our core business pillars--Ayala Land, Bank of the Philippine Islands, Globe Telecom, and AC Energy--sustained Ayala’s trajectory in 2019. Their results cushioned the impact of the setbacks faced by Manila Water in connection with the water supply shortage in the metropolis. Further, these core businesses helped mitigate the slowdown AC Industrials confronted which arose from headwinds in global manufacturing and the domestic automotive industries. I am pleased to report that despite a challenging period, our profitability improved 11 percent to ₱35.3 billion in 2019. Let me provide a background of the macroeconomic environment we faced during the period to put this yearend review into perspective. 21 22 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT develop solutions, and rationalize the long-term sectors that are overlapping with Ayala, including strategic direction of the business. real estate, power, and financial services. Myanmar is an underpenetrated frontier market with a Meanwhile, our social infrastructure portfolio promising economic growth story, supported by its continues to gain traction. AC Health continues to government’s broad liberalization initiatives. We ramp up its clinic footprint with the acquisition of a envision our investment in the Yoma group to serve 100 percent stake in Healthway Philippines, which as Ayala’s main platform for strategic investments in operates a network of mall-based multispecialty and Myanmar. corporate clinics. This complements FamilyDoc, the largest network of primary care clinics in the country. As a final word, the unfortunate episodes that In education, with the merger of AC Education transpired in our country and the rest of the world at and iPeople, we have established a group of seven the beginning of 2020 have resulted in an existential educational institutions with a combined student moment of radical business transformation. The population of approximately 60,000 across 28 COVID-19 pandemic is adversely impacting many campuses in Metro Manila and the Calabarzon, Bicol, economies, markets, and businesses at the national and Mindanao regions. and global scale which has not spared the Ayala group. In the Philippines, even before the onset During the year, the Ayala group also made great of this global pandemic, the eruption of the Taal strides in our digital transformation journey. Our Volcano in January had already affected certain digital portfolio includes Zalora, the country’s largest industries domestically, including real estate and fashion e-commerce site with 10 million visits per retail within the volcano’s vicinity. Between the BPI mobile app and Globe’s GCash, the group has been able to reach over 1.9 million online banking clients, 20 million month and carrying 20,000 fashion brands, as well registered users, and over 75,000 merchants and partners. as its adjacent company Entrego, a technologyWhile the outlook for the business environment has driven logistics company that has gained foothold radically changed as a result of these unfortunate Global economic growth in 2019 was at its slowest arise or to launch a new business-building cycle in servicing the major e-commerce players in the events, we take comfort in the fact that we have built since the Global Financial Crisis, but developing a specific industry. In particular, we have always country. In financial services, we are happy to see a healthy balance sheet at the holding company and countries in Asia still recorded strong growth even as been proud of what Manila Water has achieved, the many touchpoints that both BPI and Globe have across the group that gives us a buffer to absorb trade tensions dampened outlook for the region. turning around the East Zone concession and laying been able to harness to address financial inclusion external shocks such as the current global health an efficient water supply and distribution system for and facilitate higher engagement from the unserved crisis. We consider this to be one of our strongest Here at home, while the Philippine economic the metropolis despite the absence of new water and underserved segments of the population, attributes, having survived and thrived under growth of 5.9 percent in 2019 fell below the sources. However, we also need to be flexible, quick including MSMEs and the low-income consumer multiple crises. above-6 percent growth that we witnessed over and open-minded to how industries, economic segment. the past four consecutive years, it continued to be environments, and regulatory agencies evolve. Thus, It is within this context that I thank our board of bolstered by solid domestic consumption, driven in February 2020, we invited the Razon group as a Between the BPI mobile app and Globe’s GCash, the directors for their engagement and foresight across by stable inflation, higher remittances, and recordstrategic partner in Manila Water. I look forward group has been able to reach over 1.9 million online a variety of working committees, our management low unemployment. This continued to benefit to this partnership with a group that shares a deep banking clients, 20 million registered users, and over team for ensuring a culture of professional Ayala Land, BPI, and Globe, which remained as commitment to contributing to the country’s water 75,000 merchants and partners. Today, the BPI app commitment, our many business partners for their the top contributors to Ayala’s performance during infrastructure development. ranks 5th in mobile banking on the App Store and willingness to collaborate with us, and our fellow the year, along with AC Energy, which has been a 17th on Google Play. Moreover, I am delighted to shareholders for their continued support, trust, consistent significant source of growth over the In AC Industrials, the company experienced a share that our efforts to grow the fintech landscape and confidence in Ayala. We look forward to a past three years. AC Energy’s announced pivot number of geopolitical headwinds, including the in the country has gained significant traction as lasting partnership as we weather these uncertain towards renewable energy and the sale of some of US-China trade war and Brexit that contributed GCash is currently the number one finance app in the times, supporting our employees and our many its conventional power assets allowed it to recycle to the world economy’s slowest year-on-year Philippines on both the App Store and Google Play. stakeholders as we continue to contribute to society capital, recognize gains, pointing us towards an expansion since the financial crisis a decade ago. through our institutions, our products, and our exciting new future. We envision these four business We recognize the acceleration of disruptive changes, While we intend to remain as a Philippineservices. pillars to remain as Ayala’s core value drivers in the driven by intensifying competition and evolving centric business group, we are open to overseas medium term. customer demands, which has created a challenging investments on an opportunistic basis, particularly environment for worldwide manufacturing and in markets and sectors where we can bring our We have always actively managed our portfolio and trade. These have posed operational challenges strengths and expertise. In November 2019, we believe in constantly rebalancing our businesses for the various platforms under AC Industrials. To JAIME AUGUSTO ZOBEL DE AYALA acquired a 20 percent stake in the Yoma group, interests to either realize value as opportunities address this, we are in the process of reassessing Chairman and CEO Myanmar’s leading conglomerate with interests in AC Industrials’ portfolio to identify the pain points, 23 24 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT Fellow shareholders, Let me begin by thanking all of you for your continued support and confidence in Ayala. The past year was a trying time for our group as we confronted an unprecedented situation in Manila Water and our Metro Manila concession area. The water supply shortage that emerged in March 2019 impaired the high standards of service Manila Water has maintained over the past 23 years. Several factors led to this unfortunate incident. While the situation was compounded by low dam levels brought about by the prolonged dry season last year, the main factor in the shortage was the delay in new water source development under the government’s Water Supply Master Plan. In order to prevent this from happening again, Manila Water is working closely with MWSS and this administration on the timely execution of the Water Supply Master Plan. Several medium-term water supply projects are now in various stages of review and development. These projects will provide additional water supply for the growing water demand of our East Zone customer base in the coming years. These initiatives, along with the continued network management and optimization program, has enabled water availability for customers to be maintained within regulatory levels despite lower raw water supply. Although we faced significant challenges in both our water and global manufacturing businesses in 2019, our real estate, banking, telco, and power units continued to serve as engines of growth. This validates the strength of a diversified portfolio and the expansion strategy we put in place a decade ago. We are happy to report that in 2019, Ayala recorded ₱35.3 billion in net earnings, an 11 percent expansion from 2018. This was lifted by gains from the partial divestment of AC Energy’s thermal assets as it moved towards renewable energy and the merger of our education arm with iPeople. FERNANDO ZOBEL DE AYALA Our results, however, were weighed down by the recognition of a remeasurement President and COO loss of ₱18.1 billion, arising from a likely reduced stake in Manila Water, whose shareholders are being asked to approve an increased number of shares to open up opportunities for a strategic investor. We believe a partnership with a strategic investor will accelerate Manila Water’s long-term strategic direction, including 25 26 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Ayala Land continues to build well-rounded communities that are accessible via public transport, eco-friendly, and resilient, uplifting AC Energy 330 MW Ninh Thuan solar farm in Vietnam is one of Southeast Asia’s largest solar farms. living standards for Filipinos. its regional aspirations. Over the past decade, its total estates to 29. These new estates---the microentrepreneurs nationwide. Its digitalization 1,800 MW, with 50 percent of total energy output Manila Water has established itself as a major 120-hectare Broadfield in Laguna, the 11-hectare efforts likewise continued to bear fruit, with digital coming from renewable sources. In addition, it water infrastructure player in Southeast Asia with the Junction Place in Quezon City, and the penetration now at more than 20 percent between has 1,200 MW of various solar and wind projects investments in various platforms across Vietnam, 290-hectare Crescendo in Tarlac---enhances Ayala its retail and corporate clients. in the pipeline, bringing it on track to achieve Thailand, and Indonesia and today continues to be Land’s presence in Metro Manila and in Luzon. its attributable capacity target of 5,000 MW of on the lookout for opportunities in the region. Globe continued to benefit from high demand for renewable energy by 2025. Bank of the Philippine Islands continued to work data-related products and services. The 20 percent Let me now touch on the performance of our towards its goals of improving its earnings capacity expansion in its net income to ₱22.3 billion was AC Energy registered net profits of ₱24.6 billion in business units in greater detail. and shareholder returns by focusing on its core bolstered by data-driven customers across its 2019, lifted by contributions from its solar projects in lending business and increasing efficiencies through mobile and broadband segments. It is worth noting Vietnam and gains from the partial divestment of its Ayala Land continued to reap the benefits of its technology. In 2019, the bank’s net earnings that data-related services accounted for over 70 thermal assets. AC Energy increased its attributable diversification strategy to achieve a better balance reached ₱28.8 billion, jumping 25 percent from percent of Globe’s service revenues, which grew 12 energy output in 2019 by 25 percent to 3,500 between its development and recurring income 2018 on strong core banking business revenues and percent to ₱149 billion during the year. gigawatt hours, of which 50 percent came from portfolio as well as in its geographic concentration. a steadily growing fee-based segment, supported by renewable sources. Given the increasing contribution Its net profits rose 13 percent to ₱33.2 billion, higher securities trading gains. Globe continues to invest to enhance its network of AC Energy to Ayala’s equity earnings over the past supported by office and commercial and industrial quality and improve customer experience. It spent three years, we have started to classify AC Energy as lot sales as well as a growing leasing operation. By 2023, BPI is targeting to double its net income ₱51 billion in capital expenditures to fast-track its one of our core business pillars together with Ayala to ₱57 billion and achieve a 15 percent return on network rollout, increasing its sites by 139 percent Land, BPI, and Globe. Ayala Land’s recurring income portfolio, which equity. To achieve this, it is ramping up its retail, and its 3G and 4G base stations by 28 percent. includes office and mall leasing, hotels and resorts, SME, and micro lending segments while remaining To support its renewable energy investments, and property management, continues to expand focused on strong asset quality through various On the mobile money front, Globe’s GCash continues AC Energy tapped the capital market through the at a faster pace than its development income. initiative such as the creation of dedicated SME to promote financial inclusion and expand the mobile issuance of two Green Bonds, raising US$810 million It has recorded a compounded annual growth and microfinance groups and moderate branch money ecosystem. At yearend, GCash had 20 million in combined proceeds. The first issuance, which rate of 25 percent since 2013. This has outpaced expansion. Moreover, the bank is scaling up its registered users, and over 75,000 QR merchants raised US$410 million was the first Green Bond to be Ayala Land’s development income, which includes fee-based business by shifting focus from trading and partner billers. Further, GCash introduced certified by the Climate Bond Initiative in Southeast residential and office and lot sales, which posted to transaction-based services such as credit cards, innovations during the year to offer more financial Asia. AC Energy also issued the first US dollar a compounded annual growth rate of 17 percent asset management, payments, and insurance. services to the unbanked. One such innovation is denominated fixed-for-life Green Bond to be issued during the same period. Meanwhile, Ayala Land’s Finally, BPI’s digitalization efforts are expected to GSave, a digital savings account opened directly globally, raising US$400 million in proceeds. geographic diversification continued, with new achieve low-cost funding, increased operational from the GCash app. GSave offers a competitive estates contributing 58 percent to its bottomline as efficiency, and higher engagement from the unserved interest rate with no minimum initial deposit or As mentioned, the challenges in the East Zone the development of these areas accelerate. and underserved markets. maintaining balance requirement. concession weighed on Manila Water’s performance in 2019. The water crisis took a toll on Manila In 2019, Ayala Land launched three new largeIn microfinance, BPI achieved its target of 300 As it moves away from thermal energy, AC Energy Water’s profitability, which declined 16 percent to scale, integrated, mixed-use developments, bringing BanKo branches, servicing more self-employed continues to build up its renewable portfolio. It ₱5.5 billion. Business performance was dampened ended 2019 with an attributable capacity of over by the impact of the MWSS penalty and a voluntary 27 28 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Entrego fulfills the increasing needs for logistics services in the country, providing technology-driven logistics solutions FamilyDOC combines the services of a clinic, a diagnostic facility, and a pharmacy all under one roof. to enterprise clients. one-time bill waiver program to assist severely Industrials, particularly its anchor manufacturing AC Health acquired a 100 percent stake in US$400 million in fixed-for-life senior perpetual affected customers. This was further affected when arm, IMI, and new platforms Merlin Solar and Healthway, one of the leading clinic networks in the notes with an annual coupon of 4.85 percent with no raw water allocation from Angat Dam hit its lowest MT Technologies. These challenges resulted in country. The addition of Healthway’s seven mallstep-up, and the ₱15 billion in preferred shares. in July. To mitigate this, Manila Water implemented longer fulfillment times and higher material costs. based multi-specialty clinics and 41 corporate clinics network efficiency measures to maintain service Meanwhile, automotive sales likewise experienced expands AC Health’s clinic portfolio, which today In closing, at Ayala, we constantly strive to deliver a availability at the ground floor level and be able to weakness and the industry’s megatrends of includes 74 FamilyDOC primary care clinics and more holistic engagement with the communities we serve more than 7 million people across over 1.3 connectivity, autonomy, sharing, and electrification 10 corporate clinics. It also expanded its pharma serve and make sure that we create a meaningful, million households in the East Zone. continued to disrupt the industry. In this difficult portfolio with new investments into IE Medica, one lasting impact in conjunction with our economic environment, AC Industrials recorded a net loss of of the major importers of pharmaceutical products in aspirations. We remain committed to the UN Global Manila Water likewise continued to work towards its ₱2.4 billion in 2019. the country, and MedEthix, its affiliated distribution Compact and its 10 principles, which are very much goal of providing 32 percent wastewater coverage company. aligned with our own sustainability philosophy in the of the East Zone by 2021. Wastewater coverage During these trying times, we take comfort in Ayala group. This desire to help bridge societal gaps currently stands at over 30 percent or equivalent the fact that AC Industrials retains specialized AC Education’s merger with iPeople in 2019 has has been embedded in our corporate culture and will to two million people served through nearly 400 technical resources such as advance manufacturing significantly broadened our education footprint. Our continue to define our direction in the coming years. kilometers of laid sewer network. This was only engineering as well as proprietary technologies, student population has grown from 38,500 before We are fortunate to have so many individuals in our at three percent before Manila Water took over including power electronics, camera and vision, the merger to approximately 59,300 students. The institution who share this thinking and enable its operations from MWSS in 1997. smart energy, and connectivity, which all serve as the merger has resulted in several synergies, including execution across our many companies in the Ayala foundation for future growth. leveraging the various schools’ complementary group. AC Industrials faced a challenging year due to strengths to improve student learning experience the difficulties in global manufacturing and the Finally, we continue to support our long-term and producing greater operational efficiency. Ayala owes its success to the commitment of automotive industries. These challenges also investments in infrastructure, healthcare, and our shared vision across the rest of the group’s included the impact of geopolitical tensions, such education. AC Infra is building up its logistics As the Ayala group continued to be optimistic management team and staff, the guidance and as the US-China trade conflict and prolonged and fulfillment arm, Entrego, which posted a about the domestic macroeconomic environment, leadership of our Board of Directors, and the trust uncertainty on Brexit. These macro headwinds compounded monthly growth of 14 percent our combined capital expenditure reached ₱215 and confidence of our many stakeholders. We thank together with the disruptive changes currently in volume throughout the year. This growth billion in 2019. At the parent level, our balance you all for your continued commitment and support. sweeping many key industries have created was underpinned by the rising demands of the sheet remained strong with enough capacity to a challenging environment for worldwide e-commerce and retail sectors for B-to-B and support our future investments and cover dividend manufacturing and trade. B-to-C logistics services. Entrego also launched and debt obligations. In 2019, we paid ₱8.30 per an automated sorting center to drive operational share in cash dividends, 20 percent higher than its FERNANDO ZOBEL DE AYALA In the electronics space, intensifying competition efficiencies and processes. 2018 level. We likewise took advantage of favorable President and COO posed operational challenges to players like AC market conditions to raise capital. This included the 29 30 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS DELFIN L. LAZARO ANTONIO JOSE KEIICHI MATSUNAGA JAIME AUGUSTO FERNANDO RAMON R. DEL XAVIER P. LOINAZ Non-executive Director U. PERIQUET Non-executive Director ZOBEL DE AYALA ZOBEL DE AYALA ROSARIO, JR. Lead Independent Independent Director Executive Director, Executive Director, Independent Director Director Chairman, and Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer President and Chief Operating Officer 31 32 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT JAIME AUGUSTO ZOBEL DE AYALA, Filipino, 60 HBS Board of Dean’s Advisors, and HBS AsiaHoldings, Inc., Ceci Realty Inc., Fort Bonifacio Electronics, Inc., Manila Water Company, Inc., and Executive Director, Chairman, and Chief Executive Pacific Advisory Board (Chairman) Development Corporation, Bonifacio Land Globe Telecom, Inc. Officer • Chairman Emeritus of the Asia Business Council Corporation, Emerging City Holdings, Inc., Other Non-Listed Companies – within Ayala Group: and Chairman of Endeavor Philippines Columbus Holdings, Inc., Berkshires Holdings, Inc. Date of Appointment • Chairman and President of A.C.S.T. Business • Member of the Global Board of Adviser of the AKL Properties, Inc., AC Ventures Holdings Corp., Director of Ayala Corporation since May 1987 Holdings, Inc. Council on Foreign Relations and Bonifacio Art Foundation, Inc. • Vice Chairman and President of Asiacom Length of Service (As of 31 December 2019) • Co-Vice Chairman of the Makati Business Club • Director of LiveIt Investments, Ltd., AG Holdings Philippines, Inc. 32 years Ltd., AC Infrastructure Holdings Corporation, • Director of AC Industrial Technology Holdings, Inc., Asiacom Philippines, Inc., Ayala Retirement Fund Academic/Professional Qualification AYC Holdings, Ltd.., AC International Finance, Ltd., FERNANDO ZOBEL DE AYALA, Filipino, 59 Holdings, Inc. • B.A. in Economics (Cum Laude) from Harvard and Purefoods International Limited Executive Director, Vice Chairman, President, and College in 1981 Other Non-Listed Companies/Organizations Chief Operating Officer Other Non-Listed Companies/Organizations • MBA at Harvard Graduate School of Business – outside Ayala Group: – outside Ayala Group: Administration in 1987 Date of Appointment • Director of Honda Cars Philippines, Inc., Isuzu • Chairman of Atlas Fertilizer & Chemicals Inc. • Chairman and CEO of Ayala Corporation since April Director of Ayala Corporation since May 1994 Philippines Corporation, and Manila Peninsula • Director of Probe Productions, Inc. 2006 • Member of the Board of INSEAD Business School Length of Service (As of 31 December 2019) and Georgetown University Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) 25 years • Member of the International Advisory Board of Other Publicly Listed Companies KEIICHI MATSUNAGA, Japanese, 55 Academic/Professional Qualification Tikehau Capital and Hispanic Society Museum & – within Ayala Group: NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR • B.A. Liberal Arts from Harvard College in 1982 Library International Advisory Council • Chairman of Globe Telecom, Inc., Integrated Micro• Vice Chairman of the Philippine-Singapore • CIM from INSEAD, France in 1993 Date of Appointment Electronics, Inc. and Bank of the Philippine Islands Business Council • President and Chief Operating Officer of Ayala Director of Ayala Corporation since April 2017 • Vice Chairman of Ayala Land, Inc., Manila Water • Member of the World Presidents’ Organization and Corporation since April 2006 Company, Inc. and AC Energy Philippines, Inc. Chief Executives Organization Length of Service (As of 31 December 2019) Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) • Chairman of Habitat for Humanity International’s 3 years Other Non-Listed Companies – within Ayala Group: Other Publicly Listed Companies Asia-Pacific Capital Campaign Steering Committee • Chairman of Ayala Retirement Fund Holdings, Academic/Professional Qualification – within Ayala Group: • Trustee of Caritas Manila, Pilipinas Shell Inc., AC Industrial Technology Holdings, Inc., AC • Graduate from the Faculty of Law at Waseda • Chairman of Ayala Land, Inc., Manila Water Foundation, and the National Museum Ventures Holding Corp., AC Infrastructure Holdings University in 1988 Company, Inc., and AC Energy Philippines, Inc. Corporation and Asiacom Philippines, Inc. • Connected with Mitsubishi Corporation for over 30 • Director of Bank of the Philippine Islands, Globe • Co-Chairman of Ayala Foundation, Inc. and Ayala years in various leadership positions Telecom, Inc. and Integrated MicroElectronics, DELFIN L. LAZARO, Filipino, 73 Group Club, Inc. Inc. Non-Executive Director Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) • Director of Alabang Commercial Corporation, Other Non-Listed Company – within Ayala Group: Ayala International Pte. Ltd., AC Energy, Inc., Other Publicly Listed Company Date of Appointment • Director of Portico Land Corp. Ayala Healthcare Holdings, Inc., Light Rail Manila – outside Ayala Group: Director of Ayala Corporation since January 2007 Holdings, Inc. and AG Holdings Ltd. • Independent Director of Pilipinas Shell Petroleum Other Non-Listed Companies/Organizations Corporation Length of Service (As of 31 December 2019) – outside Ayala Group: Other Non-Listed Companies/Organizations 13 years • General Manager of Mitsubishi Corporation Manila – outside Ayala Group: Other Non-Listed Companies – within Ayala Group: Academic/Professional Qualification Branch • Member of various business and socio-civic • Chairman of AC International Finance Ltd., ALI • BS Metallurgical Engineering from University of the • Chairman of International Elevator & Equipment organizations in the Philippines and abroad, Eton Property Development Corporation, Liontide Philippines in 1967 Inc. including the JP Morgan International Council, Holdings, Inc., AC Energy, Inc., Ayala Healthcare • MBA (with Distinction) at Harvard Graduate School • President of MC Diamond Realty Investment Phils., JP Morgan Asia Pacific Council and Mitsubishi Holdings, Inc., Automobile Central Enterprise, of Business in 1971 MC Oranbo Investment, MC Cavite Holdings, Inc., Corporation International Advisory Council Inc., Alabang Commercial Corporation, Accendo FMT Kalayaan, Inc., and Japanese Chamber of • Member of the Board of the Singapore Management Commercial Corp. and Hero Foundation, Inc. Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) Commerce & Industry of the Philippines (JCCIPI) University and Eisenhower Fellowships • CoChairman of Ayala Foundation, Inc. and Ayala Other Publicly Listed Companies • Director of Century City Development II • Member of various advisory boards of Harvard Group Club, Inc. – within Ayala Group: Corporation (CCDC II), Isuzu Philippines University, including the Global Advisory Council, • Vice-Chairman of AC Industrial Technology • Director of Ayala Land, Inc., Integrated MicroCorporation, Kepco Ilijan Corporation, and The Japanese Association Manila, Inc. (JAMI) 33 34 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT XAVIER P. LOINAZ, Filipino, 76 RAMON R. DEL ROSARIO, JR., Filipino, 75 ANTONIO JOSE U. PERIQUET, Filipino, 58 Other Non-Listed Companies/Organizations Lead Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director – outside Ayala Group: • Chairman of Campden Hill Group, Inc. Date of Appointment Date of Appointment Date of Appointment • Independent Director of Albizia ASEAN Tenggara Director of Ayala Corporation since April 2009 Director of Ayala Corporation since April 2010 Director of Ayala Corporation since September 2010 Fund Lead Independent Director of Ayala Corporation Length of Service (As of 31 December 2019) Length of Service (As of 31 December 2019) • Trustee of Lyceum of the Philippines University since April 2017 9 years as Director 9 years as Director • Member of the Dean’s Global Advisory Council Length of Service (As of 31 December 2019) 7 years as Independent Director (reckoned from 7 years as Independent Director (reckoned from at the University of Virginia’s Darden School of 10 years as Director 2012, in compliance with SEC Memorandum Circular 2012, in compliance with SEC Memorandum Circular Business 7 years as Independent Director (reckoned from No. 19, Series of 2016) No. 19, Series of 2016) 2012, in compliance with SEC Memorandum Circular Academic/Professional Qualification Academic/Professional Qualification No. 19, Series of 2016) • BSC-Accounting and AB Social Sciences (Magna • AB Economics from Ateneo de Manila University in 3 years as Lead Independent Director cum Laude) from De La Salle College in 1967 1982 Academic/Professional Qualification • MBA at Harvard Business School in 1969 • Masters of Science in Economics at the Oxford • AB Economics degree from Ateneo de Manila • Managed Phinma since 2002 and brings with him University, UK in 1988 University in 1963 a wealth of experience in leading a diversified • MBA at University of Virginia, USA in 1990 • MBA-Finance at Wharton School, University of conglomerate • Director of DBP Insurance Brokerage from 2010 to Pennsylvania in 1965 2012 Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) • President of the Bank of the Philippine Islands • Chairman of Deutsche Regis Partners from 1999 to Other Publicly Listed Company from 1982 to 2004 August 2010 – outside Ayala Group: • President of Bankers Association of the Philippines • Awarded as Best Strategist from 2003 to 2010 • President and Chief Executive Officer of Phinma from 1989 to 1991 and as Best Analyst in 2009 to 2010 by the Fund Corporation Managers Association of the Philippines Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) Other Non-Listed Companies/Organizations • Honorary Investment Adviser to the British Other Publicly Listed Company – within Ayala Group: – outside Ayala Group: Government from 2016 to 2017 • Independent Director of the Bank of the Philippine • President and Chief Executive Officer of Philippine Islands Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) Investment Management, Inc. Other Publicly Listed Company – within Ayala Group: Other Non-Listed Companies – within Ayala Group: • Chairman of PHINMA Education Holdings, Inc., • Independent Director of the Bank of the Philippine • Independent Director of BPI Family Savings Bank, PHINMA Araullo University, PHINMA University of Islands Inc., and BPI/MS Insurance Corporation Iloilo, PHINMA University of Pangasinan, PHINMA Cagayan de Oro College, Southwestern University Other Publicly Listed Companies Other Non-Listed Companies/Organizations PHINMA, PHINMA St. Jude College, United Pulp – outside Ayala Group: – outside Ayala Group: and Paper Co., Inc., PHINMA Microtel Hotels, Inc., • Independent Director of ABS-CBN Corporation, • Trustee of E. Zobel Foundation PHINMA Hospitality, Inc., and Philippine Business DMCI Holdings, The Max’s Group of Companies, • Chairman of Alay Kapwa Kilusan Pangkalusugan for Education Semirara Mining and Power Corporation and The and XPL Manitou Properties, Inc. • Vice-Chairman of Phinma Foundation, Inc., Phinma Philippine Seven Corporation • Vice Chairman of XPL MTJL Properties, Inc. Property Holdings Corp., Caritas Manila and Other Non-Listed Company – within Ayala Group: Philippine Business for Social Progress • Chairman of BPI Asset Management and Trust • Director of Union Galvasteel Corp. and Philcement Corporation Corp. • Trustee of Ramon Magsaysay Award Foundation and Makati Business Club 35 36 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Ayala’s Board of Directors leads the company’s Ayala’s Board at a Glance corporate governance principles, which include clear the Board and the other Directors, when needed; to governance system by providing active management • Number of Directors: 7 Directors and well-understood roles and responsibilities, as convene and lead the periodic meetings of NEDs and oversight, encouraging a culture of trust, openness, • Chairman: Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala well as a culture of open communication with the IDs with the external auditor and heads of internal and constructive dissent, and ensuring individual • Vice-Chairman: Fernando Zobel de Ayala CEO and senior management, enable the Board audit, compliance and risk management, as needed; accountability. In exercising its powers and duties, • Lead Independent Director: Xavier P. Loinaz to maintain independent reviews and quality and contribute to the performance evaluation of the the Board always takes into consideration the best • Expertise/Background: economics, finance, discussions at meetings. Chairman of the Board. interest of the company, its shareholders, and other accounting, business, contract, commercial, and stakeholders. Annually, it leads the review of the international law, including engagements in social NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND INDEPENDENT BOARD PERFORMANCE company’s vision and mission, revisits and approves and environmental activities DIRECTORS The Board devotes ample time and attention to the group’s corporate strategy and performance • Director Term of Office: 1 year Non-executive directors (NEDs) and independent fulfill its duties and responsibilities. At the start of objectives, and monitors its implementation. It • Percentage of non-executive and independent directors (IDs) make up more than 70 percent of the year, the calendar of activities for the Board and oversees the business affairs and is accountable directors: 71 percent the Board’s membership. The role of the NEDs and Committees are established and approved. Each to the shareholders for the long-term performance • Independent directors owning more than 2 percent IDs is to exercise independent judgment, ensure the fiscal year, the Board meets at least six times, with of the company. It meets regularly and allots time of outstanding capital stock: None continuing soundness, effectiveness and adequacy the schedule of Board meetings determined before to discuss strategic issues with the Ayala Group of the company’s control environment, and act in the start of each financial year. As stated in the Management Committee to gain insights into each Board Diversity Policy the best interest of the company, the stockholders Board Charter, the presence of at least two-thirds of specific business area. The Board’s roles and Ayala recognizes the value of having a Board and the stakeholders considering transparency, the number of directors constitutes a quorum for the responsibilities are formalized in its Charter found in composed of qualified and dedicated individuals accountability and fairness in all activities. transaction of business. the company website. with a diverse mix of expertise, experience, skills and backgrounds. As such, Ayala has adopted a board For its IDs, Ayala has set a term limit of nine years The board meeting schedule is monitored by the 2019 Board Accomplishments diversity policy that encourages the selection of an in accordance with the rules set by the SEC. As of Corporate Secretary to ensure that the materials 1. The Board reviewed and affirmed the appropriate mix of competent directors. Diversity 2019, none of the independent directors have served are adequate and made available at least five appropriateness of Ayala’s vision and includes business experience, age, and gender. the company for more than nine years, reckoning working days in advance of the scheduled meeting mission statement. With respect to gender, the Board shall strive to be from 2012, in compliance with SEC Memorandum to allow the Board enough time to prepare and make 2. The Board reviewed, monitored and oversaw composed of at least 30 percent female directors or Circular No. 19, series of 2016. informed decisions. The Board agenda includes the implementation of corporate strategy. at least two (2) female directors, whichever is lower, company’s and group’s operations and financial 3. The Board reviewed and ensured the adequacy by 2025. Periodic meetings are held by the NEDs and IDs performance; updates on business, technological of the company’s internal control mechanisms without the presence of executive directors. In 2019, developments and the regulatory environment; and and risk management process for good CHAIRMAN AND VICE CHAIRMAN the NEDs and IDs had a meeting held on July 16, reports of the different Board Committees. These governance, and the proper implementation The Chairman leads and drives the effectiveness of 2019 chaired by the Lead Independent Director, reports provide the Board with critical information of the Code of Conduct and Ethics. the Board, both inside and outside the boardroom by Xavier P. Loinaz. The CFO was invited as a resource on key issues, current trends, challenges and 4. The Board reviewed and affirmed the true and fair promoting active engagement and open discussion person. Discussions centered on how the Code of opportunities in the business and developments that representation of the annual financial statements, among the directors. The Chairman also provides Conduct and Ethics is being implemented and how may have a significant impact on the Ayala group of for fiscal year 2019. guidance to the board through providing clear compliance with it is being monitored, whistleblower companies. advice on strategy to steer the transformation of the reports involving certain companies within the group, BOARD COMPOSITION business. In the absence of the Chairman, the Vice the performance of the Chief Executive Officer and Discussions during Board meetings are open, The structure, size, and composition of the Board are Chairman shall succeed the duties of the Chairman. the need to periodically review the succession plans with independent views given due consideration. annually reviewed and monitored by the Corporate of the operating subsidiaries. In accordance with the company policy, Board Governance and Nomination Committee ensuring The responsibilities of the Chairman and the Board members are required to abstain from participating an appropriate mix of non-executive, independent have been increasingly challenging due to the LEAD INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR in discussions on an agenda item in which they may and executive directors. The current composition changing and evolving expectations by the various As mandated by the company’s Revised Corporate have a conflict of interest. is sufficiently diverse in thinking, characterized stakeholders of the company. The expectations Governance Manual, a lead independent director by a combination of knowledge, experience, and are in the exercise of good corporate governance is appointed to further ensure the exercise of The details of the Directors’ attendance and number expertise to guide management as it addresses practices, implementation of effective risk independent judgment by the board, particularly of Board meetings held in 2019 are shown on the issues, new challenges and market opportunities management, and compliance with relevant laws since the Chairman is not independent of next page. All the Board members were present facing the company. Moreover, none of the directors and regulations. Management. during the 2019 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. have worked for Ayala’s external auditing firm within the three years immediately preceding the date of The positions of Chairman of the Board and CEO are The Lead Independent Director’s role, among others, their election or appointment. currently held by the same person. The company’s is to act as an intermediary between the Chairman of 37 38 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP The results of the self-assessment survey, including better identification, mitigation and management of STOCKHOLDERS, BOARD, BOARD COMMITTEE MEETINGS, AND DIRECTORS’ ATTENDANCE the comments of the directors, were compiled by risks and improvement of governance practices and FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019 the Chief Compliance Officer and reported during the procedures. Board meeting immediately following the completion Membership and Attendance of the survey. In 2019, all but one of the directors and senior Details management met the SEC requirement to undertake Stockholder & Board Board Committee TRAINING OF DIRECTORS corporate governance (CG) training. This is Meeting AS BOD* NED & ID EC** FC CGNC AC RMRPTC PCC Ayala recognizes the value of providing relevant through participation in the Integrated Corporate trainings to its directors and has set aside an Governance, Risk Management and Sustainability No. of meetings 1 7 1 8 4 4 7 2 annual budget to allow them to attend continuing Summit and attendance in other CG trainings professional development programs, applicable administered by either the Good Governance Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala C C C M Executive Director 1/1 7/7 8/8 courses, conferences and seminars. Advocates & Practitioners of the Philippines (GGAPP) or SGV & Co. Fernando Zobel de Ayala VC M M It is the policy of the company that all directors Executive Director 1/1 7/7 7/8 attend at least a four-hour annual continuing For the past six years, Ayala has partnered with Delfin L. Lazaro M M C M training program on corporate governance. Also, the Institute of Corporate Directors (ICD) and Non-Executive Director 1/1 7/7 1/1 8/8 2/2 all new directors must undergo at the minimum an continuously supported its advocacy to promote Xavier P. Loinaz M M M C eight-hour orientation program on the company’s professional directorship in line with global Lead Independent Director 1/1 7/7 1/1 4/4 4/4 business and structure, vision and mission, business principles. For the year, Ayala has sponsored ICD’s strategy, Governance Codes and Policies, Articles, programs such as the Distinguished Corporate Ramon R. Del Rosario, Jr. M M C M M C Independent Director 1/1 7/7 1/1 4/4 4/4 6/7 2/2 By-Laws, Corporate Governance Manual, Board Governance Speaker Series. and Committee Charters, SEC-mandated topics on Antonio Jose U. Periquet M M M M C governance matters and other subjects essential DIRECTOR COMPENSATION Independent Director 1/1 7/7 1/1 8/8 4/4 7/7 for the effective performance of their duties and The Personnel and Compensation Committee Keiichi Matsunaga M M M M M M responsibilities. Each year, the Chief Compliance recommends to the Board remuneration packages Non-Executive Director 1/1 6/7 1/1 4/4 6/7 2/2 Officer ensures all directors undergo the necessary for directors, ensuring that compensation is C – Chairman VC – Vice Chairman M – Member trainings. consistent with the company’s culture, strategy, and AS – Annual Stockholder BOD – Board of Directors NED – Non-Executive Director control environment, and aligned with the long-term ID – Independent Director EC – Executive Committee FC – Finance Committee As a group-wide initiative, a Corporate interests of the company and its stakeholders. Total CGNC – Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee AC – Audit Committee Governance and Risk Management Summit has remuneration or changes thereto are approved by RMRPTC – Risk Management and Related Party Transactions Committee PCC – Personnel and Compensation Committee * In 2019 and during the incumbency of the director been held annually since 2014. The Summit the stockholders during the annual stockholders’ ** The actions of the Executive Committee were taken via digital/electronic means serves as a venue for collaboration, promotes meeting. the importance of strengthening the company’s corporate governance structures, and acts as Performance Assessment In 2019, AON was appointed as the independent a continuing education program for the Board, Annually, the Board undergoes a formal assessment consultant to assist in the board assessment CEOs, and senior management. For 2019, the process to review and evaluate the performance exercise. first ever Integrated Corporate Governance, Risk of the Board, its Committees, and its individual Management and Sustainability Summit with the members. The purpose of the assessment is Each of the directors was requested to complete theme “The Board’s Agenda: Sustainability Shapes to measure the effectiveness of the company’s a self-assessment form which includes criteria Corporate Governance and Risk Management” governance practices and identify areas for such as: (1) structure of the Board, (2) shareholder was held on August 9, 2019 in recognition of the improvement; and to adopt new methodologies benefits, (3) fulfillment of the Board’s key interconnectedness of the three disciplines in towards further strengthening the company’s responsibilities, (4) oversight function, (5) ensuring responsible business growth and value corporate governance standards. Once every three effectiveness of the Board’s processes and meetings, creation. The Summit’s aim was to increase years, an independent consultant will be appointed (6) quality of the Board-Management relationship, awareness that integrating sustainability in Ayala’s to assist in the evaluation process of the Board. (7) corporate ethics, and (8) performance evaluation. core strategies and governance framework allows for Ayala sponsored Institute of Corporate Directors’ Distinguished Corporate Governance Speaker Series 39 40 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Executive Directors Remuneration Executive Committee system. The Committee ensures that management Ayala’s CEO and COO, Jaime Augusto Zobel de The Executive Committee is mandated to exercise Annually and as necessary (i.e. upon vacancy of maintains a sound risk management framework Ayala and Fernando Zobel de Ayala, respectively, as the powers and perform the duties of the Board position or when additional directors are required), and internal control system to mitigate material executive directors, do not receive remuneration for within the authority granted to it. It acts by majority the Committee recommends to the Board qualified risk exposures identified by the company. Another attending Board meetings nor the fixed retainer fee vote of all its members during the intervening period individuals for nomination and election as directors responsibility of the Committee is to review all for Board of Directors. between scheduled Board meetings. based on the established criteria to ensure material RPTs for endorsement to the Board to sufficient diversity in the Board and aligned with the ensure that these are at arm’s length, the terms Non-Executive and Independent Directors Finance Committee company’s vision, mission, strategic directions, its are fair, and they will inure to the best interest of Remuneration The Finance Committee oversees, reviews, and By-Laws, Revised Manual of Corporate Governance, the company, its subsidiaries or affiliates, and the Only NEDs and IDs receive director fees. The existing evaluates the financial affairs of the company. The and the rules of the SEC. For this purpose, the shareholders. remuneration framework for the NEDs and IDs Committee discussed, deliberated on and approved Committee may make use of professional search adopted by the company consists of a fixed retainer various transactions in 2019. firms or other external sources of candidates to Personnel and Compensation Committee fee and meeting fees. The fee structure is indicated search for qualified candidates to the Board. The Personnel and Compensation Committee in the table below. Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee is responsible for establishing a formal and The Corporate Governance and Nomination Audit Committee transparent procedure for the development of a BOARD COMMITTEES Committee is tasked with ensuring that good The Audit Committee oversees matters relating policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the The Board Committees are established to allow corporate governance principles and practices are to the financial statements and financial reporting remuneration packages of corporate officers and the Board to focus on specific functions, assist complied with and observed by the company. This process, external auditors, internal auditors, internal directors, ensuring that compensation is consistent the Board in the optimal performance of its roles includes the adoption of an effective Board process control, and compliance with applicable legal and with the company’s culture, strategy, and control and responsibilities and to aid in promoting good in the nomination, election, or replacement of Board regulatory requirements. environment; and is aligned with the long-term governance. The rights and responsibilities of each members and the review of the succession plans interests of the company and its stakeholders, Committee delegated by the Board are defined in for members of the Board and senior executives. Risk Management and Related Party Transactions while remaining competitive against the market. the specific Committee Charters duly approved by The Committee strives to ensure that the Board Committee The Committee is guided by the objective of ensuring the Board, all of which are available on the company composition allows it to exercise effective decisionThe Risk Management and Related Party that the level of compensation should fairly pay for website. Each Committee’s composition and making powers by maintaininmg a suitable number Transactions Committee is responsible for oversight the work required, considering the company’s size attendance details can be found in the table on page of independent directors. The Committee also makes of the company’s enterprise risk management and scope. 39. sure that the Board is comprised of individuals whose background, skills, experience and personal BOARD SKILLS MATRIX For the highlights of the Committees’ activities in characteristics meet the needs of the company Directors as of December 31, 2019 2019, refer to the Committees’ Report to the Board of and is aligned the company’s strategic direction, as Industry Knowledge/ Experience JAZA FZA DLL XPL KM RRR AUP Directors on pages 206-212. evidenced by the board skills matrix found in the Industry Experience – Conglomerate next page. Industry Experience – Other Business Holdings FEE STRUCTURE AND DIRECTOR REMUNERATION Understanding of Business Environment Experience, Skills, Expertise FEE STRUCTURE Retainer fee For board For all committees Accounting Committee Chairman P3 million per annum P0.2 million per meeting P0.1 million per meeting Business Management (CEO, CFO) and Member attended attended Legal/Regulatory In 2019, the following NEDs and IDs received gross remuneration as follows: International Expertise Finance Non-executive and Retainer fee Meetings’ attendance fees Gross Remuneration independent directors Economics Ramon R. Del Rosario, Jr. P3,000,000 P3,100,000 P6,100,000 Engineering Delfin L. Lazaro P3,000,000 P2,500,000 P5,500,000 Investment Banking Strategic Planning Xavier P. Loinaz P3,000,000 P2,300,000 P5,300,000 Corporate Governance Keiichi Matsunaga P3,000,000 P2,500,000 P5,500,000 Board Tenure Antonio Jose U. Periquet P3,000,000 P3,400,000 P6,400,000 Years 32 25 13 7* 3 7* 7* TOTAL P15,000,000 P13,800,000 P28,800,000 Age Years 60 59 73 76 55 75 58 None of the NEDs and IDs receive compensation from Ayala for services other than those provided as a director. They are not entitled to stock options and performance bonuses from the company. *Reckoned from 2012, in compliance with SEC Memorandum Circular No. 19, Series of 2016 41 42 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE JOHN ERIC T. FRANCIA Managing Director, President and CEO, AC Energy, Inc. RUEL T. MARANAN Managing Director, President, Ayala Foundation BERNARD VINCENT O. DY Senior Managing Director, President and CEO, Ayala Land, Inc. JAIME AUGUSTO ZOBEL DE AYALA Chairman and Chief Executive Officer ALFREDO I. AYALA Managing Director, Chief Operating Officer, iPeople, Inc. ARTHUR R. TAN Senior Managing Director, CEO of Integrated Micro-Electronics, Inc. and President and CEO, AC Industrials Technology Holdings, Inc. FERNANDO ZOBEL DE AYALA President and Chief Operating Officer JOHN PHILIP S. ORBETA Managing Director, Chief Human Resources Officer and Group Head, Corporate Resources ERNEST LAWRENCE L. CU President and CEO, Globe Telecom, Inc. JOSE TEODORO K. LIMCAOCO Senior Managing Director, Chief Finance Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Chief Sustainability Officer, Finance Group Head and President of AC Ventures Holding Corp PAOLO MAXIMO F. BORROMEO Management has created committees composed of key executives Corporation Group Heads, and the CEOs of the The IC reviews, provides direction, and gives Managing Director, Group Head, who meet regularly to discuss business performance and issues Ayala group companies. The Committee oversees preliminary approval for initiatives that may originate Corporate Strategy and Development critical to the growth of the company, and to facilitate the flow the group strategic plan and ensures the alignment from the company or its subsidiaries specifically President and CEO, Ayala Healthcare of strategic and operational information among the company’s of individual business unit priorities to the grouprequiring funding from the company. Once a project Holdings Inc. decision-makers. This ensures that decision-making is always wide direction. It meets regularly to review business clears the IC, it is endorsed for approval to the SOLOMON M. HERMOSURA made in the best interest of the organization. performance, discuss group-wide issues and appropriate Board Committee and to the full Board. Managing Director, Chief Legal Officer, Corporate Secretary, Chief Compliance events, and identify areas of possible synergy and Officer, Data Protection Officer, and Group Initiatives which are reviewed and endorsed by management-level collaboration. The full profiles of the Ayala Group AYALA CORPORATION MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Head, Corporate Governance committees are discussed at length with the appropriate BoardManagement Committee members can be found on The Ayala Corporation Management Committee CEZAR P. CONSING level Committees for approval and consequently, for endorsement pages 244-247. includes the Chairman and CEO, the President and Senior Managing Director, President to the full Board for ratification. COO, and the Group Heads. The Committee approves and Chief Executive Officer, Bank of the INVESTMENT COMMITTEE corporate, administrative, and organizational matters Philippine Islands AYALA GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Investment Committee (IC) is composed of the that pertain exclusively to the company, as well as JOSE RENE GREGORY D. ALMENDRAS The Ayala Group Management Committee is composed of Chairman and CEO, the President and COO, and key group-wide affairs when relevant. Senior Managing Director, President and the Chairman and CEO, the President and COO, the five Ayala members of the company’s senior management. CEO, AC Infrastructure Holdings Corporation and Manila Water Company, Inc. 43 44 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT OUR VALUE CREATION 45 46 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT CREATING SHARED VALUE OUR VISION GLOBAL STANDARDS To be the most relevant, innovative, and enduring Philippine-based business group, enabling shared value and prosperity for the many stakeholders we serve GLOBAL PARTNERSHIPS AYALA’S SDG CHAMPIONS OUR MISSION Maximizing relevance and impact through focus Ayala sits in the Board To ensure long-term proﬁtability as of the UN Global Compact ACCESS & PRODUCTIVITY & RESPONSIBLE GROWTH we create value and forge synergies Network Philippines and supports the Ayala is the first Philippine company INCLUSIVITY COMPETITIVENESS & INNOVATION and alliances with entities who Global Compact and to become a member of WBCSD share our philosophies and values its 10 Principles. and support its goal of transitioning to a sustainable world. OUR CORE VALUES • Integrity SUSTAINABILITY BLUEPRINT PRINCIPLES • Long-term Vision 1. Outside-in 4. Focus • Empowering Leadership 2. Bold leadership 5. Public-private partnership • Commitment to National 3. Impact at scale Development SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT OUR PURPOSE Our transformation path that leads to a meaningful To improve lives through resilient and lasting impact on the country’s economic and businesses and risk-calculated social landscape aligns with the SDGs and navigates investments that have a meaningful within the focus areas of marginalization, untapped and lasting impact on the country’s potential, and irresponsible growth economic and social landscape KEY DRIVERS OUR PROMISE 1. Micro and Macro Economics Reinventing businesses, 2. Megatrends Transforming communities 3. Leading Sustainability Practices MATERIALITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING FRAMEWORK p.87-88 MARGINALIZATION UNTAPPED POTENTIAL IRRESPONSIBLE GROWTH RISK MANAGEMENT p.67-74 OUR BUSINESS MODEL p.61-62 Sustainability Blueprint discussion p.105-124 Ayala addresses structural and societal gaps in the Philippines by building businesses and transforming its industry-leading subsidiaries. Our long-term value creation is driven by our strategies with Sustainability at our core. CAPITALS HOW WE CREATE VALUE STRATEGY VISION PILLARS OUTLOOK MANAGED RISKS 2019 VALUE CREATED 2020 PRIORITIES (BUSINESS ACTIVITIES) p.55-60 p.65-66 p.63-64 p.67-74 p.62 p.62 A. Financial Management Strategy Earnings that are growing, Strong, diversified portfolio earnings Fundamental Risks consistent, and risk-adjusted and returns amid economic cycles Financial • Strategic Business Development Rising Consumer Class • Political and Regulatory Financial Strength • Brand and Reputation • Capital Allocation • Governance and Controls Maintained market leadership and Positively disrupt, transform industries, Growing Importance • Talent • Portfolio Management strengthened expertise in our businesses and impact the markets we serve of ESG • Business Resiliency • Balance Sheet Management Reinvention and Growth • Information Security and Cyber Intellectual B. Non-Financial Management Strategy Digital Transformation Other Key Risks A competent workforce of more than Continue to be the employer of choice • Portfolio Management 72,000 direct employees across our for a highly engaged employee base • Human Resource Development Geographic Expansion • Competition businesses Structural Reforms • Partnerships and Alliances Human • Corporate Governance • Innovation and Technology • Synergy Partner of choice, with our businesses Sustain ongoing relationship with • Stakeholder Management having maintained strong partnerships existing business partners while Stakeholder Empowerment Growth Potential Across • Capital Markets the Region • Funding with over 40 leading local and global keeping our doors open for new • Risk Management companies ventures and partnerships • Brand Management Social and Relationship Business Leadership Threat of COVID-19 47 48 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT MARKET OUTLOOK CAPITALS STRATEGY HOW WE CREATE VALUE 2019 2019 2020 THE VALUE WE (BUSINESS ACTIVITIES) PRIORITIES PERFORMANCE PRIORITIES CREATE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS CORE VALUE DRIVERS • Growing middle class Natural • Increase recurring • Estate development • Deliver on target • Two new malls and • Deliver on target Quality homes and • 60 percent of population Intellectual income contribution • Property development pipeline one amenity retail pipeline venues for business seen to belong to workforce Manufactured to achieve a more • Commercial leasing • Launch products • Three new offices • Launch products and leisure that 44.5% by 2040 Social and relationship balanced portfolio • Construction and attuned to market 797 new hotel rooms attuned to market support communities, Leading and most diversified • Rising per capita income Human • Launch an optimal property management demand • 48 property demand create jobs, protect property developer in the country • Availability of long-term Financial mix of horizontal and • Strategic investments development the environment, with the largest landbank rate mortgages vertical projects for sale projects launched and boost economic • Continued build-up of activity p.131-132 infrastructure projects • Household consumption will Financial • Achieve asset growth in • Capital raising, Increase loans by: SME, consumer and Financial inclusion likely continue to be the Manufactured and Intellectual high-margin business advisory, and financing 20 percent or more 6 percent increase in microfinance loans and wellness, scalemain driver of growth but Human • Grow Current and • Growing assets for SME loans; SME loans; continue to be a strategic up enterprises, and 48.6% will get crippled by Social and Relationship Savings Accounts • Insuring life and assets 15-19 percent for 13 percent increase in priority. However, spur investments that Pioneering financial institution, one COVID-19 Natural • Moderate branch • Other financial services consumer loans; consumer loans; aggressive growth rates directly impact clients of the most profitable banks in the • Capital Expenditure may expansion 50 percent for 100.3 percent increase for 2020 will no longer and communities Philippines fall as business will likely • Increase digital platform microfinance loans in microfinance loans apply in a post-Covid prioritize liquidity to cushion active users scenario. p.137-138 impact of COVID-19 Grow deposits by 6.9 percent deposits • Tourism, airlines, real estate, 10%; CASA ratio by growth Growth of deposits to transport and manufacturing 70 percent or more 69.1 percent CASA ratio be dictated by market may decline conditions and funding • Demand for investment safe Build 10-15 new BPI 11 new BPI branches requirements in a posthaven like USD will increase, branches; built; Covid scenario currencies like PhP may 100 new BanKo 100 new BanKo weaken branches branches built 5-10 new branches, • Decline in imports and under review in 2H 2020 remittance • Consumers continue to favor Financial • Accelerate network • Build the network of Connect household 2 million home Connect household to Digital lifestyle and data for their communication Manufactured rollout choice to internet through broadband customers internet through wireless digital solutions needs; decline in voice and Intellectual • Increase household • Focus on the customer wireless home 94.2 Million Mobile home broadband to support small, 30.9% SMS services Human penetration/ Habituate • Digitally transform broadband Subscribers medium, and large Purveyor of the Filipino digital • Increase in fixed-line Social and Relationship and monetize businesses enterprises lifestyle supported by a robust industry demand for data • Develop new ICT • Put people first Launch 5G Launched home air Launch 5G in homes and telecom infrastructure • Corporate and Enterprise capabilities/New and technology fiber 5G services central business districts clients require solutions profitable revenue p.142-144 that drive business growth streams Create contentPartnered with One, Continue to build and protect information and • Develop an agile driven experience NBA, Netflix, Spotify partnerships for contentassets workforce for customers and others driven experience • Changing market dynamics with entry of the third telco Improve digital 38.4 Transactional net Improve customer player sales and care promoter score versus experience via hyperchannels 34.5 in 2018 targeted rewards; use omni-channels Provide digital technology to help Provided business Transform trade/ business flourish solutions to SMES and distribution experience, large enterprises beyond telco products Create highperforming Deployed go wifi organization 88 percent Maintain high-performing Organizational organization Health Index Score • 15 GW of renewables to Financial • Expand in high growth • Development platform • Expand in high • Commissioned • Build new solar Reliable, cost-efficient be built by the country Manufactured regional markets • Commercial generation growth regional solar projects in and wind projects energy to power in the next decade Human • Leverage both • Retail electricity supply/ markets Vietnam • Complete corporate customer requirements 100% • Continuous increase in Social and relationship internal development commercial operations • Reinvest capital to • Acquired additional restructuring in the Philippines, Fast growing regional energy electricity demand capabilities and enable expansion stake in local solar of AC Energy Indonesia, and platform with investments in • Improvements toward strategic partnerships of domestic and wind plants Philippines Vietnam. renewable and conventional power renewable energy cost • Actively recycle international • Acquired controlling • Strengthen and grow assets and development, operations, and efficiency capital renewable energy stake in PHINMA partnerships and retail supply capabilities businesses Energy • Deploy US$ 1 Billion • Awarded two power capital from green p.149-150 supply contracts with bonds and from Meralco divestment value • Divested on coal realization assets • Issued green bonds with IFC and ADB 49 50 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT MARKET OUTLOOK CAPITALS STRATEGY HOW WE CREATE VALUE 2019 2019 2020 THE VALUE WE (BUSINESS ACTIVITIES) PRIORITIES PERFORMANCE PRIORITIES CREATE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS • Water shortage will Financial • Advocate water security • Water utility operations • Operationalize • Operationalized • Ensure equitable Water and wastewater continue to be a challenge, Manufactured and sustainability • Bulk water supply Cardona Water the Cardona Water distribution of water services and capital aggravated by climate Human • Support MWSS in water • Total water solutions Treatment Plant Treatment Plant • Complete ongoing water improvements across change and increase in Natural source projects • Increase utilization • 15 percent increase supply augmentation Philippine operations 51.4% population and density Social and Relationship • Expand the capacity and of used water in wastewater projects and Manila Water Asia Regional player in water • Wastewater treatment coverage of wastewater treatment plants services coverage • Further increase Pacific infrastructure services and becomes increasingly services • Close new projects wastewater services development important for its role in ASEAN and coverage in raw water supply neighboring p.155-156 replenishment regions • Tougher operating conditions Financial • Create and grow • Portfolio management • Support IMI • IMI operations • Support growth of Enhanced in the US and in China due to Manufactured larger-scale operations • Global manufacturing expansion remain stable IMI’s core businesses manufacturing quality intensifying trade conflicts Intellectual • Incorporate high-tech services ending at over • Enhance market and advancement 100% • Increasing digitization and Human investments • Emerging technologies US$ 1 billion position of various of technology for Industrial technologies connectivity leading to higher Social and Relationship development • Relaunch Kia • Kia brand automotive brands sustainable solutions investments focused on demand for electronic • Vehicle distribution and retail brand relaunched, gaining • Scale-up STI’s electronics manufacturing, devices 124 percent operations and create vehicle retail, and enabling • Shortages of materials and increase in sales synergies with IMI technologies more demanding customer within 11 months • Stabilize the business cycle times of operations while retaining start-up p.161-162 • Philippines will remain a • KTM Philippines agility valued destination to many • Open new export produced 6,800 automotive manufacturers markets for KTM motorcycles and • Key technology exported 70 transformation such as percent of them autonomy, sharing, and smart technology will shift industry profitability • Increased PH public Financial • Ensure high levels of • Project development • Increase annual • 10 percent increase • Increase MCX daily Resilient infrastructure infrastructure spending Manufactured efficiency for operating • Implementation and daily traffic in MCX in daily traffic in traffic to 38,000 to facilitate movement • Expected growth in efficient Intellectual companies business start-up MCX of people, and support 100% and reliable logistics Human • Propose strategic • Efficient operations • Improve LRT• Increased to 116 • 20,000 passenger per faster and reliable Portfolio of key infrastructure • Growing preference Social and Relationship projects to • Talent and leadership 1 passenger operating light rail hour direction for LRT-1 movement of goods. projects and public-privatefor more convenient and government development experience vehicles partnerships (PPPs) in the country cashless modes of financial • Expand portfolio of • Expand to 1,000 • 15 bus operator • Additional partners for transactions non-PPP businesses beep-enabled bus and 14 PUV beepTM and jeepney units operator partners p.167-168 for beepTM • Secure NEDA • Secured NEDA • Grow AC Infra’s logistics Board approval and Approval for the portfolio business undertake Swiss NAIA rehabilitation challenge for NAIA project rehabilitation • 14 percent monthly growth in volume for Entrego 51 52 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT MARKET OUTLOOK CAPITALS STRATEGY HOW WE CREATE VALUE 2019 2019 2020 THE VALUE WE (BUSINESS ACTIVITIES) PRIORITIES PERFORMANCE PRIORITIES CREATE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS LONG-TERM VALUE DRIVERS SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE • Clearer national policy on Financial • Establish leadership in • Asset performance • Over 900 • 804 Generika • Secure supply of Affordable healthcare cancer care and primary Manufactured the pharma space • Portfolio building and drugstores drugstores medicines and PPE for underserved sector care coverage will help Intellectual • Be the largest integrated business development • 80 FamilyDOC • 74 FamilyDOC • Maintain operations for stabilizethe business Human clinic network in the • Synergies clinics clinics non-COVID-19 patients; environment Social and relationship country • Expand portfolio • Invested in enhance detection of 100% • Decreased clinics visits • Invest in health of health Fibronostics suspected COVID-19 Developing an integrated out of fear of exposure to technology solutions technology • Relaunched AIDE cases ecosystem focused on affordable COVID-19 that enable synergies solutions app • Integrate clinic medicine and access to healthcare • Shortage of medicines (i.e. across AC Health • Expand pharmacy • Invested in network, partner with services preventive) and supplies • Build the AC Health portfolio IE Medica and hospital networks from increased demand and portfolio MedEthix • Promote telemedicine p.173-174 disruption of global supply • Invest in hospitals • Acquired and connect with chains and specialty care Healthway physical stores • Outlook remains cautious Philippines and general slowing in overall growth of the industry is anticipated • Highly regulated and Financial • Improve enrollment • Marketing, sales, and • Continue • Over 59,300 • Increase re-enrollment Quality private fragmented PH education Manufactured process expansion enrollment growth students vs about rate and new student education with industry Intellectual • Provide access to needs • Content and curriculum • Improve 38,000 before recruitment opportunities for • Second batch of college Human of students for learning development employability merger • Improve employability potential employment freshmen since 2015 Social and relationship • Ensure quality • Career and placement results • About 24,000 (41 rate and starting 33.5% • Increased government education services percent) scholars average salary Investing in educational institutions allotment for education • Maximize opportunities • Talent development and government • Identify areas for to deliver high quality education subsidies and vouchers for synergy across the subsidy synergy and innovation and improve access, across multiple schools beneficiaries across schools socio-economic segments p.179-180 • Young and tech-savvy Financial • Enable new • Explore new disruptive • Look out for • Setup ACTIVE fund • Deploy first investment Growth in Ayala’s population Manufactured opportunities for the trends, businesses, and disruptive trends • Gained exposure in from the ACTIVE fund portfolio of businesses • ASEAN internet economy to Intellectual Ayala group relationships and their Myanmar • Engage with Yoma by exploring and reach $300 billion by 2025 Human • Gear up tech businesses • Enable adjacencies and investment • Attained positive group and identify entering disruptive 100% • PH with second largest Social and relationship for scale and synergies that complement opportunities margins for Zalora co-investment industries Holding company for Ayala’s internet user base profitability the strategies of current • Strengthen • Grew Mynt active opportunities investments in international estate, • Myanmar liberalizing its • Strengthen AG Holdings’ businesses partnerships, user base • Launch Cartera platform as well as opportunities in disruptive economy offshore investments explore • Entered into the • Expand Zalora and Mynt sectors and emerging business opportunities in Cartera JV with BPI • Continue to explore models real estate sector and Indivara opportunities in real estate p.185-186 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT • Philippine civil society Financial • Strengthen alignment • Education programs • Align with • Facilitated • Continue strong Community organizations remained Manufactured with conglomerate • Arts and culture Ayala group volunteerism alignment with Ayala development by stable despite challenges on Intellectual • Focus on stronger • Youth leadership especially in initiatives and group bridging business legal environment, advocacy, Human community engagement • Sustainable livelihood volunteerism partnerships with • Strengthen reach of key needs and community The conglomerate’s social and public image Social and relationship • Make an impact on the • Employee engagement and CSR Ayala businesses programs aspirations development arm with key program Natural country’s development • Strengthen • Strengthened • Continue conversations areas in education, youth leadership, goals and in national community presence of key on nation building sustainable livelihood, and the pride programs programs • Train employees promotion of arts and culture • Improve efficiency of • Continue • Brought Maging as advocates for internal processes and conversations on Magiting program community p.191-192 build a strong talent nation building to 17 regions development pool • Train employees • Acknowledged by • Integrate SROI • Measure impact using as community Philippine Council measurement and SROI framework development for NGO Certification introduce to Ayala advocates (PCNC) for service group • Integrate SROI excellence measurement in • Secured levelprojects one certification from Social Value International 53 54 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT OUR STRATEGY Ayala addresses structural and societal gaps in management and continue to rebalance our holdings STRATEGIC BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT and financial viability. Management provides the the Philippines by building impactful businesses to crystalize value. Finally, our active balance sheet In Ayala, we constantly look for new investment needed capital to the approved business plan and and transforming its industry-leading subsidiaries. management is the engine that allows us to stay areas, identify opportunities, and assess emerging designates a responsible management team to carry Our long-term value creation is driven by strategic nimble and drives our capacity to grow. markets and economic trends. This process includes out the implementation. Business performance is business development, a robust capital allocation a thorough analysis of the performance of a business reviewed on a regular basis and our gating process process, active portfolio, and balance sheet These four are done in the context of key global, and weighing this against the competition, the involves many groups within the company, including management, with sustainability at our core. regional, and local trends that we believe will impact business landscape, and the approved budget Corporate Strategy and Development; Finance; markets, sectors, and businesses in which we plan. The objective is to refine capital allocation a management-led Investment Committee; the We have a strong track record of building choose to invest and operate. depending on performance, and if needed, suggest Board’s Finance Committee; and the Board of impactful businesses and steering their strategic changes to the business plans or strategies. Directors. transformation as industry-leading players. We Our management approach and constant reinvention identify opportunities in sectors that are either has cemented our business leadership over the In November 2019, we invested US$237.5 million PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT in nascent stages or are undergoing disruption to past 185 years. We are addressing the societal gaps in Myanmar through a 20 percent ownership Our portfolio consists of companies in various stages create strong franchises. We explore new sectors, through the company’s investment portfolios in stake in the Yoma Group. Myanmar is among the of development. Our core businesses Ayala Land, geographies, and expert partners to develop new healthcare, education, and infrastructure. ASEAN’s fastest growing economies but remains BPI, Globe, and AC Energy are capital self-sufficient business models where we can innovate and unlock underpenetrated. This long-term investment in and have access to various sources of funding, while our unique advantage. Our financial management strategy is rooted in Myanmar supports our belief in the country’s growth our emerging businesses rely on equity infusion discipline and a conscious alignment to the vision potential and the prospects of the region in general. from Ayala. As the emerging companies grow and Our strategy execution is driven by four elements: of Ayala to be the most relevant, innovative, and We partnered with the Pun family’s Yoma Group become more profitable, they are able to access Our strategic business development agenda enduring business group. Using the five vision because they are a conglomerate of high regard and other avenues of funding. For its part, Ayala provides continues to refine our existing business strategies pillars as a guide, management gains a better with values that align with ours. the critical support beyond equity capital including and to identify new opportunities by leveraging understanding of how decisions on capital allocation, strategy, treasury, corporate finance, audit, legal, our financial, intellectual, human, and social and portfolio management, business development, All investment proposals that progress beyond and human resources. relationship capital. Our robust capital allocation and balance sheet management impact the overall the Corporate Strategy and Finance groups are process utilizes quantitative and qualitative criteria strategy, allowing the company to be agile and presented to the Investment Committee. The The Management Investment Committee and the and a multi-step management approach to fund new ensure its longevity. Investment Committee is composed of Ayala’s key Board’s Finance Committee review the performance or existing businesses. We employ active portfolio senior officers and may invite other senior group of each business unit through a portfolio strategy executives to provide insight. The Investment cycle throughout the year. This starts with a Group 5 Vision Pillars Committee then reviews the business plan and CEO session to align on our outlook, then a portfolio the strategy for execution. A thorough discussion review process to study our existing assets set on risks is carried out and responsible persons against the current macroeconomic backdrop, are identified to execute the business plan. If the regular deep dives on specific business units, and Financial Reinvention and Geographic Stakeholder Business Strength Growth Expansion Engagement Leadership Investment Committee approves the proposed a review process to assess performance against investment, it is then endorsed to the Finance annual targets. This robust process provides Strategic Business Development Committee of the Board. management the platform to assess whether to allocate more capital to a business or rebalance our Capital Allocation CAPITAL ALLOCATION holdings to solidify value. In practice, investment decisions are weighed Portfolio Management against whether they can deliver significant value BALANCE SHEET MANAGEMENT Balance Sheet Management over time. We follow a rigorous process that Over the years, Ayala has built a portfolio of core evaluates opportunities and tests for business businesses that served as sources for our operating 55 56 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT expenses, interest obligations, and dividend Our fixed to floating rate mix of 91/9 reflects our Our strong credit is shown in our capital raising value of our assets. Tracking this ratio daily expectations while enabling us to raise capital to strategy of capitalizing on lower interest rates and supported by wide access to bank loans. provides management and the Board a measure fund new enterprises. during the latter part of 2019 and puts Ayala in a We maintain committed lines from both local as to how much of our value is funded by debt. favorable position in a rising rate environment. Peso and foreign banks that ensure we have sources It is also a tool during a market downturn, Our balance sheet is the engine that drives our obligations are 62 percent of our total obligations of funds available when needed. as it helps in decision-making whether we capacity to grow. As such, we ensure that it and our US dollar denominated obligations are more should sell assets to prune our debt levels or remains strong with significant debt capacity and than offset by US dollar cash and long-term foreign Our debt policies ensure that we can comfortably take on additional debt to buy undervalued assets. a well spread out maturity profile that gives us the currency investments. service our interest and operating expenses, meet 3. Maintaining a maximum amount of debt due each flexibility to fund future growth opportunities. This maturing obligations, and have the confidence to year where our debt maturities are spread out is augmented by an optimal foreign exchange and Related to our investments on new growth ventures, face or take advantage of market downturns. The across many years, to avoid concentration in a interest rate mix and a healthy cashflow adequacy we are confident in the long-term value creation policies include: single year. This ensures that an external event ratio. of the company. In May 2019, we purchased 3.8 1. Maintaining a pre-defined cash flow adequacy that might affect refinancing in any given year million of our common shares from Mitsubishi ratio, to ensure cash we receive at Ayala is does not cause significant problems. Ayala’s loan to value ratio, which compares our net Corporation for ₱3.2 billion. On December 5, 2019, sufficient to meet all our cash obligations 4. Hedging is done if non-peso debt is used to fund debt to the market value of our investments, is a the Board approved a new buyback program and arising from expenses, interest, and dividends. peso investments. For prudence, foreign currency good measure of our relative indebtedness and our allocated ₱10 billion for the purchase of Ayala 2. Maintaining a maximum loan to value ratio, which denominated debt is used to finance capacity to take on or service our obligations. At the Corporation shares. We purchased 673,000 of our measures the ratio of our net debt to the total foreign-currency denominated investments. end of 2019, our loan to value ratio decreased to common shares for ₱545 million as of year end, Issuer Type Amount Coupon Issuance Maturity Details 6.5 percent from 11.8 percent in 2018. The decrease reflecting our confidence amid challenging market was largely attributed to the maturity of our US$300 conditions. Ayala Preferred shares ₱10.0Bn 5.2500% November 15, Perpetual 10th year repricing: 5-year BVAL + Pref B Series 1 2013 150bps million exchangeable bond in April 2019. The (ACPB 1) 15th year repricing: 10-year BVAL + dividends Ayala received from AC Energy’s sale of Our sound debt management practice allows us 300bps thermal assets were also used to repay US$380 flexibility in our investment decisions. Our strategy Preferred shares ₱15.0Bn 4.8214% November 29, Perpetual 5th year repricing: Pref B Series 2 2019 10-year BVAL + 300bps million from our bilateral facilities. as regards to debt is to raise debt opportunistically (ACPB2R) in the public markets and rely on strong and Voting Preferred ₱200.0Bn 3.6950% May 20, 2010 Perpetual Every 3rd year repricing: Our current loan to value ratio (LTV) remains low transparent banking relationships in the loan Shares 3-year BVAL (non-listed) and indicates that for every ₱6.50 of debt we carry, markets. In October 2019, the drop in interest rates we have ₱100 of assets behind it. The LTV does not provided an opportunity for Ayala to return to the 10-year Putable ₱9.9Bn 6.8000% May 12, 2011 May 12, First put option: May 12, 2016 Bond, 2021 (up to 20% of outstanding) include the impact of our fixed-for-life perpetual international capital markets. We raised US$400 Fixed Coupon Second put option: May 12, 2019 bonds as these are perpetual securities and do not million from the issuance of a second fixed-for-life (up to 100% of outstanding) have to be repaid. Gross debt increased to ₱105.8 perpetual bond at a coupon of 4.85 percent. The 15-year Callable ₱10.0Bn 6.8750% May 11, 2012 May 11, May 11, 2022 (at 101.000%) Bond, Fixed 2027 May 11, 2023 (at 100.750%) billion, offset by an end-2019 cash balance, which offering was the second fixed-for-life notes issuance Coupon May 11, 2024 (at 100.500%) brought net debt to ₱83.2 billion. At the parent level, in Asia Pacific for 2019 and the lowest yielding of its May 11, 2025 (at 100.375%) May 11, 2026 (at 100.250%) net debt to equity ratio went down to 0.63 to 1. kind out of Southeast Asia. 7-year Callable ₱10.0Bn 3.9200% July 7, 2016 July 7, 2023 Callable on January 7, 2022 Bond, Fixed (at 100.250%) We continue to manage our obligations to ensure In November 2019, we tapped the domestic capital Coupon that we are not overly exposed to market liquidity, markets and raised ₱15 billion from our preferred 8-year Callable ₱10.0Bn 4.8200% February 10, February 10, Callable on August 10, 2023 Bond, Fixed 2017 2025 (at 100.250%) foreign exchange, and interest rate risks. Our average shares issuance. Pricing was 60 basis points over Coupon cost of debt rose slightly to 5.4 percent per annum the 5-year Bloomberg Valuation (BVAL) benchmark AYCFL Perpetual Bond, US$400.0Mn 5.1250% September 13, Perpetual Callable on September 13, 2022 following a period of rising interest rates in the first with a final computed rate of 4.8214 percent the TOTAL Fixed Coupon 2017 (at 100.250%) (guaranteed half of 2019. At year end, our debt maturities are tightest for a preferred shares issuance. The offering by Ayala) Perpetual Bond, US$400.0Mn 4.8500% October 30, Perpetual Callable on October 30, 2024 Fixed Coupon 2019 (at 100.250%) well-spread out and in compliance with our internal was also the largest domestic fund-raising exercise policy of not having maturities exceeding 20 percent done by Ayala in recent years, receiving the highest of total debt annually. participation from the PSE trading participants in recent preferred share offers. 57 58 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT FIXED/ FLOATING RATE DEBT MIX drop to the target range of the government as early leading to more uncertainty towards the group. NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT STRATEGY Percentage of Total Parent Debt as the first quarter of the year and several rate cuts In December, this was further amplified when the The other component that defines the way we do including Debt Guaranteed by Parent were implemented by the central bank, sentiment government threatened to revoke the contracts of business is our commitment to sustainability. Our slowly deteriorated as internal and external the incumbent water concessionaires on the grounds non-financial management strategy revolves on 7% 9% headwinds weighed down GDP growth, which ended of onerous provision in the deals, effectively also human resource development with the belief that 12% 93% 91% at 5.9 percent and below the government’s full year dampening sentiment in the country. While these our employees are our primary customers and 88% target of 6 percent to 6.5 percent. In particular, a were happening, concerns on the novel coronavirus their welfare is our priority, corporate governance delay in passage of the national budget hampered was starting to emerge, establishing the storyline which makes sure that we comply with policies and government spending in the first part of the year. for perhaps the biggest global headwind for the regulations required of responsible companies, incoming year. The PSEi ended 2019 at 7,815.26, up stakeholder management where we operate The PSEi was flattish throughout 2019 given these roughly 4.35 percent while Ayala’s share price tallied with the welfare of our stakeholders in mind, risk factors and registered a low-single digit growth at ₱785.50, down 13.3 percent. management which gives us the balance and by the end of the year. Ayala’s share price tracked cautions us as we keep our balance sheet strong, the index’s movement for the most part, exhibiting DIVIDENDS and brand management where our mindset is that alternating upswings and downswings for the first Ayala’s policy is to provide a regular fixed semieverything we do affects our brand and reputation. seven months during which it traded at an average annual cash dividend to common shares. For voting 2017 2018 2019 of ₱910, near its start-of-the-year levels of ₱906. preferred shares, the dividend rate is 5.77 percent With these, Ayala annually looks at environmental, Fixed Floating Amongst the most notable events that affected per annum. For non-voting Preferred B Series 1 and social, and governance performance as aligned with Ayala’s share price in that period happened in Series 2 shares, the dividends are given at 5.25 its Sustainability Reporting Framework. Moreover, the first month of 2019 when the company was percent and 4.82 percent per annum, respectively. Ayala also monitors how it creates shared value CURRENCY MIX OF DEBT Percentage of Total Parent Debt trading at its peak of nearly ₱1,000. In mid-January, It is the company’s policy to treat all shareholders and ensures that it significantly contributes to including Debt Guaranteed by Parent Mitsubishi Corporation, the company’s second equally, ensuring payment of dividends in an the UN Sustainable Development Goals through largest shareholder, sold AC shares worth ₱11.7 equitable and timely manner—within 30 days after the commitments set in the Ayala Sustainability billion at ₱900 per share. Ayala’s volatile share being declared and finally cleared. Blueprint. price continued in February when MSCI announced that it would rebalance, in three tranches, towards In 2019, we declared total dividends per common As our financial management strategy helps us be China A shares. This effectively reduced weights of share of ₱8.30, 20 percent higher compared to the financially strong to grow and expand, our non36% 42% 38% other component markets in the MSCI including the previous year. We understand that our shareholders financial management strategy helps us ensure 64% 62% Philippines. The Ayala group also saw unfavorable view our dividends as a regular source of both that we remain relevant despite the fast-changing 58% sentiment due to the water supply shortage in income and capital returns and strive to maintain business and social climates. Both strategies are March, which affected Manila Water and the consistent distributions from year to year. Moving given equal importance in Ayala and drives the temporary outage of banking services of BPI due to forward, we will continue to revisit potential group to be continually resilient and innovative. its system upgrade in April. Further, by the time first sustainable increases in the regular dividend half earnings were reported in August, concerns on rate, with the continued capacity to make new or More discussion on non-financial matters can be IMI’s worse than expected losses and Ayala Land’s additional investments as the primary consideration. found in the succeeding pages within the Our Value 2017 2018 2019 residential sales performance became an added Creation section. concern for investors, exacerbating the outlook for PHP USD the parent company. The market also perceived AC SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE VERSUS PSE AC Energy’s divestment gains from its sell down of 2018 year-ended = 1000 5. Maintaining a minimum ratio of fixed rate loans some thermal plants a one-off and a reduction of the to floating rate loans to ensure that our cost power company’s ability to generate core earnings. PSE AC of capital carries a similar characteristic with 130 our long-term investments. By September, despite the strong results of BPI, Globe, and Ayala Land, Ayala started to lag versus 115 SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE the index, which sustained its flattish trajectory. As The Philippine economy as a whole was coming from investors started to digest mid-year earnings, the a year of underperformance, and was expected to company’s share price started to move downwards 100 rebound in 2019 on the back of lower inflation rates but it was not until November, around the same time and higher government spending. Coupled with the the Yoma transaction was announced, that Ayala easing policy set forth by the then new BSP head 85 saw the biggest drop in value at the ₱850 level. Benjamin Diokno, outlook for the economy was The buy-in into the Myanmar-based company had widely positive. However, while inflation rates did mixed feedback from the investment community, 70 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 59 60 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL VALUE WE DRAW FROM WHAT WE DO VALUE WE CREATED IN 2019 TARGETS FOR 2020 Financial Management Strategy • Earnings that are growing, consistent, • Strong, diversified portfolio earnings and risk-adjusted and returns amid economic cycles • Strategic Business Development • Net Income of ₱35.3 billion • Net Income: ₱50 billion FINANCIAL CAPITAL We continue to explore new sectors, geographies, and expert partners to develop new business • Return on Common Equity of 11.9 percent • Return on Common Equity: 15 percent Strong financial position including: • Reliable dividends and total shareholder returns models that will drive our growth • Market Capitalization rank: 1st or 2nd • Reliable operational cash flow We identify partnership opportunities among • Market capitalization of ₱492.3 billion at end-2019, • Affordable, reliable access to our business units and create an environment the third largest among conglomerates debt supported by a robust for collaborative innovation capital allocation process • Capital Allocation • Loan to value ratio decreased to 6.5 percent from • Continue to strengthen Ayala’s Balance Sheet; Using quantitative and qualitative criteria and a the 11.8 percent in 2018 optimum funding in a volatile market environment, multi-step management approach, we allocate • Average cost of debt at 5.4 percent per annum, manage financing cost at 5.4 percent or even lower financial resources to businesses we believe provide but ensured to be well-spread • Maintain a high level of Liquidity of at least the best risk-adjusted stakeholder returns over the • Issuance of the second opportunistic ₱20 billion, to support budgeted allocation long term US$400 million fixed-for-life (FFL) bond; and new investment opportunities INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL matched long-term funding for strategic • Explore opportunities for yield enhancement, • Portfolio Management • Deep expertise of Philippine We carefully evaluate the performance of our investments and increased focus on Asset and Liability ecosystem and key industries subsidiaries vis-à-vis market behavior to guide • Call and Re-issuance of ₱15 billion Preferred Management and credit management • Corporate culture focused decisions on investments or divestments in a timely shares at record spread level on lifelong learning manner • Robust governance and • Maintained market leadership and strengthened • Positively disrupt, transform the • Balance Sheet Management risk approach expertise in our businesses, including: industries, and impact the markets We maintain a healthy balance sheet with significant debt capacity and a well spread out maturity profile, Ayala Land in integrated mixed-used master we serve which gives us the flexibility to fund future growth planned communities opportunities. This is augmented by an optimal foreign BPI as a trusted financial services provider, exchange and interest rate mix and a healthy cashflow focused on financial inclusion adequacy ratio Globe in wireless market and as a purveyor Non-Financial Management Strategy of the Filipino digital lifestyle AC Energy as a regional player in energy • Human resources development development and power generation HUMAN CAPITAL We continue to build competencies to support • Best-in-class talent across the growing requirements of our businesses departments and disciplines • A competent workforce of more than 72,000 direct • Continue to be the employer of choice for • Diversity of talent, including • Corporate governance employees across our businesses a highly engaged employee base global perspective and mindset We continually improve our policies and • Good quality of life for employees and their • Maintain an empowering and motivating monitor our practices to ensure we are at par families environment that allows people to effectively with the best standards of corporate governance • Developing future Ayala leaders leverage their knowledge, relationships, and • Stakeholder Management • Management excellence as evidenced by awardexpertise to drive value We continue to listen to our stakeholders and winning teams across Finance, Governance, • Prepare workforce for potential disruption keep them informed on matters important to Strategy, and Strategic Human Resources from increasing adoption of digital their decision-making technology in business SOCIAL AND • Risk Management RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL We continue to elevate risk management as an • Partner of choice, with our businesses having • Sustain ongoing relationships with essential consideration in every decision, activity, • Strong relationships with a vast maintained strong partnerships with over 40 existing business partners while keeping and initiative of the company network of business partners, leading companies in the Philippines and from our doors open for new ventures and investors, communities, academe, • Brand Management across the globe partnerships and other relevant entities We continue to build and protect our brand • Satisfied shareholders and stakeholders • Ayala remains a strong and trusted brand • Strong, trusted Ayala brand by ensuring we deliver on our promise, and • Strong and recommended Ayala brand effectively communicate what we stand for as a company 61 62 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT OUR OUTLOOK Ayala defines its strategy in the context of key global, regional, and local trends that we believe will impact markets, sectors, and businesses in which we choose to invest and operate. We monitor the evolving macro-political environment and adapt our strategy posture and investment decisions to ensure we remain in the best position to leverage and mitigate the impact of these factors. RISING CONSUMER CLASS STRUCTURAL REFORMS Description The Philippines continues to be a consumption-driven economy. With tailwinds from lower inflation Description Shifts in laws and regulations affect our businesses in varying degrees. We have witnessed and interest rates, and with an increasing number of Filipinos entering the labor force, we expect substantial structural reforms take place over the last few years across the tax system, healthcare, consumption to remain strong as we look ahead into the next decade. Our demographic dividend of education, and labor, as well as pockets of legislation that have improved ease of doing business. a young and large population is further augmented by continued strong remittances, expansion of We expect these reforms to continue to facilitate job creation and more inclusive growth across the industries, and rising average incomes. Alongside these is the growth of small and medium-sized country. enterprises, which help spur economic activity within their own communities. These factors fuel How our strategy Through collaborative relationships with policymakers, the academe, and partner organizations, a growing base of urbanized, middle-income, and affluent consumers who will continue to unlock addresses this our Public Policy team continues to provide support to the Ayala group on the legal and regulatory demand for products and services. aspects of business operations. Consistent with Ayala’s vision to increase shared value among its How our strategy We continue to prioritize the Philippines with most of our businesses positioned to both contribute stakeholders, the Public Policy unit participated in policy discussions on key reforms – such as addresses this to and grow alongside the country’s development. Our core business units continue to cater to the corporate tax reform, retail trade liberalization, and other industry reforms, among others – which banking, telecom, real estate, and utility needs of the growing consumer class. Furthermore, each of contribute to the overall economic growth and development of the country. The team, along with our these core units continues to explore ways addressing the needs and demands of a broader market Regulatory Council, serves as our platform to collaborate, exchange insights and proactively help – such as expansion of microfinance services of BPI through BanKo, and providing a broad array of senior management stay abreast of new laws and changing government policies, and manage risks residential options, including dormitory-style living of Ayala Land. As a group, we are also evaluating arising from the continuously evolving policy environment. ways to better serve and support small and medium enterprises across our network and supply chains. GROWTH POTENTIAL ACROSS THE REGION Description Despite the onslaught of global economic headwinds, there exists pockets of growth outside GROWING IMPORTANCE OF ESG our borders. Several countries in Southeast Asia have been resilient amid this more challenging Description We believe that to create sustainable and long-term value, private enterprises must continue to environment and continue to benefit from factors such as the diversion of trade and opening up of strive for deeper engagement with society to address various environmental, social, and governance local industries. issues we face today. These issues include marginalization, large untapped potential of our human How our strategy Ayala and our various business units have pursued strategic expansion across the region, capital, climate change, and irresponsible growth leading to lasting environmental damage. In addresses this particularly when industry-specific opportunities for growth are present. For instance, AC Energy response to such issues, we see a trend towards more inclusive businesses models, practices has taken its expertise in renewable energy to Vietnam, Indonesia, and Australia where the industry to reduce carbon footprint, and industries that promote sustainable use of resources, such as structure is shifting towards a more sustainable energy regime. The previous year also marked a renewable energy. We also see more professional investment management firms increasing their milestone in Ayala’s international expansion, with the investment of US$237.5 million to acquire a focus on socially responsible investing strategies. 20 percent stake in both Yoma Strategic Holdings and First Myanmar Investment, holding How our strategy We are increasingly deliberate about our contributions to the United Nations Sustainable companies of the Yoma Group, one of Myanmar’s leading multi-business groups. The transaction addresses this Development Goals, which we first outlined in our Sustainability Blueprint: Bridging the Filipino to was the largest foreign direct investment from the Philippines into Myanmar, and represents a 2030. As a group, we have identified three journeys where our businesses together aim to strategic opportunity for Ayala to apply its institutional experience to create value in a rapidly make tangible and lasting impact: access and inclusivity, productivity and competitiveness, developing economy. and responsible growth and innovation. Each business unit has committed to actionable and measurable initiatives, and we continue to push for group-wide synergies across initiatives such as THREAT OF COVID-19 in waste management and climate action. We advocate carbon reduction across multiple businesses and are focused on measuring our impact by increasing our efforts on SROI and institutionalizing the Description Countries around the world are bracing themselves for the unprecedented health, social, and SDGs as a performance metric for our leaders. economic impact of COVID-19. While the full impact on economic and market outlook remain uncertain, we believe there will be opportunities to help society stay resilient and eventually transition to a new normal. DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION How our strategy Ayala Corporation is focused on maintaining a healthy balance sheet to weather looming economic Description Increasing access to technology has driven a shift in the demands and lifestyles of consumers, addresses this headwinds. We face this growing threat with a strong liquidity position and ability to take advantage which requires innovations in both product and service delivery. To fulfill these ever-evolving of market opportunities. Further, we are prepared with scenario-based business continuity plans demands, new ecosystems – such as e-commerce, fintech, and on-demand logistics – have to ensure the health and safety of our employees, to continue to serve our customers, to work with taken shape and continue to mature. We expect competitive landscapes to continue to evolve as our communities and suppliers, to collaborate with government, and to maintain the trust of our technology-enabled challengers enter traditional industries to deliver new products and services in investors. Finally, we are proactive in helping address the health, social, and economic needs of the innovative ways. country in line with our shared values of nation-building. How our strategy Over the years, we have built a culture of innovation across the group. We continue to empower our addresses this business units to embark on their own digital transformation journeys while remaining cognizant that the pace and scale of transformation varies. As we explore new business models and find ways to integrate digital tools into our businesses, we place greater emphasis on those that will allow us to serve our customers better, and those which help reduce costs and frictions within the organization. A key component of this digital journey is continuously upskilling our talent pool, and a core capability we have started to build is in the field of data analytics with the establishment of a center of excellence to drive data initiatives across the group. 63 64 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT OUR VISION PILLARS STAKEHOLDER EMPOWERMENT Align our strategy to the national development agenda, partner with respected local and global institutions, and attract and nurture the best talent There are five pillars that guide our decisions on financial management and non-financial management strategies. We carefully track our execution against these pillars with Key Performance Indicators 2020 Targets • Define shared value targets for all business units (UN SDG) outlined below. • Broad stakeholder recognition 2019 Performance • Forged partnerships with strong institutions that can further our growth ambitions • Further strengthened the integration of Sustainability and Risk FINANCIAL STRENGTH Management to company strategy by aligning with Corporate Build a strong, growing, and diversified portfolio that can withstand and take advantage of economic cycles Governance and including them as part of the Board Agenda • Forged partnership with a leading global Sustainability group • Continued commitment to the Ayala Sustainability Blueprint 2020 Targets • ₱50 billion NIAT • Outperform peers in total shareholder return and • 15 percent ROCE growth in market capitalizaton 2019 Key Performance • Completed AC Education merger with iPeople • Outperform PSE TSR Indicators • Held the first Integrated Corporate Governance, Risk Management, 2019 Performance • Increased earnings capacity and quality, and in addition, and Sustainability Summit in the Philippines pursued value realization consistent with our strategy • The first local company invited to become a member of the World • Diversified returns through exposure to various industries Business Council on Sustainable Development – a global CEO-led organization of over 200 leading businesses working together to 2019 Key Performance • Net income grew to ₱35.3 billion accelerate the transition to a sustainable world Indicators • Sustained double-digit ROCE of 11.9 percent • SDG Champions across the group committed to attain the targets • 7YR TSR of 52 percent vs PSEi 7YR TSR of 34.5 percent declared in the Ayala Sustainability Blueprint • The Ayala Sustainability Blueprint was featured as a benchmark in how businesses are integrating the SDGs into their reporting processes, this was included in “Action Platform Reporting on the REINVENTION AND GROWTH SDGs” developed by GRI and Global Compact Positively disrupt, transform, and impact the markets we serve 2020 Targets • 20 percent of Equity Earnings from emerging businesses BUSINESS LEADERSHIP Create and support clear industry-leading businesses that show sustainable growth potential 2019 Performance • Higher earnings contribution of emerging businesses, driven by AC Energy which continues to grow its renewable energy portfolio 2019 Key Performance • Equity earnings contribution of emerging businesses at 38 percent 2020 Targets • Committed to creating industry-leading businesses with Indicators • Invested ₱30.1 billion in new growth platforms sustainable growth potential • Recognized leadership across functions that support our businesses 2019 Performance • Listed businesses are leaders in their industries GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSION • Recognized as among the best in the Philippines for management Strategic international expansion, with a focus on Southeast Asia, excellence, corporate governance, sustainability, and investor and driven by business expertise we bring as an advantage relations 2019 Key Performance • Sustained market leadership of core business units 2020 Targets • 10 percent of Equity Earnings from international businesses Indicators Ayala Land continues to hold the largest landbank and maintains its top ranking in the residential market BPI remains among the top three banks in terms of assets and 2019 Performance • Expanded our presence in Southeast Asia through a landmark loan portfolio investment in the Yoma Group, and furthered our operations in Globe maintains its market share leadership in consumer mobile Vietnam, Indonesia, and Australia • Best CEO Award by the Asset – Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala 2019 Key Performance • Invested US$237.5 million in Yoma Strategic Holdings and First Myanmar • Best IR Team Award by the Asset – Ayala Corporation Indicators Investment • Continued recognition in Sustainability and ESG: • 0.6 percent equity earnings from international business Ayala Corporation Platinum Award, Excellence in Environmental, Social, and Governance by the Asset Ayala CFO awarded as one of the Most Influential Doers and Shakers in Purposeful Organizations Ayala Head of Group Risk Management and Sustainability recognized by CSR Works as one of the 27 Superwomen in Sustainability in Asia and by EcoBusiness as an A-lister in Asia Pacific’s list of most impactful sustainability executives 65 66 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT Designed to inspire integrated thinking, Ayala’s Risk Governance as a platform for sharing best practices on risk daily operations. We also conduct a risk culture risk management framework is based on Deloitte’s Oversight for the operationalization of the Ayala’s management. Business unit leaders are risk owners survey every three years (2015 and 2018) to check concept of the Risk Intelligent Enterprise, which risk management framework is entrusted to the who are responsible for managing the risks they face if we are on track in strengthening the risk-aware integrates nine principles related to responsibilities Board of Directors through the Risk Management in the day-to-day operations within the established culture in the organization. of the board, senior management, and business and Related Party Transactions Committee, risk governance framework. The Internal Audit Unit unit leaders. This framework supports the broader which provides transparency and visibility into assesses the effectiveness of the risk mitigation Process principles of ISO 31000 risk management standard, the corporate and the group’s risk management measures proposed by the risk owners and provides Ayala’s risk management practices transcend mere such as integration, structured and comprehensive, practices. an independent assurance of the adequacy, compliance. The shift was driven by the mindset inclusive, and human and culture factors. effectiveness, and efficiency of the risk management that understands the interconnectedness and process. interdependency of risks that require collaborative risk mitigation strategies. Silos were broken down Risk Infrastructure and Management Strategy through risk assessment methodologies, such as the NINE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF AYALA CORPORATION’S RISK Ayala has a seven-year roadmap that communicates black swan approach, risk interaction mapping, A RISK INTELLIGENT ENTERPRISE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK 1. Common risk definition RISK GOVERNANCE its journey of embedding a robust risk management bow-tie analysis, and risk sensing. 2. Common risk framework Board of Directors process in support of achieving its business 3. Key roles, responsibilities, and authority Mandate & commitment Risk Management and Related Party 4. Governing bodies’ oversight ion of Top management Transactions Committee objectives and becoming a resilient organization. From 2016 onwards, Ayala intensified its risk ex ut Several programs at the corporate and group-wide management program by capitalizing on activities ec 5. Common risk management t& Co Management Committees level were undertaken over the period of six years that linked risk management with business strategy, COMMON RISK Ayala Corporation Management Committee infrastructure en INFRASTRUCTURE AND nt inu Investment Committee (2013 to 2019). These programs cover people, further strengthening the practice at all levels of the 6. Executive management pm responsibility ev MANAGEMENT ou Chief Risk Officer process, and technology. organization. In 2018, Ayala focused on the value elo sp Group Risk Management & Sustainability Unit 7. Objective assurance and yd People Process Technology es s Ayala Group ERM Council Top Risk proposition of risk management by assessing the monitoring roc St Reporting by Business Units People effectiveness of its risk management program and rat eg In Ayala, risk is everybody’s business. We streamlining opportunities for positive impact. 8. Business units Business Functions continuously equip our risk owners and their This started the conversation on integrating risk responsibility RISK OWNERSHIP Transactional Risk Management 9. Support of pervasive Corporate Strategy and Development team members with ways how to identify, assess, management and sustainability. functions Analyze & Design, Corporate Resources evaluate, and manage risks that they face in their Identify Integrate Respond Monitor & Evaluate Implement & Public Affairs Risks Risks to Risks Escalate Risks Test Controls Corporate Governance Finance Governance Strategy & Operations/ Compliance Reporting Planning Infrastructure Assurance on the adequacy, effectivesness, and efficiency of the system Deloitte’s Risk Intelligent Enterprise Model At the apex of the risk intelligent enterprise is risk The Chief Risk Officer (CRO), being Ayala’s risk governance—the unifying touchstone and guide management advocate, reports to the Committee to the organization’s risk management efforts. It any improvement in the design, implementation, seeks not to discourage appropriate risk-taking, but and maintenance of the enterprise risk management to embed relevant and effective risk management roadmap. The Group Risk Management and procedures into all of an enterprise’s business Sustainability Unit supports the CRO by conducting pursuits. activities that will enhance the risk-aware culture and improve the risk management program in the By treating risk as intrinsic to the conduct of organization. It also convenes the Ayala Group business, risk intelligent governance elevates risk Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Council, Ayala conducts annual risk assessments attended by senior leaders, risk owners, and risk designates management from an exercise in risk avoidance to composed of risk officers of Ayala business units, an essential consideration in every decision, activity, and initiative. 67 68 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Sustainability Mega Trends Ayala held the first Integrated Corporate Governance, Risk Management, and Sustainability Summit Technology The Group Risk Management and Sustainability and their direct reports in a risk maturity index Unit continues to be innovative in the tools and workshop that benchmarks our practices with global methodologies it uses. It is currently exploring the organizations. utilization of a risk management information system Adapted from Deloitte in housing its risk universe and monitoring the The initial risk maturity index workshop showed that corresponding mitigation plans. insurance portfolio optimization, risk correlation, Continuing risk management To support our risk management process, other and self-insured risk valuation were opportunity and sustainability integration programs were also implemented, such as: the With Information Security and Cyber risk as one areas. Substantial work in these areas were planned In the 2019 enterprise-wide risk assessment development of a common risk language that of the top risks, the Learning and Organization and being implemented in phases. The insurance workshop, Ayala deliberately incorporated facilitates aggregating, consolidating, and reporting Development Unit, in collaboration with the portfolio optimization was an opportunity for the sustainability in risk identification and evaluation, risks at the group level; risk maturity index Information and Communications Technology group to leverage its size to improve wordings considering the sustainability megatrends assessment that benchmarks the corporation and Unit, sends out a monthly online course on cyber and coverage. To start on risk correlation, the introduced to the corporation’s top and middle the Ayala companies’ risk management practice with security that is mandated to be completed by all initial optimized program for property damage management from the previous year. global standards every three years; risk tolerance employees since December 2018. This is an initiative and business interruption cover included risk study that aids in understanding Ayala’s capacity to to strengthen the awareness of employees on management bursary, which was utilized for risk With a deeper understanding of the megatrends, absorb potential losses; and risk appetite workshop information and cyber security threats and equip management studies such as natural catastrophe participants identified emerging risks, such as, for that articulates the level of risks that Ayala is them with knowledge on how to respond to it. modeling, business interruption study, risk instance, more typhoons and floods, presumably prepared to accept in pursuit of its objectives. engineering survey, and asset valuation, among caused by climate change, which could interrupt Strengthening Ayala group’s risk financing strategy others. The studies elevated the group’s awareness business operations. Hence, climate change became Expanding risk appetite definition Strategies in managing risks include avoidance, of potential issues and addressed them by way of a Business Resiliency risk driver. In 2017, the Board approved the management acceptance, mitigation, and/ or transfer of risk based mitigation or risk transfer. recommended risk appetite which enumerates on the company’s risk appetite. Companies usually Following this perspective, Green Financing became non-negotiable risks and sets limits for each of the employ a combination of risk strategies—mitigation Ayala’s CRO saw another opportunity – elevating a mitigating measure for Funding risk. Opportunities drivers of four impact areas – financial, people, and transfer. In Ayala group, the effectiveness of risk financing as a strategy as opposed to a these megatrends present across the group were compliance, and reputational. In 2019, the senior our risk management strategies is incorporated regular transaction. This mindset change involved also identified. For example, Green Financing, management team revisited Ayala’s risk appetite in the annual risk assessment process where risk commitment from business units in mitigating especially for business units involved in renewable which resulted in the addition of environmental owners perform their self-assessment. To provide operational risks on a daily basis, challenging energy or social enterprise, can be an additional impact area, capturing the Ayala group’s positive independence, the Internal Audit reviews, on a retention values, and tracking of relevant data. source of funds. and negative impact to the environment and in regular basis, critical processes that mitigate top To institutionalize this opportunity, a risk financing broadening of the people impact by including our risks. Every three years, Ayala engages a third party strategy roadmap was laid out as a guide for positive and negative impact to the community service provider to engage senior management continuous improvement. where we operate. 69 70 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT RISK FINANCING STRATEGY ROADMAP FOCUS AREAS Insurance Risk Self-Insured Portfolio Correlation Risk Valuation rolling three-year schedule so that all assets and interruption, the premium of which comprised Optimization scenarios can be covered and updated accordingly. 80 percent of the total cost of insurable risk. • Natural Catastrophe modeling – to understand 2016 • Property Damage • Risk Engineering Surveys • Determine exposure for typhoon or earthquake events With a clear risk financing strategy, Ayala can • Political Violence (yearly) feasibility 2017 • Motor • Nat Cat Modeling and viability • Risk Engineering surveys – to assess probable manage uncertainty, maintain liquidity, and • Directors & Officers Liability (every 2 years) of a Captive maximum loss scenarios and to improve risks improve total cost of risk. • Public and Products Liability 2018 • Asset Valuation INITIATIVES • Specie mitigation following best practice • Blast and Threat 2019 • Group Travel Assessments recommendations Reprioritizing risks 2020 • Cyber • BCMS • Asset valuations – to assess adequacy of Participants, risk owners and risk designates, in • Risk Tolerance • Crime (every 3 years) insurable values the annual risk assessment exercise prioritized 2021 • Professional Liability • Business Interruption workshops – to assess Ayala’s risks according to the impact they have • Environmental Liability potential financial impact of work stoppage on people, finance, reputation, compliance, and 2022 • Review all insurable risks • Continuous process and programs available improvements due to accidental damages and incidents environment. 2023 • Parametric Solutions Self-insured risk valuation Aside from the likelihood and impact scores, the risk Insurance portfolio optimization Before risk transfer strategy can be implemented, owners and risk designates also revisited the drivers The renewal of Ayala’s optimized program for the company’s risk retention capability is also of each risk category and discussed the potential property damage and business interruption cover in evaluated by stress testing the balance sheet, implications of these risks to the corporation should the second half of 2019 was challenging, as markets understanding the frequency of loss events, and it happen. More importantly, they updated their were prompted to a “return to profitability” mindset. consolidating total cost of insurance premiums and risk response plans to better mitigate the identified The commercial insurers started taking hits from related expenses. To further strengthen the risk implications. catastrophic events—claims started to increase financing strategy, Ayala is exploring the possibility affecting its bottom line. Adapting to the market of establishing a captive vehicle through a feasibility The next few pages detail the risk drivers, potential situation, we restructured our cover to minimize the study focused on property damage and business impacts, and response plans for the top five risks as impact while still maintaining our improved wordings of the last risk assessment workshop. and coverage achieved during the first placement. Rank Risk Category Impact Criteria Parameters Overall Likelihood Risk Change Impact Score Environmental People Financial Reputational Compliance On renewal of the optimized political violence cover, Ayala through AON negotiated for a risk management Brand and Reputation Risk 0 5 5 5 4 5 5 25 4 1 bursary—for threat and blast assessments available Political and Regulatory 0 2 4 5 2 5 4 20 1 2 to business units. These studies can improve Risk Risk Engineering Survey conducted by AON and insurers security management and potentially lower risk for our solar plants 3 Business Resiliency Risk 3 4 3 3 2 4 4 16 1 exposures relating to political violence. Information Security 1 2 3 5 2 5 2 10 2 4 In collaboration with Ayala group’s Human and Cyber Risk Resources teams, the group travel program, which Innovation and Technology 0 2 3 3 1 3 3 9 2 Following the roadmap, other insurance lines are Risk 5 being reviewed. The review requires collection, provides employee protection during official travels Portfolio Management Risk 3 1 3 3 2 3 3 9 3 aggregation, and consolidation of data and walkwas placed. Comprehensive coverage bespoke for Partnership and 0 1 3 4 3 4 2 8 6 6 through workshops with operating personnel to the group was designed, which ensured consistent Alliance Risk understand processes, risk exposure, and existing application and minimized potential gaps by having 7 Funding Risk 0 1 3 2 1 3 2.5 7.5 4 controls. In 2019, the Ayala group’s fine arts a program for frequent travelers as well as a ready Competition Risk 0 3 3 2 1 3 2 6 4 insurance policy was optimized. This complemented comprehensive program for ad hoc travelers. 8 Talent Risk 0 3 3 3 1 3 2 6 1 the property insurance program by providing Capital Markets Risk 0 1 3 3 2 3 2 6 Retain a specific and a broad ‘nail to nail’ coverage Risk correlation Governance and 1 2 3 2 3 3 1 3 1 9 Controls Risk for works of art and other collections owned by Since 2018, various risk studies were implemented 10 Synergy Risk 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 or loaned to the group. to aid management in understanding risk exposures *Risk score was arrived at by multiplying the overall impact grade by the likelihood score and adequacy of cover. These studies are on a 71 72 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Brand and Reputation CAPITALS AFFECTED Information Security and Cyber CAPITALS AFFECTED Risk description The inability to maintain our stature as a company of choice, which may result Risk description in significant difficulty in creating and/or maximizing value for stakeholders Failure to safeguard confidentiality, integrity, and availability of critical information that may result to financial losses and damaged reputation Drivers Implications for value creation Financial Drivers Implications for value creation Financial • Media, including social media platforms • Increased customer complaints • Stakeholder relations • Reputational damage • Damage to IT architecture and infrastructure • System downtime • Corporate branding awareness • Adverse financial impact • Lack of data security and protection policies • Reputational damage • Crisis management • Sufficiency of IT governance • Criminal prosecutions and fines 1 • Operational failure of Business Unit Human 4 • Effectiveness of IT Disaster Recovery Plan • Leakage of critical information • Insufficient forward planning and • Loss of stakeholder trust Intellectual • Brand apathy 2018 2018 Rank : 5 Rank : 6 cyber risk assessment Risk response and mitigating measures • Lack of employee awareness on IT security • Set up a social media plan that will include a quarterly analysis of social trends/sentiment and continuous monitoring of social media pages Social and Relationship Risk response and mitigating measures • Continue information and cyber security training to increase awareness of employees on IT risks Human • Develop a Stakeholder Plan, including a stakeholder mapping and engagement initiatives to address stakeholder issues • Perform vulnerability tests on both new and existing hardware/software assets • Conduct brand identity refresh every three years • Review the adequacy of the IT Disaster Recovery Plan for critical infrastructure and applications • Collaborate with community partners on areas of sustainable livelihood, environmental protection, • Continuously strengthen both architecture-level and application-level controls, as well as access children and women’s health, among others controls to limit access to information systems and servers • Regularly review information security measures employed by third-party contractors Social and Relationship • Improve skills of crisis communication teams across the group Political and Regulatory CAPITALS AFFECTED Innovation and Technology CAPITALS AFFECTED Risk description Risk description The lack of ability to anticipate changes in the political and regulatory landscapes The lack of ability to remain relevant and cope with rapid changes, which may significantly impact that may affect the Group’s capacity to shield profitability and brand value business viability and reputation of our Company and Group Drivers Financial Implications for value creation Financial Implications for value creation Drivers • Political instability, including improper • Unmatched/mismatched talent • Misalignment of business models due • Disruptive technologies use of political power • Reputational damage to change in regulations • Innovation trends monitoring • Political networks • Technology obsolescence • Reputational damage due to non-compliance • Innovation culture 2 • Regulatory compliance 5 • Loss of competitive advantage • Market-distorting political moves and policies • Loss of franchise, license, or goodwill Intellectual • Loss of market share Intellectual 2018 2018 Rank : 1 • Political agenda driven by social media • Slow adaptability to changes affecting Rank : 7 • Lower profit • Spread of fake news profitability/reputation Risk response and mitigating measures • Set up an aggressive strategy to enter/ catch up with other market/sectors and help business units Risk response and mitigating measures adopt suitable technology trends, systems capability, and talent development • Analyze government platforms and agenda and establish social media intelligence Human Human • Conduct sector analysis to identify potential disruptive opportunities and monitor innovation trends • The Ayala Regulatory Council regularly identifies and monitors new policy issues that may have an impact on the operations of the business units across sectors and industries and makes recommendations to the • Run futureand design-thinking sessions with different business units Ayala Group Management Committee on how to address regulatory issues • Perform disruptive change assessment on selected business units, as necessary • The Corporate Services Compliance Unit under AG Legal handles regulatory compliance • Review business models to ensure alignment with technology and innovation changes • Set aside political connections of key employees in formulating business strategy Social and Relationship Social and Relationship Business Resiliency CAPITALS AFFECTED Portfolio Management CAPITALS AFFECTED Risk description Being unable to restore normal operations following natural/manmade disasters and/or failure of Risk description business contingency processes and systems, which may cause significant revenue loss and impact The inability to align portfolio management strategy with business objectives may result in the failure customer trust to provide the right balance of risk and return Financial Financial Drivers Implications for value creation Implications for value creation Drivers • Climate change • Delayed business recovery • Inability to achieve targeted net income • Changing business and regulatory landscapes • Scope of business continuity planning • Project suspension • Loss of relevance in the market/industry • Effectivity of diversification strategy • Inadequacy or ineffectiveness of crisis • Business closure for extended duration • Reputational damage • Accuracy of pre-investment valuation 3 communications, training and testing • Reputational damage Human 5 • Lower dividends from business units Intellectual • New business development capability • Recovery implementation • Environmental hazards 2018 2018 • Adequacy of post-investment monitoring Rank : 2 • Loss of lives Rank : 3 Risk response and mitigating measures Risk response and mitigating measures • Regularly monitor business units’ performance and assess how far they are from set targets • Review and test the adequacy and effectivity of crisis management and IT disaster Social and Relationship Social and Relationship • There is an early spotting of opportunities both within existing and emerging businesses, recovery plans on a regular basis as well as new sectors • Assess the effectiveness of business continuity plans through tabletop testing or simulation • AC Ventures continuously monitors disruptive technology and emerging trends that can exercise every two years be turned into investment opportunities • Distribute go-bags, CPR kits, and other paraphernalia that will help all employees to recover • Maintain relationship with existing partners and proactively identify and build network with from any disaster potential business partners and investors • Invest in a comprehensive insurance program and periodically review the adequacy • Periodically review the thought process, including criteria and procedures for divestment of insurance coverages • Collaborate with other Ayala businesses on how to share resources for faster recovery 73 74 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Focus on climate action through TCFD Climate change is a defining issue of our time. The must ensure that the workforce is not of Business Resiliency Risk, one of the top five risks with climate change. United Nations exhorts the world to act with urgency displaced; and of Ayala Corporation in the last three years. The because it touches all aspects of life—environmental, 5. There will be increased levels of regulations, importance given by Ayala’s business units to the Results of the initial phase taken by Ayala show its societal, economic, political, regulatory, and both directly on environmental changes and environment and their awareness of the impact of strength in its GHG emissions disclosures. It has technological. Its effect on the global economy is indirectly through taxation and similar types of climate change is notable. eight disclosure areas that are present and needs potentially devastating. This effect varies from one incentives/disincentives. significant enhancing, and two disclosure areas for country to another. Studies show that impact is In responding to the call for a more effective development. higher than the global average in Southeast Asia, one With these climate change implications in mind, climate-related financial reporting, Ayala set off its of the most complex seismic zones in the world. Ayala promotes a risk-aware culture and recognizes voluntary disclosures guided by the Task Force for To obtain these results, Ayala’s performance was the climate-related risks classified by the Task Force Climate-related Financial Disclosures standards. assessed against the four key pillars and their The Philippines, being one of the Southeast Asian for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) into Focus was given to four key pillars—governance, disclosures. The process included public resource nations, is thus highly vulnerable. It stands to lose two types: strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets— reviews, management-level interviews, and a gap six percent of its GDP annually by 2100 if no action with 11 widely adoptable recommendations that assessment. Transition Risks is taken on climate-related issues, according to a consider the physical and transition risks associated • Policy and Legal Risk study by the Asian Development Bank. The country • Technology Risk is expected to face an increase in extreme weather • Market Risk • Reputation Risk Governance Strategy Risk Management Metrics & Targets events, rising sea levels, rising temperatures, and severe rainfall. Moreover, its level of vulnerability is Disclose the organization’s Disclose the actual and Disclose how the Disclose the metrics and Physical Risks governance around potential impacts of organization identifies, targets used to assess aggravated by its geographical location, which has climate-related risks climate-related risks assesses, and manages and manage relevant • Acute Risk and opportunities. and opportunities on the climate-related risks. climate-related risks and high exposure to tropical cyclones and earthquakes. • Chronic Risk organization’s businesses, opportunities where such The Ayala group recognizes that climate change strategy, and financial planning information is material. poses risks across its business units and has Transition risks are controlled and have lower where such information is available. long since been an advocate of environmental economic damage, but pose aggressive change. Recommended Disclosures Recommended Disclosures Recommended Disclosures Recommended Disclosures stewardship, ensuring that its companies and Their initial impact can be severe but reduces subsidiaries operate responsibly. over time. In contrast, physical risks have higher a) Describe the Board’s a) Describe the climate-related a) Describe the a) Disclose the metrics used oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities the organization’s processes for by the organization to assess economic damage and cause accelerated change. risks and opportunities organization has identified over identifying and assessing climate-related risks and The Ayala group recognizes the implications Their initial impact may or may not be severe, but it the short, medium, and long climate-related risks opportunities in line with its term strategy and risk management of climate change: definitely increases over time. Ayala believes that process 1. Governments and businesses will have such risks can be turned into opportunities if b) Describe Management’s b) Describe the impact of b) Describe the b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, challenges in securing resources preemptive action is taken. role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and organization’s processes and, if appropriate, Scope 3 climate-related risks and opportunities on businesses, for managing greenhouse gas emissions, domestically and internationally; opportunities strategy, and financial planning climate-related risks and the related risks 2. Changes in food, water, and energy patterns With the results of the Natural Catastophe modeling could lead to increased conflict over resources undertaken out of the risk management bursary in Disclosures are present but c) Describe the potential c) Describe how these c) Describe the targets used need slight enhancing impact of different scenarios processes are integrated by the organization to manage and eventually lead to political tension; May 2019, Ayala was able to determine the potential Disclosures are present but (e.g. 2o scenario, on businesses, into the organization’s overall climate-related risks and need significant enhancing to 3. As disputes over resources heighten, national financial impact of such calamities to its businesses. include climate focus strategy, and financial planning) risk management opportunities and performance against targets survival will be more critical and will The modeling used common return periods of 250 Disclosures are not present and need to be developed undoubtedly lead to potential regional or years for earthquake and 200 years for typhoon, international confrontations over water, oil, considered top historical events like typhoon Haiyan, fishing, and other mineral rights; and included worst case scenarios. The results 4. The lack of resources and increasing climate yielded the following: change impacts could force existing industries a. For earthquake: 250-year Ayala group to be revolutionized or could pave the way for modeling loss is about US$591 million new ones. These changes will be accelerated b. For typhoon: 200-year Ayala group modeling by innovation and technology, and nations loss is about US$278 million Climate change has been identified as a risk driver 75 76 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Current State Assessment of Ayala AYALA’S CURRENT APPROACH • Ayala Board leads the governance system • The Board and the Management review, evaluate, and improve governance structures, systems and procedures AYALA’S CURRENT APPROACH • The Board meets six times a year with relevant Board Committees to gain insights and • The company’s integrated reports provide extensive and detailed information on water, review, and ensure proper implementation of internal control mechanisms and risk energy, emissions, non-hazardous and hazardous waste, and biodiversity. management process for good governance • Ayala has been disclosing group-wide GHG Emissions Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 METRICS & following global standards. Currently, the computation for GHG Emissions is based on • The Board discusses key risks and updates on business resiliency, sustainability, and TARGETS equity ownership and the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. GOVERNANCE the UN SDGs Ayala’s disclosures Ayala’s disclosure • CRO meets the RMRPT Committee semi-annually or as often as required • The Ayala Sustainability Blueprint’s third journey, Responsible Growth and Innovation, on the metrics and on governance around • The CRO is supported by the Group Risk Management and Sustainability Unit that leads highlights environmental stewardship. targets used to assess climate-related risk the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and Sustainability Councils, composed of and manage relevant and opportunities WHAT AYALA IS TRYING TO ACHIEVE representatives across the Ayala group who are risk management or sustainability experts climate-related risks and opportunities • To quantify the risk exposure and impact of climate efforts WHAT AYALA IS TRYING TO ACHIEVE is available • To set targets for its GHG Emissions, enabling the effective management of sustainability • To educate the Board, and have a Board Committee specifically assigned performance and climate-related risks and opportunities to oversee climate-related risks and opportunities • To have science-based targets and align them with the third journey in the Ayala • For the CRO, through the Risk Management and Sustainability Unit to assess Sustainability Blueprint and manage group-related issues, following a defined reporting timeline AYALA’S CURRENT APPROACH The first phase of the TCFD journey paved the way for Ayala to include climate-related risks and • The Ayala Sustainability Blueprint, launched in 2018, identifies business units as SDG STRATEGY champions, committing to specific targets across three identified journeys opportunities in the upcoming 2020 risk assessment exercise. It has prepared the group for future actions Ayala’s disclosure • Ayala institutionalized the SDGs as a non-financial performance category under the CEO that involves boardroom education and transition strategy, risk and opportunity mapping, and reporting and on the actual and scorecard to promote sustainable business practices and support long-term profitability communication. These actions are aimed at ensuring the company meets all 11 disclosures of the TCFD potential impacts of climate-related risks recommendations. WHAT AYALA IS TRYING TO ACHIEVE and opportunities • To review the Sustainability Blueprint every two to three years to ensure relevance in the on the organization’s fast changing business and societal climate Prioritization of Future Actions businesses, strategy, • To chart targets on a time horizon, ensuring proper metrics for their achievement and financial • Acute Risk planning where • To conduct further studies to determine risks and opportunities, ensuring they are Boardroom • Chronic Risk Education and Risk and Opportunity prioritized based on a time-horizon (these will eventually increase disclosures related to Transition Strategy Mapping Reporting and Communications such information is available potential financial impacts) • To conduct a scenario analysis (i.e. 1.5° and 2° climate) to observe and evaluate the impact of these different climates on businesses, strategies, and financial planning • Establishing Board and Management • Prioritising the Environmental aspect • Completing disclosures meeting of Committees to ensure there is board and including a climate change all 11 of the TCFD recommendations, oversight of climate-related decisions agenda in the Corporation’s strategy to done with senior management, AYALA’S CURRENT APPROACH and management actions specific to ensure the capture of climate-related this includes: • Ayala’s risk management strategy includes strengthening its resilience and adaptive climate-related risks and opportunities opportunities Defining board oversight and capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters across all its sites, ensuring providing a framework for minimal casualties • Including Strategy and Risk • Charting the climate change agenda internal climate risk governance • In championing SDG Goal 13: Climate Action, Ayala has developed a three-step Management Committee members on a time horizon with measurable Drafting report-ready to ensure synergies across the group quantitative targets (i.e. annual, documentation strategy: Mitigation > Adaptation > Innovation and in turn, consistent messaging mid-and long-term targets) Specifying and calculating • Ayala monitors its group-wide consumption and use of natural resources to manage its and action metrics that clearly communicate own environmental impact, ensuring it stays true to its commitment on environmental • Integrating climate-related risk in the progress against climate-change RISK MANAGEMENT stewardship, aligned with its SDG 12 targets • Redefining the roles and responsibilities current risk management process and adaptation and mitigation targets Ayala’s disclosure on • The Group ensures that the long-term outcomes of its initiatives contribute to global of the Board and Management highlighting climate risk as a material how the organization warming abatement, biodiversity protection, and life preservation Committees to ensure that there is an topic • Become a TCFD Supporter and join identifies, assesses, apparent line of reporting and dedicated over 930 organisations in pledging and manages team addressing climate-related risks • Conducting of climate scenario analysis their support to take action against WHAT AYALA IS TRYING TO ACHIEVE climate-related risks and opportunities and decarbonisation planning climate change • For Ayala’s risk management framework to further elaborate how to enhance resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards • For the risk management framework to include an assessment of the size and scope of climate-related risks the Ayala business units face Ayala extends its efforts to bring all its business units on board and united in going beyond the bottom line. • To design a framework that outlines processes* on managing climate-related risks As it sets its eyes on the goal to draft report-ready documentation, Ayala commits to be a TCFD Supporter, (*including increasing capability of officers on risk management, crisis management, ensuring that our declarations come with tangible results with a meaningful impact. and sustainability, among others) • To formulate a strategy to integrate climate risk adaptation and mitigation measures 77 78 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Ayala embraces a stakeholder-inclusive approach to value creation. We take into consideration the influence STAKEHOLDER our stakeholders have in our business decision-making process and consult, involve, or collaborate with them, articulating the value we seek to deliver through various platforms. By understanding their requirements and meeting their value expectations, we strengthen trust in our organization. ENGAGEMENT Employees HOW WE ENGAGE THE NEW AND IMPROVED Professional development AYALA CLINIC ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY • Annual performance • Ensure that employees know To provide quality health services Investors and Shareholders they are our primary customers appraisal to determine to its employees, the Ayala Clinic HOW WE ENGAGE capability/skills gap underwent renovations to improve its • Guarantee a healthy and safe • Online learning tools and Primarily through its Investor Relations team, Ayala work environment facilities, enabling it to provide basic ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY other learning sessions laboratory test services. Inaugurated encourages active participation and regular dialogues • Operate on the conviction that • Career development and • Active engagement through various on July 1, 2019, the new clinic on the with all investors and other external stakeholders engaged employees perform to succession plans channels to ensure proper information their utmost potential 25th floor of Tower One in Makati is through numerous channels: • Email communication managed by FamilyDOC@Work. This dissemination • Provide strong support to our • One-on-one meetings workforce through different Employee Grievances joint project of Ayala, ALI, and AC • Regular, consistent, and regulatory-based • One-on-one discussions Health also extends its services to reporting of the company’s pertinent • Teleconferences and videoconferences channels between staff and line employees of AC Infrastructure, plans and results to ensure the investing • Email correspondences AC Industrial, Ayala Group Club Inc., managers public is always updated • Live and call results briefings KEY CONCERNS RAISED • Employee surveys AG Legal, and Sonoma. • Bridge the gap between management and • Regulatory disclosures • The need for a centralized portal Holistic growth The partnership delivers better the investing public to aptly address all • Company website where employees can access service and guarantees availability • Special wellness events • Integrated Report various HR Forms and certificates of doctors and nurses during office concerns • Sports tournaments • Health coverage of overage hours. Recognizing the importance • Investor Conferences • Holidays or season dependents of mental wellness, a psychologist is • Deal and non-deal roadshows celebrations KEY CONCERNS RAISED • Rising cost and best fit executive available every 2nd and 4th Friday • Annual stockholders’ meeting • Quarterly staff activities check-up packages for employees for consultations and mental health • Softness in share price • Investor perceptions audit Compensation and Benefits awareness programs are promoted. • Susceptibility to regulatory challenges • Email communication given exposure to multiple industries • Employee town hall meetings Moreover, the clinic now implements • Quarterly financial briefings full digitization of medical records REWARDS AND RECOGNITION through Electronic Member Record OUR STRATEGIC RESPONSE • Ayala provides market-competitive (EMR). The system logs check-up, • Support value creation for executive compensation and test, and prescribed medication OUR STRATEGIC RESPONSE investors through the company’s benefits, which are aligned with records, making them available via • Launched the Employee most recent share buy-back corporate goals, annual targets, mobile app that can be accessed Self-Service portal to improve by doctors in all FamilyDOC clinics program of ₱10 billion, which and long-term strategic plans. employee experience in nationwide. commenced in December 2019 It also adopts a performanceaccessing various HR Forms Ayala addresses the concerns of its stakeholders through regular dialogues • Active engagement with the based variable compensation and for online requests of CASHLESS TRANSACTIONS scheme using the Key Result Area Certificate of Employment STOCKHOLDER MEETING AND VOTING PROCEDURES investing public through As part of the Ayala Group Synergy scorecard accomplishments as (COE) and PhilHealth Claims conferences and non-deal efforts, Ayala Corporation partnered Stockholders are informed at least 28 days before the metrics. Forms with Mynt and introduced GCash scheduled date of meeting. The notice of regular or special roadshows • Teamed up with the health • For senior executives and key e-wallet to Ayala employees. To • Spearhead group-wide investor care provider to offer a Health meetings contains the agenda and sets the date, time, and talents, Ayala offers a long-term jumpstart the employee experience, relations events to provide a Insurance Cover for Extended place for validating proxies, which must be done at least five incentive program. From the some employee incentives— Dependents for the medical top-down view of the conglomerate traditionally credited to bank business days prior to the annual stockholders’ meeting. three percent of the company’s needs of overage dependents and enable each business unit to accounts or gift cards—were credited Each outstanding common and voting preferred shares of authorized capital stock like spouse, parents, and to GCash. Other Ayala companies stock entitles the registered stockholder to one vote. sufficiently address specific allocated by the stockholders, children taking continuous followed suit in introducing GCash to concerns the Board approved the grant education their employees. In support of greater transparency and improved shareholder • Conduct special analyst and under the stock ownership investor briefings to announce key program to eligible executives PLANNING FORWARD involvement, the company provides multiple voting options such in April 2019. The basis for the To help employees plan for the as appointing a proxy, voting in-person, or through electronic developments and address issues grant is consistent outstanding future, Ayala created a Multivoting in absentia. There is a secure, easy-to-use Electronic on prevailing situations as they Employer Retirement Plan for AC arise performance record over a period Voting in Absentia System accessible to all stockholders, Cluster, a Defined Contribution of three years. Retirement Plan aimed to improve allowing stockholders to exercise their right if unable to attend The grant price is based on the retention strategy of small and startthe Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. Equal effect is given to up Ayala companies. AC Health and rounded-off volume weighted votes whether cast in person or in absentia. The company also Ayala Group Club Inc. are the pioneer average prices of the stock at the provides non-controlling or minority shareholders the right to member companies. Philippine Stock Exchange over the nominate candidates for board of directors. last five-day trading from April 17 79 to 25, 2019. 80 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Government Agencies and Regulators Business Partners and Affiliates HOW WE ENGAGE ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY HOW WE ENGAGE • Compliance with laws and regulations • Perform due diligence through an internal team • Dialogues with business organizations and/or ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY • Policy dialogues and consultations or a third-party assessor prior to partnership clubs (Asia Business Council, Makati Business • Provide channels so that concerns of • Required reports, regular briefings, and updates • Share complementary strengths and expertise to Club, MAP, APEC) regulators, as well as our own, are heard • Support legal lectures whenever requested enhance capability and create share value • Meetings (Board and Executive Committee level) • Help create and maintain a fair and • Face-to-face meetings (as needed) • Conduct business professionally • Transparent and timely disclosures transparent regulatory environment • Adhere to high standards of governance • Roadshows • Ayala organized/ sponsored conferences (i.e., Healthcare conference, Ayala Finex Finance KEY CONCERNS RAISED KEY CONCERNS RAISED Summit, Ayala-Ateneo partnership, Ayala-UPSE) • Continuous compliance with laws OUR STRATEGIC RESPONSE • Management team succession plans, and regulations, especially the Data • Constant discussion with national government compensation, diversity Privacy Laws agencies • Governance OUR STRATEGIC RESPONSE • Contribution to policy directions • Updating of company policies and rules to keep • Financial performance (i.e. balance sheet) • Transparency and timeliness of disclosures and on areas of national interest (e.g., abreast with the changing policies and regulations, • Business outlook and risk reporting inclusive growth, healthy competition) aligning the procedures and reporting, and • Commercial viability (i.e. growth opportunities) • Risk management activities and strong • Proposed measures on tax, labor, eventually publishing these in the company website • Network and relationship (international governance processes health, water, and education • Annual training of the company officers and partnerships) • Active and constant engagement with business employees (mandatory for both old and new • Value that Ayala brings to the partnership partners and affiliates through various channels employees) on the Data Privacy Law • Political environment • Joint strategy sessions (e.g., Mitsubishi, Temasek) • Continuous legal gap assessment • Participation in policy dialogues and consultations PROGRAMS/ACTIVITIES FOR THE STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY Creditors and Suppliers • Policy research initiatives through partnership with the academe—intended to provide evidence-based recommendations to policymakers includes (1) Ayala-UP School of Economics Forums that focus on key economic • Maintain an ecosystem of reliable, competent, and responsible creditors and suppliers HOW WE ENGAGE aspects of public policies (two to three forums per year), and (2) Ayala-Ateneo School of Government policy research on developmental conglomerates and inclusive markets (once per end of Memorandum of Agreement) • Ensure that our business strategies are • Meetings aligned to what is material to them • Conference calls to provide guidance for creditors THE LIVEABLE CITY PLAYBOOK* • Remain committed to integrity, transparency, and investors on borrowing plan and issuances In collaboration with experts and other stakeholders, Ayala created the Liveable City Playbook, a practical resource for imagining tailored • Economic Briefings and Client Appreciation events solutions for issues in specific localities, enhancing local competitiveness, and strengthening the capacity of local government units (LGUs) to and accountability in both our policies and provide public goods and services to their constituents. practices • Roadshow presentations • Regular correspondence with creditors on Drawing from global and local good practices, the five-volume series tackles issues identified by local leaders and experts as critical elements for development today. Each brief presents issues and opportunities, and illustrates effective solutions local leaders from the Philippines and around financing requirements, market updates, and the world have successfully deployed. KEY CONCERNS RAISED credit developments especially during the loan E-Government (volume 1) discusses how LGUs can leverage information and communication technology to enhance public services and • Clarification on the Ayala’s plan for its 2014 management cycle and credit servicing encourage citizen participation. ₱13.5 billion preferred shares that had a call • Invitation to company forums and access to option in November 2019 quarterly and annual earnings releases and analyst Financing (volume 2) reviews the LGU project cycle and provides data on financing options as well as other sources of support for project planning and implementation. • Balancing pricing expectations, timing, and briefings successful execution of recent issuances amid Basic Services (volume 3) highlights the LGUs’ role in delivering basic services such as water and sanitation, health, and solid waste management. an uncertain market backdrop OUR STRATEGIC RESPONSE Mobility (volume 4) seeks to improve mobility of people and goods and increase accessibility of public services through effective land use policy, • Ayala as an issuer is viewed as a proxy to sound transport infrastructure, and proper spatial integration. • Ayala communicated the plan to redeem existing preferred Philippine Sovereign Credit shares and follow up with a re-issuance of preferred shares Resilience (volume 5) puts forth best practices from which LGUs may model their own system to effectively respond to natural calamities, climate • Limited Ayala paper for international credit change, and long-term stresses. • Regular updates and communication considering the timing investors and execution of each transaction Many local governments have raised the living standards of the communities they serve. However, implementing critical, long-term projects for sustainable development remains a challenge due to limited resources and support. There is vast untapped potential for local governments to • Maintaining strong credit reputation enhance economic growth, encourage innovation and development, and build tourism hotspots. The Liveable City Playbook series supports the • Clear communication that its international issuances are work of LGUs toward realizing these possibilities. opportunistic in nature, taking advantage of international *The private sector plays a key role in the realization of the SDGs. The Liveable City Playbook is an initiative that helps further SDGs 16 and 17, capital markets due to low interest rate environment in 2H especially in building effective, accountable, and inclusive institutions at all levels; and in evaluating its broader effect on environmental and human issues; in promoting and encouraging effective private, civil society, and public partnerships; and creating a benchmark for judging the of 2019 SDG’s overall contribution to global development. 81 82 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Customers HOW WE ENGAGE • Face-to-face interactions through front line services • Email, website, mobile phones, social media, customer ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY* portals, and other technology platforms • Understand customer concerns • Periodic surveys in the areas of quality of service, • Whenever applicable, designate a dedicated convenience, affordability, and account officer reliability • Consultation and/or FGDs • Respond to issues with urgency • Engagement with local government units such as monthly *Engagement strategy differs per meeting with barangays (particularly for Manila Water) company and is relative to the • Caravans and displays in different areas with promos Ayala actively engages with customers to understand their concerns business industry. • Flyers, newsletters, and other marketing collaterals COMPANY KEY CONCERNS RAISED HOW EACH KEY CONCERN WAS ADDRESSED • Loyalty and appreciation programs AC MOTORS Service quality complaints on unavailability of Sent regular updates concerning part availability and service timeline parts and timeline management COMPANY KEY CONCERNS RAISED HOW EACH KEY CONCERN WAS ADDRESSED Assigned dedicated teams to handle customer feedback resolution Product quality and warranty complaints Implemented quality control and directly coordinated with manufacturers AYALA LAND Processing of documents for residential buyers Established buyers’ portal that allows buyers to monitor status of their for warranty complaints documents and a sales information system that provides consolidated Limited Products and Services Identified expansion areas for its dealership network and product line-up customer information IMI Logistical delays and lack of coordination Increased capacity by improving overall equipment effectiveness and automation of Advance Shipping Notice (ASN) generation in SAP system Difficulties with property management APMC’s @Home is an online platform that residential owners can use to upon invoice release processes for residential owners conduct their day-to-day tasks and management requirements easier Concerns over recurring complaints Shared lessons learned and best practices across its groups Customers look for an enhanced Conducted continuous communication and feedback gathering from Readiness to implement ISO 26262 for Established the Product Safety Board (PSB) to deploy all Functional Safety customer experience end-users through regular satisfaction surveys, loyalty and appreciation Functional Safety (Automotive Customers) system requirements programs, e-newsletters, and social media posts AC INFRA Quality of logistics and transportation services LRMC and Entrego maintained a customer-centric feedback mechanism to • Lack of coordination with customers in address queries and complaints Launched Z!ng app to provide shoppers with incentives and special delivery services (Entrego) rewards when shopping at Ayala Malls • Train schedule and experience (LRMC) MCX recalibrated its equipment and revisited processes to facilitate a more BPI Undispensed ATM withdrawal Conducted periodic maintenance of the machines and replaced older • Queuing and traffic build-up concerns (MCX) efficient traffic management scheme machines to address hardware concerns Limited loading facilities and on-site support AF Payments expanded its unattended loading facilities and provided for transportation partners (AF Payments) more load options via mobile phone application Ensured regular coordination with partner suppliers for reliable and secure access to the network Safety concerns along MCX MCX coordinated with community officials to increase surveillance of the road’s perimeter Uncredited Cash Accept Machines (CAM) Implemented regular machine and systems maintenance. Reminded clients Deposit about use of undamaged bills iPEOPLE Concerns on processes and policies Streamlined its processes and implemented an online enrollment system in • Queries regarding processing records and select schools to lessen waiting time Queries on the processing of express online Implemented an enhanced version of the registration form enrollment enrollment • Student concerns on existing policies and Involved its students through regular correspondences with student GLOBE Increasing demand for data/internet use Continued network rollout (>2X site build) and upgrades programs leaders in the formation of programs Network downtime while upgrading Mitigated impact of downtime from network upgrades through proactive Quality of facilities and lack of space Constructed new buildings and spaces and implemented upgrades to recovery existing facilities across its different campuses Concerns on unwanted load charges Implemented the Silence Means No policy for all video-as-service or Tuition fee payment difficulties Scholarships (externally and internally funded), discounts, and content subscriptions partnerships with benefactor companies were available across iPeople’s schools/universities Concerns on lost/inaccessible rewards Addressed system issues and seeded rewards unsent due to system issues AC HEALTH Value of Services and Products AIDE held seminars on basic health, new born care, and elderly care for its • Professionalism/lack of skills of medical medical professionals AC ENERGY Multiple Red/Yellow Alerts in the Luzon Grid Cascaded in real-time advisories from distribution utility to our contestable professionals (AIDE) Through Actimed generics, Generika customers could save up to 95 percent customers via emails, SMS, and calls • Medicines with best price (Generika) versus branded counterparts Seeking updates on regulatory issues Conducted a regular account update or business review with each of our • Availability of medicine (FamilyDOC) FamilyDOC sourced its medicine directly from principals specifically about lowering of threshold in contestable customers, providing them with relevant information and Customer Experience AIDE app was upgraded to create a more user-friendly interface and to Retail Competition and Open Access keeping them abreast of power industry related topics • AIDE app crashing or not being user-friendly remove/fix bugs • Customers look for a meaningful drugstore Generika launched the Mobile Generikard which provides customers with MANILA WATER Water security and water supply reliability Organized regular coordination meetings with the regulators, government experience (Generika) a cardless digital rewards program agencies, and potential private sector partners on new water resources • Better coordination between pharmacy MedGrocer designed an integrated collaboration platform through Provided real-time update to customers via social media, face-to-face frontline staff and clinic (MedGrocer) Facebook Workplace and Zendesk for its corporate wellness and retail interaction, and press briefings • Long queuing time and turnaround time of lab customers results (FamilyDOC) FamilyDOC engaged new lab providers and hired additional manpower to Raw water and drinking water quality Tested water samples regularly address customer concerns on queuing time Improvements on customer policies, Performed door-to-door visits and responded via service hotline to explain Wholesale clients wanted a one-stop shop Expanded the portfolio of products and services offered to wholesale communications, and billing and update on new developments such as billing and water interruptions (MedGrocer) clients beyond medicines (e.g. oxygen refills) Concerns on improving customer welfare Conducted patient counseling with the use of the Gamot Guide in order Wastewater services delivery (sewer Broadcasted regular desludging activities in coordination with leaders (Generika) to educate them on proper intake of medicines, possible side effects, connections, septic tank, desludging) and communities and contraindication of their medicines 83 84 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT HOW WE ENGAGE Communities • Face-to-face meetings, school visits, workshops, Other Stakeholders lectures, mentoring sessions, and trainings with ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY Media stakeholders ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY • Online communication—Facebook (FB) • Optimize the use of various media channels messenger chat groups with stakeholders, FB to reach more stakeholders HOW WE ENGAGE • Keep a strong relationship with the communities by page closed group, emails, phone calls, online • Make sure of the accuracy and clarity of • Media conferences and briefings understanding their needs and appreciating their reference service, online library of digitized disseminated information materials • News advisories, fact sheets available through contribution to society materials, social media, website the corporate website • Community events and activities—program/ • Emails and phone calls KEY CONCERNS RAISED project launch, book launch, film screenings, • Social gatherings KEY CONCERNS RAISED • Follow-through questions are typically based exhibitions, lectures, concerts, project showcase, • Informal media huddles • Domestic/personal/professional concerns on the press releases issued alumni gathering, volunteer engagement, and • One-on-one meetings affecting participation in and implementation of • Questions asked that are based on others • Sponsorship of media-initiated events aligned with projects (e.g., some youth groups fell behind in the cases of the business units or Ayala our principles and advocacies their project implementation due to competing responsibilities at home, in school, at work; OUR STRATEGIC RESPONSE young mothers had to bring their children KEY CONCERNS OF AYALA • More frequent LeadCom teach visits, OUR STRATEGIC RESPONSE during sessions) TOWARDS THE MEDIA communication, and contact with youth groups • Answer as the questions arise • Need for livelihood training and parenting • Appreciation and understanding of in coordination with LGU champions • Connect them to the business unit’s workshops for young mothers (for Sari-Saring Sustainability Reporting • To help young mothers and students focus on corporate communications team. Aralan participants) learning sessions, AFI developed literacy, art, For Ayala, they are directed to the • External environment affecting community OUR STRATEGIC RESPONSE and play sessions for children and young relevant department/s projects of LeadCom participants (e.g., drought • Partnered with Reuters Foundation and siblings of participants has affected the projects of youth leaders in GRI to discuss sustainability concepts and • AFI raised funds to support OSY in its one municipality) its operationalization with selected media Sari-Saring Aralan education pathway and • Program enhancement (e.g., educational practitioners partnered with industries to accept OSY for assistance and employment opportunities work immersion for out of school youth [OSY]) • FHL set up its Online Request/Reference • Due to renovations, the Ayala Museum and Service program that accepts requests for its the physical library (FHL) are inaccessible digitized materials and for reproduction of library materials, strengthened its travelling exhibits and other programs through unified Ayala Museum On-the-Go branding, and launched online channels such as Ayala Museum Youtube channel Ayala conducts regular dialogues to address concerns of its stakeholders Industry Associations ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY HOW WE ENGAGE • Participate in industry activities • Membership relevant to our business units • Special events such as conference, forums • Webinar • Face-to-face meetings KEY CONCERNS RAISED • Continuing support and long-term OUR STRATEGIC RESPONSE relationship with key stakeholders Ayala fosters strong relationships with communities • Evaluate sponsorship requests which includes • For speaking engagements, they request an alignment of interests and values presence and content contribution • Provide the speaker or attend the event • Request for feedback/insight on their • Contribute to the discussion / give research or publications additional content for consideration 85 86 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT OUR MATERIALITY APPROACH: • Resource efficiency and waste management • Equitable business practices WHAT MATTERS MOST – Factors to monitor efficient use of natural capital such as energy, water, and other – Beyond economic value creation and distribution, this theme also includes business materials necessary for delivery of products ethics, community engagement, and supply chain As a response to the rapidly shifting business We identified material topics from the previous and services, and to manage waste sustainability, ensuring suppliers adhere to the and ESG landscape, Ayala reviewed its 360o ones outlined in the 360o Sustainability Reporting • Workplace experience and future of work same standards upheld across the Ayala group. Sustainability Reporting Framework in the context Framework, and from various sources such as media – Concerns that influence the well-being of our of emerging trends and urgent issues that affect its reporting, internal data, peer review by WBCSD employees as well as how our businesses As best practice, these materiality themes and stakeholders. and ESG rating institutions, SASB sector-specific promote human rights principles material topics will be reviewed every two to three regulations and standards, and sector specific • Customer experience and protection years where it is possible to have similar material Materiality is one of the content elements of regulations. This process also includes research on – Factors that push for customer empowerment topics, with an increased or decreased number of integrated reporting and Ayala continuously strives wider environmental, social, and governance trends and protection of their privacy indicators. to keep it up to date to ensure its relevance. These and challenges. were aligned with GRI Standards, SASB industryspecific topics and disclosures, and the 10 Principles Moreover, we gathered information on the impact THE AYALA SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING FRAMEWORK of the UN Global Compact. Our exposure to and importance of each material topic, which The Ayala Sustainability Reporting Framework shown below is the end product of a comprehensive materiality WBCSD for business transformation helped further allowed us to gain a comprehensive understanding process. It reflects sustainability metrics on which we base our performance, cognizant that creating shared integrate our business units’ SDG targets with our of their relevance to Ayala’s businesses and value and becoming a responsible organization goes beyond mere compliance. sustainability agenda to bridge the societal gaps stakeholders. identified in the three journeys defined in the Ayala Sustainability Blueprint. Our material topics were then validated by RE Material Themes GRI + SASB SO evaluating indicators to be monitored and reported UR Journey GRI Standards Y CE OUR MATERIALITY PROCESS on through thematic workshops with management E RS IT EF FI Value Creation Areas SASB representatives across the group. Five group-wide D IV CI IO EN B CY workshops were conducted on the following themes: N D Re s AN CLIMATE CHANGE AND EA ou D BIODIVERSITY economic, environment, human resources, supply NG W AS s tio es za Define 1 GHG emissions A cc ani chain, and customer management. H TE 2 Energy resource planning EC ta b MA ss rne e ur T 3 Physical impacts of climate change MA NA ne inte nabl I Wa GE 4 Biodiversity ive ble tai Review Identify CL ter 1 13 ME tit rda sus The validated material topics and key indicators 1 14 NT RESOURCE EFFICIENCY ev ces pe affo and 3 14 AND WASTE MANAGEMENT were then prioritized based on the strategic iat s 3 15 om l and sive ion an 5 15 5 Energy management |H d d C rsa nclu importance to the business, to the stakeholders, ea In 4 5 16 6 Water management c an nive e | I 16 7 Water distribution network ca lus lth 17 and the social, environmental, and economic impact 6 | E ivit ity k | U ctur efficiency re FW 6 17 tiv or tru ORK 8 Wastewater management ca y 8 18 in the value chain. du uc nt w fras 7 18 9 Waste and hazardous materials tio Categorize Gather od ece n in 9 19 management n| EQU Pr es | D carbo Ac 8 URE 19 10 Material consumption 20 O 10 THE RESULTS all BL 9 20 ITA ic Po WORKPLACE EXPERIENCE erv low ve 11 21 After a rigid process of identification, gathering rty FUT l s nd 10 21 AND FUTURE OF WORK cia t a ESS 12 21 11 Employee engagement information, validation, and prioritization, the 11 22 an ien AND SIN 12 Training and development Prioritize Validate Fin ffic 13 22 E BU 13 material topics were categorized. We analyzed the 12 23 -e Occupational health and safety rce 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 NCE 14 Non-discrimination results, and found that certain topics interconnect, 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 20 21 22 23 n RIE 15 Child labor 16 Forced labor CTI while some had a significant impact on their own. XPE PRA Responsible Growth CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE The material topics were clustered according to AND PROTECTION PLA Renewable energy generation | Growth in manufacturing | Low-emission vehicle 17 Product quality and safety their significant relevance for Ayala and its business CES CE E Responsible consumption and waste management | Climate resilience Materiality Process Diagram 18 Customer privacy units. The results of the materiality process were 19 Security practices presented to and approved by the Board. WO Ayala’s material topics are defined RK EQUITABLE BUSINESS PRACTICES 20 Business ethics by the following three criteria: 21 Economic value distribution 22 Supplier sustainability The five material themes are as follows: CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND PROTECTION 23 Community engagement (1) it is common among majority of the Ayala companies; • Climate change and biodiversity It shows the successful integration of the five themes and material topics across SASB, GRI, the (2) it has a significant impact to the brand and – Factors that are significant to our commitment three journeys of the Ayala Sustainability Blueprint, and the 10 Principles of Global Compact, reputation of Ayala Corporation; or to reduce GHG emissions, protect biodiversity in while keeping the group’s focal business areas. (3) it has a significant importance to key and around areas where our businesses operate, stakeholders of the company. and increase our contribution to climate resilience For a detailed list on the material topics, the Materiality Index can be viewed on pages 227-230. 87 through climate-related investments 88 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT SHARPER FOCUS ON ESG Results from our 2019 materiality review gave The Philippines ranks fourth among countries Below are highlighted initiatives of Ayala companies on climate change. us fresh points of reference in determining our most affected by climate impact in the past 20 Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) impact years, based on 2018 studies referenced by the COMPANY HIGHLIGHTED INITIATIVES CLIMATE STRATEGY with focus on five key themes: (1) Climate Change 2020 Global Climate Risk Index published by Ayala Land • Implemented passive cooling and sustainable architecture design at the planning Mitigation and Biodiversity, (2) Resource Efficiency and Waste Germanwatch. and construction level to minimize carbon emissions, crucial to the company’s carbon Adaptation neutrality target Management, (3) Workplace Experience and Future • Stored up to 80,345 tonnes of CO2e by protecting 586 hectares of carbon sinks across Innovation of Work, (4) Customer Experience and Protection, As a business leader that invariably supports the country through its carbon forest initiative • Avoided about 121,951 tonnes of CO2e by shifting to renewable energy use and (5) Equitable Business Practices. national efforts in climate action, Ayala considers BPI • Established Green Finance Framework, which sets guidelines for the issuance of green Mitigation climate change as one of its priority sustainability bonds and loans to fund projects with positive environmental impacts We identified metrics to measure the progress of our issues. Closely monitoring its carbon footprint, the • Issued two landmark green bonds, allocated to eligible green projects (CHF 100 Adaptation Million green bond issued in August 2019; and US$300 million green bond issued in work for each theme. Using our new Sustainability holdings company actively responds to this issue by Innovation September 2019) Reporting Framework, we present the progress we mobilizing its business units across three strategies: • Disbursed ₱10.14 billion for energy efficiency, renewable energy, and climate resilience have made in each theme, set against the backdrop Mitigation, Adaptation, and Innovation. Ayala’s first projects under its Sustainable Energy Financing (SEF) program; and ₱2.17 billion for large renewable energy projects under its Structured Finance Division (SFD) of global trends, risks, and opportunities, as well as strategy is centered on the group’s capabilities to Globe • Achieved carbon neutrality for select corporate offices through its partnership with AC Mitigation the strategies we used in pursuing our aspirations. reduce carbon emissions. Ayala promotes climate Energy • Encourages its employees to limit the use of motorized vehicles for business commute Adaptation adaptation by strengthening the resilience of its through web-based mobile applications and digital worktools Innovation CLIMATE CHANGE AND BIODIVERSITY assets and adjacent ecosystems. It harnesses the • Has programs that encourage customers to join reforestation efforts: Globe Rewards, Climate Change collective innovative strengths of its businesses which raised ₱2 million for the Hineleban Foundation; and GCash Forest, which engaged 1.7 million customers in cashless transactions for tree planting to develop and implement projects that address AC Energy • Added 153 MW of renewable energy to its portfolio in 2019, bringing its total Mitigation climate change. attributable RE capacity to 656 MW • Generated 1758 GWh from renewable assets in 2019, bringing its RE output to 50 Adaptation percent of its total energy output Innovation Ayala’s group-wide scope 1 emissions in 2019 reached about 1 million tonnes CO2e, a decrease Manila Water • Conducted resiliency assessment and business impact studies of its Manila and Laguna Mitigation facilities of 38 percent from 2018 because of AC Energy’s • Retrofitted its facilities to better withstand earthquakes Adaptation divestment of its thermal assets and interruptions on • Built new assets in strategic locations that are not exposed to flood hazards Innovation SLTEC’s operations. Ayala’s 2019 scope 2 emissions IMI • Generated 10.8 MW of renewable energy, equivalent to around 10 tonnes of CO2e Mitigation from electricity consumption was approximately reduction through its Solar Pilot Project Initiative using Merlin® Solar’s patented technology in its Laguna site Adaptation 0.44 million tonnes CO2e, a 2.6 percent increase Innovation from 2018 due to the expansion in several of Ayala’s AC Motors • Offers fuel and eco-efficient automotive models Mitigation Ayala noted forest fragmentation in Sablayan, Occidental Mindoro business units. • Encourages customers to avail of regular maintenance for their vehicles to ensure optimal engine performance and reduce environmental footprint Adaptation If the current rate of global emissions is not Innovation significantly reduced, there will be exponentially More information on Ayala’s response to SDG 13 LRMC • Deployed bike racks and bike lanes across designated LRT stations and roads through Mitigation increasing consequences, according to latest reports Climate Action can be found on pages 123-124. its Bikeways Project Adaptation from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Innovation iPeople • Promotes environment and sustainable development (ESD) as part of its curriculum in Mitigation Mapua, and includes courses on environmental protection and conservation • Established the Sustainable Development Research Office (SDRO) in 2011, which Adaptation was renamed the Resiliency and Sustainable Development Center (RSDC) in 2019 – a Innovation platform to develop research projects to solve environmental and societal problems 89 90 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Project Kasibulan embodies Ayala’s commitment to building and managing sustainable ecosystems and communities. GROUP-WIDE ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION GROUP-WIDE WATER CONSUMPTION IN THOUSAND MWH IN MILLION CUBIC METERS As Project Kasibulan contributed to reforestation efforts and promoted volunteerism among 17.9 1,623.2 employees across the group, its focus also widened to include the economic welfare of communities AC Energy AC Automotive as a critical aspect of biodiversity protection. HCX 15.4 AC Education 1,411.2 AfﬁnityX 14.8 AC Infra 1,315.8 As it grows and develops into a Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation AC Health AC Health (REDD+) initiative, Project Kasibulan adopts the Payments for Ecosystem Services (PES) scheme as a AC Education AC Energy means to incentivize communities for the protection and enhancement of the environment. This allows AC Automotive BPI for a long-term sustainable program that integrates biodiversity protection with economic growth BPI Globe in building the adaptive capacity of both local communities and ecosystems in response to climate AC Infra IMI Global change. IMI Global Ayala Land Manila Water Total The 2019 results and updates can be found on pages 123-124 under Ayala’s commitment to SDG 13. Ayala Land Water Intensity Globe (cubic meters per Biodiversity million pesos Total revenue) Some of Ayala’s business units operate in areas with rich biodiversity. A United Nations Environment Electricity Intensity Programme (UNEP) report identifies land use change and climate change as critical pressures on (in MWh per million biodiversity. Biodiversity loss can lead to the collapse of ecosystem services, which threatens agricultural pesos revenue) productivity, livelihoods, and local flora and fauna species. Thus, integral to the group’s commitment to 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 sustainability is responsible operations and environmental management in these locations. Below are highlighted initiatives of Ayala companies on biodiversity. Below are highlighted initiatives of Ayala companies on resource efficiency. COMPANY HIGHLIGHTED INITIATIVES COMPANY HIGHLIGHTED INITIATIVES Ayala Land Through regular biodiversity studies in select sites that integrate findings in its development plans, a total Ayala Land As one of ALI’s four focus areas, eco-efficiency addresses the continuing scarcity of natural resources. of 57 IUCN Red List species were identified, monitored, and protected. It uses resources judiciously through energy and water conservation programs such as investments in efficient equipment and various operational improvements. Globe The company spearheaded a program on marine biodiversity conservation empowering micro, small, and medium enterprises to protect marine life by adapting sustainable approaches to business operations. BPI The bank continues to improve its energy efficiency by installing LED lighting and inverter-type airconditioners across its branches. AC Energy The energy platform’s Environmental and Social Management System promotes sustainable business operations by conducting biodiversity studies and assessments to ensure environmental responsibility 2019 saw the full implementation of the BPI Credit Cards electronic statement of accounts (eSOA) project. in its projects. These are: agro-forestry programs in Pagudpud and marine and sea turtle sanctuaries in Through this, the bank saved 12.09 million pages of paper or approximately 1,452 trees. Bangui. Globe The company’s cell sites’ energy efficiency increased by deploying 6,948 Green Network Solutions. Manila Water The company maintains its watershed management projects such as the reforestation of Umiray, Ipo, La Mesa, Upper Marikina, Nabaoy, and Luyang watersheds along with Adopt-a-Watershed programs for Ipo Its paperless billing operations have led to savings of 655 tons of paper or about 15,717 trees. watershed and Clark Water. Manila Water Among its resource efficiency initiatives are: installing energy management systems in 10 facilities, shifting to LED lights and inverter air-conditioning units, and optimization of water supply and wastewater RESOURCE EFFICIENCY AND WASTE MANAGEMENT operations. Resource Efficiency MWC also reduced its enterprise-wide NRW to 9 percent, which aligns with the SDG 6 target of increasing Southeast Asia is one of the most dynamic regions in water-use efficiency. the world where energy demand is projected to grow IMI Energy programs such as installation of LED lighting, optimization of operating hours of selected by 60 percent in the next two decades. Furthermore, equipment, and upgrading of air conditioning help the company efficiently manage resources. rapid urbanization and development coupled with It also has water recycling initiatives in select sites to recover and treat excess water used in its operations. shifts in climate patterns will increasingly threaten LRMC Using regenerative energy (turning deceleration of trains to stored energy) has led to a reduction of 36,000 the region’s water security. Being a key player, Ayala’s kWh in energy consumption in train operations. commitment to resource efficiency is vital. iPeople APEC, UNC, and Mapua installed LED lighting. Mapua retrofitted pipelines and set up rainwater catchment systems. Ayala constantly monitors its energy and water Each school has an energy conservation policy where lights and appliances are turned off when there are no classes or activities. consumption as key inputs to its operations. In 2019, group-wide consumption of electricity increased while its water consumption decreased. The conglomerate continues to implement energy Ayala is mindful of its energy and water consumption and water efficiency programs across the group to promote responsible resource consumption. 91 92 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Waste Management WORKPLACE EXPERIENCE AND FUTURE OF WORK The Willis Towers Watson’s framework measures East Asia and the Pacific regions are responsible Embedded within Ayala’s environmental policies engagement in three areas—Energy, Enablement, for 23 percent of total waste generated worldwide1. is its mandate to promote waste management and Engagement. This cycle, the Ayala group’s Ayala, whose businesses operate in these regions, is efforts among its people and to seek effective ways Sustainable Engagement (SE) score is at 87 percent, in a unique position to contribute to national efforts to manage waste. Subsidiaries incorporate waste one point lower than in 2017. in waste management. The Ayala Sustainability management into their due diligence process and Council, a platform for sharing best practices, helps environmental initiatives. The group also observes Within the workforce of Ayala, 86 percent consider cascade programs on waste management and proper protocol for the transport, treatment, storage, themselves Energized. Energized employees find resource efficiency across the group. One of these is and disposal of hazardous waste. In 2019, the a sense of personal accomplishment in their work Ayala’s reduce, recycle, and recover program. group generated 48,632 tonnes of non-hazardous and in working with others in their team. As a result, waste. Ayala commits to improve its performance in they tend to have good individual, interpersonal, and managing its material footprint. Progress on this is on emotional well-being at work. page 122. Opportunities for growth are abundant in the Ayala group Among Ayala employees, 80 percent are Enabled Below are highlighted initiatives of Ayala Companies on waste management. Ayala’s Human Resources Council led by Ayala and believe that resources and tools are for them to Corporation’s Chief Human Resource Officer, do their job effectively with fewer obstacles. COMPANY HIGHLIGHTED INITIATIVES fosters and harnesses synergy to improve human Ayala Land Waste management programs are implemented in select commercial properties and estates. As a result, resource services across the group. It also shares Meanwhile, 95 percent consider themselves Ayala Land diverted around eight million kilograms of total waste from landfills including 32,000 kilograms best practices to adapt and ride the wave of Engaged. More than Energized and Enabled, Engaged of plastic. developments shaping human capital. employees work more than what is required to There are also clean and dry plastic drop-off booths that serve as educational venues for proper waste ensure success. They have a firm belief in our goals management among visitors to its estates. In order to continue to be the employer of choice, and are proud to be part of the conglomerate. A MDC, Ayala Land’s construction arm, maintains its waste management initiatives by recycling 893 tonnes of Ayala acknowledges trends such as the growing key finding indicates that Ayala group employees construction waste. number of millennials in the workforce (projected to strongly associate with their respective brands and In collaboration with Green Antz Builders, Ayala Land launched a pilot Eco Hub at the 74-hectare Arca reach 75 percent by 2025)2, emphasis on workplace goals. South Estate in Taguig. The facility collects discarded plastic materials and recycles them into eco bricks, experience, and flexible working arrangement, eco pavers and eco cast. among others. The council studies their impact Key Engagement Drivers Globe Through a mobile recycling program called Project 1 Phone, Globe has recovered and diverted 355,000 kilograms of electronic waste from landfills. Moreover, proceeds of this program will be used to help build into its businesses and adapts to the changing Across the Ayala Group, the following are the classrooms in the Philippines. expectations of the new workforce. strongest influencers to the Sustainable Engagement AC Energy The company’s thermal plants recycle its coal ash through partnerships with cement manufacturing score: companies. In 2019 recycling rate was at 92.35 percent. Employee engagement IMI The reduce-reuse-recycle program for the management of non-hazardous waste is followed across IMI Ayala gives premium to the holistic development— • Empowerment sites. Globally, it has recycled 2.5 million kg of its non-hazardous waste. professional and personal growth—of its employees, A good 89 percent of employees acknowledge they AC Motors Treated wastewater is reused in its facilities with sewage treatment facilities. aware that the most important aspect of productivity have sufficient authority to do their job well (two AC Infra Monthly waste generation is tracked as LRMC actively promotes waste reduction, composting of biodegradables, PET bottle recycling, and eliminating single-use plastics. These efforts resulted in 85 is the human element. An employee whose points higher than the 2017 performance). About tonnes of waste diverted from landfills. potentials are nurtured is motivated to perform at an 95 percent believe their work contributes to the iPeople Mapua has shifted to paperless transactions, and renovated its storage facilities to house waste and optimum level of efficiency. company’s business objectives which give them a hazardous materials. sense of personal accomplishment. Productivity is further enhanced given right working conditions. Across the Ayala group, this is a shared Our efforts to keep employees informed on conviction. important matters affecting the organization keep them empowered. In addition, 80 percent Every two years, the Ayala group conducts an of employees appreciate that Ayala provides a employee engagement survey with Willis Towers climate where people can challenge and improve Watson. Following are the results of the survey. traditional ways of doing things (four points higher than the 2017 score). About 82 percent claim their The group ended the survey with a 97 percent supervisors are receptive to suggestions for change participation rate, which is 1 point and 2 points (four points higher than in 2017). higher compared to the 2017 and 2015 overall participation rate, respectively. 1 What a Waste 2.0: A Global Snapshot of Solid Waste Management to 2050, World Bank, 2018 93 2 Ernst & Young, “Global generations A global study on work-life challenges across generations” 94 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Employees also feel empowered as 78 percent see the employees. Secondly, 91 percent believe their they have ample opportunities to improve their respective companies operate with integrity in its skills and grow in the company (three points higher external dealings with customers and suppliers, than in 2017). The adequate recognition and nonamong others. In fact, 79 percent of employees say AC Infra LRMC conducts focus group discussions with the CEO and senior management where employees can relay concerns and issues at work, and where management cascades initiatives to establish a culture of monetary rewards provided for good performance internal processes are geared toward providing the excellence. also drive empowerment. Ayala scored 75 percent best possible service to external clients. Entrego established clubs for employees sharing the same interests and passion, and a committee that in this aspect, which is six percent points higher draws up monthly activities. than the Philippine norm. About 76 percent believe Results also show that employees have high AF Payments conducts regular “Kamustahan with CEO” sessions to discuss key issues and progress. It also mounts company-wide team building sports activities. their job performance is evaluated fairly, while 73 regard for the standards of integrity across the AC Health Generika has launched GeneriKares, a holistic approach to employee engagement that includes wellness percent claim the performance review helped them organization, such that the majority are willing to programs, employee recognition, sports fests, and social responsibility initiatives. improve their job performance (score is one point report instances of dishonest or unethical practices MedGrocer conducts a monthly pulse and bi-monthly townhalls to present latest and upcoming higher than 2017 in both areas). Employees believe to appropriate levels of authority without fear of developments and to understand employee concerns. the Ayala group did a good job in promoting the reprisal. AIDE conducts appraisals and provides awards and recognition monthly. most competent people. iPeople Schools conduct regular consultation with different employee groups such as the negotiated increase in benefits for employees in Mapua. Service awards are also given to its employees for their loyalty and Finally, the workforce appreciates the way dedication. • Operating Efficiency feedback and recognition are provided. About 80 The group acknowledges that an efficient and percent declare they get regular feedback on their Enhanced Workplace Experience streamlined process enables employees. About performance from their supervisors and 83 percent Ayala companies continue to improve processes, initiatives, and programs in human resources – from 90 percent of our employees recognize continual say their supervisor gives recognition for a job well recruitment, training and development, provision of relevant work tools, among others. efforts toward process efficiency. They also see done. the value of the use of appropriate technology to Below are some highlighted initiatives on how the Ayala group enhances workplace experience. improve internal operating efficiency. About 80 • Working Relationships percent say sufficient effort is being made to make Good working relationships make teams more COMPANY HIGHLIGHTED INITIATIVES processes more streamlined and cost effective. effective and energized. A healthy exchange Ayala Land Various digital initiatives helped improve employee services. The company also started an idea generation These interventions help remove obstacles and of ideas is crucial for achieving the team’s program to harness employees’ innovativeness and creativity in delivering services to employees through a allow employees to do their jobs effectively. deliverables. Fundamental to maintaining good simplified, efficient, and sustainable approach. working relations is how each employee feels BPI Capabilities on information systems were improved significantly. A mobile app where employees can view their pay slips, absences, and leaves on the go was also introduced. Moreover, the bank launched its • Leadership respected. A good 88 percent of employees say flexible benefits program, which initially covers officers and specialists. High confidence in senior management decisions they are treated with respect regardless of their Globe Digitization enhances employee service. The company’s Employee Virtual Assistance System facilitates keeps employees highly engaged. Ayala scored role. Employees find good allies in the people management of employees’ travel and expense spending, among others. A flexible benefit program and flexible work arrangement for eligible employees are also offered. higher than the Philippine norm on this metric. within and outside their teams in achieving their Manila Water Employees have the option to work from its Work Hubs a few times a week. In addition, 82 percent consider management deliverables and in managing stress levels. IMI IMI has adopted a Teleworking Policy enabled by modern technology and as a response to changing decisions to be consistent with Ayala values workforce expectations. (see page 5). Below are some initiatives of Ayala companies on AC Infra Work from home arrangements are available for certain LRMC employees. The company also runs health employee engagement informed by the results and wellness programs. The high performance on this aspect is due to of the 2017 employee engagement survey. Huddle rooms, quiet rooms, and open offices make Entrego’s workplace unique and appealing. several factors. Primarily, 85 percent are convinced Responses to key concerns of employees in Ayala AF Payments offers flexible working arrangements on an as-needed basis. their management is interested in the well-being of Corporation are available on page 80. AC Health Generika and MedGrocer optimize the use of technology tools to promote collaboration and engage the millennial workforce. AIDE employees are allowed to work remotely or work with flexible schedules. COMPANY HIGHLIGHTED INITIATIVES Ayala Land A holistic approach is in place for Ayala Land’s Wellness Campaign, which aims to look after the mental and physical health, nutrition, and volunteer involvement of its employees. BPI The bank integrated its product and channel teams that focus on specific customer segments. This ensures clarity of roles and fosters collaboration among the employees. Globe The company shifted to a No-Bell-Curve Performance Evaluation for all its employees. It also gives its employees one day of Volunteer Time-Off to pursue their personal advocacy every year. IMI Aside from making sure its employees are aware of their total compensation package, including company cost on non-monetized benefits, IMI also conducts financial wellness programs for them. 95 96 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Ayala ensures safety in the workplace guided by its policies on child and forced labor, occupational health Talent Development and Future of Work and safety, and hazard management. Ayala does not employ children and does not encourage forced labor Ayala companies offer various training programs, AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS across its operations. Furthermore, companies observe strict compliance with relevant rules and regulations e-learning platforms, and support in pursuing postgraduate degrees to develop the employees full 59.96 on occupational health and safety. We strive to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for our employees. We work with our suppliers to ensure that they, too, adhere to the same standards. potential – professionally and personally. Below are occupational health and safety statistics for a few Ayala companies participating in labor intensive In 2019, Ayala companies provided more than 3.8 sectors in 2019: million hours worth of training for its employees, averaging about 60 hours of formal training per Total number of non31.59 Total number of disabling Total number of fatalities Safe manhours employee. 30.82 COMPANY disabling injuries for injuries for employees (employees) (employees) employees Ayala Land 268 3 3 188,135,950.00 Ayala recognizes that digitalization will propel its businesses to the future. This requires acquisition of 2017 2018 2019 Globe 87 0 0 15,376,609.00 new skill sets for its employees. The conglomerate IMI 64 9 0 44,669,530.00 formed a group of data analytics professionals in AC Energy 19 1 0 3,281,791.86 support of digital transformation. AC Infra 10 2 0 2,030.361.00 Manila 2 1 0 3,822,578.50 The following are highlighted initiatives of Ayala companies on talent development. Water COMPANY HIGHLIGHTED INITIATIVES Inclusive Workplace DIRECT EMPLOYEES Ayala Land To harness creative ideas that will help improve the business and help build a sense of fulfillment among Provided with equal opportunities, a diverse employees, Ayala Land launched its Innovation Challenge. workforce opens companies to innovative ideas that 72,103 BPI Through various classroom training sessions, BPI provided more opportunities on leadership development improve the value creation process. The Ayala group for frontline leaders and management trainees. Executive coaching and strategy-aligned programs were also offered to all high potential and high performing senior officers. Moreover, a new set of leadership provides equal opportunities and strictly enforces 60,009 competencies was included in the company’s Performance Management System. 60,368 its Recruitment, Compensation, and Retrenchment Globe Learning requirements of its employees are managed through Globe University. In 2019, it highlighted Policy, which does not discriminate on the basis of these courses: 5G Overview, Network Functions Virtualization (NFV) Fundamentals, Cloud, Data Science, and Agile. Its Data Scientists Program trained 39 fresh graduates from different universities. gender, sexual orientation, political affiliation, among Manila Water Manila Water’s key talent development programs include Leadership Excellence and Development, Manila others. Water Institute of Technology, and Cadetship Program. AC Infra LRMC implements a Leadership and Competency Development Programs. It also benchmarks with other The total number of direct employees across the rail industries for best practices. 2017 2018 2019 Ayala group increased to 72,013 in 2019, with maleAC Health Generika launched PharmAcademy, a comprehensive learning curriculum that provides technical training to-female ratio of 1:1.33. Ayala companies have a programs for its personnel such as licensed pharmacists. PharmAcademy also offers behavioral and business skills training for pharmacy assistants and supports employees and franchisees within the young workforce, where 41 percent are under 30 Generika network. years old and 51 percent are between the ages of 30 iPeople Schools under iPeople give incentives for research publication and research opportunities for faculty and 50. members. In addition, upskilling teachers with outcomes-based education, blended learning, and constructivist approaches are conducted. Below are some initiatives on how our business units create an inclusive workplace. CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND PROTECTION COMPANY HIGHLIGHTED INITIATIVES Several global trends shape customer behavior and expectations across industries. Knowing how to Ayala Land Ayala Land implements its anti-discrimination policy and there were no reports of discrimination this year. optimize opportunities, these trends play a vital Globe Inclusivity and diversity in the workplace for 2020 is a priority. The company created the Pride@Globe Workplace Group for the LGBTQI+ community. This was followed by a Diversity Policy where dependents role in the success of businesses. These include of legally married same-sex couples can avail of the same company benefits with the rest of the employee the following: force. Manila Water There is a good mix of female and male leaders in the company. There are venues in the company where employees share and learn from the water crisis experience. • Emphasis on customer experience – closing the IMI IMI’s Global Hiring Policy ensures a fair, non-discriminatory, and equitable hiring process. With the very gap between client expectations and a company’s tight global talent market, IMI is revisiting requirements for educational attainment for its applicants. capacity to meet them; knowing that consumers AC Infra LRMC promotes Gender and Development (GAD) principles from hiring to career development. are willing to pay more to save time and for a good AF Payments implements a policy against discrimination, harassment, and bullying of any kind. customer service; consumers will expect the same level of service, regardless of industry Digitalization influences our strategies to elevate customer experience 97 98 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT • Growing concern for data privacy – more personalized products and services require more personal Ayala companies monitor customer satisfaction using relevant metrics to their industry. Following are the information from customers for targeted forms of advertising; protecting these data is a responsibility results of customer satisfaction surveys for the last three years: businesses should take seriously COMPANY METRIC DESCRIPTION 2017 2018 2019 • Empowered and conscious customers – products and services that can be personalized and that create Ayala Land CSAT Percent of tenants satisfied with property 92% 86% 89% an impact (social or environmental) draw more consumers because these give them control over the management services way they consume Globe Net Promoter Score A measure of how likely customers recommend 27% 38% 27% its service to others (-100% means everybody are detractors while +100% means everybody Always putting customers first, Ayala considers these trends in drawing up innovative approaches to are promoters) increase customer value, improve customer experience, and empower consumers including those with Manila Water Service complaints Percent of service-related complaint resolved 96% 99% 99% limited access to basic goods and services. resolution Billing complaints Percent of billing-related complaint resolved 95% 99% 98% resolution Customer Experience IMI CSAT Scoring guideline that cover specific customer 4.66 4.60 4.60 Ayala develops channels to meaningfully engage with customers in order to deeply understand and Philippines requirements such as Quality, Cost, Delivery, effectively respond to their needs, ensuring a frictionless customer experience. and Responsiveness that are defined and agreed with customers Honda CSAT (sales) Percent of customers who are satisfied with new 97% 96% 96% Below are some of Ayala companies’ programs to improve customer experience. vehicle sales CSAT (services) Percent of customers who are satisfied with 84% 90% 93% COMPANY HIGHLIGHTED INITIATIVES vehicle service provided Ayala Land To help develop programs attuned to customer needs, Ayala Land established a platform which facilitates Isuzu CSAT (sales) Percent of customers who are satisfied with new 88% 89% 90% improved analytics. This sales information platform is constantly refined and enhanced. vehicle sales BPI The Customer Assistance Program ensures that all feedback from customers and potential customers are CSAT (services) Percent of customers who are satisfied with 96% 87% 89% well handled within the bank’s consumer protection policies. The bank continuously conducts information vehicle service provided and education campaigns through its Financial Consumer Protection Program. Volkswagen CSAT (sales) Percent of customers who are satisfied with new 89% 89% 85% Globe With a deeper understanding of customer needs and challenges, Globe reimagines end-to-end processes vehicle sales and delivers relevant omni-channel enabling capabilities for a frictionless customer experience. The CSAT (services) Percent of customers who are satisfied with 89% 83% 88% company empowers its frontliners to serve customers better by focusing on more value-adding tasks and vehicle service provided elevating the quality of their interactions with customers. Generika CSAT (internal) Percent of customers who are satisfied 63% 82% Manila Water As a response to water availability issues, Manila Water now provides additional water supply by producing with Generika’s services based on internal 100 million liters per day of potable water from Cardona Water Treatment Plant. measurement AC Motors Customers have more choices as a wide array of automotive models are available. After sales support CSAT (external) Percent of customers who are satisfied with 90% 80% includes sending periodic maintenance reminders to ensure that their vehicles remain in good condition. Generika’s services based on third party AC Infra LRMC developed a mobile application, IkotMNL, which provides information on crowd volume and train measurement arrival time. The company continues to improve its facilities such as replacement of tracks in the heritage MedGrocer CSAT (internal) Percent of customers who are satisfied with 90% 94% 98% line and expansion of the EDSA Station. MedGrocer’s services based on internal AF Payments continuously develops the beep™ mobile app as a tool for a seamless customer user measurement experience. This also includes working with partners for a convenient app-based loading and for expanded CSAT (external) Percent of customers who are satisfied with 92% 87% usage of QR ticketing. MedGrocer’s services based on third party MCX provides better experience for its customers through its strict adherence to its maintenance plan and measurement regular customer service training of its personnel. FamilyDOC Net promoter score A measure of how likely customers recommend 80% 56% 34% Entrego continuously improves and develops its customer service channels including enhanced training for its service to others (-100% means everybody its frontliners. are detractors while +100% means everybody are promoters) AC Health Generika provides its customers with a printed instruction, Gamot Guide, on responsible medicine intake, proper storage, and side effects of certain medicines. Customers may also avail of MedPadala, an electronic LRMC Customer complaint Percent of complaints resolved 100% 100% gift certificate, which they can send to their loved ones to ensure that money is spent on medicines. resolution rate MedGrocer integrates patient counselling in medicine delivery. The company also partners with health management organizations and pharmaceutical companies for medicine subsidies. AIDE continues to develop its app for a seamless experience. It also partners with more medical service providers, health maintenance organizations, and insurance companies. iPeople To ensure holistic growth and formation, all schools offer additional institutional co-curricular activities. Mapua University and Malayan Colleges implement online application and exams for prospective students. 99 100 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Customer Protection Ayala ensures the safety of its customers within its facilities by deploying well-trained security personnel in AC Infra LRMC gives priority to PWDs, pregnant women, children, and the elderly by dedicating the first light rail vehicle in each train set, assigning a different queuing line, providing wheelchair area inside the train, and their vicinity and by training our employees on emergency drills. ensuring operational elevators and escalators. With the beep™ Card Expiry Extension Program, AF Payments gives its cardholders the option of extending Beyond safety from physical threats, Ayala also puts importance on protecting the fundamental right to the validity of their cards by another year thereby reducing the need to purchase a new card and dispose of the old. privacy of its customers in compliance with the Data Privacy Act. Data privacy trainings are conducted for all employees annually. EQUITABLE BUSINESS PRACTICES economic values that improve lives, especially for Some of the other initiatives of Ayala companies on customer protection include: the underserved and unserved. Moreover, Ayala observes fair and ethical practices in its business COMPANY HIGHLIGHTED INITIATIVES activities. Ayala Land Goals for the company’s digital transformation: To create a better, faster, and relevant online experience for its customers aligned with the Data Privacy Act. Economic Value Distribution BPI The bank conducts Privacy Impact Assessment on new and existing processes, systems, projects, and products. Appropriate data processing safeguards are implemented consistent with the bank's risk strategy Ayala contributes to economic growth through to maintain data confidentiality, integrity, and availability. distribution of economic value among various Globe The company expanded the size of its cyber security team, adopted world-class standards, and ran instakeholders. In 2019, the total economic value depth Privacy Impact Assessments with external partners as customer protection initiatives. Its Advanced Security Operations Center continues to deliver cyber security-related services for both the company and generated by the Ayala group increased by 8.5 the network of its customers. percent to about ₱560 billion. This growth was Ayala contributes to economic growth through its diverse businesses IMI The EMS company conducted data penetration testing and information security audits. driven by significant increases in revenue of ALI, AC Infra With regard to security within its facilities, the company has installed x-rays to ease inspection and CCTV The Philippine government is firm in its goal to BPI, and Globe, and divestment gains from and roving guards for added security. reduce the number of Filipinos who cannot afford AC Energy and AC Education. AF Payments promotes transparency by clearly stating in its Terms and Conditions what the data gathered basic necessities to 11 percent by 2022, using will be used for. as a point of reference the 16.6 percent poverty Of this total value generated, 76 percent was Entrego organized a data privacy team in accordance with the Data Privacy Act. incidence in 2018. distributed to stakeholders while only 24 percent AC Health Generika conducts a Privacy Impact Assessment prior to the launch of selected projects. The company also launched the e-learning module for the Data Privacy Act, which was cascaded to the Head Office, was retained by the companies. About 41 percent warehouse, and store personnel. Recognizing the influence of businesses to the was used to pay suppliers to cover operating costs, MedGrocer engages its medicine suppliers for Privacy Impact Assessments. country’s economic performance, Ayala aims to 10 percent to employees, 15 percent to providers AIDE set up data protection protocols, both technological and physical, to avoid data breaches. contribute to SDG 1 (No poverty) and SDG 8 of capital, and 10 percent to government and (Decent work and economic growth) by creating community investments. Customer Empowerment Ayala provides options and resources to customers to give them more control over their purchases and the GROUPWIDE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE PARENT COMPANY ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN MILLION PESOS IN MILLION PESOS kind of experience they want to have. This includes providing assistance to vulnerable groups for better access to our products and services and offering more options for a sustainable lifestyle. 560,157.49 309,565.00 293,487.79 515,972.87 Operating cost 259,656.58 Operating cost COMPANY HIGHLIGHTED INITIATIVES 462,700.65 41% Ayala Land Ayala Land has a digital platform which enables residential customers to keep track of their property 65% 61% 46% Payments to providers transactions. Specific to Ayala Malls, the Zing App provides customers incentives and special rewards and Payments to providers of capital of capital personalized experience to explore the mall. Likewise, Ayala Malls continues to provide priority shopping 50% Payments to government 10% Payments to government 65% experience to persons with disabilities, senior citizens, and pregnant women through dedicated facilities such as wheel-in-service, dedicated parking slots, and priority lanes, among others. 10% Payments to communities 15% Payments to communities 8% 9% 10% 13% BPI The bank offers a wide range of innovative financial products including options for low-income and Economic value retained Economic value retained 8% 10% underserved segments. For its corporate clients, the company promotes investments in industries that 13% 8% 10% 8% 0.04% 0.09% 0.04% 0.09% 8% Economic value generated strengthen urban and countryside development and that adopt cleaner, low carbon, and resource-efficient 8% Economic value generated 0.04% 23% technologies. 23% 23% 19% 21% 19% 0.1% 0.2% 0.2% Globe Through Amazon Connect, Globe transforms hotline experience and better equips customers to resolve -0.2%0.2% -0.2% their concerns and inquiries. Its chatbot and virtual assistants, Gie and Thea, are now embedded in all 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 digital channels. Its GlobeOne and GlobeAtHome mobile applications empower customers to manage their accounts. Globe Community allows its customer community to exchange learning and get help from each other. At the parent company, total economic value generated increased by five percent to ₱309.6 billion and total economic value distributed to stakeholders also increased by six percent to ₱318.9 billion. 101 102 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Sustainable Procurement Practices Community Engagement Ayala companies encourages their suppliers comply with quality standards and ethical practices. Our Ayala builds trust among the people in areas where its businesses operate by creating value that benefits business units have their respective supply chain policies and code of conduct that require suppliers to all and managing the impacts its operations may have. undergo an accreditation process to examine their legitimacy, technical competence, financial capability, service quality, and, in some cases, their sustainability performance. In particular, Ayala Land, Manila Water, Each business unit has community engagement programs that help build capabilities not only among and IMI use environmental and social criteria for their supplier accreditation process. beneficiaries but also project partners including LGUs. Most programs encourage and support volunteerism among employees. Below are examples of our business units’ intiatives. Ayala nourishes the spirit of volunteerism among its employees. Its biggest volunteer-driven initiative COMPANY HIGHLIGHTED INITIATIVES in celebration of its 185th year is a combination of activities spanning environmental causes, donation Ayala Land The ISO 20400:2017 guidelines for Sustainable Procurement is the benchmark for Ayala Land’s supply drives, and outreach programs. When it was launched, a target of 185,000 hours was committed. This was chain policies and processes to align with sustainability standards. It is currently drawing up a Sustainable eventually surpassed with more than 600,000 volunteer hours through the combined efforts of employees Procurement Roadmap to enable vendors to adhere to sustainability standards of the company and provide additional requirements. across the group. Globe In 2019, a Supplier Self-Assessment Survey was launched via their procurement systems. To further extend sustainability to its supply chain, the company plans to conduct external audits for its critical Below are some initiatives on community engagement by the Ayala group. suppliers in the next few years. AC Energy Capacity building is incorporated into the company’s supply contracts with critical vendors. Across the COMPANY HIGHLIGHTED INITIATIVES areas where it operates, the company establishes strategic partnerships with local suppliers and service providers. Ayala Land • Alay sa Komunidad Program in Alviera turned over four classrooms to relocated Brgy. Sapang Uwak Elementary schools. Manila Water Regular audits for critical vendors, which include a review of environmental and social risks, are • From Hooks to Books teaches guests traditional bottomline fishing. Through the program, partner conducted. The company also enables local job creation through its strict adherence to the engagement of fishermen in El Nido received a total of ₱2.9 million to fund their activities and projects such as a local companies for major capital expenditure projects. community library and environmental education for kids. IMI The global EMS company complies with and requires suppliers to adhere to the Responsible Business • Through the Corporate Vegetable Program, 25 rice farmers in El Nido and Narra, Palawan were re-tooled Alliance Code of Conduct. and re-skilled in fruits and vegetables farming. BPI • Palengke Caravan provided 53 sessions of entrepreneurial financial literacy workshops for selfAC Health Generika products are Food and Drug Administration (FDA) compliant and fit for human consumption. employed, micro-entrepreneurs. They also conduct audits of manufacturing facilities and review processes of new suppliers. They further • Sulong, a financial education and entrepreneurship module for migrant workers and their families in monitor validity of Certificates of Product Registration and constantly communicate with suppliers of Hong Kong and Singapore, reached a total of 4,213 Overseas Filipino workers and 12,532 family House Brand products for any products due for renewal. members in 2019. iPeople Mapua Schools improved their centralized online system to streamline procurement and financial • Tech-Voc Program conducts training programs that combine valuable technical-vocational skills with processes. The company is working on integrating its other schools specifically NTC, UNC, and APEC entrepreneurial and management skills. In 2019, 16 trainings were conducted across 10 communities Schools to the centralized financial system. with a total of 457 community members. Globe Key community engagement strategies • Creating proofs of concept on the use of technology to address social issues in specific communities Some Ayala companies are more deliberate in • Supporting government programs COMPANY PERCENT LOCAL SPENDING their commitment to support local economic • Monitoring social return on investment (SROI) of community programs growth, cognizant that supporting local suppliers Manila Water 100% Programs with high SROI improves economic activity. The following table AC Energy 99% • Developing modules to foster a safe, inclusive, and collaborative online environment, assisting LGUs shows the percentage of procurement budget AC Infra 87% on marine conservation and rehabilitation, and supporting advocacies of its subscribers through Globe Rewards. spent on Philippine-based suppliers by these Ayala HCX 81% • Through its Marine Biodiversity program, Globe introduced underwater mapping to select LGUs to companies. Globe 59% access information that can be used to develop targeted plans on marine biodiversity rehabilitation and conservation in four coastal communities and major tourist destinations in Bohol, Siargao, and Palawan. • Globe provides access to all subscribers to contribute to their advocacy by donating their Globe Rewards points using their mobile application. Some partner organizations include Save Philippine Seas, Philippine Animal Welfare Society, Philippine General Hospital Medical Foundation, and Hineleban Foundation. AC Energy As part of AC Energy’s flagship sustainability program, the Conservation Estate reiterates the company’s adherence to the Ayala group philosophy of creating value not just for its businesses, but for the environment and communities where they operate. The program completed its pilot phase and is in the process of scaling up. Manila Water The company runs an integrated Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene program, which is a participatory intervention that will result in access to clean and potable water and improvement in sanitation facilities and hygiene practices in the communities. In 2019, it adopted two new communities, Sitio Monicayo in Mabalacat City, Pampanga, and Barangay Sapang Uwak in Porac, Pampanga, reaching more than 2,000 residents. Other flagship community programs include infrastructure programs for drinking and sanitation facilities in public institutions and low-income communities. Ayala encourages its supply chain to adapt ethical and responsible Volunteerism is encouraged across the Ayala group practices Buoyed by the knowledge that we have maintained strong foundations across the five materiality themes we focused on in our 2019 assessment presented by emerging trends, we are confident that we can deliver more to our stakeholders. 103 104 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT AYALA’S SDG CHAMPIONS Maximizing relevance and impact through focus ACCESS & PRODUCTIVITY & RESPONSIBLE GROWTH INCLUSIVITY COMPETITIVENESS & INNOVATION ACCESS & INCLUSIVITY Ayala Foundation works with Lio Sibaltan weavers Sixteen percent of Filipinos are considered poor and not able to meet their basic needs despite a growing Philippine economy3. Poverty unreasonably limits the ability of people to contribute to a stable economy and society, which is necessary to sustain our growth as a Ayala Foundation, Inc. business and the development of our country. (AFI) Through Ayala Foundation, we work to address extreme poverty especially Target: in communities surrounding our areas of operations. We employ a holistic To support anti-poverty approach in designing and implementing our programs, from capacity frameworks resulting in MARGINALIZATION UNTAPPED POTENTIAL IRRESPONSIBLE GROWTH building for our beneficiaries, to making products of value, and to finding 50 percent reduction of them the markets to realize economic gains of their efforts. THE AYALA Sustainability Blueprint discussion p.105-124 extreme poverty in AFI project areas Ayala Foundation became the first organization to receive a Social Value Certificate, following a stringent two-year examination process. This proves SUSTAINABILITY that their approach to deliver social value meet international standards. Below are three highlight programs that have been effective in poverty BLUEPRINT allevation: El Nido Community Development Program This was designed to enable communities to better participate and access Bridging Gaps, Improving Lives opportunities in the booming economy of El Nido, Palawan. We partnered with businesses, local government, and community folk to We commit to improve the lives of Filipinos in a respective SDG targets as we continue to implement nine livelihood projects including vegetable farming, tricycle meaningful and lasting way. We do this following address marginalization, untapped potential, operations, traditional weaving, and cashew nuts and cocoa production. clearly defined pathways—access and inclusivity, and irresponsible growth issues. We review each productivity and competitiveness, responsible champion’s strategies every two to three years We worked with educational institutions to provide senior high school growth and innovation—towards 2030 mapped to ensure relevance considering game-changing students on-the-job training opportunities in the hospitality industry in the Ayala Sustainability Blueprint. technologies and innovations, evolving needs, and to boost their employability upon graduation. We also held job fairs to complex situations in today’s customer-centered make it easier for job seekers to access employment opportunities in our We align our desire to bridge societal gaps with business world. properties in El Nido. During disaster emergencies, such as the flood in the UN Sustainable Development Goals with the 2018, we supported affected families by providing relief packages, blueprint as a guide, valuing potential, reinventing Building on the gains of being leaders in the field, medical assistance, and repair kits. businesses, and transforming communities. incubating businesses that make up a resilient portfolio, and strengthening a risk-aware culture We assessed the effectiveness of our interventions using the Social Return With this Integrated Report, we recognize will accelerate our growth into a future-ready Ayala on Investment (SROI) methodology. Our finding showed that the economic the business units, our champions, and their Corporation. value created for our beneficiaries is 26 times more than the funds we spent on the projects. 105 3 Philippine Statistics Authority, 2018 106 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT MDC Greens Ornamental Farm Ayala Foundation, Inc. This project targeted families relocated to Calauan, Laguna who were (AFI) victims of Typhoon Ondoy in 2009, and those displaced by the Pasig River Rehabilitation Program. We trained our beneficiaries on farming to enable them to grow ornamental plants and organized them into a cooperative. ACCESS & Their 35-member cooperative now runs a five-hectare ornamental plant INCLUSIVITY farm that supplies Makati Development Corporation’s landscape projects. This year, we have realized a 10 percent increase of their income to ₱7,700 per month. We continue to assist the community to bring their project to AC Health employees as frontliners in the Covid-19 pandemic scale by linking to more markets to ultimately bring them out of poverty. Out of pocket health expenses by Filipinos increased by 10.5 percent4, Iraya-Mangyan Development Program making access to healthcare products and services difficult. This condition The project for the indigenous community in Puerto Galera, Oriental may be improved by the Universal Health Coverage (UHC) Law, which Mindoro focused on skills training and education. Ayala Foundation worked automatically enrolls all Filipinos to the National Health Insurance with the community to preserve its weaving tradition while generating Program. However, the current state of the national health system is seen AC Health economic benefits for themselves. The beneficiaries were enabled to to experience challenges to accommodate a potentially bigger demand. produce woven nito products, accessories, and beaded bags. They were Target: also trained to offer eco-cultural tour guiding services. These activities A healthy population is essential for an economy to thrive. Investing in To champion Universal generated approximately ₱4.7 million in 2019 and ₱4.2 million in 2018. healthcare institutions is another step for Ayala to improve the lives of Health Coverage in the The Iraya-Mangyan beneficiaries received ₱1.6 million out of the total Filipinos. country by providing earnings in 2019. The program generated 118 jobs in 2019, a 48 percent the largest primary care increase from 2018. AC Health aims to build an inclusive healthcare ecosystem. It has built network, expanding a roadmap to strengthen its commitment to the implementation of the access to quality and Additional support we provided the community were: educational UHC Law. affordable medicines, assistance to 303 students, feeding programs for 281 students, and free and improving essential medical consultations to 6,790 patients. The company strengthens every pillar of its portfolio, from clinics, hospital and specialty pharmacies, health technology, and hospitals, through process services, touching We see how these three community programs have improved the lives of improvements, synergy, and further acquisitions. the lives of one in five our beneficiaries. Ayala Foundation’s SROI study showed that these are Filipinos highly effective models for creating social value and addressing poverty. Clinics: We continue to look into opportunities to replicate these models in more FamilyDOC expanded its network of clinics to 74 from 54 in 2018. areas where we have market presence. The clinics served over 495,000 new unique patients. Turnaround time showed a nine-minute improvement from 45 minutes in 2018. Indicator 2018 2019 Percent change AC Health’s investment in Healthway added seven mall-based multi-specialty clinics and 41 corporate clinics to its network. Jobs generated (El Nido) 213 357 64% Jobs generated (Calauan) 31 35 13% Pharma: Average farmer income 6,979 7,700 10% Generika’s 804 branches nationwide offer high quality and reasonably in PhP (Calauan) priced medicines. Its MEDPadala electronic gift checks ensure that money Jobs generated (Mindoro) 80 118 48% sent to loved ones is spent on needed medicines. MEDPadala transactions Income generated 4.2 4.7 12% significantly increased to 40,818. in million PhP (Mindoro) Educational assistance 281 303 8% Investments in pharmaceutical products importer and distributor, beneficiaries (Mindoro) IE Medica and MedEthix, respectively, bring in a wider range of affordable medicines to AC Health’s Generika and FamilyDOC outlets accessible to low income communities. 4 Philippine Statistics Authority, 2018 107 108 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT AC Health Technology-enabled platforms: MedGrocer, an online pharmacy platform, continues to provide a wide variety of affordable high-quality vaccines, medicines, and clinic supplies ACCESS & to its growing base of retail clients, which increased by 27 percent in 2019. INCLUSIVITY It also grew its network of corporate clients from 450 covering 460,000 employees to 600 corporate clients covering about 520,000 individuals. AIDE, AC Health’s home-based healthcare platform, continues to develop and provide a competent personal primary care option. It has nearly 800 UNC successfully graduated college, high school, and elementary students medical specialists and healthcare professionals from over 70 cities and municipalities across the Philippines. Based on the 2017 Annual Poverty Indicators Survey (APIS)5, about three million Filipinos aged 16 to 24 years old were out-of-school children and Hospital: youth. AC Health continues to expand its portfolio of medical facilities as it is Lack of access to quality education is one of the biggest barriers to iPeople poised to invest ₱2 billion to build the first cancer specialty hospital in the Philippines. Philippine development. At Ayala, we see this as a strategic area of work as it delivers multiple impacts in the development areas of poverty Target: alleviation and human capital building, which we need for our businesses. To help ensure equal Partnerships: access for all women Together with the Ateneo Professional Schools, AC Health organized the We believe addressing this challenge requires us to build scale by and men for 85 percent Health Leadership Summit that brought together key stakeholders from collaborating with other businesses, government, and communities, while (1,258,095) of nonthe government, private sector, and the academe to engage in meaningful optimizing available resources. working population (aged discussion and collaboration towards the implementation of the UHC Law. 15 to 24) to affordable Since 2012, we have started investing in educational institutions and have and quality secondary AC Health’s expansion of its healthcare facilities and investments increases been steadily growing our portfolio over the years. In May 2019, the Ayala and tertiary education, its ability to reach more medically-underserved Filipinos. and Yuchengco groups finalized the merger of AC Education and iPeople, including university, placing seven educational institutions under one entity. These institutions through our own schools Indicator 2018 2019 Percent change can serve about 60,000 students, mostly within the 15 to 24 age range. and helping other FamilyDOC clinics 54 74 37% institutions Unique patients served 240,000 495,000 106% Our portfolio today covers primary, secondary, and tertiary educational (FamilyDOC) formats. Generika branches 816 804 -1% MedPadala transactions 3,110 40,818 1,212% (Generika) Affordable Private Education Centers (APEC) Schools in Metro Manila, Retail clients (MedGrocer) 6,300 8,000 27% and in the provinces of Rizal, Cavite, Laguna, and Batangas • Serves 15,815 junior and senior high school students for SY 2019-2020 Corporate clients (MedGrocer) 450 600 33% 44 percent are from the D and E market segments 5,225 students with government-subsidized scholarship 69 students with school-subsidized scholarship • Successfully graduated 3,287 senior high school students Out of total graduates, 483 sought jobs and 93 percent were given job offers, wherein 71 percent accepted University of Nueva Caceres (UNC) in Naga City, Camarines Sur • Serves 7,617 students from elementary, high school and college for SY 2019-2020 57 percent are from the D and E market segments 4,242 students are with government-subsidized scholarship 55 students are with school-subsidized scholarships • Successfully graduated 888 college students, 710 SHS graduates, and 89 elementary students 5 Philippine Statistics Authority, 2018 109 110 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT National Teachers College (NTC) in Manila These improved coverage in the East Zone from 67 percent, serving • Serves 10,632 students from high school and college for SY 2019-2020 three million people in 1997, to 93 percent, serving over seven million 67 percent are from the D and E market segments people today. Among these are two million customers from the poor and iPeople 8,957 students with government-subsidized scholarships marginalized sector, who now save up to 90 percent of what they would 171 students with school-subsidized scholarships otherwise spend on vended water. • Successfully graduated 945 senior high school students and 1,159 college students We have also invested in 40 additional wastewater treatment facilities • NTC offers additional support for students to increase employability and five times more sewer network capacity to connect more residents through the Professional Employment Program (PEP) program. In 2019, to proper sanitation. These facilities were able to treat 64.2 million cubic out of 177 PEP graduates who sought jobs, 159 gained employment meters of wastewater and remove 13,440 tons of water pollutants, helping within 90 days after graduation. preserve essential bodies of water. We have come a long way in building our capacity to meet the country’s Manila Water has since expanded its investments in local and international growing need for access to quality education but we also know we still companies delivering water and wastewater services. Outside the East have a long way to go. We will continue to innovate better and look for Zone, Manila Water has presence in Bulacan, Boracay, Clark, Cebu, Laguna, more creative ways to tackle this challenge to bring our solution to scale. Pangasinan, Tagum, and Zamboanga, as well as in neighboring countries such as Vietnam, Indonesia, Myanmar, and Thailand. Despite recent challenges in water availability, Manila Water considerably increased water delivery compared to 2018. The Cardona Water Treatment Plant resulted in an additional 100 million liters of potable water per day. Through improvements in infrastructure and operational systems, Manila ACCESS & Water also reduced enterprise-wide water losses to ensure that more INCLUSIVITY water reached its customers. In 1997, water losses were at 63 percent. We managed to bring it down to 12 percent, saving 700 million liters per day. We further brought down losses to 9.6 percent in 2018 and 9.0 percent in 2019. Ensuring water access and availability and increasing sewerage coverage and capacity is a continuing work of Manila Water. We exert all efforts and spare no expense to ensure that we fulfil this mandate and reach our SDG 6 target. Manila Water continues its efforts to deliver safe and reliable water Manila Water Nearly seven out of 105 million Filipinos do not have access to potable Indicator 2018 2019 Percent change Corporation water while more than 24 million do not have proper sanitation6. Water pipes laid 7,600 9,340 23% (in kilometers) Target: Access to water and proper sanitation is a basic human right and Billed connections 1,000,000 1,233,719 23% To provide equitable, fundamental to our development as a country. Ayala responded to the call Water delivered 1,160 1,256 8% reliable, and safe of the government to improve the grossly inadequate water infrastructure (in cubic meters) water access in all when it entered the water and sanitation space in 1997. We considered it Sewer connections 142,000 273,010 92% its concession, and as an opportunity to contribute meaningfully to nation building. Wastewater treated 62.4 million 64.2 million 2% (in cubic meters) continuously increase With partners such as the International Finance Corporation (IFC), Manila Average non-revenue water 9.6 % 9.0 % 0.6% access to new markets Water was formed to focus on laying the water infrastructure throughout the Manila Concession East Zone. The goal was to continually address leakage and bring water pressure to a level that ensures round-the-clock water access to all residents in the area. Over the years, Manila Water has invested over ₱166 billion to improve water and wastewater services. We have installed over 5,500 kilometers of pipes and built two new filter plants, 32 new reservoirs, and 113 pumping and booster stations. 6 According to water.org, a global non-profit organization that conducted research, designed, 111 and ran pilot projects for water and sanitation in the Philippines. 112 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT PRODUCTIVITY & COMPETITIVENESS Ayala annually conducts summits for its workforce Ayala provides leisure activities to promote work-life balance Ayala Target: To support full and productive employment and decent work for all and equal pay for work of equal value by ensuring employment remuneration is 10 to 20 percent above the Ayala annually conducts sports events for its employees industry average strategic locations to reduce employee commute, and provision of digital tools to improve productivity. We also drive productivity by streamlining processes, providing appropriate authority, and removing obstacles that According to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the national employment get in the way with job efficiency. rate in 2019 is estimated at 94.6 percent. However, 13.9 percent of these are underemployed, and expressed interest in more job opportunities. We encourage diversity, respect, and healthy exchange of ideas to foster As one of the biggest business houses in the country, Ayala recognizes good working relationships among our employees. Non-discrimination in its responsibility to help address this gap. the hiring, training, promotion, and other processes is strictly observed. Gender diversity among permanent employees is at a 1:1.33 men-toAyala creates a workplace that ensures all its 72,000 employees achieve women ratio. their full potential, recognizing that its continued growth is propelled by productive and engaged employees. Our benefit packages remain competitive. We offer benefits beyond regulatory requirements such as health coverage and stock options. Our business units employ a consultative process in defining career Results of a 2019 survey show that Ayala Corporation’s employee development paths. Training needs are jointly determined by employees compensation is about 10 percent above industry average. and their managers. On the average, every Ayala employee received 60 hours of training in 2019, with those in rank-and-file positions given Keeping our employees productive and engaged is a continual the most at an average of 101 hours of training. improvement process. We keep up with emerging workplace best practices and the evolving expectations of our people, especially the We strive to provide a good employee experience from the moment one younger professionals. We continue to deliver meaningful and productive gets hired in any of our companies. Best practices we noted include flexible jobs for our employees and provide career growth opportunities to help working hours, teleworking with the use of technology, work hubs in close the underemployment gap of the country. More information on the Ayala group’s employment performance can be found on pages 94-98. 113 114 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT PRODUCTIVITY PRODUCTIVITY & COMPETITIVENESS & COMPETITIVENESS BPI reaches more Filipinos through its array of products and services Globe continues to innovate digital products for Filipinos According to the latest financial inclusion survey by the Bangko Sentral ng A total of 76 million Filipinos have access to the internet. A good 72 million Pilipinas, over 70 percent of Filipinos do not have access to formal financial of them connect to the net via a mobile device7. services. This curtails their ability to improve productivity and quality of life. This presents a great opportunity for Ayala as it democratizes access to innovative digital products and services. Thus, making healthcare, BPI Ayala tackles this challenge through its subsidiary, BPI, which considers education, financial services, including mobile payments, insurance, and Globe Telecom this gap as an opportunity to grow its market and contribute to poverty credit, available to every Filipino. Target: alleviation and human development. Its financial services drive Target: To expand access to entrepreneurial activity, productivity, and overall economic growth. Ayala’s digital transformation work is primarily carried out by its To lead the country’s banking and financial subsidiary, Globe, which actively invests in expanding its nationwide digital transformation by services to 25 percent BPI reaches more Filipinos and businesses by expanding its deposit network. Beginning in 2011, Globe’s US$ 700 million seven-year network significantly increasing of the underbanked franchise and delivery infrastructure in Metro Manila and in key cities. modernization program drove adoption of pioneering technologies and access to information population of the This expansion is balanced and complemented by outlays in its digital innovation in products and services, such as digital lifestyle play, content and communications Philippines (addressable infrastructure. partnership with iconic global brands, and deployment of early-stage 5G technology for C and D markets) network connectivity. consumers and To cater to the underbanked market’s needs for credit facilities access, businesses, providing BPI repositioned its microfinance business strategy under BPI Direct In 2019, Globe increased deployment of cell sites by 139 percent and universal and affordable BanKo, Inc. from a mobile-based to a more traditional in-person model, increased base stations by 69 percent compared to 2018. This contributed internet access in the targeting self-employed micro-entrepreneurs. to an increase in mobile customers to 94.2 million from 74.1 million in Philippines for 90 2018. Globe also maintains two million broadband customers. percent of the population BanKo grants business loans based on well-grounded credit parameters and provides quick turnaround times and lower interest rates versus The company revolutionizes access to financial services through Mynt, with traditional money lenders. The shift to a more traditional business two platforms—Fuse Lending, a fintech-enabled lending institution, and model allows for a more effective know-your-customer process, leading GCash, a mobile wallet app for financial services. to efficient collection and reduction in non-performing loans. Its 300 branches nationwide serve a total of 100,000 self-employed microGCash now has over 20 million customers and over 75,000 participating entrepreneurs (SEME) with the help of 800 loan specialists hired in 2018. merchants, a 50 percent increase from 2018. GCash also maintains more than 30,000 cash in and cash out outlets to serve its customers. Mynt Through these innovations, BPI has more than doubled the number of has partnered with local government units (LGUs) to offer GCash as an SEME clients served, and almost tripled its disbursed microfinance loans alternative mode of payment (Makati and Quezon City LGUs) and payroll from 2018 to 2019. allowance disbursements (Makati, Manila, Boracay, Siargao, and Semirara LGUs). These recent years have been very encouraging for BPI as its financial inclusion strategies have been proven effective. It looks to scale these Operating in a highly competitive and fast-paced industry, Globe continues even further in the next few years to meet its commitment to reach at least to evolve and expand its network and services with a clear focus on 25 percent of the underbanked population by 2030. achieving its target to reach more than 90 percent of the country’s 1,101 cities and municipalities. Indicator 2018 2019 Percent change Indicator 2018 2019 Percent change SEME clients served 40,000 85,000 113% Percent of municipalities and cities with 95 96 1% through BanKo mobile broadband Cumulative microfinance 4.3 11.13 178% Mobile customers (in millions) 74.1 94.2 27% loans disbursed (in billion PhP) Broadband customers (in millions) 1.6 2 25% GCash partner merchants 50,000 75,000 50% 115 7 According to Digital 2019, a report from Hootsuite and We are Social at 116 www.datareportal.com. AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT PRODUCTIVITY PRODUCTIVITY & COMPETITIVENESS & COMPETITIVENESS AC Infra strives to improve urban mobility, logistics, and mass transport Ayala Land builds reasonably-priced residential units Rapid urbanization and lack of infrastructure have led to significant The Philippine Statistics Authority reported that construction activity challenges in the transport and logistics sector of the Philippines. These increased by 10.4 percent in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the challenges require massive investments and development towards mass same period last year. By type of construction, residential buildings AC Infrastructure transportation and urban mobility. accounted for 69.2 percent of the total. However, figures for housing Ayala Land projects for the lower economic groups could do better by considering the Target: Good transport and logistics infrastructure facilitate steady and seamless country’s housing needs, which is projected to reach 6.5 million by 2022. Target: To upgrade infrastructure flow of people, goods, and services—all of which are essential for a more To enhance inclusive and to make them productive economy. Affordable housing provides vulnerable populations with economic security sustainable urbanization sustainable, with and stability. Ayala recognizes its strategic position to create resilient and by increasing sevenfold increased resource AC Infra invests in strategic projects to meet the growing infrastructure inclusive communities through its property development arm, Ayala Land. the number of launched efficiency and greater needs in areas of mass transportation, logistics, and urban mobility affordable housing units adoption of clean and primarily through public-private partnerships. Ayala Land looks to scale its development of properties and estates across environmentally sound the country while maintaining its approach of integrating sustainability with technologies and LRMC, AC Infra’s rail service company, increased its fleet for LRT1 and economic development and social welfare. industrial processes maintained its train punctuality rate despite the longer cycle time (the time with 36,135 tons CO2 it takes for a train to complete a journey from a terminal station and back). Ayala Land contributes to filling the gap for value-for-money residential equivalent avoided LRMC’s average daily trips remain to be stable. units by driving building design innovation to bring down the unit cost without compromising quality and sustainability. In 2019, it doubled its AF Payments offers a contactless payment platform called beepTM which affordable units to 5,800 from 2,900 in 2018. can be used for rail, bus, retail, and tollway transactions. The total number of beepTM and single journey rail transactions decreased due to the closure Ayala Land contributes to sustainable urbanization by ensuring all its of the Cubao to Santolan segment of LRT2. AF Payments facilitated more developments meet the specifications under these four focus areas. transactions for point-to-point (P2P) bus routes, retail, as well as tollway This framework serves as a general guide to property development transactions. and operations to mitigate sustainability risks and provide value to the business, environment, and society. AC Infra is steadfast in meeting the infrastructure needs of the country in a more efficient way. The company is also designing a mechanism to account • Site Resilience. We strengthen our sites to quickly recover from for greenhouse gas emissions avoided in its low-carbon processes and environmental stress by undertaking technical due diligence to activities. screen for geohazards, providing space for refuge and rainwater absorption, and using native plants and trees for landscaping. Indicator 2018 2019 Percent change • Pedestrian and Public Transit Connectivity. We adhere to principles LRMC that guide our masterplans to provide alternatives to car use in Light Rail Vehicles 112 116 4% our estates. We aim to provide more opportunities for walking and Train cycle time in minutes 100.4 100.5 0.1% commuting by providing pedestrian-only areas and walkways, transit Riders served in millions 165 161 -2% stops and terminals in estates and malls, and ensuring connectivity AF Payments during construction and operations. beepTM card rail transactions 202 186 -8% • Eco-Efficiency. We use our resources judiciously and commit to in millions reduce our GHG emissions by implementing energy and water Single-journey card 146 128 -12% transactions in millions conservation programs, waste management programs, and by Bus fare transactions 9.5 10 5% committing to be carbon neutral by 2022. in millions 117 118 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Ayala Land RESPONSIBLE • Local Economic Development. We build large-scale, integrated GROWTH & mixed-use sustainable estates across the country. We prioritize local INNOVATION hiring and give opportunities for homegrown businesses. To date, Ayala Land has 29 mixed-use estates and an aggregate size of 9,935 hectares. In these estates, Ayala Land is able to co-create AC Energy continues to increase its renewable energy portfolio sustainable communities by providing Filipinos with better quality of life while spurring new centers of growth. To fuel its rapid economic development, the Southeast Asian region is Ayala Land has deliberately planned and allocated a total of 418 hectares expected to increase its energy demand by 60 percent in the next 20 years, of green space, hosting close to 70,000 native trees and 57 species of with coal being the primary power source. The improvements on cost IUCN Red List species. It is also protecting 586 hectares of carbon forest efficiency and policy support towards renewable energy has increased the AC Energy that stores 80,000 tonnes of CO2e. Ayala Land achieved a 72 percent viability of renewable energy projects in the region. reduction in commercial properties’ net GHG emissions in 2019. The entire Target: operation of Ayala Land, including its tenants, merchants, and suppliers With the increasing clamor for a low-carbon future, Ayala sees a significant To increase its renewable supports an estimated 492,000 jobs. opportunity to lead the region in the development of renewable energy energy portfolio to 5 GW through its energy platform, AC Energy. in the Philippines and in Ayala Land continues its work to deliver its commitment of enhancing foreign markets inclusive and sustainable urbanization, staying on track with its target Achieving a low carbon portfolio is at the core of AC Energy’s business number of reasonably-priced residential units built by 2030. strategy and serves as one of the pillars of its Environmental and Social Policy, which embodies the company’s commitment to sustainability and social responsibility. Indicator 2018 2019 Percent change Affordable housing units 2,900 5,800 100% AC Energy is scaling up its renewable energy (RE) portfolio by investing in Mixed-use estates 25 29 16% key markets in the Philippines, Indonesia, Vietnam, Australia, and India. In 2019, the company more than doubled its 2018 attributable RE capacity in Hectares of green space 301 418 39% its portfolio. Hectares of protected carbon 560 586 5% forest Locally, AC Energy’s acquisition of PHINMA Energy in 2019 expanded IUCN Red List species 52 57 10% monitored its capabilities to build and operate power projects while balancing its Jobs supported 249,620 492,598 97% renewable and thermal portfolios. The company also increased its attributable energy output to 3,500 GWh, 50 percent of which came from renewable energy sources. AC Energy’s rapid growth in renewables in 2019 builds up the company’s momentum towards its target: a renewable energy portfolio of 5 GW by 2025. Indicator 2018 2019 Percent change Attributable RE Capacity (MW) 268 656 145% Attributable RE Output (GWh) 601 1,758 193% 119 120 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE GROWTH & GROWTH & INNOVATION INNOVATION AC Industrials maximizes technology innovation through its EMS company, IMI, and its auto Ayala ramped up efforts on waste management dealership network, AC Motors A Report published in 2012 on the Philippine Ecological Footprint claimed that the rate of consumption of resources was more than twice the capacity of its domestic ecosystem to generate. This overconsumption is not sustainable and compromises the ability of future generations to meet their needs. Ayala recognizes that with the scale of its business and the increasing AC Industrials Ayala demand for its products and services, its consumption of renewable and non-renewable resources is quite significant. Every year, Ayala diligently Target: Target: tracks its materials consumption and continually innovates to improve its To enable the first To achieve an ambitious materials efficiency. Philippine-manufactured, The Philippine government has been promoting the use of electric material footprint commercially viable, vehicles across the country, including as a form of public transportation. that demonstrates In 2019, our materials intensity slightly improved from 2.66 to 2.64, and market-accepted Executive Order 488 reduced the tariff rate for e-vehicle components sustainable management showing that less materials were used per unit of business output. Our electric vehicle, resulting to zero, encouraging e-vehicle manufacturers to import components. and efficient use of biggest consumption of materials is in Ayala Land’s construction activities. in reduced emissions. natural resources To support materials circularity, Ayala Land purchases materials with For AC Automotive to With the shifting global landscape towards innovative and sustainable recycled content. It also designs properties that optimize the use of promote low emission mobility-based technologies, Ayala seeks to participate in the materials without compromising structural integrity and quality. vehicles, ensuring that manufacturing space through its subsidiary, AC Industrials. each brand offers a As part of its commitment to SDG 12, Ayala is currently conducting a minimum of one model AC Industrials optimizes opportunities offered by new technologies study for a group-wide waste management strategy in line with its target not fully dependent on through investments in companies with strong industrial technology to substantially reduce waste generation through reduction, recycling, a combustion engine capabilities. and reuse. The goal is to develop practices and design processes that powertrain. Globally and systematically reduce solid waste that reaches local landfills and the on the manufacturing Integrated Micro-electronics Inc (IMI), its EMS manufacturing arm, oceans. side, for IMI to promote delivers emerging technologies for automotive, smart energy, and inclusive and sustainable connectivity solutions in 22 plants across the globe. Its manufacturing In 2019, Ayala generated 48,632 tonnes of non-hazardous waste (such as industrialization value reached US$419 million in 2019, a five percent decrease from 2018. recyclables, residuals, and food and compostables), a decrease of about by demonstrating 11 percent from the previous year, despite growth in our operations. Food manufacturing value add AC Motors, its automotive dealership arm, is exploring possibilities to bring waste accounts for 30 percent of our total generation. In 2019, by opting of USD1 billion across in more eco-efficient automotive models without compromising passenger for composting, we diverted 15 thousand kilograms of food waste from all developing countries safety and driver comfort and convenience. landfills. We are currently improving our food waste collection to divert where it has operations most, if not all into composting and other uses. Non-biodegradables AC Industrials is gradually building its capacity to enable local adoption of account for 70 percent of our total waste generation. About 35 percent or electric vehicles leveraging IMI’s strong manufacturing capabilities and AC 11,794 tonnes of that were sent to recycling. Motors’ extensive automotive network. We recognize the difficulty of reducing absolute materials consumption in our context as a developing country. However, we strive to become more efficient in the way we use them. We also do what we can to recover waste for recycling and make procurement choices that drive growth of our circular economy. More information on the Ayala group’s performance on sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources can be found on 121 122 pages 91-93. AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT RESPONSIBLE GROWTH & INNOVATION Canopy cover measurement for forest carbon calculation The Mindoro Racquet-tail (Prioniturus mindorensis*) is tagged as vulnerable by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Based on UNEP’s 2019 Emissions Gap Report, global emissions in promoting green jobs and ecopreneurship among the transition to low carbon energy. Our bank, BPI, are on track to reach 56 Gt CO2e by 2030, more than twice the local communities. It is part of Ayala’s commitment leans towards financing low carbon and resilient prescribed levels. of nurturing ecosystems and communities to create a investments. The environmental commitment and sustainable and climate-resilient Mindoro. initiatives of Ayala is bringing it closer to delivering its Ayala To respond to the growing urgency for climate action, Ayala has targets under SDG 13. refined its approach to tackle climate change across three fronts: Volunteers rising Target: mitigation, adaptation, and innovation. This group-wide strategy This project is sustained yearly through the efforts More information on the Ayala group’s carbon footprint To strengthen resilience embodies Ayala’s commitment towards addressing climate as a of Ayala citizens in the spirit of volunteerism. Project and performance regarding its various efforts on and adaptive capacity sustainability issue and promoting climate action under SDG 13. Kasibulan volunteers have clocked in around 5,000 climate change mitigation, adaptation, to climate-related It continues to monitor its GHG emissions across the group, and volunteer hours from Ayala employees whose and innovation can be found on pages 89-91. hazards to natural implements mitigating measures through its business units. involvement in the project serves as an impetus for disasters across all its more sustainable lifestyle choices. This year saw At the boardroom, Ayala is studying the financial implications of cohorts of volunteers taking part in the reforestation Ayala believes that sustainability is key to sites resulting in minimal climate-related risks as part of its risk management process. efforts of two sites: Ipo Dam in Norzagaray, Bulacan, bridging critical environmental, social, economic, casualties Ayala will structure its climate action and investments based on and North Luzon Renewables in Pagudpud, Ilocos and governance gaps that have disadvantaged results of data analysis showing how different climate scenarios Norte. many Filipinos. can affect its businesses on physical, regulatory, market, and other • Project Kasibulan at Ipo Dam in Norzagaray, levels. Bulacan In 2012, we crafted a sustainability philosophy, 46 volunteers from across the Ayala group which articulates our thinking around responsible On the ground, Ayala is building climate resilience by managing helped reforest the Ipo Dam watershed and inclusive growth and its relevance to our carbon forests, protecting watersheds in its business areas, and 1,552 volunteer hours Business. We then developed the Ayala 360o initiating reforestation activities across the Philippines. 1,000 seedlings planted over two hectares Sustainability Reporting Framework to better of land across the watershed ground this thinking into our business and clarify Its flagship program, Project Kasibulan demonstrates how how we measure our performance. business can work with communities to create a sustainable • Project Kasibulan at North Luzon Renewables and mutually beneficial forestry project. in Pagudpud, Ilocos Norte When the UN SDGs were formally launched in 61 volunteers from the Ayala Group Internal 2015, we were ready to align our transformed Project Kasibulan Auditor’s Network helped reforest a section business ambitions to these long-term goals. We The Ayala Sustainability Council embarked on an initiative within the 625 hectare forest land occupied then decided to be more strategic and focused to conserve the environment through reforestation. Project by the wind farm in our approach through our Ayala Sustainability Kasibulan, which in Filipino stands for growth and nurture, 3,406 volunteer hours Blueprint. The updates provided show where we is now on its third year and has expanded its scope and 1,210 seedlings planted are in this targets. objectives beyond reforestation efforts. Addressing climate change and its risks to our We have made notable gains in bridging the The development of the community-based Mindoro Forest and businesses will remain an important priority of the Filipino to 2030, but as shown in this year’s Biodiversity Program is Project Kasibulan’s most significant group. Ayala leverages its diversified portfolio to performance, there is much to be done. We will be achievement for 2019. The program completed its carbon forest drive significant impact in supporting our transition more deliberate in monitoring and evaluating our baseline inventory and economic and sociological assessments to a resilient and low-carbon economy. Our real progress, making changes whenever necessary, of several municipalities. Results from these studies will be estate arm, Ayala Land, champions the work on and allocating resources more appropriately, so instrumental in integrating livelihood with climate adaptation and building low-carbon and resilient communities. that our businesses truly create shared value. Our energy arm, AC Energy, actively supports 123 124 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW 125 126 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT WHO WE ARE The continued buildup of infrastructure projects will Ayala Land is the largest property developer in the also foster connectivity and spur urbanization across Philippines, with a solid track record of developing the country. AYALA LAND large-scale, integrated, mixed-use, sustainable estates that are now thriving economic centers in Looking ahead to 2020, the organization is taking their respective regions. on a more cautious stance to growth. Ayala Land’s growth plans have always been anchored on the “Our commitment to advance the country’s development Following the success of the Makati Central Business performance of the Philippine economy and its goals is best demonstrated in our investments across the District, Ayala Alabang, Cebu Park District, Bonifacio macroeconomic drivers. However, during risk various business lines. With these investments, we build Global City, and Nuvali, Ayala Land continues to events, the Board and Management adjust these sustainable communities and create products and services increase its footprint by building estates that reach strategies accordingly to adapt to market conditions that enable more Filipinos to partake in the benefits of and benefit more people. while prioritizing help to communities, service to economic growth and social progress.” customers, protection of the workforce, and the With 12,192 hectares of landbank, 29 estates, and survival of the company. These adjustments allow Bernard Vincent O. Dy, President and CEO, Ayala Land Inc. a presence in 57 growth centers across the country, the company to capitalize on growth opportunities Ayala Land offers a balanced and complementary when the environment becomes more favorable, mix of residential developments, shopping centers, protecting long-term value for shareholders in the offices, hotels and resorts, and other businesses. process. Construction and property management services are led by its subsidiaries, Makati Development BUSINESS REVIEW Corporation and Ayala Property Management ESTATE DEVELOPMENT Corporation, respectively. Ayala Land launched three new estates in 2019, enhancing its presence further in Metro Manila, It pioneers standards and practices in all its Southern Luzon, and Central Luzon. These new developments that reflect the value the company developments will build on the established and places on sustainability. As a responsible corporate emerging estates across the country, hastening local citizen, Ayala Land acts with integrity, foresight, and economic growth for more Filipinos. prudence. With the launch of the new estates, the number of Focused on its vision of “enhancing land and large-scale, integrated, mixed-use developments enriching lives for more people,” it empowers its have reached a total of 29. This is composed of five employees to deliver quality products and services established estates, and 24 emerging estates–seven and build long-term value for our shareholders. in Metro Manila, three in Central Luzon, three in Calabarzon, six in Visayas, three in Mindanao, and MARKET OUTLOOK two tourism estates. The Philippine economy and the macroeconomic environment provide the support for Ayala Land’s Launched in October 2019, ALVEO-branded business lines to grow. A steady GDP, contributions Broadfield is a 120-hectare mixed-use development from BPO revenues, overseas Filipino remittances, in South Luzon’s thriving residential, leisure, and tourism receipts drive economic activity industrial, and manufacturing center. Eighty and the development of the Philippine property hectares of Broadfield is dedicated to mixed-use and sector. The Board and Management of Ayala Land commercial spaces, while 40 hectares is allotted to also recognizes the opportunities stemming from residential communities, Venido and Aveia. a growing middle class, with 60 percent of the population seen to belong to the 15 to 65 year-old The Junction Place is an 11-hectare pocket urban working segment by 2040. Furthermore, rising per development located in Novaliches, Quezon City capita income coupled with the availability of longlaunched in October 2019. It is envisioned as a term fixed rate mortgages will continue to make sustainable area for commerce, recreation, and Ayala Land has been a strong proponent of sustainable tourism especially in El Nido, Palawan where the Eco-Sanctuary Lagen Island is nestled. residential products affordable for more Filipinos. leisure in one of the city’s busiest areas. The estate 127 128 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT shopping centers, office buildings, and hotels and The completion of phase two of the Ayala North resorts, posted ₱39.3 billion in revenues as new Exchange BPO Tower, Central Bloc Corporate Center leasing assets increase in contribution. Commercial 1 in Cebu, and the Bay Area Corporate Center in leasing generated 25 percent of real estate Paranaque added 70,000 sq. meters of GLA, bringing revenues. The leasing portfolio continued to expand the total office portfolio to 1.17 million sq. meters by with malls and offices totaling 2.1 million and 1.2 end-2019. During the year, Ayala Land also signed million sq. meters of GLA, respectively, and hotels over 157,000 sq. meters of new office transactions, and resorts with 3,705 rooms. locking in new leases for the next five years. Shopping Centers Hotels and Resorts The shopping centers segment, represented by Ayala Revenues from hotels and resorts grew 19 percent Malls, posted revenues of ₱22.0 billion, 11 percent to ₱7.6 billion on strong patronage of Seda Ayala higher than previous year, on the growth from newly Center Cebu and Seda Lio. A total of 774 hotel opened malls such as Ayala Malls Feliz, Ayala Malls and resort rooms were opened to the public with Capitol Central, and Ayala Malls Circuit Makati. the completion of new properties, led by Seda Same-mall revenue growth registered at 8 percent. Residences Makati, Ayala Land’s first Seda-branded Ayala Malls opened a record 213,000 sq. meters serviced apartment, the expansion of Seda BGC, the of GLA with the launch of Ayala Malls Manila Bay opening of Huni Lio in Palawan, and additional rooms The Alviera Country Club is designed as a modern oasis in Porac, Pampanga, featuring a sprawling landscape families (161,000 sq. meters), Ayala Malls Central Bloc in at Seda Lio and Circuit Corporate Residences. This can relax and bond in. Cebu (44,000 sq. meters), and Ayala North Exchange brings the total number of rooms to 3,705, enabling Retail (8,000 sq. meters). As of end-2019, total GLA the business to take advantage of the growing local will be anchored by an Amaia development which most of their vertical projects recognized in 2019 of the malls business was 2.12 million sq. meters. and foreign tourists and travelers. will cater to the emerging economic segement. were booked in previous periods and are now Cresendo was launched in November 2019. It will nearing completion. Offices Emerging Leasing Formats be Ayala Land’s first estate in the province of Tarlac Office leasing under Ayala Land Offices posted Co-living Space and will feature a 30-hectare downtown area to Office for Sale revenues of ₱9.7 billion, 12 percent higher than the The Flats Amorsolo and The Flats BGC offer complement the current commercial center. It will ALVEO led the growth in revenues from the sale of previous year’s ₱8.6 billion owing to newly opened affordable co-living options for people working host a 32-hectare industrial park, a school by Don office units in 2019. It rose 13 percent to ₱13.1 offices: Ayala North Exchange, Capitol Central, and in the two major business districts in the metro, Bosco Technical Institute, and an Avida community. billion from its projects such as ALVEO High Street Circuit Makati. Makati CBD and BGC, offering a total of 2,044 beds. South Corporate Plaza 2, ALVEO Park Triangle, One In their first year of operations, The Flats Amorsolo PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT Vertis Plaza and Park Triangle Corporate Plaza. and The Flats BGC posted occupancy rates of 96 The property development business generated Capitalizing on its strong brand, ALVEO launched the percent and 72 percent, respectively. ₱117.6 billion in revenues from the sale of lots and Cerca Enterprise Plaza in Alabang composed of 343 units under the five residential brands, supported by units valued at ₱8.3 billion. Co-working Space sales of office units and commercial and industrial Clock In, which offers flexible, co-working and lot sales. It also includes revenues from MCT Bhd, Commercial and Industrial Lots for Sale serviced office facilities for start-up, small, and Ayala Land’s consolidated subsidiary based in Sales of commercial lots in key estates such as mid-sized enterprises, expanded its presence Malaysia. Property development comprised 69 Altaraza, Vermosa, NUVALI, and Broadfield propelled to eight locations with 1,404 seats. It opened percent of Ayala Land’s real estate revenues in 2019. revenues by 46 percent to ₱11.3 billion. five new facilities in Quezon City, Pasig, Makati, Sales reservations grew by 3 percent to ₱145.9 The launch of the Broadfield estate by ALVEO Alabang, Muntinlupa, and Lio in Palawan. billion in 2019. ALVEO and Avida fueled the growth, in 2019 will provide the pipeline for growth in even as AyalaLand Premier made fewer launches commercial lot sales, building on current offerings SFBs and Warehouses during the period. Ayala Land launched ₱158.9 in existing estates such as Altaraza, Arca South, The standard factory buildings and warehouses for billion worth of property development projects in Vermosa and NUVALI. Broadfield has 80 hectares lease are operated and managed by Ayala Land’s 2019, surpassing its initial estimate of ₱130 billion. for commercial use. The first phase covers listed subsidiary, Ayalaland Logistics Holdings 36.6 hectares, including the first tranche of 35 Corporation. Its portfolio increased by 28 percent Residential commercial lots which was offered to the public in in 2019 to 175,000 sq. meters with the expansion Revenues from the sale of residential lots and units October 2019. of Laguna Technopark and Alviera Industrial Park, and MCT Bhd’s operations declined by 8 percent to catering to various industries. ₱93.2 billion. The decrease was due to the lower COMMERCIAL LEASING At the heart of Quezon City is Ayala’s Vertis North Corporate contribution of AyalaLand Premier and ALVEO as The commercial leasing business, which consists of Center, which houses a mix of residences, hotels, entertainment hubs, and office spaces. 129 130 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT MARKET OUTLOOK CAPITALS STRATEGY HOW WE CREATE VALUE 2019 PRIORITIES 2019 PERFORMANCE 2020 PRIORITIES THE VALUE WE CREATE FOR (BUSINESS ACTIVITIES) OUR STAKEHOLDERS The Philippine economy and the Natural Increase recurring Estate Development Deliver on target pipeline Increase recurring income Increase recurring income Environment macroeconomic environment provide the Its land bank is income contribution Ayala Land develops estates by completing GLA under contribution to achieve a contribution to achieve a Ayala Land upholds Philippine support for Ayala Land’s business lines to grow strategically located in to achieve a more that host its property construction. more balanced portfolio more balanced portfolio biodiversity and ecosystems within steadily. A steady GDP, contributions from BPO key growth centers for balanced portfolio development and commercial Malls – Opened 2 new malls Deliver on target pipeline and adjacent to its land bank. • 12,192 hectares of land bank revenues, overseas Filipino remittances, and immediate and longExpand the GLA of leasing products. Launch products attuned and 1 retail amenity and by completing GLA under • 586 hectares of carbon forests tourism receipts drive economic activity and term development. shopping centers and to market demand, and added 213,000 sqm of GLA for construction • 57 IUCN red-list species the development of the Philippine property offices and increase Property Development aspire to continually a total of 2.12 million sqm protected sector. The Board and Management of Ayala Intellectual hotel and resort rooms. It offers and builds achieve a healthy mix Launch an optimal mix Land also recognizes the opportunities Ayala Land’s unique residential, office for sale, and between horizontal and Offices – Opened 3 new of horizontal and vertical Communities stemming from a growing middle class, with master-planning process Launch an optimal commercial and industrial vertical developments while offices and added 70,000 projects for sale It provides spaces that are site 60 percent of the population seen to belong integrates product lines mix of horizontal and lots that address various maintaining margins within sqm of GLA for a total of 1.17 Launch products attuned to resilient, pedestrian-friendly, to the 15to 65-year-old working segment to create sustainable vertical projects for sale market segments represented acceptable thresholds million sqm market demand and aspire to public transport-connected, and by year 2040. Furthermore, rising per capita and vibrant communities Balance amount of through five brands: continually achieve a healthy eco-efficient, uplifting standards of income coupled with the availability of and fosters urban launches depending AyalaLand Premier, Alveo, Hotels and resorts – Opened mix between horizontal and Filipinos. long-term fixed rate mortgages will continue development. on market demand Avida, Amaia and Bellavita. 774 new rooms for a total of vertical developments while • 418 hectares of permeable green space to make residential products affordable and price products 3,705 rooms maintaining margins within • 3 estates added in 2019 for more Filipinos. The continued buildup Manufactured competitively to ensure Commercial Leasing acceptable thresholds • 29 total estates of infrastructure projects will also foster It has a wide range product margins It develops and operates Launch an optimal mix • 25 P2P routes in Ayala Land connectivity and spur urbanization across the of products that malls, offices, and hotels and of horizontal and vertical developments country. caters to all markets resorts across the Philippines projects for sale and segments of the represented by Ayala Malls, Launched 48 property Property Buyers, Residents, Looking ahead to 2020, the organization is property sector. Ayala Land Offices, branded development projects in 2019 Shoppers, Mall locators, Office taking on a more cautious stance to growth. hotel formats, Seda hotels, amounting to ₱158.9 billion Tenants, Tourists and General Ayala Land’s growth plans have always Social and El Nido, Lio, and Sicogon worth of product Public been anchored on the performance of the It ensures the quality resorts. It provides homes and venues for Philippine economy and its macroeconomic of its products and business and leisure that support the community and spur economic drivers. However, during risk events, the Board services and upholds Construction and Property growth. and Management adjust these strategies strict sustainability Management • 16,551 completed and turnedaccordingly to adapt to market conditions and corporate Ayala Land develops its over residential units while prioritizing help to communities, governance practices projects through its own • 2 malls and 1 retail amenity service to customers, protection of the for its customers and construction company, Makati opened in 2019 adding 213,000 workforce, and the survival of the company. stakeholders. Development Corporation, sqm of GLA These adjustments allow the company to and manages completed • 3 offices opened adding 70,000 capitalize on growth opportunities when the Human properties through its own sqm GLA environment becomes more favorable, in A decentralized property management • 774 hotel and resort keys added the process protecting long-term value for structure empowers its company, Ayala Property shareholders. people, and provides Management Corporation, to Employees, Construction Workers, Suppliers, Service Providers, and the flexibility to execute ensure quality throughout the Consultants its strategy in a fast and entire project life. The company contributes to local efficient manner. employment, skills development, Strategic Investments and career growth. Financial Ayala Land holds investments • 90 percent OCS score in 2019 Ayala Land has a strong in selected companies that • 6,180 total work force balance sheet to support complement its core business • 44,384 support staff its growth plans and a namely: AyalaLand Logistics • 204,755 training hours prudent fiscal policy to Holdings, Corp., Cebu maintain the strength of Holdings, Inc., Ortigas Land Investors, Analysts, Creditors its financial position. Corp., MCT Bhd., and other It provides consistent growth in shareholder returns, ensures longventures in healthcare and term value for investors, and fulfills retail. credit obligations. • ₱33.2B net income, up 13 percent • 16.7 percent ROE • 0.78 net D/E ratio • 5.2 percent average cost of debt 131 132 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT WHO WE ARE Philippine economy is difficult given the uniqueness The 168-year-old Bank of the Philippine Islands is of the event. the first bank in the Philippines and Southeast Asia, BANK OF THE and is licensed by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Household consumption recovered in 2019 as to provide universal banking services to its 8.7 inflation slowed down. Stable oil prices and million customers. The bank provides trusted advice sufficient rice supply pulled down average inflation PHILIPPINE and financial services tailored to the needs of this from 5.2 percent in 2018 to 2.5 percent in 2019. diverse client base of retail and corporate clients, Household consumption will likely continue to be the including self-employed micro-entrepreneurs, main driver of growth with support from overseas ISLANDS overseas Filipinos and their beneficiaries, small and remittances and record-low unemployment. medium enterprises, domestic conglomerates, and However, the enhanced community quarantine in multinational corporations. various parts of the economy has crippled household consumption to an extent not seen since the early “The financial and operating results of 2019 are heartening, in that A premier institution in the banking industry, BPI is 1980s. they tell us that the many initiatives that we have undertaken in the among the highest in terms of total assets, equity past few years are beginning to bear fruit. While there is much more capital, and market capitalization. It has a significant Capital formation contracted in 2019 for the first to be done, we are well positioned for the future.” share of total banking system deposits, loans, time in seven years as demand for machinery and investment assets under management. It is and equipment declined. Corporates may have Cezar P. Consing, President and CEO, Bank of the Philippine Islands recognized as one of the country’s top providers of postponed or scaled down the purchase of foreign exchange, cross-border remittances, life and durable equipment given elevated global growth non-life bancassurance services, as well as asset uncertainties and expectations of lower interest finance and leasing. BPI also has a significant capital rates in the coming months. Meanwhile, public markets presence, particularly in fixed income and construction posted a 2.4 percent contraction as a equities underwriting, distribution and brokerage. result of government underspending. The budget impasse and election spending ban in the first half of BPI serves its clients through one of the most the year prevented the government from spending extensive physical and digital distribution networks, on new infrastructure projects. Looking ahead, composed of 1,167 branches and branch-lite units, capital expenditures may fall as business will most three international offices, and 2,822 ATMs and Cash likely prioritize their liquidity to sustain themselves Accept Machines nationwide. The bank is a leader and their employees amid the measures to prevent and innovator in the use of digital channels, and is a the spread of COVID-19. major provider of financial services through internet banking (via BPI Online at www.bpi.com.ph), mobile Looking at sectoral growth in 2019, services, banking (via the BPI Mobile app for retail clients), retail trade, and financial intermediation recorded and internet and mobile banking for corporate clients all recorded strong years. Meanwhile, the (via Bizlink). industry sector slowed down amid weakness in manufacturing and construction and global trade MARKET OUTLOOK uncertainties weighed down manufacturing growth. The Philippine economy expanded 5.9 percent In 2020, the COVID-19 outbreak may hurt several in 2019, below the 6 to 7 percent target of the industries given the restrictions on movement government. Despite the strength of household and economic activity. In particular, the following consumption, delays in the implementation of industries may see a decline in economic output and infrastructure projects and the decline in investment revenues: tourism, airlines, real estate, transport, spending dragged growth below the 6 percent level. and manufacturing. For 2020, the COVID-19 outbreak has become the greatest challenge for the global and domestic Low inflation in 2019 gave the BSP the opportunity economies. It is clear that the outbreak will have to do monetary easing. Given the liquidity and a negative impact on the economy. However, growth challenges being faced by the economy, the Through a variety of attractive offerings and an accessible branch network, BPI aims to augment its business by bolstering its lending services towards retail clients. quantifying the potential impact of COVID-19 on the Monetary Board reduced the policy rate by 75 133 134 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT BPI is ready to meet the fast-evolving needs of its clients, arming its flagship branch with a modern and innovative design, BPI is committed to enhancing its overall customer service, providing relevant banking solutions and complemented by the latest technology in banking. trusted financial advice. basis points from 4.75 percent to 4.00 percent may temper the depreciation pressure from risk from higher securities trading gains and fee-based Total deposits grew 6.9 percent to ₱1.70 trillion and brought down the reserve requirement ratio aversion income, higher fees from credit cards, transaction versus the level recorded in 2018. by 400 basis points from 18 percent to 14 percent. banking, branch services, and digital channels, Benchmark interest rates declined as liquidity BUSINESS REVIEW but was slightly tempered by lower income from The bank was active in the debt capital markets with improved gradually. In 2019, BPI realized net profits of ₱28.80 billion, investment banking. Cost-to-income ratio was 53.1 a number of capital raising activities in 2019: (1) an increase of 24.8 percent or ₱5.73 billion from the percent, lower than the 55.5 percent recorded in the Green bond issuances of CHF 100 million two-year The BSP has reduced the policy rate by another 75 ₱23.08 billion recorded in 2018. The 20.1 percent prior year given the strong revenue performance. interest free ASEAN Green Bond and the US$300 bps so far and may resume its monetary easing in increase in total revenues to ₱94.33 billion drove Operating expenses totaled ₱50.08 billion, higher by million Senior Unsecured Fixed-Rate ASEAN Green 2020 given the economic damage that COVID-19 profit growth, but was partially offset by higher 14.8 percent from the previous year. Bond; (2) Over ₱3 billion of Long-Term Negotiable could bring. The enhanced community quarantine operating costs, loss provisioning, and taxes which Certificates of Time Deposit (LTNCTDs); (3) Maiden may squeeze liquidity amid the lack of spending and grew ₱6.47 billion, ₱899 million, and ₱2.68 billion, Total assets stood at ₱2.20 trillion, higher by 5.7 bond issuance amounting to ₱9.51 billion of whollythe need for savings in this time of crisis. As a result, respectively. The bank’s comprehensive income was percent year-on-year, as total funding increased 5.3 owned thrift bank and consumer lending arm, BPI the central bank may inject liquidity into the financial ₱28.77 billion, up 31.5 percent on higher net income percent to ₱1.85 trillion. Family Savings Bank. system through its monetary policy tools such as and improved marked to market valuation of fair open market operations and further reduction in the value through other comprehensive income of the Total loans as of December 31, 2019 reached ₱1.48 reserve requirement on deposits. parent, insurance companies and associates. trillion, up 8.9 percent from the previous year, on the back of growth in the consumer, corporate, SME, Meanwhile, global risk aversion due to COVID-19 Net interest income grew by 18.1 percent to ₱65.94 and microfinance loan segments of 13.4 percent, 7.9 may fuel the demand for safe haven like the billion from 2018’s ₱55.84 billion attributed to a percent, 5.8 percent, and 100.3 percent, respectively. US Dollar. Emerging market currencies like the 24-basis point expansion in net interest margin to This brought loan-to-deposit tatio at 87.0 percent. In Philippine Peso may weaken as investors shift their 3.35 percent in 2019. terms of asset quality, the Bank registered NPL ratio funds to assets that could protect them from the of 1.66 percent and an NPL reserve cover of 102.1 impact of COVID-19. However, the possible decline Non-interest income was ₱28.39 billion, an percent, an improvement of 19 and 13.8 percentage in imports and remittances due to supply disruptions increase of 25.2 percent versus 2018, primarily points, respectively. 135 136 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT HOW WE CREATE MARKET OUTLOOK CAPITALS STRATEGY VALUE 2019 PRIORITIES 2019 2020 PRIORITIES THE VALUE WE CREATE FOR (BUSINESS PERFORMANCE OUR STAKEHOLDERS ACTIVITIES) The Philippine economy expanded 5.9 percent in 2019, below the 6 to 7 percent Financial Achieve asset growth Capital Raising, Increase loans by: Achieve asset growth Achieve asset growth Employees target of the government. Despite the strength of household consumption, delays in We maintain a strong in high-margin Advisory and 20 percent or more in high-margin in high-margin We invest in our employees, the implementation of infrastructure projects and the decline in investment spending balance sheet, and businesses Financing for SME loans; businesses businesses provide them a workplace that dragged growth below the 6 percent level. For 2020, the COVID-19 outbreak has we continue to grow Continued focus on We provide financial 15-19 percent for SME Loans: ₱66.5 Post-Covid, growth in fosters learning and development, become the greatest challenge for the global and domestic economies. It is clear and optimize our SME, consumer, and advisory, working Consumer loans; billion SME, Consumer and career advancement, and that the outbreak will have a negative impact on the economy. However, quantifying deposit franchise and microfinance lending capital loans, capital 50 percent for Consumer Loans: Microfinance Loans to sustainable engagement the potential impact of COVID-19 on the Philippine economy is difficult given the loan book. expenditure loans, Microfinance loans ₱287.9 billion continue, balancing uniqueness of the event. Grow current and acquisition financing, Microfinance Loans: this with asset quality Clients and communities Manufactured and savings accounts supply chain and Grow deposits by 10 ₱4.3 billion We foster financial inclusion and Household consumption recovered in 2019 as inflation slowed down. Stable oil Intellectual Grow deposits and trade financing, percent; CASA ratio by Grow Current and wellness, scale-up enterprises, prices and sufficient rice supply pulled down average inflation from 5.2 percent We have a improve CASA ratio project finance, small 70 percent or more Grow Current and Savings Accounts and spur investments that in 2018 to 2.5 percent in 2019. Household consumption will likely continue to be reliable, secure, business loans, and Savings Accounts Deposit growth to be directly impact our clients and the the main driver of growth with support from overseas remittances and record-low and expanding Moderate branch microfinance. Build 10-15 new BPI Deposits growth rate: dictated by market communities we serve. unemployment. However, the enhanced community quarantine in various parts of network of delivery expansion branches; 6.9 percent conditions, but will • Financial Inclusion and Wellness the economy has crippled household consumption to an extent not seen since the infrastructure, in both Strategically expand Growing Assets 100 new BanKo CASA ratio: 69.1 keep abreast with We widen our reach to early 1980s. traditional and digital branch network We grow our assets branches percent industry pace underserved segments and help platforms. through our Treasury our clients grow and protect Capital formation contracted in 2019 for the first time in seven years as demand Increase digital portfolio management Moderate branch Moderate branch their assets through customized for machinery and equipment declined. Corporates may have postponed or scaled Human platform active users and participation in expansion expansion products and services. down the purchase of durable equipment given elevated global growth uncertainties We are driven by Increase active users Philippine capital New bank branches: New bank branches: • Scaling-up enterprises We and expectations of lower interest rates in the coming months. Meanwhile, energized, enabled, of online banking markets. We also grow 11 5-10, under review support enterprises through public construction posted a 2.4 percent contraction as a result of government and engaged platforms for retail our clients’ assets New BanKo branches: post-Covid; New financing and capital raising underspending. The budget impasse and election spending ban in the first half of employees with and business clients through deposits and 100 BanKo branches: across business segments the year prevented the government from spending on new infrastructure projects. diverse talents. investments in fixed 16-20 to help them scale up their Looking ahead, capital expenditures may fall as business will most likely prioritize income securities, Increase digital operations. their liquidity to sustain themselves and their employees amid the measures to Social and equity securities, platform active users Increase digital • Sustainable Development prevent the spread of COVID-19. Relationship unit investment trust Online Mobile platform active users Financing We finance projects We are the beacon funds, and mutual Banking: 1.9 million Online/Mobile that support sustainable Looking at sectoral growth in 2019, services, retail trade, and financial of stability and funds. Bizlink: 24,758 Banking: 19 percent development, such as those intermediation recorded all recorded strong years. Meanwhile, the industry sector credibility upon which corporate clients growth involving sustainable energy, slowed down amid weakness in manufacturing and construction and global trade trust is built and Insuring Life and Bizlink: 5 percent food and agriculture, sustainable uncertainties weighed down manufacturing growth. In 2020, the COVID-19 outbreak sustained among our Assets growth communities, education, and may hurt several industries given the restrictions on movement and economic clients and global We help protect the infrastructure development. activity. In particular, the following industries may see a decline in economic output banking partners. value of our clients’ and revenues: tourism, airlines, real estate, transport, and manufacturing. assets through our life Government and Regulators Natural and non-life products. We support the government via Low inflation in 2019 gave the BSP the opportunity to do monetary easing. Given the Our environmental capital raising through government liquidity and growth challenges being faced by the economy, the Monetary Board management Other Financial securities distribution, payment of reduced the policy rate by 75 basis points from 4.75 percent to 4.00 percent and systems ensure that Services taxes, facilitating remittances, and brought down the reserve requirement ratio by 400 basis points from 18 percent to we use resources We provide our complying to regulations. 14 percent. Benchmark interest rates declined as liquidity improved gradually. efficiently to minimize clients an efficient our impact on the means to make Shareholders The BSP has reduced the policy rate by another 75 bps so far and may resume environment. financial transactions We optimize our financial its monetary easing in 2020 given the economic damage that COVID-19 could through our card performance and value creation, bring. The enhanced community quarantine may squeeze liquidity amid the lack of payments, remittance ensuring delivery of superior spending and the need for savings in this time of crisis. As a result, the central bank services, and cash shareholder returns in a manner may inject liquidity into the financial system through its monetary policy tools such management that is transparent and equitable. as open market operations and further reduction in the reserve requirement on facilities. deposits. Meanwhile, global risk aversion due to COVID-19 may fuel the demand for safe haven like the US Dollar. Emerging market currencies like the Philippine Peso may weaken as investors shift their funds to assets that could protect them from the impact of COVID-19. However, the possible decline in imports and remittances due to supply disruptions may temper the depreciation pressure from risk aversion 137 138 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT WHO WE ARE bandwidth-intensive multimedia content. Beyond Globe Telecom, Inc. is a leading full-service connectivity, corporate and enterprise clients telecommunications company in the Philippines are looking to service providers, including telco GLOBE catering to the telecommunications and technology partners, to offer solutions to help businesses grow, needs of consumers and businesses across an entire generate more revenue, and safeguard vital business suite of products and services including mobile, information and corporate assets. TELECOM fixed, broadband, data connectivity, internet and managed services. It has major interests in financial On competition, the industry will potentially technology, digital marketing solutions, venture experience changing market dynamics with the capital funding for startups, and virtual healthcare. entry of the third player, which is slated to launch “In 2019, Globe delivered meaningful progress amid commercial operations by March 2021. industry and economic headwinds. We begin 2020 with Supported by over 8,000 employees and over 1.2 good momentum, as we expand our industry leadership million retailers, distributors, and business partners Lastly, on the regulatory front, the government and remain focused on providing best-in-class service nationwide, the company currently has 94.2 million continues to review existing laws and policies, for our customers. Globe will remain guided by its values, mobile subscribers, both prepaid and postpaid, and aligning them with international norms. In recent do business responsibly, and deliver first-world internet more than 2 million home broadband customers. years, this has led to lower interconnection rates, connectivity in the Philippines.” Globe keeps Filipinos connected wherever they may and new rules governing prepaid load expiry and be in the world, through its tie-up with 776 roaming mobile number portability. On MNP, the incumbents, Ernest L. Cu, President and CEO, Globe partners in 237 calling destinations worldwide. along with the new player, have since formed a joint venture and enlisted US-based Syniverse as its after Its principals are Ayala Corporation and Singapore mobile number portability (MNP) service provider. Telecom, both acknowledged industry leaders in the Full implementation of MNP is set for 2021. country and in the region. BUSINESS REVIEW In 2019, Globe became a signatory to the United For 2019, Globe’s consolidated service revenues Nations Global Compact, committing to implement reached ₱149.0 billion, 12 percent higher from universal sustainability principles. a year ago. This growth was fueled by the gains from data services across mobile, broadband and MARKET OUTLOOK corporate data. The Philippine telecommunications industry has seen a shift in recent years, with the advent For the mobile business, revenues posted ₱111.8 of data and the internet of things changing billion, up 12 percent from a year ago. As the mobile the way consumers behave and telcos do segment dominated the Philippine market, mobile business. Consumers are increasingly favoring revenues remained the largest revenue contributor, data for their communication needs, causing a accounting for 75 percent of the total service decline in traditional voice and SMS services. revenues led by Globe’s prepaid brands. Total mobile Telecommunication companies have had to subscriber base is now at 94.2 million, up 27 percent reposition themselves to remain relevant in the age from 2018. of digitization. From a product perspective, mobile data revenues For a highly penetrated mobile market such as the generated ₱71.8 billion in 2019, 41 percent higher Philippines, the prevalence of affordable data plans year-on-year, mainly driven by the surging demand and smart devices is further driving the demand for for video streaming, gaming apps and social media, data. Visiting social media and streaming video sites, further boosted by the compelling promotions for and playing games are the top activities for Filipinos data-centric plans. Mobile data now accounts for online. Other than entertainment, data also allows 64 percent of mobile revenues from 51 percent a more Filipinos to avail of transport network vehicle year ago. Mobile data traffic likewise leapt from 956 services, food delivery services, navigation services, petabytes in 2018 to 1,699 petabytes in 2019, a 78 and more using their smartphones. percent growth year-on-year. Millions of Filipinos are now able to use GCash to conveniently make their offline and online purchases The fixed line industry is also seeing an increasing For the home broadband business, revenues reached with Globe’s long list of partner merchants. demand for data. At home, smart televisions and ₱21.7 billion this period, up 17 percent from a year gaming consoles are enabling the consumption of ago, driven by a rising level of fixed wireless 139 140 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT MARKET OUTLOOK CAPITALS STRATEGY HOW WE CREATE VALUE (BUSINESS ACTIVITIES) The Philippine telecommunications industry Financial Accelerate network Build the network of choice has seen a shift in recent years, with the advent driven by continued rollout to be an admired nation by providing of data and the internet of things changing mobile data Long-term leading-edge network technology and the way consumers behave and telcos do revenue growth, commitment to mobile coverage to about 95 percent business. Consumers are increasingly favoring strong consolidated provide best-inof cities and municipalities in the data for their communication needs, causing a service revenues class internet philippines by end of 2018. decline in traditional voice and SMS services. and earnings; connectivity Telecommunication companies have had to continued Focus on the customer reposition themselves to remain relevant in the investment in Increase household to be the leader of the filipino digital age of digitization. network expansion penetration/ lifestyle by providing world-class to monetize rising habituate and technologies for entertainment, For a highly penetrated mobile market such as data traffic. monetize education, engagement and rewards the Philippines, the prevalence of affordable To be the leader designed to address customers’ data plans and smart devices is further driving Manufactured of the filipino needs. the demand for data. Visiting social media and fast-tracking telco digital lifestyle by streaming video sites, and playing games are infrastructure build providing worldDigitally transform businesses the top activities for Filipinos online. Other than and diversifying class technologies to empower the local economy in Globe’s GCash has become the leading virtual wallet in GCash offers its users multiple ways to cash-in, including via a entertainment, data also allows more Filipinos systems for entertainment, its digital transformation by helping the Philippines, offering users unparalleled accessibly and touch-in machine where physical bills may be deposited. to avail of transport network vehicle services, to enable education, business flourish through the right convenience through its variety of payment and banking services. food delivery services, navigation services, and customers’ multiple engagement and technology, infrastructure, solutions more using their smartphones. touchpoints and rewards designed to and know-how. broadband users, which grew 40 percent to superior experience. address customers almost 1.4 million in 2019. Total home broadband Globe spent a record level of capital expenditures The fixed line industry is also seeing an needs. Put people first subscriber base now stands at over 2 million, up of ₱51 billion in 2019, 18 percent higher than a year increasing demand for data. At home, smart Intellectual to create a high-performing televisions and gaming consoles are enabling engaging with Develop new ICT organization through a purpose25 percent from a year ago. The rising popularity ago. This represents 34 percent of gross service the consumption of bandwidth-intensive local and global capabilities/ driven workforce with a culture of of Home Prepaid Wi-Fi and compelling broadband revenues and 67 percent of full year EBITDA. Bulk multimedia content such as high definition partners to provide new and profitable empowerment, collaboration, and plans fueled @Home broadband’s success. The of the all-time high spend went to data-related videos and network gaming. More customers best-in-class revenue streams innovation. launch of the commercial pilot for At Home Air requirements as Globe continued to invest in the are now taking advantage of free multi-media network service, To empower the Fiber 5G services further expanded Globe’s product Philippines towards enabling Filipino families and content and paid video streaming services it enablement and local economy suite, offering new connectivity options to deliver businesses. This record spend allowed the company which are encroaching on cable TV service. content offers. in its digital Beyond connectivity, corporate and enterprise transformation by high-speed broadband access to its broadband to make significant gains and fast-track its network clients are looking to service providers, Human helping businesses customers. rollout during the year. As of December 2019, Globe including telco partners, to provide solutions to developing a flourish through the put up 139 percent more sites and 28 percent more help businesses grow, generate more revenue, people-centered right technology, Corporate data revenues reached ₱12.8 billion 3G and 4G base stations compared to its year-ago and safeguard vital business information and organization. infrastructure, as of end-December of 2019, up 9 percent from level. corporate assets. solutions and know2018. This was propelled by the higher circuit count Social and how. On competition, the industry will potentially relationship coupled with the increase in usage for both internet On the mobile money front, GCash continued to experience changing market dynamics with putting customerMaintain an agile and domestic services. Revenue levels were also promote financial inclusion and expand the mobile the entry of the third player, which is slated to centricity and workforce supported by the enterprise clients’ increasing money ecosystem, ending the year with 75,000 QR launch commercial operations by March 2021. nation-building at To create a demand for products and solutions to support their merchants, 30,000 cash-in points and 400 partner the core of business high-performing digital transformation initiatives. billers who accept GCash payments. On top of the Lastly, on the regulatory front, the government decisions. organization ecosystem expansion, GCash also introduced several continues to review existing laws and through a purposepolicies, aligning them with international driven workforce Supporting these revenue streams, Globe’s total innovations in 2019 to further drive engagement, norms. In recent years, this has led to lower with a culture of operating expenses including subsidy posted close and bring more financial services to the underserved interconnection rates, and new rules governing empowerment, to ₱73 billion for the period, or an 8 percent increase and unbanked markets. One such innovation is prepaid load expiry and mobile number collaboration and from a year ago. This led to consolidated EBITDA of GSave, a digital savings account that can be opened portability (MNP). On MNP, the incumbents, innovation ₱76 billion, up 17 percent from 2018. straight from the GCash app. Not only does GSave along with the new player, have since formed a allow first time depositors to participate in the joint venture and enlisted US-based Syniverse as its after mobile number portability (MNP) As a result of the top line growth, which fully covered formal banking segment, it also provides a very service provider (MNPSP). Full implementation the increases in operating costs, depreciation competitive offer with interest rate of up to four of MNP is set for 2021. charges and non-operating expenses, net income for percent interest per annum, with no minimum initial the period expanded 20 percent to ₱22.3 billion. deposit or maintaining balance requirement. 141 142 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 PRIORITIES 2019 PERFORMANCE 2020 PRIORITIES THE VALUE WE CREATE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS Bring internet services to more Accelerate network rollout Accelerate network rollout Shareholders Agile workforce • Deliver seamless, Filipino households through • Capex of ₱51.0 billion or • Committing to capex of We commit to a sustainable, • 8,048 Regular employees (53 frictionless, immersive and wireless home broadband and US$989 million ₱63.0 billion consistent and competitive percent male and 47 percent consistent customer digital constantly improve overall • As of end december 2019, • Bring internet services to dividend distribution. female) experience, network experience Globe put up 139 percent more filipino households • 91 percent Sustainable • Launch of 5G offer for the more sites versus 2018 through wireless home Employees engagement score in 2018 Develop new ict capabilities/ home • Added more 3g and 4g base broadband and constantly We empower our employees (net of retention score) New and profitable revenue • Continue to forge partnerships stations, putting up 28 improve overall network to champion our purpose to • 88 percent Organizational streams and create innovative contentpercent more than last year experience create a Globe of good. health index score in 2019 • Empower the local economy driven experiences for • 1,699 Petabytes in mobile • Bring seamless internet • Purpose survey indicators in its digital transformation customers data traffic vs 956 Petabytes connectivity services to Customers Role and work contribution to by helping businesses • Constantly improve how in 2018 more househods and We enable our customers with Globe purpose: 91 in 2019 vs flourish through the right we communicate to our consistently deliver the power of choice as they 87 in 2018 technology, infrastructure, customers through digital Increase household improved customer embrace a digital lifestyle Personal purpose solutions, and know-how. sales and care channels penetration/ experience and we enable micro, small, contribution to Globe purpose: • Enable small business Habituate and monetize • Launch of relevant 5g offers medium and large enterprises 88 in 2019 vs 87 in 2018 owners to offer more To empower the local economy • 2.0 million home broadband for the home and central with relevant business Employer net promoter products and services to in its digital transformation customers as of end of 2019 business districts solutions. score (nps): likeliness to stimulate the e-commerce by helping business flourish • 94.2 million mobile recommend Globe as an industry and the digital through the right technology, subscribers as of end of 2019 Increase household Business partners employer: 53.40 Vs 43.38 In economy, through EC Pay infrastructure, solutions and • Launch of the commercial penetration/ And suppliers 2018 know-how pilot for at home air fiber 5g Habituate and monetize We provide opportunities to • Employee volunteers Agile workforce services in 2019, offering new • Continue to forge our suppliers and business comprised 40 percent of total • Create a high-performing To create a high-performing connectivity options to deliver partnerships and create partners within our supply employee base organization through organization through a purposehigh-speed broadband access innovative content-driven chain. • Zero fatality rate and zero a purpose-driven driven workforce with a culture • 38.4 Transactional net experiences for customers. man-hours lost due to workworkforce with a culture of of empowerment, collaboration, promoter score (nps) score • Establish esports center as related accidents empowerment, collaboration and innovation versus 34.5 In 2018 home for e-sports thought • Transition towards building and innovation • Diverse portfolio of leadership an enterprise-wide • Pioneer the transformation of partnerships: one, nba, netflix, • Continue deployment of go simple, digital, agile (sda) the service delivery engine spotify, disneylife, fox+, viu, wifi and community wifi organization. to simple, digital, agile (sda) hooq, klook where and when it matters for faster time to market, • Transform trade / distribution efficient delivery, effective Develop new ict capabilities/ experience, beyond telcocost management and better New and profitable revenue products, collaboration streams • Transform end-to-end • Continuing organizational • Deployed go wifi and prepaid experience, to focus on customer-centricity community wifi to enhance/ enable digital life; • Enabling an agile expand the experience of • Improve customer organization through agile Globe mobile and broadband experience via hypercompetency-building and customers targeted rewards; provide ways of working • Enabled micro, small, medium personalized rewards • Empowering leadership and large enterprises with • Constantly improve how with a focus on clarity, relevant business solutions Globe communicates to its collaboration and succession • Cloud adoption and cyber customers through digital planning security solutions for sales and care channels. • Perpetuating the circle of enterprise customers • Use of multiple and happiness through purpose, • Over 1.2 million amax retailers integrated channels globe values and overall • GCash has 75,000 QR (omni-channel) that create organizational health merchants, 30,000 cash-in cohesive and personalized • Valuing people and together, points and 400 partner billers customer experience ensuring sustainability who accept GCash payments • Create delightful customer • Acquisition of a 77 percent experiences across stake in EC Pay, which allows complementing digital and Globe to modernize/digitalize traditional channels that its prepaid loading channels cohesively serve customer and advances Globe’s needs ambition to be the leader of the filipino digital lifestyle 143 144 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT WHO WE ARE power plants, and gains from the partial divestment AC Energy’s energy portfolio registered an of its thermal assets. attributable capacity of over 1.8 GW in operation AC ENERGY and under construction in the Asia-Pacific region Transitioning to Low Carbon Portfolio as of the end of 2019. It increased its attributable AC Energy intends to play a leading role in the energy output in 2019 by 25 percent to 3,500 GWh, energy transition process and has integrated its own of which 50 percent came from renewable energy decarbonization strategy into its business model. “AC Energy continues its strong growth in the sources. As the company sets to rebalance its generation Philippines and around the region. With a highly driven portfolio to grow its renewable energy assets, it organization of 700 professionals, we commit ourselves As it shifts its portfolio towards renewable energy, recognizes the need to raise significant funds for its to build a sustainable future for all as we scale up AC Energy has developed a pipeline of 1,200 MW expansion. investments in renewables. We are making excellent in various renewable projects that are expected progress towards our goal of reaching 5000MW of to reach financial close within 2020. This is in line In 2019, nearly US$1.4 billion was raised by AC renewable capacity by 2025.” with the company’s goal of achieving 5,000 MW of Energy, and through these strategic initiatives, the attribultable renewable capacity by 2025. company sought to fuel its aggressive expansion. John Eric T. Francia, President and CEO, AC Energy MARKET OUTLOOK In May, AC Energy completed the sale of 60 percent Buoyed by opportunities in the energy sector economic interest in AA Thermal, Inc., which has across Asia Pacific, AC Energy remains optimistic ownership interest in the 2 x 300 MW coal-fired in achieving its 2025 goals. The company has power plant in Mariveles, Bataan, and in the 2 x 600 committed to scale up its renewables in the region MW supercritical coal-fired power plant in Dinginin, and has identified the Philippines, Indonesia, Bataan. The transaction was valued at US$572.9 Vietnam, Australia, India and Myanmar as key target million. markets. AC Energy made its debut in the capital markets in In the Philippines, AC Energy is encouraged by the January and raised US$410 million in Green Bonds, government’s push for more renewable energy the first publicly syndicated US dollar Green Bonds generation and less on traditional energy sources. in Southeast Asia to be certified by the Climate Under the Renewable Portfolio Standards, the Bonds Initiative: US$300 million senior Green Bonds country aims to generate 35 percent of total energy with a 5-year tenor and a coupon of 4.75 percent output from renewables by 2030. To achieve per annum, and US$110 million senior 10-year this, the country will need to build over 15GW of Green Bonds with a coupon of 5.25 percent. These renewables in the next decade. AC Energy, for this successful issuances have the International Finance part, will continue to make significant investments in Corporate and the Asian Development Bank as this space. anchor investors. With electricity demand growing on the back of AC Energy then capped the year with another robust regional and improvements on attributable offering the world’s first US dollar-denominated renewable energy cost and efficiency materializing, senior perpetual fixed-for-life green notes at an AC Energy seeks to establish significant market aggregate principal amount of US$400 million presence by expanding and diversifying its with a fixed coupon of 5.65 percent per annum generation capacity. for life with no step-up and no reset, priced at par. The notes were certified under the ASEAN Green BUSINESS REVIEW Bonds Standard and successfully listed in Singapore The year 2019 saw AC Energy sustain its growth, Exchange. with net earnings reaching ₱24.6 billion. This was lifted by contribution from its solar projects Proceeds from these green bonds will support the in Vietnam, recovery of costs incurred from AC Energy’s investments to scaling up its renewables With solar and wind power plants in and out the Philippines, AC Energy is geared towards being a fully renewable energy international company by 2025. adjustments in the construction and operations of its portfolio and help elevate environmental and social practices towards global standards. 145 146 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT AC Energy is looking to double the capacity of its 75 MW Sidrap wind farm in Indonesia to 150 MW. SLTEC, a joint venture between AC Energy, Phinma Energy, and Marubeni Corp., is a 244 MW thermal plant that services the energy demands of Luzon. Sustainable Development renamed to AC Energy Philippines. As of December, and 50 MW, respectively and is expected to generate energy through large scale projects that will increase AC Energy’s commitment to sustainability goes AC Energy directly owns 66.34 percent economic 545 million kWh of renewable energy annually. leverage and return capital expeditiously to its beyond the environmental management and stake in AC Energy Philippines, which will become its shareholders. The consortium’s most imminent development of social projects. It integrates main platform in the Philippines. A second renewable energy project in Vietnam was project in Australia is the New England Solar Farm, a sustainability principles into its business strategy completed by AC Energy in partnership with AMI 519.5 MW solar farm near Uralla, New South Wales. and day-to-day operations. AC Energy focused on strengthening ACEPH’s Renewables in May. This was the 50 MW Khanh Hoa balance sheet by increasing its capital stock by and the 30 MW Dak Lak solar plants. The facilities India In September, the company rolled out its more than 50 percent to ₱7.5 billion. Further, it have been completed in time for the Vietnam In October 2019, AC Energy and UPC Renewables’ environmental and social policy and management infused power generation assets valued at more government’s feed-in tariff deadline in June 2019. UPC Solar Asia Pacific formed UPC-AC Energy system anchored in three pillars: 1) Transitioning than ₱14 billion through an asset-for-share swap, Solar, a solar energy platform for the development, to low carbon portfolio while addressing the energy doubling ACEPH’s equity value and adding 176 MW AC Energy and Singapore-based leading renewable construction and operations of solar projects in needs of the markets in which it operates, and 2) of capacity to ACEPH’s portfolio. This is subject to energy developer and operator The Blue Circle began the AsiaPacific region. The joint venture company Excellence in environmental management, and 3) regulatory approvals. the construction of the Mui Ne Wind Farm located at targets the construction of a portfolio of over 1GW Commitment to the community the Binh Thuan province in the Southeastern coast in the next few years, with an initial focus on India, AC Energy likewise strengthened its domestic of Vietnam. Construction for the 40 MW first phase South Korea and Taiwan. AC Energy is investing Expansion In High Growth Regional Markets portfolio through acquisitions and consolidation has an estimated cost of US$92 million. Project US$20 million via a development loan to finance this To capture strong growth momentum, AC Energy of economic interest in some of its thermal and completion of the first phase is expected, in time for pipeline, and expects to provide all the construction accelerated the expansion of its power generation renewables assets. Similarly, AC Energy stepped the existing wind feed-in-tariff deadline of November equity required for these projects. portfolio in the Philippines and across the Asiaup its greenfield investments with the start of 2021. AC Energy will continue to be an active Pacific through greenfield projects and M&As. construction of the 120 MW solar farm project in participant in Vietnam’s renewable energy sector. Myammar Alaminos, Laguna, and a 150 MW peaking plant In October, AC Energy formed a partnership with Philippines project in Pililla, Rizal. Both projects are being Australia Yoma Strategic Holdings to co-develop 200 MW In the Philippines, AC Energy continued to make developed by its in-house development platform, As the capital costs of renewable energy in Australia of renewable projects in Myanmar, with a joint significant strides to be the leader in renewable ACE Endeavor. continue to drop, and given Australia’s world investment of US$30 million. The 50-50 joint energy in the country, with a goal to reach 1,500 MW class solar and wind resources, the country is in a venture will explore Myanmar’s underserved of renewables by 2020. Vietnam prime position to replace its aging coal fleet with renewable energy market and develop large utility In April, AC Energy and the BIM Group switched on a combination of renewable energy and energy scale renewable projects within the country. In June 2019, AC Energy completed the acquisition their US$294 million, 330 MW Ninh Thuan solar farm storage. Myanmar has one of the lowest electrification rates of the PHINMA group’s combined 51.48 percent in Vietnam. The joint venture is comprised of three in Asia, with more than 60 percent of the population stake in PHINMA Energy, which was subsequently facilities with installed capacities of 30 MW, 250 MW, AC Energy, together with UPC Renewables, intends not having access to grid electricity. to harness Australia’s strong potential in renewable 147 148 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT HOW WE THE VALUE WE MARKET OUTLOOK CAPITALS STRATEGY CREATE VALUE 2019 2019 PERFORMANCE 2020 CREATE FOR OUR (BUSINESS ACTIVITIES) PRIORITIES PRIORITIES STAKEHOLDERS Buoyed by significant Financial Expand in Development platform Expand in Expand in high growth regional markets Expand in high Investors and opportunities in the AC Energy has over US$1 billion of invested and high growth With a strong growth momentum, AC high growth Successfully commissioned 410 MW of solar projects in Vietnam growth regional shareholders energy sector across committed equity in renewable and thermal regional Energy accelerated its growth and regional markets AC Energy’s net earnings Asia Pacific, AC Energy energy in the Philippines and around the region. markets transformation by transitioning from Started construction of the 40 MW Dai Phong wind project in markets: Commence grew to ₱24.6 billion remains optimistic The company has generated significant profits Scaling up the an investment holding company to a Vietnam, a partnership with The Blue Circle 1. Philippines, construction of in 2019, driven by the about achieving its 2025 beginning in 2015, with 2019 income reaching development full-fledged platform with development, Vietnam & new solar and growth of its international goals. The company has over ₱23 billion, generating the highest within the operations and retail capabilities. This Construction underway of two new plants the 120 MW solar plant Australia wind projects business and gains from committed to scale up contribution to Ayala Corporation’s equity in Philippines was achieved through a combination of in Alaminos, Batangas, and the 150 MW peaking plant in Rizal to 2. New in Philippines, the sell-down of its its renewable energy earnings from its various businesses. and organic growth and acquisitions. complement the renewable energy assets in the Philippines scalebale Australia, thermal assets. In 2019, expansion in the region diversifying markets Acquisition of additional stake in 82 MW North Luzon Renewables Vietnam and the company contributed and has identified the Recently, AC Energy raised more than US$1.3 internationally AC Energy continuously looks for frontier through AC Energy’s subsidiary, AC Energy Philippines (ACEPH) India 40 percent (includes Philippines, Indonesia, billion in fresh capital from two green bond in countries development platforms in scalable markets ACEPH, bringing up the group’s effective economic interest to 67 Successful divestment gains) of Ayala Vietnam, Australia, issuances and the sell-down of thermal assets that are markets across the region. To date, where percent (subject to regulatory approvals) integration of the Corp.’s equity earnings and India and Myanmar as in 2019. This capital will fund the company’s supportive we have strategic partnerships for the partners PHINMA Energy upstreamed ₱2 billion in key target markets. expansion, in pursuit of its target to reach 5GW of renewable development of renewable energy Acquisition of additional stake in 45 MW San Carlos Solar Energy have organization into dividends to Ayala Corp. of attributable renewable energy capacity by energy projects in the Philippines, Vietnam, (SACASOL) and 80 MW Negros Island Solar Power (ISLASOL), existing AC Energy In the Philippines, AC 2025. development, Indonesia, Myanmar, India and through AC Energy’s subsidiary, AC Energy Philippines (ACEPH) exposure Customers Energy is encouraged by such as Australia, among others. ACEPH, bringing up the group’s total ownership to 100 percent Leverage AC Energy’s operating the government’s push Natural Vietnam, and (subject to regulatory approvals) Reinvest both internal plants generated 3,500 for more renewable AC Energy harnesses solar, wind and thermal Australia Power generation capital to development GWh of reliable, costenergy generation and energy for power generation. In 2019, 50 AC Energy’s power plants generate Leverage both internal development capabilities and strategic enable the capabilities efficient energy to power less in dependence percent of the power it produced came from Leverage power and supply it to distribution partnerships expansion of and strategic the requirements of on traditional energy renewable energy sources. both internal utilities and end customers through the Acquisition of controlling stake in PHINMA Energy; total ownership domestic and partnerships its customers in the sources, targeting for 35 development grid. In 2019, the company’s plants now stands at 66.34 percent, inclusive of fresh equity infused after international Corporate Philippines, Indonesia, and percent of the country’s Manufactured capabilities generated 3,500 GWh of energy, of the acquisition. The company was renamed AC Energy Philippines renewable restructuring Vietnam. energy to be generated AC Energy has a portfolio of power generating and strategic which 50 percent was from renewable Inc. energy completion from renewable sources plants with >1,600MW of attributable capacity partnerships energy sources. businesses New joint venture with UPC Renewables to build 1GW of capacity in of AC Energy The environment by 2030 in line with the across different technologies. The company has Strong India, Taiwan and Korea Philippines In 2019, AC Energy Renewable Portfolio investments in three geothermal plants, three operations Retail electricity supply/ commercial (ACEPH) generated 3,500 GWh of Standards. The country biomass plants, four wind farms, four thermal and operations Signed an agreement to enter into joint venture with Singaporeattributable energy, of will need to build over plants, six solar farms, and several peaking development AC Energy’s retail and wholesale based Yoma Strategic Holdings, to jointly explore developing Active recycling which 50 percent was from 15GW of renewables in diesel engines, which supply power across team, with electricity supply business supports the around 200 MW of additional renewable energy projects within of capital renewable sources. This the next decade, and three countries in Southeast Asia. over 1,000 nation’s thrust for retail competition Myanmar, including participation in large utility scale renewable Further resulted in the avoidance AC Energy will continue MW in and open access in the power industry. projects strengthen and of 1,262,171 metric tons to make significant Social and relationship development Through its portfolio of diversified grow existing CO2 in GHG emissions. AC investments in this With an aggressive 5GW renewables target by experience in power assets and supply contracts, Awarded 2 Meralco power supply contracts: 200 MW baseload and partnerships Energy sold down a portion space. 2025, AC Energy is pursuing strategic alliances renewables AC Energy is able to provide reliable 110 MW mid-merit contracts for 10 and 5 years respectively. These AMI of its thermal assets in to drive expansion, closing deals that are and cost-efficient power to industrial have been awarded provisional ERC approval Renewables, 2019, and is committed With the electricity critical to the company’s transformation and Active customers, as well as much needed Active recycling of capital BIM to growing its renewable demand continuing growth. AC Energy has forged strong relations recycling of dispatchable reserves to support the Divestment of coal assets: Sell-down of 60 percent stake in AA Renewables, energy portfolio to 5GW by to exhibit strong with respected and experienced developers capital Luzon and Visayas grid. Thermal & divestment of GNPower Kausawagan Diamond 2025. growth on the back and institutions, a wide base of investors and Scale up Generating Asia, of a robust economy other strategic partners in the Philippines and to 5GW of Approval from the Philippine Competition Commission for the EGCO Group, Communities across the region, as Asia-Pacific region. renewable transfer of AC Energy’s indirect ownership interest in the 4 x 138 Star Energy, The AC Energy’s flagship well as improvements energy MW coal-fired GNPK power project in favor of its partner, Power Blue Circle, UPC sustainability program on renewable energy As AC Energy builds a balanced portfolio capacity by Partners. Consent of the Lenders of GNPK currently being secured Renewables and involves a Conservation cost and efficiency, AC of renewable and conventional power 2025 Yoma Strategic Estate in a community Energy will continue to generation assets, it also recognizes the Successful issuance of US$300mn senior Green Bond with a 5-year Deploy within the company’s wind expand and diversify importance of working with communities to tenor and a coupon of 4.75 percent per annum, with International approximately farms located in Pagudpud its generation capacity, create development programs that benefit its Finance Corporation as investor US$1 billion and Bangui Ilocos strengthening its energy stakeholders. of capital from Norte. It is a multi-year platform to establish Issuance of US$110mn senior 10-year Green Bonds with a coupon green bonds and program with livelihood, a formidable market of 5.25 percent, with Asian Development Bank as investor value realization environment protection presence. Successful issuance of US$400mn perpetual Green Bonds with a initiatives and other sustainability fixed-for-life coupon of 5.65 percent per annum features. The program completed the pilot phase Development and implementation of Environmental & Social Policy and is in the process of and its Environmental & Social Management System scaling up. 149 150 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT WHO WE ARE apparent during the onset of the water supply Manila Water is an operator and business builder shortage in Metro Manila. The experience has of water, wastewater, and related assets across the underscored the key risks in relation to water MANILA Philippines and in Southeast Asia. The company security, and the company has taken measures to has over two decades of experience and expertise align its operations with the new realities it now which is leveraged to provide access to water faces. These measures support Manila Water’s WATER and sanitation services in a way that considers commitment to the United Nations Sustainable key impacts on the environment and advocates Development Goals on clean water and sanitation. responsible practices at every stage of its operations. Manila water continues to improve access to clean “We are thankful for the untiring efforts of our Manila Water’s portfolio includes the Manila water and sanitation services across all its domestic employees and continued support of our stakeholders Concession which is the original concession business units as a response to the needs of the throughout the challenges last year. Their trust and business, providing water and wastewater services country. In the Philippines, 90 percent of the rural dedication are what help us weather difficult times and to over seven million people in the eastern part of population already has access to at least basic strengthen our resolve to serve our customers better.” Metro Manila. Manila Water’s vehicle for domestic drinking water services. However, this is still behind businesses outside the East Zone is Manila Water the 98 percent access in urban areas. Meanwhile, Jose Rene Gregory D. Almendras, CEO, Manila Water Philippine Ventures, with operations in key cities in terms of Sanitation, the country has yet to gain across the country. Internationally, Manila Water traction in significantly improving and expanding Asia Pacific was established to take advantage of access to sanitation facilities. At the national level, new opportunities and partnerships in the ASEAN only 52 percent of the population has access to region. Lastly, Manila Water Total Solutions serves safely managed sanitation facilities. Through the as an incubator of new business opportunities company’s wastewater and sanitation programs, across the water value chain, driven by business and the company directly contributes towards narrowing technological innovation. these gaps. MARKET OUTLOOK Manila Water remains focused on its mission to Climate change has significantly altered every aspect provide sustainable solutions to its customers. The of the water space – a reality that nations continue company continues to strengthen its key operating to address along with challenges concerning principles, even in the midst of adversity brought increasing population and density in highly urbanized about by social, environmental and institutional areas. Competition in the space has been redefined challenges. by those who have access to this limited resource; communities, in their pursuit for growth, demand In response to the water supply shortage in the more to the expense of the environment’s ability Manila Concession, the company exerted efforts to to replenish. This has created a vicious cycle of further attain network efficiencies. Manila Water’s development being impeded by the lack or absence business and technical teams learned to effectively of water supply to support development. The provide water to its customers despite lower raw challenge for governments and service providers is water supply allocation. Equally important is the striking the delicate balance between the provision provision of wastewater services. Manila Water of sufficient water supply for economic growth and is committed to continue its expansion of sewer social development, and allowing the environment coverage while maintaining existing service levels to naturally replenish water sources to ensure of its sanitation services. This enhanced focus sustainability. Such balance has highlighted the on improving service levels despite prevailing importance of proper wastewater treatment, which challenges is grounded upon the company’s thrust supports raw water supply replenishment in the towards creating exceptional customer experience. environment. Outside Metro Manila, the different subsidiaries Manila Water acknowledges the primary importance focused efforts to standardize its key operating Through its pipeline of state-of-the-art facilities in the coming years, Manila Water is committed in providing best in class water service to millions of Filipinos. of water security, which became particularly processes, with the Manila Concession as 151 152 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT benchmark. Improvements in transitioning and Manila Water Philippine Ventures integrating new businesses, such as introduction of Helping develop local economies and improving relevant operating and financial systems aligned with quality of life is at the forefront of Manila Water Manila Water’s principles, are cascaded to business Philippine Ventures’ expansion and operating units across the enterprise and will likewise continue principles. MWPV continues to strengthen the social as the company pursues other projects. responsibility of its operating subsidiaries and incorporates this philosophy in more partnerships BUSSINESS REVIEW across the country. In doing so, MWPV supports the Manila Water’s net income decreased 16 percent transformation of areas to sustainable and dynamic to ₱5.5 billion in 2019, with business performance areas. dampened by the impact of the MWSS penalty, voluntary one-time Bill Waiver Program and On a consolidated MWPV level, revenues grew additional expenses in relation to the water 45 percent to ₱4.8 billion in 2019. A significant shortage in the Manila Concession during the year. contributor to this improvement was the higher These challenges were coupled with the continued revenues of MWPV’s business-to-business arm, management of the constrained raw water supply Estate Water coming mostly from supervision fees and additional expenses for potential exposures. for design and project management services in the development of water and wastewater facilities, Manila Water’s pipelaying project in Ilugin, Pasig is close to completion will be the largest Sewage Treatment Plant in the country with a Manila Concession as well as similar fees for the provision of water capacity of more than 100 million liters of used water per day. Manila Concession’s revenues grew four percent and wastewater services. In addition, portions of and subdivision takeover, but was offset by the lower the full year recognition of the share in net income to ₱16,842 million, driven by the seven percent the increase in revenues are due to higher average consumption of several LTI locators due to lower from East Water. increase in average tariff. This was, however, offset tariff levels in operating subsidiaries Boracay Water production levels and increased water conservation by the decline in billed volume to 493.9 million and Laguna Water. Several subsidiaries also saw efforts. Meanwhile, Boracay Water recovered from MWAP’s consolidated net income ended at ₱168 cubic meters from 503.3 mcm in 2018 and the increases in billed volume during the year, namely the mandatory closing of the island in 2018, with million, 41 percent lower than the previous year. implementation of the one-time voluntary bill waiver Boracay Water and Estate Water, with the re-influx billed volume growing 23 percent to 4.8 mcm driven to ease the inconvenience of affected customers of tourists and the takeover of more property by the influx of more than two million tourists in Manila Water Total Solutions during the water shortage in March 2019. development projects, respectively. 2019. Clark Water’s billed volume slightly increased Centered on providing innovative water supply and by 2 percent to 14.5 mcm due to the higher sanitation products and services, Manila Water Coming from the water supply shortage, Manila Laguna Water’s billed volume increased four percent consumption of its commercial accounts. Lastly, Total Solutions has served as an incubator of new Water continues to improve and stabilize operations to 44.1 mcm in 2019 from 42.4 mcm in 2018 on the Estate Water posted an 18 percent increase in billed business opportunities throughout the water cycle. It to provide reliable service to its customers. back of additional new water service connections volume to reach 10.5 mcm, as it operates newly develops both end-consumer and system solutions Focusing on its water supply augmentation projects, taken over developments. in the water and used water value chain, which are production at the Cardona Plant reached 98 MLD then delivered at scale and with a commitment to as of December 2019. The recommissioning and MWPV more than doubled its net income in 2019 to protect the environment. Specifically, these include development of new deep wells continues, with ₱450 million. the provision of network and technical services a total capacity of 55 MLD as of the same period. under its corporate accounts management business, These initiatives, along with the continued proactive Manila Water Asia Pacific and the sale of packaged purified water through the network management and optimization program, Establishing Manila Water’s growing presence in the Healthy Family brand. has enabled water availability for customers to be ASEAN region, Manila Water Asia Pacific gears up to kept within regulatory levels despite lower raw rater take advantage of new acquisitions and partnerships In 2019, the sale of packaged purified water through supply allocation. The 2019 level of water losses internationally, particularly in countries which the Healthy Family brand saw a decline in bottle in the system or non-revenue water, was stable at encourage foreign investments in the water industry. sales to 5.7 million bottles from 7.9 million bottles 10.4 percent, an improvement of 1.0 percentage in 2018. This resulted in lower revenues to ₱336 point from the previous year’s 11.4 percent. This On a consolidated MWAP level, equity share in net million from ₱436 million last year. MWTS also improvement was attained even under a still income of associates decreased by 7 percent to recognized an additional impairment driven by the significantly reduced raw water supply allocation. ₱654 million, primarily due to the lower performance difference between the book value and actual or of Vietnam investments and the recognition of assessed value of inventory of assets. Net income of the Manila Concession declined 22 impairment losses in one of its Vietnam businesses, percent to ₱5.1 billion. Saigon Water. This reduction was partially offset by These developments led to MWTS posting a net loss Manila Water’s pipelaying activities ensure efficient water distribution in all its serviced areas. of ₱169 million for the year. 153 154 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT HOW WE CREATE THE VALUE WE MARKET OUTLOOK CAPITALS STRATEGY VALUE 2019 PRIORITIES 2019 PERFORMANCE 2020 PRIORITIES CREATE FOR OUR (BUSINESS STAKEHOLDERS ACTIVITIES) Climate change has significantly altered every aspect of the water space – Financial Advocate Water Utility Operations Operationalize by Advocate for Advocate for Financial a reality that nations continue to address along with challenges concerning Manila Water’s financial sustainability for water – Manila Water provides 1Q2019 the Cardona water security and water security and ₱5.5B net income increasing population and density in highly urbanized areas. Competition relies on the availability and security and water treatment, water Water Treatment Plant sustainability sustainability in the space has been redefined by those who have access to this limited management of the company’s own sustainability distribution, sewerage with an initial capacity Completed and Sustain the equitable Manufactured resource; communities, in their pursuit for growth, demand more to the funds, as well as borrowed funds. Ensure the and sanitation services of 50 mld, serving operationalized distribution of water to ₱12.6B expense of the environment’s ability to replenish. This has created a Through the combined use of capital completion of to a broad range of the municipalities of the Cardona Water all customers in spite Total capital spent vicious cycle of development being impeded by the lack or absence of inputs, such as share capital, cash water system residential, semiBinangonan and Angono Treatment Plant with a of continued lower raw on acquisitions, water supply to support development. The challenge for governments and reserves and borrowings, the Company projects and business, commercial capacity of 100 mld water supply allocation developments and service providers is striking the delicate balance between the provision of can fund infrastructure projects and interim water and industrial customers Increase utilization of capital improvements for sufficient water supply for economic growth and social development, and sustain service delivery. sources across the Philippines Used Water Treatment Reduced NRW to 10.37 Maintain NRW at a level water and wastewater allowing the environment to naturally replenish water sources to ensure Ensure and Southeast Asia. plants through percent in December necessary to operate across the Philippine sustainability. Such balance has highlighted the importance of proper Manufactured equitable expansion of Used Water 2019 from 11.42 efficiently operations and Manila wastewater treatment, which supports raw water supply replenishment in Manila Water’s property, plant and supply of Bulk Water Supply network coverage to percent the previous Water Asia Pacific. the environment. equipment includes well-managed water to – Manila Water more communities year dams and impounding reservoirs, customers delivers bulk water Support the MWSS in Human Manila Water acknowledges the primary importance of water security, deepwells, water treatment facilities, in Metropolitan Cebu Close new projects in Support the MWSS in the development and 19 female ave. training which became particularly apparent during the onset of the water supply pumping stations and reservoirs, water Support the District Water, Calasiao ASEAN and adjacent the development and completion of mediumhours shortage in Metro Manila. The experience has underscored the key risks distribution and sewer networks and MWSS in the Water District, Tagum regions where feasible. completion of mediumterm/long-term water 20 male ave. training in relation to water security, and the company has taken measures to wastewater treatment facilities. development Water Company in the term/long-term water sources hours align its operations with the new realities it now faces. These measures and Philippines, and Saigon sources Complete ongoing water 635 new hires support Manila Water’s commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Human completion of Water Corporation in Completed construction supply augmentation 289 vendors Development Goals on Clean Water and Sanitation. Exponential value is created for and on medium-term/ Vietnam. of the Ilugin Wastewater projects in preparation behalf of Manila Water and the country long-term Treatment Plant with a for the summer months Intellectual Manila water continues to improve access to clean water and sanitation through its most critical asset: People. water sources Total Solutions – Manila capacity of 100 mld 1 deal closed services across all its domestic business units as a response to the needs In addition to this, human capital Expand the Water Total Solutions Operationalize Ilugin across the Philippines of the country. In the Philippines, 90 percent of the rural population includes the Company’s suppliers, capacity and focuses on developing Increased wastewater Wastewater Treatment and Southeast Asia already has access to at least basic drinking water services. However, this contractors, consultants and service coverage of and scaling after-theservices coverage from Plant for the provision of is still behind the 98 percent access in urban areas. Meanwhile, in terms providers Wastewater meter services with 15 percent to 30 percent water and wastewater of Sanitation, the country has yet to gain traction in significantly improving services across special focus on real in the Manila Concession Further increase services. and expanding access to sanitation facilities. At the national level, only Intellectual the Enterprise estate developers and wastewater services 52 percent of the population has access to safely managed sanitation Collective expertise and process knowEnsure creating and launching Treated 64.18 mcm of coverage through Natural facilities. Through the company’s wastewater and sanitation programs, the how on water treatment, non-revenue completion of business model wastewater enterprisecompletion of ongoing 9,263 hectares of company directly contributes towards narrowing these gaps. water reduction, used water treatment, wastewater innovations. Included wide. system projects and protected watershed and environmental services. system and in its offerings is the expansion of coverage across the Philippines Manila Water remains focused on its mission to provide sustainable sanitation Healthy Family Purified of existing wastewater 64.18 mcm of solutions to its customers. The company continues to strengthen its key Natural projects Water in five-gallon, treatment plants wastewater treated. operating principles, even in the midst of adversity brought about by Manila Water’s business is conducted Efficient 500-ml and 350-ml 13,440 tons of Organic social, environmental and institutional challenges. across diverse ecosystems where it utilization bottles in selected areas pollution load (as BOD) builds and maintains infrastructure, of existing in Metro Manila. diverted from water In response to the water supply shortage in the Manila Concession, the operate equipment and handle water wastewater bodies. company exerted efforts to further attain network efficiencies. Manila service and wastewater treatment treatment Water’s business and technical teams learned to effectively provide service delivery. The ‘natural capitals’ plants Social and Relationship water to its customers despite lower raw water supply allocation. Equally in the context of the Company’s 76 percent customer important is the provision of wastewater services. Manila Water is activities include water abstracted from Satisfaction committed to continue its expansion of sewer coverage while maintaining rivers, dams and aquifers covered by 122,053 Lakbayan existing service levels of its sanitation services. This enhanced focus on water rights or allocations. Participants since 2006 improving service levels despite prevailing challenges is grounded upon 85 percent Employee the company’s thrust towards creating exceptional customer experience. Social and Relationship Engagement Score Positive stakeholder relations with Outside Metro Manila, the different subsidiaries focused efforts to external and internal stakeholders standardize its key operating processes, with the Manila Concession contribute to business stability and as benchmark. Improvements in transitioning and integrating new organizational stability for Manila businesses, such as introduction of relevant operating and financial Water. systems aligned with Manila Water’s principles, are cascaded to business units across the enterprise and will likewise continue as the company pursues other projects. 155 156 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT WHO WE ARE the global march toward increased digitization and AC Industrial Technology Holdings Inc. is Ayala’s connectivity continues to impact many industries. industrial technologies arm, managing a primarily In the electronics manufacturing services space, AC INDUSTRIALS mobility-oriented portfolio composed of both the increased demand for electronic devices has operating units and investments in emerging high resulted in not only greater need for customization potential technologies. The company is founded on and operational efficiencies among industry players, its dual core of Integrated Micro-Electronics, Inc., but also operational challenges in terms of material a Philippine electronics manufacturing services shortages and more demanding customer cycle “In 2019, our markets continued to both transform and be buffeted by pioneer and now a globally leading manufacturing times. geopolitical headwinds. This impacted both our operating units and highand technology solutions partner, and AC Motors, technology investments. While we expect this demanding environment to persist one of the country’s largest multi-brand vehicle On the domestic front, the Philippine automotive in 2020, especially with COVID-19, our belief remains steadfast in the long-term distribution and dealership groups. AC Industrials market showed some signs of recovery in 2019 with potential of our priority megatrends – new mobility, IoT, and renewable energy.” operates in twelve countries around the world with new vehicle sales increasing four percent to 416,379 its primary markets in North America, Europe and units. This was mainly driven by stable demand Arthur R. Tan, President and CEO, AC Industrials Asia. for commercial vehicles and gradual consumer acceptance of generally higher vehicle price levels, Through AC Industrials, Ayala envisions growing its which rose in 2018 due to the implementation of presence in the global industrial technologies space the first tranche of a national tax reform program. by capitalizing on opportunities opened by disruptive Looking ahead, industry prospects remain bright, technological shifts, changing industry landscapes, as evidenced by the Philippines’s continued status and evolving end-user demand. as a valued destination for many automotive manufacturers. Consistent economic growth of 5 MARKET OUTLOOK to 6 percent, increasing disposable incomes, and The year 2019 presented several macro-driven continued industry underpenetration – at just 43 challenges for AC Industrials’ global markets. vehicles per thousand household – should remain an The U.S.-China trade conflict intensified, forcing attractive recipe for OEMs. firms who do business in either country to adapt to tougher operating conditions, including rising As we look ahead to 2020, we expect most of these tariffs and tightening trade barriers. Meanwhile, macro, political, and industry forces to remain in Kia looks to secure significant market share in the highly competitive domestic automotive industry with the addition of four new models in 2019. AC Industrials partners with multiple OEM brands to ensure that it offers competitively priced and widely distributed vehicles. 157 158 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT KIA Philippines Dealer Principles Meeting place. World geopolitics will likely remain volatile BUSINESS REVIEW with the corresponding impact on our units which do AC Industrials recorded a net loss of ₱2.4 billion as business at a global level. Key technological trends headwinds in both the electronics manufacturing such as autonomy, connectivity, sharing, and smart services industry and the global auto industry AC Industrials, through its partnership with KTM, serves the fast-growing local market for motorcycles, which have roughly tripled in the energy, meanwhile, will continue to shift industry hampered earnings across its several business lines. last ten years. profitability pools over the next decade. These global transformations will eventually reach the The company’s EMS platform, Integrated Microfor future growth increased the company’s overhead consumer segment and the delay in the release of mass market level in emerging countries such as the Electronics Inc., continued to weather challenges expenditures, which partly affected gross profit a new generation component from one of its major Philippines, and otherwise leading domestic players in its main market segments, particularly the margins. Overall, these factors hindered IMI’s customers. Meanwhile, the uncertainty over Brexit, will have to be prepared to manage their impact. automotive, industrial, and aerospace. Additionally, growth in 2019, with the company posting a net loss which persisted at least through 2019, caused some investments in capacity and technical capabilities of US$7.8 million for the year. delays in the awarding of several contracts where STI is a key competitor. Revenues from IMI’s wholly owned operations tallied at US$1 billion, down 7 percent from the AC Industrials’ Philippine vehicle distribution and previous year. The company’s Asian operating retail arm, AC Motors, recorded a net loss of ₱337 units dropped a total of 11 percent, as a function million on lower sales volumes across its Honda, of the aforementioned slowdown in China’s Isuzu, Kia, and Volkswagen brands. As the industry automotive market for the year. This was offset recovers from the previous year’s sizable, policyby the performance of IMI Europe, also largely driven decline, competition continues to be highly automotive based, which grew three percent yearcompetitive, with over 50 players vying for slowly on-year as the company’s newest production facility recovering customer demand. in Serbia continued its ramp-up in its first full year of operations. In parallel, IMI’s Mexico operations, Meanwhile, AC Industrials’ startup investments, which serve the North American markets, continued Merlin Solar, MT Technologies, and C-CON, recorded their robust trajectories with a 50 percent revenue higher net losses during the period as they continue growth in 2019. to grow their revenue pipelines, invest in capacity and infrastructure, and manage underutilization IMI’s core subsidiaries, Via Optronics and STI, Ltd., of capacity resulting from the global downturn in posted combined revenues of $248 million, a decline automotive and manufacturing. of 21 percent from the previous year. VIA’s drop was mainly driven by the slump in the overall computing IMI supports the drive optimization and transformation of Honda and Isuzu, along with the AC Industrials’ other automotive holdings. 159 160 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT HOW WE MARKET OUTLOOK CAPITALS STRATEGY CREATE VALUE 2019 2019 PERFORMANCE 2020 PRIORITIES THE VALUE WE CREATE FOR (BUSINESS ACTIVITIES) PRIORITIES OUR STAKEHOLDERS The year 2019 presented several macroFinancial Legacy, Portfolio management • Support Legacy, larger-scale operations Legacy, larger-scale operations Investor and shareholders driven challenges for AC Industrials’ Our balance sheet has a larger-scale We actively manage our portfolio, expansion of IMI’s core manufacturing operations Support the growth of IMI’s core We provide shareholder returns that global markets. The U.S.-China trade capital base that can be readily operations constantly enabling selected, high IMI via internal remained relatively stable, ending at businesses. are diversified by the sectoral and conflict intensified, forcing firms who do deployed to address growth Strengthen impact synergy opportunities among and external over US$1 billion. geographic scope of its portfolio. business in either country to adapt to opportunities and rapidly and optimize our businesses. From a management initiatives Our Honda and Isuzu dealership Drive transformation and tougher operating conditions, including respond to customer needs. Ayala’s perspective, we provide a broad • 2019 IMI group consolidated • Drive groups retained their leadership optimization initiatives in Honda, rising tariffs and tightening trade barriers. at-scale range of corporate functions such revenues of $1.3 billion. optimization & positions within their respective Isuzu as well as across AC Motors. Meanwhile, the global march toward Manufactured operations in as strategic planning, governance, • 2019 AC Motors consolidated transformation networks, holding 30+ percent of increased digitization and connectivity Facilities located around electronics resource allocation, and financial revenue of ₱22 billion. of Honda and each brand’s sales in 2019. Enhance Volkswagen’s market • 2019 MT Technologies group and continues to impact many industries. In the world allow us to create manufacturing management. Isuzu, along Volkswagen Philippines opened two position with its competitive Merlin Solar revenues of $46 the electronics manufacturing services and distribute products, and with overall new dealerships in Cagayan de Oro products and dealer network. million. space, the increased demand for services and solutions to automotive Global manufacturing services automotive and Sta. Rosa, accessing new areas electronic devices has resulted in not its customers. We operate distribution & We deliver full manufacturing group of automotive demand. New growth operations Employees only greater need for customization and 32 plants around the world retail. solutions not only for our customers • Continue to Continue scale-up of STI’s Our global employee base operational efficiencies among industry with 130+ surface-mount and partners, but also for our own build revenue New growth operations operations, and drive synergies with have every opportunity to build players, but also operational challenges technology production lines New growth portfolio of companies. meaningful, long-term careers that pipelines for STI commissioned a new SMT line IMI when available. in terms of material shortages and more and 432,000 square meters operations also allow them to support their MT and Merlin in its Hook facility, further improving demanding customer cycle times. of manufacturing space. Scale up Emerging technologies development families. Solar; stabilize production and quality. Expand dealership networks and AC Industrials also directly the recently We constantly seek out, acquire, and and establish brand awareness of both Kia and On the domestic front, the Philippine holds a majority stake in the acquired commercialize key technologies that Partners internal Relaunched the Kia brand on Maxus. Our long-term strategic partners are automotive market showed some signs of KTM motorcycle production businesses enhance and protect our competitive organization January 30, and with just 11 months treated fairly, and these ventures recovery in 2019 with new vehicle sales plant in Laguna, Philippines, that boost and position. and structures of operations, grew unit sales by Ramp up KTM’s volumes via generate growing, consistent returns increasing four percent to 416,379 units. as well as management of a complement • Reestablish 124 percent year-over-year. accelerated export operations and that equitably accrue to all sides. This was mainly driven by stable demand nationwide network of over the largerVehicle distribution and retail Kia in the growth of the domestic dealership for commercial vehicles and gradual 100 automotive dealerships scale We partner with multiple OEM brands Philippines KTM Philippines produced more network. Customers consumer acceptance of generally higher covering six vehicle brands. operating to competitively source and distribute and launch the than 6,800 motorcycles and We offer products, services, vehicle price levels, which rose in 2018 units. a broad, complementary, and solutions, and ownership SAIC Maxus exported more than 70 percent High-tech investments due to the implementation of the first Intellectual integrated selection of vehicles for a experiences that exceed customer brand of them, achieving a strategic Continue assisting MT, C-CON, and tranche of a national tax reform program. We dispatch our emerging suite High-tech wide range of Philippine automotive requirements and global quality • Open new manufacturing milestone with the Merlin in expanding their revenue Looking ahead, industry prospects remain of proprietary technologies and investments customers. standards. export markets latter. pipelines. bright, as evidenced by the Philippines’s intellectual property for the Provide for KTM We remain focused on acquiring continued status as a valued destination benefit of our customers and financial and Introduced the Maxus commercial Put necessary structures in place capabilities and experience in for many automotive manufacturers. partners. strategic vehicle brand in June 2019, our first to stabilize the businesses while emerging technologies rather than Consistent economic growth of 5 to 6 support to partnership with SAIC, one of the retaining their flexibility to operate on the traditional products and percent, increasing disposable incomes, Human unlock the world’s fastest-growing automakers, with startup agility. systems we build. In 2019, and continued industry underpenetration We have a broad base of potential and with a model lineup that 44 percent of the products we build – at just 43 vehicles per thousand over 19,500 employees of our complements AC Motors’ existing Drive operational integration of were classified as emerging. household – should remain an attractive and executives that deliver investments in • 16,800 vehicles distributed and brands. MT and C-CON as ACI’s Tier 1 recipe for OEMs. operational excellence, high potential sold. automotive platform. customer satisfaction, and technologies. High-tech investments As we look ahead to 2020, we expect value-adding technical Government and policy makers Acquired through MT Technologies most of these macro, political, and expertise. We champion the development a majority stake in C-CON Group, of quality manufacturing in the industry forces to remain in place. World a Munich-based engineering markets we operate in, in support geopolitics will likely remain volatile with Social and relationship services provider with proprietary of government thrusts to promote the corresponding impact on our units We treat partners and capabilities in carbon fiber the sector as a pillar of national which do business at a global level. Key customers fairly and view them production. development. We live this out technological trends such as autonomy, as long-term relationships by prioritizing, investing and connectivity, sharing, and smart energy, that stand the test of time. Our Merlin Solar identified its key locating in our home country of the meanwhile, will continue to shift operations adhere to Ayala’s Philippines, utilizing key frameworks markets of transportation, roofing, industry profitability pools over the next standards of sustainability and and programs to generate value and portables, and began targeting decade. These global transformations good governance throughout economic and regulatory customers aggressively in those will eventually reach the mass market cycles. segments. level in emerging countries such as the Philippines, and otherwise leading domestic players will have to be prepared to manage their impact. 161 162 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT WHO WE ARE infrastructure bottlenecks as more government-led AC Infra improves movement of people, goods, infrastructure projects are opened for private sector and services in an efficient, safe, innovative, and involvement. AC sustainable manner. We develop and invest in businesses to address urgent infrastructure needs The need for efficient and reliable logistics is in the mass transportation, mobility, logistics, and expected to grow as the ecommerce market INFRASTRUCTURE financial services sectors. Our portfolio consists of expands across the country. A growing preference projects operating under a government concession for more convenient and cashless modes of financial and businesses outside the Public Private transactions will likewise require investments in Partnership (PPP) mode. systems and platforms to support the growth of the “Recent events in our country have shown just how critical transport, logistics, and financial services and technology sector. financial infrastructure are to keep services for Filipinos going—especially during times Our PPP projects in the toll road, rail, and cashless of crisis. AC Infra remains committed to keep people, goods, and services moving, even payments sectors continue to improve on The company intends to pursue new investments during the most challenging times.” established efficiencies and provide reliable service in scalable, high-growth, innovative infrastructure for hundreds of thousands of commuters and solutions that will serve the needs of the Jose Rene Gregory D. Almendras, President and CEO, AC Infrastructure motorists daily. AC Infra entered the logistics and e-commerce, financial services, and telco sectors fulfilment services space in 2018 with the launch of to balance its current portfolio composed mostly of Entrego and intends to expand its portfolio in this PPP projects. sector in the coming years. We forge partnerships and synergies within and Our ability to steward and lead projects from its outside the Ayala group to grow existing and future development, implementation, operations and businesses without compromise to the efficiency maintenance is our key advantage. As a wholly and performance standards of our operating owned subsidiary of Ayala Corporation, we build on businesses. Ayala’s reputation and track record of excellence in developing and sustainably managing large scale BUSINESS REVIEW projects. Entrego Fulfilment Solutions, Inc. Entrego is AC Infrastructure’s vehicle for its MARKET OUTLOOK investment in the fulfilment and logistics sector. With billions of pesos lost each day due to poor In 2019, it ramped up significantly posting a infrastructure, the need to invest in solutions to compounded monthly growth of 14 percent improve movement of people and goods remain a in volume throughout the year. This growth top priority. Investments in long term solutions are was underpinned by the rising demands of the urgently needed to cut the cost of doing business, e-commerce and retail sectors for B-to-B and B-to-C attract more investments, enhance productivity logistics services. During the year, Entrego gained a outside urban areas, and enable the Philippines foothold serving the major e-commerce players in to further its competitiveness globally and in the the country, leveraging on its nationwide reach. It ASEAN region. also launched an automated sorting center to drive operational efficiencies and processes. The Philippine government, for its part, has increased public infrastructure investment from As the company moves towards growing its business, an average of 3 percent of GDP during 2011–16 it has started to tap other market segments to to over 5 percent in 2018 with its Build Build Build broaden its customer base and is gradually preparing program. The National Economic Development for market entry into contract logistics, warehousing, Authority has prioritized implementation of several and domestic freight forwarding services. large projects that aim to address major gaps in mass transportation, airports, water resources, AC Infra has committed up to ₱580 million over the and energy. AC Infra continually assesses next few years to support Entrego’s planned growth Entrego’s new12,000 square meter sorting and distribution hub in Laguna Technopark is able to sort 12,000 packages an hour. available opportunities to participate in addressing and expansion. 163 164 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT AC Infrastructure is working to add eight new stations to the existing LRT line, which should effectively cut down travel between In addition to the public transport partners that beep™ serves, it has expanded to cater to tourist passes for popular attractions in Baclaran to Bacoor to just 25 minutes. Intramuros and Palawan. Light Rail Manila Corporation to-date. The project will add eight new stations-By the end of 2019, beep™ non-rail partners include NAIA Rehabilitation Since assuming operations and maintenance Redemptorist, MIA, Asiaworld, Ninoy Aquino, Dr. 15 bus operators with 370 units, and 14 modern The proposal to rehabilitate, expand, operate, functions in 2015, Light Rail Manila Corporation Santos, Las Piñas, Zapote, and Niog, to the existing PUVs and e-tricycle operators with 351 units. beep™ maintain, and transform the Ninoy Aquino has invested ₱10.7 billion for the rehabilitation, line. When fully operational, the entire 28-station is present in Cebu through Topline Marina and Cebu International Airport was approved by the NEDA restoration, and upgrade of LRT line 1, resulting to a LRT 1 line will cater to 800,000 passengers daily and Peoples Multipurpose, in Isabela province through Board last November 27, 2019. The approval paved more comfortable, safer, and reliable commute for will cut travel time between Baclaran and Bacoor First Isabela Transport Service, and in Iloilo through the way for the NAIA consortium to commence its 450,000 daily passengers. from over an hour to just 25 minutes. the Iloilo Alliance Trans. Coop. The company also negotiations with the Manila International Airport serves tourist zones through beep™-enabled tourist Authority. With 116 working light rail vehicles at present (from In anticipation of an increase in ridership, LRMC is passes used by visitors to access popular attractions an initial 77 units in 2015), LRMC was able to provide expecting the delivery of the new Generation 4 trains in Intramuros and Palawan. Government is targeting to complete the swiss the public more trips per day, expand operating by the third quarter of 2020. challenge phase and sign the concession agreement hours, and shorten headway from 5-minute average In October 2019, beep™ launched the Philippine’s with the project proponent by the second quarter of interval in 2015 to the current 3.5-minute average. Muntinlupa Cavite Expressway first public transport QR ticketing system for BGC 2020. LRMC inaugurated its expanded EDSA Station last Average annual daily traffic at the Muntinlupa-Cavite Bus and Topline Marina. All these developments October 2019, providing a wider space for ticketing, Expressway for 2019 was at 35,630 vehicles, a 10 have grown beep™ card usage from an average of queuing, and additional PWD facilities. Various percent increase from a year ago. This growth in 600,000 taps in 2018 to an average of 700,000 taps renovation, re-layout, and accessibility improvement vehicular traffic is expected to grow steadily in the for 2019. works have likewise been implemented in other coming years as more establishments and lifestyle existing stations to improve passenger safety and centers rise in the vicinity of the four-kilometer toll operational efficiency. LRMC also launched the road. ikotMNL app to cater to the evolving needs of its passengers. AF Payments, Inc. beep™ continued to grow its network of transport LRMC started its Cavite Extension project in partners and expand the application of beep™ May 2019, investing over ₱10 billion worth of solutions beyond the rail market segment. engineering, procurement, and construction works 165 166 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT MARKET OUTLOOK CAPITALS STRATEGY HOW WE CREATE VALUE 2019 PRIORITIES 2019 PERFORMANCE 2020 PRIORITIES THE VALUE WE CREATE (BUSINESS ACTIVITIES) FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS With billions of pesos lost each day due Financial Ensure high levels of efficiency We invest in businesses that • Annual average daily traffic to Muntinlupa Cavite Expressway Muntinlupa Cavite Expressway Our projects improve the to poor infrastructure, the need to invest A strong balance for operating companies under improve movement of people, reach 35,000 • Average daily traffic at 35,624 Annual average daily traffic to quality of life for many Filipinos in solutions to improve movement of sheet and government concessions goods, and services in an vehicles, a 10 percent reach 38,000. people and goods remain a top priority. strategic capex Deliver consistent level of efficient, safe, innovative, and • Replacement of system-wide increase from 2018 AADT. Movement of People Investments in long term solutions are investments service and continue to exceed sustainable manner. CCTVs Light Rail Manila Corporation Travel time is reduced for urgently needed to cut the cost of doing funded by Ayala key performance indicators for Light Rail Manila Corporation Passengers per hour per motorists and train passengers. business, attract more investments, Corporation operating toll, rail, and payment Project Development • Commence upgrade of radio • Number of functioning Light direction (Peak Offer): 20,000 An average of 35,624 motorists enhance productivity outside urban areas, companies We look for scalable and highsystem Rail Vehicles (LRVs) at the (12mo. average) use the Muntinlupa Cavite and enable the Philippines to further Manufactured growth opportunities in the end of 2019 is 116 (from an ISO 9001&14001 ReExpressway daily, saving them its competitiveness globally and in the Continued Propose strategic projects to mass transportation, toll road, • Improve passenger initial 77 in 2015). certification (every 3 years) valuable travel time to and from ASEAN region. improvement government airport, logistics, and financial experience and feedback • 446,000 average daily Cavite extension project: 50 the South Luzon Expressway. in the operating Selectively pursue government services sectors. ridership for 2019 percent completion Light Rail Manila Corporation The Philippine government, for its part, efficiencies of projects to address the country’s Together with trusted and • Expand to 1000 beep• Maintained average headway Complete installation of new gives its 448,000 daily has increased public infrastructure LRT-1, MCX, and urgent infrastructure needs competent partners, we drive enabled bus and jeepney at 3.5 minutes between signaling system for the entire passengers a safe, reliable, investment from an average of 3 beepTM the business development units by end-2019 trains fleet/legacy trains fast, and inexpensive mode percent of GDP during 2011–16 to over Expand portfolio of non-PPP process to come up with • Launched the expanded Begin arrival of Gen 4 Trains for of transport to reach many 5 percent in 2018 with its Build Build Intellectual businesses innovative and sustainable • Secure NEDA Board approval EDSA/Taft station signaling installation (Q3 2020) areas in Metro Manila. With Build program. The National Economic Extensive project Develop end to end logistics solutions. and undertake Swiss an average headway of 3.5 Development Authority has prioritized management supply chain portfolio with planned We forge partnerships and Challenge AF Payments Inc. AF Payments Inc. minutes between trains, LRT implementation of several large projects capability and market entry into contract logistics synergies within the Ayala By the end of 2019, beep™ Sign up 150 additional Jeepney 1 transports more people per that aim to address major gaps in mass track record and freight forwarding. group to grow existing and • Launch Entrego’s C2C non-rail partners include 15 operators and 10 new bus trip compared to other public transportation, airports, water resources, in preparing future business. platform bus operators with 370 units, partners. transportation modes. and energy. AC Infra continually assesses successful PPP and 14 modern PUVs and Enable QR ticketing in 4 available opportunities to participate in project proposals Implementation and Business • Expand client base for freight e-tricycle operators with 351 transport operators. Movement of Goods addressing infrastructure bottlenecks for toll road, Start-Up forwarding units. Launch the beep rewards Entrego facilitated deliveries as more government-led infrastructure rail, and airport Our team manages the platform of parcels nationwide with an projects are opened for private sector infrastructure. implementation of projects Secured NEDA approval for the aggregate 93 percent on time involvement. and executes plans in a timely NAIA rehabilitation project Government to undertake delivery performance. Human and cost-efficient manner. We Swiss Challenge process The need for efficient and reliable An innovative, use the best practices to meet Entrego Movement of Services logistics is expected to grow as the collaborative, and industry standards and ensure Expanded operations Grow AC Infra’s logistics AF Payments’ beep card ecommerce market expands across agile organization compliance with all regulatory of Entrego and posted a portfolio business processed a total of ₱3.7B the country. A growing preference for that possesses processes. compounded monthly growth worth of transactions for its 23 more convenient and cashless modes of a wide range of 14 percent in volume Expand client base for freight transportation partners with financial transactions will likewise require of skills and Efficient Operations throughout 2019. forwarding 99.9 percent accuracy. investments in systems and platforms experiences Our business units ensure to support the growth of the financial critical in plans are executed in a Open the Zalora fulfilment National Development services and technology sector. stewarding precise manner and processes center at MCX Our country can grow at a projects from are efficient to consistently faster pace when infrastructure The company intends to pursue new development to meet desired key performance moves people, goods, and investments in scalable, high-growth, operations. indicators. Our people services reliably and efficiently. innovative infrastructure solutions that constantly train and enhance Continued improvements in will serve the needs of the e-commerce, Social and their skills and technical operations and maintenance financial services, and telco sectors to Relationship capabilities, to ensure are translated into benefits in balance its current portfolio composed Wide spectrum of adherence to international the form of better quality of life mostly of PPP projects. local and foreign standards of operations and and service to citizens. partners with maintenance. We forge partnerships and synergies complementary within and outside the Ayala group to knowledge Talent and Leadership grow existing and future businesses and expertise. Development without compromise to the efficiency and Mutually Our talents have opportunities performance standards of our operating supportive to grow through challenging businesses. partnerships assignments, personalized with project learning programs, and stakeholders. rewards. Talents are developed and prepared to take on leadership roles in our business units. 167 168 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT WHO WE ARE the same vision of delivering quality, affordable, AC Health is the portfolio company of the Ayala accessible care for all Filipinos. This includes group for its healthcare investments. It aims to finding synergies with the broader Ayala group AC HEALTH address the unmet need for accessible, affordable and working in close collaboration with various and quality healthcare for all Filipinos by building, sectors of the healthcare industry, including private investing, and connecting various businesses into sector companies, government, other local health an integrated and seamless ecosystem of services authorities, and the academe. “Amidst all the healthcare challenges we have been confronted with at across the continuum of care. the start of 2020, it is clear that there is still so much more we can all do MARKET OUTLOOK to contribute to improving healthcare in the Philippines. Now, more than The company’s retail health portfolio includes Locally, the year 2019 continued to be an eventful ever, AC Health remains committed to ensuring that we provide muchGenerika Drugstore, the pioneer in the retail sale of period for the Philippine healthcare industry, as needed affordable, accessible, and quality healthcare for more Filipinos.” generic medicines, and FamilyDOC, the country’s the Implementing Rules and Regulations for newly largest chain of retail primary care clinics. In 2019, enacted healthcare bills were released. These Paolo Maximo F. Borromeo, President and CEO, AC Health AC Health added Healthway Medical, which operates include the IRR for the National Integrated Cancer a network of mall-based multispecialty clinics and Control Act and the IRR for the Universal Health corporate clinics, to its portfolio. On the pharma Care Act, both of which provide further guidance on space, AC Health invested in IE Medica, one of increasing cancer care and primary care coverage for the leading pharma importers in the country, and all Filipinos, respectively. MedEthix, its affiliated distribution company. By December 2019, however, news of the first case AC Health also continues to build and invest in health of COVID-19 in Wuhan, Hubei, China broke out, technology solutions through its own technology disrupting the healthcare industry globally. At that arm, Vigos Health Technologies. Launched in 2018, time, little had been known about this pneumoniaVigos’ portfolio of in-house solutions includes an causing virus. It was later learned to be a new strain electronic medical record system called Vigos EMR, of the Coronavirus family, where infection was which is used across all FamilyDOC clinics, and a originally via animal transmission and eventually corporate health mobile solutions platform, Vigos became transmissible by respiratory droplets among Care. Vigos Care is used by employees alongside humans. By March 2020, the outbreak of COVID-19 the corporate clinics, FamilyDOC@Work, which was cases had been declared a global pandemic with a launched within the Ayala group in 2019. Vigos also growing number of countries with local transmission, invests in high potential health technology partners including the Philippines. On March 12, 2020, such as MedGrocer, an FDA-licensed corporate President Rodrigo Duterte raised the country’s Code medicine benefits management, and AIDE, a digital Alert System to Code Red Sublevel 2 and declared home health platform. In 2019, Vigos also invested Metro Manila under community quarantine in an into Fibronostics, a global US-based healthcare effort to control the situation. technology company focused on non-invasive algorithm-based solutions for diagnostic testing. In response to the disease outbreak, the general public’s demand for more preventive medicines and Overall, AC Health’s vision of building an integrated supplies has increased. However, visits to clinics network of healthcare services has become its decreased due to compliance with social distancing competitive advantage. This includes its strong retail measures and increased concern over being exposed health footprint that enables it to provide last-mile to the virus. In addition, healthcare industry players access to consumers. It also harnesses the value of must contend with supply chain issues brought innovative products, services, and business models, about by an increase in demand and a shortage of including various health technology solutions, to medicines and supplies due to disruption in global address the needs of its patients and customers. supply chains. The outlook remains cautious and a Finally, it is also anchored on building strong general slowing in the overall growth of the industry, and strategic partnerships with those who share locally and globally, is anticipated as an impact of AC Health added Healthway Philippines in its healthcare ecosystem in December 2019, furthering its ability to accomplish its vision of broad-base and affordable healthcare to Filipinos. 169 170 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT FamilyDOC is backed by AC Health’s technology arm, Vigos, which develops digital solutions for client information and corporate health Generika continues delivering on its promise to provide greater access to quality healthcare to Filipinos, resulting to 85 percent savings management. versus branded counterparts. COVID-19 containment measures and supply and the year with a total of 804 drugstores nationwide. On hospitals, AC Health continues to look for by extending frontline care through our Generika human resource issues. Importantly, it will be critical Moreover, AC Health invested in one of the leading opportunities in general hospitals to complete the drugstores, Healthway and FamilyDOC clinics, and to ensure the safety and well-being of healthcare importers of medicines in the country, IE Medica, continuum of care from its retail health network to our online platforms. In the pharma space, AC medical ‑professionals who are at the frontline of as well as its affiliated distribution company, more specialized tertiary care. It also continues to Health’s priority is to ensure a continuous supply this pandemic. As cases are expected to increase in MedEthix. With this investment, the AC Health looks explore innovative specialty care formats, starting of medicines and personal protective equipment number and with the situation persisting through the forward to integrating its pharmaceutical portfolio with oncology. AC health announced its plans to to fulfill the needs of our medical professionals first half of 2020, AC Health is committed to ensuring and strengthening its supply chain for its growing build the first dedicated cancer specialty hospital and customers. This year, priorities for the clinic its clinics and pharmacies continue to operate network of drugstores and primary and multiin the country. The stand-alone facility, to be built network will also be on maintaining operations and provide much needed healthcare services to specialty care facilities. with an investment of approximately ₱2 billion, is for non-COVID-19 patients, and for triaging of Filipinos. envisioned to be a fully integrated, 100-bed hospital suspected cases, while also focusing on integration On clinics, AC Health has grown to be the biggest located within Metro Manila. Its goal is to provide of patient referrals and back-end operations. On BUSINESS REVIEW network of clinics in the country, offering primary comprehensive high-quality cancer care services, health technology, the focus will be on continuing to AC Health continues to establish its presence as a care, multi-specialty care, and corporate health but at more affordable prices. promote telemedicine as an alternative access point key player in the Philippine healthcare industry, with services through FamilyDOC and Healthway, which for healthcare services, and creating an integrated its continued expansion and growth in the pharma, it acquired in January 2020. In 2019, FamilyDOC On the health technology space, AC Health believes digital health platform connecting online services clinics, and health technology spaces, alongside opened 20 new clinics, including its biggest branch in investing in health technology solutions that and physical stores. Overall, AC Health continues planned investments into hospitals and specialty in Sampaloc, Manila, to end the year with 74 clinics enable synergies across its portfolio. In 2019, it to be driven by its vision of providing affordable, care. It has also differentiated itself in the industry in total all over the Greater Manila Area. It has also launched FamilyDOC@Work within the Ayala group, accessible, quality healthcare, which, amidst the with its advocacy of improving healthcare for all served nearly 500,000 unique patients since its first relaunched the AIDE app with new features, and challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, has through its ecosystem. clinic opened in late 2015. Meanwhile, Healthway invested into Fibronostics, an algorithm-based becoming increasing relevant to Filipinos. Philippines, one of the most trusted clinic brands in diagnostics company. In the pharma space, AC Health increased its equity the country, has seven mall-based multi-specialty stake in Generika at 52.5 percent. Generika ended clinics and 40 corporate clinics. In 2020, AC Health’s priority is to remain responsive to local healthcare needs in light of COVID-19 171 172 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT MARKET OUTLOOK CAPITALS STRATEGY HOW WE CREATE VALUE 2019 2019 2020 THE VALUE WE CREATE FOR (BUSINESS ACTIVITIES) PRIORITIES PERFORMANCE PRIORITIES OUR STAKEHOLDERS Locally, the year 2019 continued to be an eventful Financial Establish leadership in the pharma Asset performance • Over 900 Establish leadership in • Secure supply Business partners period for the Philippine healthcare industry, Strategic capital allocation from the space AC Health aims to continue stores by the pharma space of medicines Through AC Health’s integrated as the Implementing Rules and Regulations parent company, Ayala, to support its • Expand retail pharmacy network to growing, expanding, and end 2019 • Increased equity stake and personal and innovative network, partners (IRR) for newly enacted healthcare bills were expansion plan and 2025 vision over 1,000 stores nationwide integrating, its network of • Expand in Generika Drugstore protective can leverage shared resources developed and signed. These include the IRR for • Strengthen medicine supply chain, drugstores and clinics with Actimed and to 52.5 percent equipment to and collectively make quality the National Integrated Cancer Control Act (RA Manufactured and expand medicine portfolio Generika, FamilyDOC, and Nutrawell • Ended 2019 with a fill the needs healthcare more accessible 11215) signed August 2019, and the IRR for the Continued recalibration and expansion Healthway. house brand total of 804 Generika of medical to more patients. Partners are Universal Health Care Act (RA 11223), signed last with its network of Generika 804 Be the largest integrated clinic medicine drugstores professionals able to harness benefits from an October 2019. Both continue to provide further drugstores nationwide, and growth of network in the country It is also developing its own lines • Invested in IE Medica, and customers exchange of key data, people, and guidance on increasing cancer care and primary FamilyDOC to 74 clinics, by end 2019 • AC Health clinic network includes health technology solutions • Invest in a leading importer technology across the ecosystem. care coverage, for all Filipinos, respectively. multiple formats and patient touch through its technology arm, strong of medicines, and • Maintain Intellectual points: FamilyDOC for primary care Vigos. Vigos has developed regional MedEthix, its affiliated operations for Healthcare industry By December 2019, however, the news of Various intellectual capitals grouped in and Healthway for multi-specialty digital solutions, such as an retail distribution company non-COVID-19 AC Health promotes a multithe first case of COVID-19 in Wuhan, Hubei, three categories: and corporate clinics Electronic Medical Record pharmacy patients, and sectoral and collaborative China had broken out, eventually disrupting 1. Products and services: Certificates of and clinic information system players Be the largest integrated for triaging approach in addressing healthcare the healthcare industry globally. At that time, Product Registration for medicines, Invest in health technology solutions (Vigos EMR), and a corporate • Total of 80 clinic network in the suspected cases challenges so that the shared little had been known about this pneumoniaand medical service and training that enable synergies across AC health management clinics country vision of improving everyone’s causing virus. It was later learned to be a new protocols Health platform (Vigos Care). Vigos • Explore new • FamilyDOC opened 20 • Integrate health will be more attainable. strain of the Coronavirus family (SARS-COV-2), 2. Brands: AC Health, FamilyDOC, Invest in healthcare technology also invests in start-up clinic new clinics, to end clinic network Through its subsidiaries, AC where infection was originally via zoonotic Generika, IE Medica, MedEthix, and solutions to improve efficiency, tech companies including formats in 2019 with a total of including patient Health provides opportunities for (animal) transmission and eventually became Healthway integration, and reach MedGrocer, a medicine Metro Manila 74 clinics, including referrals, and healthcare professionals. transmissible by respiratory droplets among 3. Technology and analytics: • Build portfolio of in-house health benefits management • Launch Vigos its biggest clinic in back-end humans. By March 2020, the outbreak of ePharmacy (MedGrocer), Electronic technology solutions company, AIDE, a homeproducts at Earnshaw, Sampaloc, operations Customers and patients COVID-19 cases had been declared a global Medical Record and clinic • Invest in high potential health health platform, and Ayala Group Manila Generika Drugstore has been pandemic with a growing number of countries information system (VigosEMR), technology Fibronostics, an algorithm• Expand • Acquired 100 percent of • Continue providing greater access to with local transmission, including the Philippines. corporate health management based diagnostics company. portfolio Healthway Philippines, promoting affordable, quality generic On March 12, 2020, President Rodrigo Duterte platform (Vigos Care), home health Build the AC Health Portfolio of health one of the most trusted telemedicine as medicines, with up to 85 percent raised the country’s Code Alert System to Code platform (AIDE), and algorithmBuild a healthcare ecosystem across AC Health is also investing in technology clinic brands in the an alternative savings compared to branded Red Sublevel 2 and declared Metro Manila under based diagnostics (Fibronostics) the continuum of care hospitals and the specialty solutions country, with seven access point counterparts. community quarantine, in an effort to control the care space, starting with • Expand mall-based clinics and for healthcare situation. Human oncology. pharmacy 40 corporate clinics services IE Medica and MedEthix hold Pool of medical, non-medical, and portfolio over 400 Certificates of Product In response to the disease outbreak, the general health IT professionals, which includes Portoflio building and • Invest in Invest in health • Create an Registration, supplying their public’s demand for more preventive medicines 24 employees from AC Health, 996 businses development hospitals technology solutions integrated digital customers medicines across 18 and supplies has increased; however, visits to employees from Generika, 786 AC Health’s vision is to build and specialty that enable synergies health platform therapeutic areas. clinics decreased due to compliance with social employees from FamilyDOC, 60 and integrated healthcare care across AC Health connecting distancing measures and increased concern over employees from MedGrocer, and 50 ecosystem of services across • Launched FamilyDOC@ online services FamilyDOC has served a total of being exposed to the virus. In addition, healthcare employees from AIDE as of end 2019 the entire continuum of care Work within the Ayala and physical over 498,000+ unique patients industry players must contend with supply chain for all Filipinos. Group stores as of end-2019. It is also active issues brought about by an increase in demand Social and relationship • Relaunched AIDE app in advocating primary care and and a shortage of medicines and supplies due to Affiliation with Ayala brand, Synergies with new features • Explore preventive health and wellness. disruption in global supply chains. The outlook franchisees, business partners, and AC Health drives synergies • Invested in partnership remains cautious and a general slowing in external partners, which include the within its portfolio and Fibronostics, an with a hospital Healthway Medical has the overall growth of the industry, locally and government and regulatory agencies across the Ayala group, algorithm-based network, and consistently been voted as the globally, is anticipated as an impact of COVID-19 (i.e. the Department of Health and to improve efficiency and diagnostics company other specialty Most Trusted Brand for multicontainment measures and supply and human the Food and Drugs Administration), ensure integration. center models specialty clinics. It has over 2 resource issues. Importantly, it will be critical to healthcare professional organizations, Build the AC Health million patients in its database. ensure the safety and well-being of healthcare and the academe Priorities: Invest in key Portfolio medical professionals who are at the frontline of pillars such as – pharmacies, • Signed JV agreement Meanwhile, MedGrocer was able this pandemic. As cases are expected to increase clinics, hospitals, and with cancer hospital to serve 8,000 unique patients in number, and with the situation persisting specialty centers, all operating partner through its medicine delivery through the first half of 2020, AC Health is anchored in a strong health • Continued to explore service, and reach over 520,000 committed to ensuring its clinics and pharmacies technology platform, for a other opportunistic employees through its corporate continue to operate and provide much needed fully integrated healthcare investments in clinic management platform. AIDE healthcare services to Filipinos. network. hospitals and financing was also able to provide quality home healthcare services to 200,000 user profiles through its app. 173 174 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT WHO WE ARE University, Malayan Colleges Laguna, Malayan Following the merger between AC Education and Colleges Mindanao and Malayan High School of iPeople in May 2019, iPeople has become the Science. iPEOPLE listed holding company for Ayala’s investments in education. The merger brought together seven Mapua University is one of the country’s leading schools in diverse socio-economic and geographic engineering and technical universities and was market segments across the nation, including the founded in 1925. It has the distinction of being “With the merger of AC Education and iPeople, we have established National Capital Region, the Calabarzon region, the a world ranked QS-3 star university and is the a group of 7 schools across the nation, with 28 campuses in NCR, Bicol region, and Mindanao. school with the most CHED (Commission of Higher Calabarzon, Bicol and Mindanao. Our schools serve approximately Education) Centers of Excellence in engineering. 60,000 students and are committed to delivering quality and A partnership between the Yuchengco Group of Mapua has a population of approximately 13,400 accessible education to as many as possible.” Companies and Ayala, iPeople aims to empower students in senior high school, college, and graduate Filipino families by delivering accessible, quality school with programs covering engineering and Alfredo I. Ayala, COO, iPeople education that enables significantly improved architecture, computer and information science, employability for our high school and college business, arts and sciences, and media studies. graduates. It is iPeople’s corporate vision to innovate education and research towards leadingFounded in 2006, Malayan Colleges Laguna is edge outcomes for its students. This will be the best board exam performing private higher achieved through proprietary student value-add education institution in the Calabarzon region programs, systematic teacher training, professional and was founded in 2006. Offering senior high, management operations, and strong industry undergraduate degrees and masters programs, the partnerships. school has 6,119 students for SY 2019-2020. As a background, AC Education founded APEC Malayan Colleges Mindanao in Davao City is the (Affordable Private Education Centers) Schools in youngest member of the Mapua schools, having 2013 with one school site and 130 students. Since opened its doors in 2018. Now with 2,460 students, then, it has scaled up to become the largest chain MCM offers undergraduate programs in arts and of stand-alone affordable, private high schools, with sciences, business, computer and information 23 branches across Mega Manila and approximately science, engineering and architecture, and senior 16,000 students. APEC offers Junior High School high school. and Senior High School with an innovative and progressive approach to both learning and Malayan High School of Science is a private junior employability at an affordable price point. high school focused on preparing its students for STEM programs in college. MHSS is well-known for In 2015, AC Education acquired University of Nueva winning interscholastic science competitions in the Caceres, which provides basic and higher education country. to approximately 8,800 students at its campus in Naga City, Camarines Sur. Founded over 70 years MARKET OUTLOOK ago, UNC is the oldest university and the largest The Philippine education industry continues to be private university in the Bicol region. highly regulated and fragmented. According to the CHED, in school-year 2017-2018, there were 2,353 In 2018, AC Education acquired the National higher education institutions in operation serving Teachers College. Founded over 90 years ago, NTC almost 3 million students. Out of this number, 71 is the pioneering private institution for teacher percent is privately owned, serving almost 1.6 education in the country, with approximately 12,700 million students. students. The past year marked three key developments for After the merger of iPeople and AC Education, the sector. Firstly, tertiary education institutions Ayala’s investments in education expanded to welcomed the second batch of freshmen since 2015. Besides being known as one of the best engineering schools in the country, Mapua also has a curriculum that promotes environment and sustainable development with courses related to protection and conservation of the environment. include four new institutions namely: Mapua There were no incoming freshmen in school years 175 176 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT National Teachers College now houses a population of more than 12,000 students, with more than 30 percent taking up a graduate Mapua is hailed as the Philippines’ premiere school for engineering, generating 374 board topnotchers since 2000. degree in education. 2016-17 and 2017-2018 due to the implementation private high schools. This budget is an increase of ₱5 world-renowned universities, and 3) creation of a • Mapua University’s civil engineering program was of the K-12 Law, as graduates from Grade 10 entered billion or 28 percent versus the previous year. “straight to Master’s degree” program with a UNC recognized by UK’s Institution of Civil Engineers. Grade 11 in senior high school, rather than college. undergraduate degree leading to a Mapua master’s Mapua graduates now do not need to apply for an In the current SY 2019-2020, tertiary education BUSINESS REVIEW degree in engineering, which students can avail of academic assessment to gain a UK professional institutions have full freshmen and sophomore Ayala’s participation in the education sector has without leaving Bicol. qualification. batches, but incomplete junior and senior batches. grown from 38,500 students pre-merger, from • Malayan Colleges Laguna was given Autonomous The tertiary education institutions will be back to full 38,500 students pre-merger, to more than 59,500 In 2019, our schools achieved several key Status by CHED. It is the youngest higher education strength for a complete year beginning 2022. students as of the start of school year 2019-2020. milestones: institution to achieve such distinction at just 12 The merger has significantly broadened Ayala’s • APEC Schools continued to perform well with its years of operation. Secondly, the government allotted ₱16 billion for the education footprint, both geographically and in terms students’ employability outcomes. Within 90 days, • Malayan Colleges Mindanao implemented blended Tertiary Education Subsidy to help about 300,000 of socio-economic segments. 90 percent of graduates who looked for work learning in its senior high school division and its college students in more than 1,000 private higher received a job offer with an average monthly wage college general education programs. education institutions. According to CHED, 91 On a full year basis, iPeople’s schools grew revenues of ₱16,330. • Malayan High School of Science laid the percent was paid or obligated to 190 state and local by 19 percent to ₱3.45 billion in 2019 and net • UNC embedded micro-credential/industrygroundwork to launch its Mapua-designed coding universities or colleges. The TES enables students income by 30 percent to ₱393 million. recognized certificates in almost all its degree curriculum in the coming school year. from the lowest socio-economic segments to cover programs, giving graduates an advantage in the job all or part of the costs of going to private colleges or The merger has resulted in several synergies such market. In 2020, iPeople will continue to expand its reach universities. as 1) faculty and administrators’ training in key • NTC’s freshmen enrollment surged in SY 2018and impact, through organic growth, partnerships, areas such as blended-learning and outcomes19 with 3,777 enrollees, 51 percent higher and mergers and acquisitions. Thirdly, the government funded a budget of ₱23.93 based education, 2) partnership with one of the than SY 2018-2019 and 94 percent up versus billion for its Senior High School vouchers, which top massive open online course providers globally, SY 2015-2016, the last year before the K-12 helps students to cover part of the cost of attending which enables our students to earn certificates from implementation. 177 178 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT MARKET OUTLOOK CAPITALS STRATEGY HOW WE CREATE VALUE 2019 2020 THE VALUE WE (BUSINESS ACTIVITIES) PRIORITIES 2019 PERFORMANCE PRIORITIES CREATE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS The Philippine education industry continues to Financial Enrollment and Marketing, sales and expansion Continued Enrollment and access Enrollment and Students and parents be highly regulated and fragmented. According to Capital from Ayala, the Yuchengco Group of access Increase student population by: growth in • Over 59,300 access Because of the merger, the CHED, in school-year 2017-2018, there were Companies, and its other partners, to support Increase student • Delivering quality outcomes: board and enrollment students group-wide • Continue the company caters to 2,353 higher education institutions in operation increase in capacity, transform facilities, integrate population through college entrance examination scores, for SY 19/20, vs improvement multiple markets from serving almost 3 million students. Out of this technology, and strengthen human capital. strong academic and graduate speed of hire and starting All Institutions: approximately 38,000 in rethe low and middle number, 71 percent is privately owned, serving employment outcomes salaries, compelling careers, academic Maintain/ in SY 18/19 for AC enrollment income (of the former almost 1.6 million students. Manufactured and student assistance and leadership awards, efficacy in improve Education prior to rate and AC Education schools) Facilities, technologies and classrooms that are and engagement English and Math, industry aligned employability merger new student to the middle to upper The past year marked three key developments for aligned with the vision of providing quality and programs skills and values results (speed to • Approximately recruitment income of the Mapua/ the sector. Firstly, tertiary education institutions accessible education. • Improving student retention through employment and 24,000 scholars and • Increase Malayan schools. welcomed the second batch of freshmen since APEC: 23 sites across Mega Manila Quality education remediation programs, student starting salaries) government voucher/ enrollment 2015. There were no incoming freshmen in UNC: one campus in Naga City, Camarines Sur Improve learning financial aid (scholarships, loans NTC: determine subsidy beneficiaries in Mapua Students are given school years 2016-17 and 2017-2018 due to the NTC: One campus in Manila outcomes as measured and work-study programs) and baseline (41 percent of schools’ online the opportunity to implementation of the K-12 Law, as graduates Mapua University: One campus in Manila and another by: engagement employability students) programs access quality private from Grade 10 entered Grade 11 in senior high in Makati • Performance in • Leveraging strong brands in Mega scores + • Increase education with good school, rather than college. In the current SY Malayan Colleges Laguna: One campus in Laguna standard diagnostic, Manila, Bicol and Davao implement Quality education scholarship, linkages to potential 2019-2020, tertiary education institutions have Malayan Colleges Mindanao: One campus in Davao entrance, and • Improved sales and marketing student value • Overall board passing financing and employment. full freshmen and sophomore batches, but City licensure exams programs and tools (e.g. digital adds rate of 68 percent work-study incomplete junior and senior batches. The tertiary Malayan High School of Science: One campus in • Employability marketing) across all schools, partners Teachers and education institutions will be back to full strength Manila • External quality • APEC: significantly better vs. to improve employees for a complete year beginning 2022. assurance Content and curriculum development Continuous comparable weighed access to Continuous learning Intellectual Brand promise: aligned curriculum improvement national average of 48 education. and development are Secondly, the government allotted ₱16 billion Curriculum that is progressive, constructivist, learnerSynergy that is progressive, learner-centered, in English percent fundamental programs for the Tertiary Education Subsidy to help about centered, collaborative, outcomes-based, integrated Leverage the schools’ outcomes-based, integrated with and Math • APEC: 48 percent Quality given to teachers and 300,000 college students in more than 1,000 with technology, with strong emphasis on English complementary technology and aligned with both scores; higher passing rate in education employees through private higher education institutions. According mastery and employability; tertiary schools have strengths and major regulatory and industry requirements passing rate selective schools • Further coaching, mentoring, to CHED, 91 percent was paid or obligated to 190 curricula with focus on applied research shareholders to in selective namely PUP, FEU Tech, improve track and technical training state and local universities or colleges. The TES improve student Integrates Experiential Education for schools PLM, DLSU, UP and record in including continuing enables students from the lowest socio-economic Programs designed in-house, in collaboration with value proposition and Employment (E3) Model • UNC: Continue Ateneo surpassing professional segments to cover all or part of the costs of going industry, that accelerate student development efficiency track record • 73 percent of graduates national development, as to private colleges or universities. Career placement services of surpassing from iPeople schools overall board well as opportunities Human Forging meaningful employer national overall within mega Manila passing rates to pursue graduate Thirdly, the government funded a budget of Faculty and staff who are competent, nurturing, partnerships, including employer board passing received a job offer, • Improve studies ₱23.93 billion for its Senior High School vouchers, forward-thinking, constantly learning, engaged, and inputs into curriculum, internships and rates. within 120 days of employability which helps students to cover part of the cost of motivated immersions • NTC: Introduce graduation rate and Companies attending private high schools. This budget is an student • Malayan Colleges starting Enables various increase of ₱5 billion or 28 percent versus the Social and relationship Strengthened relationships Intensive engagement: career education value-adds Laguna (MCL) was average salary organizations to tap previous year. and reputation with students, alumni and their through career portal & social media, to improve awarded Autonomous • Lay the a rich pool of human families, partner schools, employees, neighboring job fairs, career talks and job immersion, outcomes status in by the groundwork to capital talent who are communities, private school associations, regulators, coaching on interview and college Commission on Higher achieve higher skilled, trained, and accreditors and other stakeholders, such as industry application, employment monitoring Education (CHED); accreditation with job-ready habits partners MCL is the youngest for our higher and values Talent development university to achieve education Faculty retooling aligned with this distinction institutions, Contribution to SDG 4 new curriculum and upskilling of where on education faculty to improve their academic Synergy appropriate Because of the merger, qualifications(e.g. masters and doctorate • Cross-upskilling for iPeople now has degrees) both educational and Synergy directly contributed to operational teams • Continue to providing accessible Continuing Leadership Development • Group-wide identify areas and quality secondary Program as well as differentiated, needsimplementation of for synergy and tertiary education based employee training, extensive predigital content and and innovation to almost 48,000 service training, coaching and mentoring tools across schools students (excluding • Started the UNC • Expand postgraduate and Leveraging Ayala group learning Bachelor’s to Mapua immersion primary students). and development: innovation, risk Masters program opportunities management, sustainability, disaster risk for students management 179 180 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT WHO WE ARE funds, property co-investments, and technology The world has continued to experience tremendous business ventures. In 2019, Ayala made its first digital transformation, opening up new business significant foray into Myanmar through AG Holdings, AC VENTURES opportunities to provide better products and investing US$237.5 million for a 20 percent stake in services that would be simpler and more accessible diversified conglomerate Yoma group. to a broader consumer market. Digitalization and interconnectivity have integrated man and machine, MARKET OUTLOOK “In 2019, we focused our efforts on helping develop our tech the physical and the virtual, boosting capabilities The ASEAN region holds tremendous potential in businesses. We have pushed our e-commerce and fintech ventures and efficiencies and disrupting the way industry reaping the benefits of this digital shift, with a young to optimize operations and manage costs. We also geared up for incumbents are doing things. Big data, artificial and tech-savvy population boosted by improving our next investment push with the setup of the ACTIVE fund and intelligence, machine learning, edge computing, economic fundamentals. According to a 2019 study our significant foray into the high-potential economy of Myanmar.” and Internet-of-Things are some of the technology by Google and Singapore sovereign fund Temasek, trends that could disrupt existing industries, some the ASEAN Internet economy has attained US$100 Jose Teodoro K. Limcaoco, President and CEO, AC Ventures of which Ayala has presence in already. AC Ventures billion of gross merchandise value in 2019, a more aims to lay the foundation for Ayala amid the fast than three-fold increase over only four years. pace at which disruptive changes are taking place. It Additionally, it is projected to reach US$300 billion is Ayala’s platform for peeking into new technologies by 2025 at the current run rate. This trend is driven and business models that are relevant to Ayala. by 360 million Southeast Asians who use the internet, 90 percent of whom access via their mobile AC Ventures brings together Ayala’s various strategic phones. Indonesia and Vietnam had the highest investments. It aims to be an enabler by investing growth, increasing their internet economies four-fold in adjacent businesses that are complementary since 2015. These were followed by the Philippines, to Ayala’s existing business units and a pathfinder Thailand, Malaysia, and Singapore. The main use by investing in new sectors, emerging trends, and cases driving the digital economy are e-commerce, innovative businesses. Through AC Ventures, Ayala ride-hailing, online travel, and online media, spaces intends to embrace disruptive technologies and where AC Ventures holds interest in. business models as it endeavors to grow its existing businesses and explore new business verticals. In The same study cites that the internet economy in 2019, AC Ventures together with various Ayala group the Philippines has a lot of upside potential among business units, set up a US$195 million fund called the six largest ASEAN economies. It is expected Ayala Corporation Technology Innovation Venture to grow to US$25 billion by 2025. The country Fund or ACTIVE Fund. The fund is managed by continues to have the second largest internet user Globe’s corporate incubator, Kickstart Ventures. base of 68 million users in Southeast Asia. However, challenges such as the speed and affordability of AC Ventures holds a 43.9 percent stake in Zalora internet access and the insufficient adoption of Philippines, the largest fashion and lifestyle digital payment solutions continue to persist. AC ecommerce platform in the country as well as a 7.6 Ventures’ fintech investments in Mynt and Cartera percent stake in Mynt, a fintech venture with Globe aim to address the adoption gap and push for and Ant Financial of the Alibaba Group that operates increased financial inclusion in the country. the fast-rising digital wallet GCash. In 2019, AC Ventures in partnership with BPI and the Indivara Lastly, Myanmar has moved to liberalize its Group of Indonesia invested in fintech platform economy and catch up with its ASEAN counterparts. Cartera Exchange. Myanmar’s underpenetrated market is the second fastest growing in the region, with GDP growth of Further, AC Ventures oversees Ayala’s offshore over six percent over the last three years. With its investments through AG Holdings. Over the past unique geographic location between India and to the several years, AG Holdings has served as Ayala’s west China to the north, Myanmar incentivizes the vehicle for its investments in the US and Asia as construction of multiple infrastructure projects and Zalora Pop-up Stores like the one at Greenbelt 3 in Makati has special offers that range from unique collections from partner brands, instore only discounts, as well as Click and Connect service that enables patrons to pick-up purchases made online. well as its interests in private equity and real estate Special Economic Zones. Its government’s 181 182 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT broad liberalization initiatives have also opened Zalora Philippines’ expansion initiatives, particularly several key sectors to foreign investments, with real in its product assortment with new key brands listed estate alone acquiring over US$4 billion in foreign locally and cross-listed from the regional warehouse investments since 2012 when Myanmar transitioned in Malaysia. During the year, Zalora Philippines to a democratic rule. Ayala’s investment in the through AC Infrastructure, started construction of Yoma group is a testament to its confidence in the a new state-of-the-art e-fulfillment center. The country’s economic progress. new facility is set to double Zalora Philippines’ productivity with investments in automation and BUSINESS REVIEW latest technologies. AG Holdings In Asia, AG Holdings has committed a total of Zalora Philippines also further built on its US$30.0 million in varied funds that would serve as omnichannel strategy, complementing its online windows to disruptive technologies, evolving trends, shopping platform with physical Zalora Pop-up and new markets. These include AG Holdings’ Stores and Click+Connect Kiosks in Ayala Malls. investments in Alibaba’s New Retail Strategic Zalora Pop-up Stores elevated the customer’s Opportunities Fund, which invests in traditional shopping experience with in-store features such as brick-and-mortar retail businesses in China; Arbor the virtual fitting room, customization booths, and Ventures Funds I and II, global fintech-focused weekly fitness classes with partner gyms. venture capital funds; Ikhlas Capital, which focuses on investments in sectors that are expected to Mynt benefit from ASEAN megatrends such as consumer, In 2019, Mynt continued to gain ground in financial services, transportation and logistics; embedding fintech in daily life, leveraging on ZALORA now has five pop-up stores in the Philippines. Indies Pelago, a private equity fund investing in midthe smartphone savvy and technology-enabled one of the largest technology investment holding Yoma Group to late-stage pre-IPO tech companies in Southeast lifestyle of the Filipino. Last year, Mynt’s GCash companies in Indonesia. Cartera aims to provide In November 2019, AG Holdings, through its Asia; and Maloekoe, which invests in early-stage, app surpassed competition in the Philippine a digital payment and loyalty exchange platform subsidiary VIP Infrastructure Holdings Inc., high-growth companies in Indonesia and Southeast mobile wallet space, recording a 2.5x year-onwhich integrates various payment systems, invested in Myanmar-based Yoma group through the Asia. year growth in monthly transacting users. This including e-wallets, credit cards, and banks. The acquisition of a 20 percent stake in Yoma Strategic increasing adoption was boosted by the broadening Cartera platform will have the capability to allow Holdings and another 20 percent stake in First AG Holdings also continues to hold its investments in of the GCash ecosystem, with 75,000 accepting for interoperability between different payment Myanmar Investment for US$237.5 million. various private equity and venture capital funds, the merchants and 30,000 cash-in agents by year-end, ecosystems, which would promote a more extensive largest of which is with ARCH Capital, a real estateenabling transaction growth to cash-in, buy load, adoption of digital payments in the country. Founded by Serge Pun in 1926, the Yoma group focused fund with projects in Hong Kong, Macau, transfer cash, pay monthly bills, borrow money, buy has over 30 different subsidiaries with operations China, Taiwan, Australia, Thailand, Vietnam, and the insurance, and invest in funds. Mynt also launched ACTIVE Fund primarily in Myanmar and has listed companies Philippines. In 2019, AG Holding’s investment in new use cases such as GSave, a mobile money AC Ventures committed to invest US$100 million in the Singapore and Myanmar stock exchanges. the ARCH Funds realized valuation gains of US$8.7 savings feature earning high interest rates enabled out of the US$195 million towards ACTIVE Fund, a The transaction supports Ayala’s strategy to million and received US$4.4 million in distributions. by CIMB Bank, and GCash Forest, which engaged venture capital fund to be formed by the Ayala group. pursue international expansion opportunistically, ARCH Funds I and II are in the late stage of the users to help fund tree planting efforts in the Ipo The fund is a technology-focused fund to be formed particularly in markets and sectors where it funds’ life and are currently in the process of exiting watershed in Norzagaray, Bulacan. Moving forward, in partnership with Kickstart Ventures. ACTIVE Fund can bring its strengths and expertise. Myanmar its remaining investments in Macau and China, while Mynt aims to solidify its position as the e-wallet will invest globally in the areas of data and analytics, is an underpenetrated frontier market with a ARCH Funds III and IV are in the value creation provider of choice, with a strong, secure system, a machine learning, artificial intelligence, cloud promising economic growth story, supported by stage for capital deployed. wider partner network, and use cases that resolve computing, fintech, automation, real estate, retail, its government’s broad liberalization initiatives. pain points or expedite the flow of finance in the life transport, energy, water, and health and wellness. As a diversified conglomerate in Myanmar with Zalora Philippines of the Filipino. Through the ACTIVE Fund, the Ayala group hopes to overlapping interests in real estate, power, financial In 2019, Zalora Philippines continued its growth build on an ecosystem that can provide visibility into services, automotive, and healthcare, the Yoma momentum as net merchandise value (NMV) grew Cartera these emerging trends and gear up its businesses for group will serve as Ayala’s platform for strategic over 55 percent year-on-year. Zalora registered its In July 2019, AC Ventures invested in a 25.5 the future. investments in Myanmar. highest NMV level to date on its 11.11 sale event in percent stake in Cartera, another fintech venture November 2019. This achievement is anchored on in partnership with BPI and the Indivara Group, 183 184 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT MARKET OUTLOOK CAPITALS STRATEGY HOW WE CREATE VALUE 2019 2019 2020 THE VALUE WE CREATE FOR (BUSINESS ACTIVITIES) PRIORITIES PERFORMANCE PRIORITIES OUR STAKEHOLDERS The ASEAN region holds tremendous potential in Financial Capital Enable new opportunities for the Ayala Develop synergies within the Continue to look Jumpstarted the Launch and Develop synergies within the reaping the benefits of this digital shift, with a young Capital / investments Group Ayala Group out for disruptive process to setup deploy first Ayala Group and tech-savvy population boosted by improving Invest in adjacent businesses complementary trends, explore the ACTIVE Fund; investments from economic fundamentals. According to a 2019 study Manufactured to the Ayala group Grow Ayala’s portfolio of new investment Gained exposure the ACTIVE Fund; Grow Ayala’s portfolio of by Google and Singapore sovereign fund Temasek, Logistics infrastructure businesses and enter into new opportunities in Myanmar’s Engage with businesses and enter into new the ASEAN Internet economy has attained US$100 Real estate development Gear up tech businesses for scale and ventures, technologies and globally, and forge emerging Yoma group to ventures, technologies and billion of gross merchandise value in 2019, a more Payments systems profitability sectors new strategic economy thru the realize synergies sectors than three-fold increase over only four years. Industrial facilities Support tech investees (e.g., Zalora, Mynt, relationships Yoma investment and identify Additionally, it is projected to reach US$300 Cartera) to attain sustainable, profitable Explore innovative trends and co-investment Explore innovative trends and billion by 2025 at the current run rate. This trend Intellectual growth business models that could Strengthen Attained positive opportunities business models that could is driven by 360 million Southeast Asians who use Proprietary software systems transform the Ayala Group’s existing margin after direct transform the Ayala Group’s the internet, 90 percent of whom access via their Brand Strengthen AG Holdings’ offshore various businesses relationships cost for Zalora; Launch the various businesses mobile phones. Indonesia and Vietnam had the Innovative mindset investments with partners and significantly grew Cartera platform; highest growth, increasing their internet economies Tech-grounded business Manage offshore investments to maximize continue looking active user base attain budget four-fold since 2015. These were followed by the models gains for Ayala for pockets of for Mynt; Entered and operational Philippines, Thailand, Malaysia, and Singapore. opportunities into the Cartera ambitions for The main use cases driving the digital economy are Human within the real joint venture with Zalora, Mynt e-commerce, ride-hailing, online travel, and online Zalora: 303 employees estate sector BPI and Indivara media, spaces where AC Ventures holds interest in. Mynt: 774 employees Strengthen Existing existing The same study cites that the internet economy in Social and relationship investments relationships the Philippines has a lot of upside potential among Affiliation with Ayala brand generated value with partners the six largest ASEAN economies. It is expected Loyal active customer base and returns and remain open to grow to US$25 billion by 2025. The country Partnership with retailers, for pockets of continues to have the second largest internet user agents, and suppliers opportunity within base of 68 million users in Southeast Asia. However, Investor and other the real estate challenges such as the speed and affordability of professional networks sector internet access and the insufficient adoption of digital payment solutions continue to persist. AC Ventures’ fintech investments in Mynt and Cartera aim to address the adoption gap and push for increased financial inclusion in the country. Lastly, Myanmar has moved to liberalize its economy and catch up with its ASEAN counterparts. Myanmar’s underpenetrated market is the second fastest growing in the region, with GDP growth of over six percent over the last three years. With its unique geographic location between India and to the west China to the north, Myanmar incentivizes the construction of multiple infrastructure projects and Special Economic Zones. Its government’s broad liberalization initiatives have also opened several key sectors to foreign investments, with real estate alone acquiring over US$4 billion in foreign investment since 2012 when Myanmar transitioned to a democratic rule. Ayala’s investment in the Yoma group is a testament to its confidence in the country’s economic progress. 185 186 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT WHO WE ARE Ayala Foundation continues to drive social value in Ayala Foundation is the social development arm its operations as it secured in 2019 a Social Value of the Ayala group. Operating under the principles Certificate from Social Value International, a global AYALA of community development, Ayala Foundation network that focuses on social impact and social implements programs guided by inclusion through value. This means that the foundation is committed its social development initiatives and by inspiration to implementing “systems and processes that are FOUNDATION through its work in the field of arts and culture. consistent with the Social Value Principles.” This makes Ayala Foundation the first organization in Its headquarters are located in Makati City, with the Philippines and the rest of Asia to secure the regional offices in Cebu City and Cagayan de Oro certificate. “In 2019, “1-Pinoy, 1-Pinas” was our battlecry as we advocated greater City. In 2019, its programs and special projects were unity in loving and serving our country. Ayala Foundation was on the brought to all 17 geographic regions in the country, MARKET OUTLOOK front line of volunteering activities, while also bringing programs into the with program beneficiaries present in other parts of Founded as Filipinas Foundation in 1961, Ayala mainstream, for the good of our conglomerate, communities, and country.” the country and the world. Foundation was among the first corporate foundations in the country. Today, corporate Ruel T. Maranan, President, Ayala Foundation Founded in 1961, Ayala Foundation acts as a foundations are numerous, and work hand-in-hand catalyst for inclusion in bridging business needs and with businesses to undertake community outreach community aspirations. By serving as an advocate for and other corporate social responsibility activities. community development, it helps improve lives by creating and providing opportunities for growth and The civil society sector in the Philippines has progress. frequently been cited as one of the most welldeveloped and institutionalized in the world. CSOs The foundation measures its impact and tracks are cited for their role in championing improvements the outcomes of its initiatives by using the Social in the delivery of social services, as well as Return on Investment framework. Through the SROI advocating greater social and economic participation framework, Ayala Foundation measures nonor among the poor and underserved. extra-financial value, covering such items as social or environmental impact, among others. While Based on reports, there is a combined total of using the SROI methodology primarily assigns a 208,963 CSOs registered with various agencies such financial proxy to each type of impact, it also allows as the Securities and Exchange Commission and the for the inclusion of non-monetized, qualitative, and Cooperative Development Authority, among others. narrative information. While the not-for-profit sector in the Philippines Ayala Foundation adheres to the highest standards remains one of the most robust in Asia, the sector of transparency and accountability. It is certified has also been facing challenges. A 2018 study by the Philippine Council for NGO Certification, a conducted by the Caucus of Development NGO self-regulating body which certifies not-for-profit Networks noted that while the general sustainability organizations that meet established minimum of CSOs in the country is virtually unchanged, a criteria for financial management and accountability decline has been noted on the following factors— in serving underprivileged Filipinos. Ayala legal environment, advocacy, and public image. Foundation is also accredited by the Department Philippine CSOs remained stable in terms of of Social Welfare and Development and has organizational capacity, financial viability, service secured from the Bureau of Internal Revenue provision, and sectoral infrastructure. a certificate of tax exemption for grants and donations. The foundation is an active member of BUSINESS REVIEW civil society organizations such as the Association of “1-Pinoy, 1-Pinas” served as a battlecry for Ayala Foundations, the League of Corporate Foundations, Foundation in 2019, expressing its commitment to and the Asian Venture Philanthropy Network. make an impact in the lives of Filipinos. The Center of Excellence in Public Elementary Education provides holistic education for children from economically disadvantaged families by honing their skills inside and outside the classroom. 187 188 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT As part of its holistic development approach, performing arts is one of the extracurricular areas outside the classroom that Digital technology is an important part of Ayala Foundation’s education programs. Initiatives like ProFuturo and <code/it> prepare public CENTEX encourages amongst its pupils. school students for a bright, competitive future. Ayala Foundation became the first organization cooperative. Aside from running an ornamental farm, While the Ayala Museum and the Filipinas Heritage million. The endowment fund reached a value of in the Asia Pacific region to secure a Social Value the farmers now also grow organic vegetables. Each Library closed their doors for a major renovation, ₱2.1 billion at year end. Part of this was used for the International, which advocates a multi-faceted farmer earns an average monthly income of ₱7,700, Ayala Foundation increased its efforts to magnify renovation of the Ayala Museum. accounting of social value beyond the financial a slight increase from 2018’s ₱7,148 per farmer. uniquely Filipino art and culture. Through Ayala bottom line. Museum On-the-Go, it highlighted some of the most The Information and Communications Division Internationally acclaimed ballet star Stella Abrera compelling aspects of Filipino identity and history of Ayala Foundation also launched its first digital The two-year certification was a result of its work came back to the country to do a second run for through traveling exhibitions, offsite lectures, and program, <code/it>. For its pilot run, the program in social return on investment. As an impact her fund-raising performance for the benefit of online platforms. Collectively, the different traveling trained 169 teachers in basic coding, enabling assessment framework, SROI measures and CENTEX. Held on November 7 and 8, “Stella Abrera exhibits reached nearly 400,000 guests, higher them to teach public school students digital literacy accounts for social values created by projects and & Rising Stars of American Ballet Theatre featuring than the 100,000 plus annual visitorship before the skills. The foundation also signed a memorandum of activities. Social value is used to describe the social, James Whiteside, Principal Dancer, American Ballet museum closed. agreement with the city of Manila to train teachers economic, and environmental gains of projects. Theatre” raised ₱2.4 million. CENTEX graduate from 2020 to 2022. Elwince Magbitang, who performed with Abrera at In line with Ayala’s 185th anniversary celebration, As a pilot initiative, Ayala Foundation in partnership the fund-raising event, is now part of the American The Ayala Community for Social Impact supported with Ayala Land measured the SROI of Project Lio Ballet Theatre Studio Company in New York. Another Ayala-wide volunteerism activities in 2019. Through 2.0, a community development engagement in CENTEX Manila alumnus, Danier Laganzo, received a initiatives like Brigadang Ayala, and by helping put El Nido, Palawan. The integrated interventions in scholarship from the New Zealand School of Dance together a volunteerism microsite for the entire El Nido, which covered education, livelihood and for his participation in the Asian Grand Dance Prix in group, Ayala Foundation helped generate 345,689 employment, and other initiatives, generated an Hong Kong. volunteer hours during the year—a resounding SROI of ₱1:₱26, which means every one-peso contribution to the 185th anniversary’s target of investment has a 26-fold return in social value. Abrera’s return saw the inauguration of the Stella 185,000 hours. Abrera Dance and Music Hall in CENTEX Batangas. Farmers participating in the Calauan Program The construction of the dance and music hall was On the financial side, Ayala Foundation received increased to 35. Ayala Foundation continued to the product of the first fund-raising performance in public support worth ₱244.9 million. The facilitate their organizational needs as a registered 2018. endowment fund generated earnings of ₱145.2 189 190 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT HOW WE CREATE MARKET OUTLOOK CAPITALS STRATEGY VALUE 2019 PRIORITIES 2019 PERFORMANCE 2020 PRIORITIES THE VALUE WE CREATE (BUSINESS FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS ACTIVITIES) Founded as Filipinas Foundation in 1961, Financial Strengthen Education Programs Continue strong Coordinated various volunteerism Continue strong alignment Teachers and Students Ayala Foundation was among the first Ayala Foundation has an adequate alignment Providing access to alignment with initiatives through the Ayala Community with the Ayala group, through Ayala Foundation increases corporate foundations in the country. Today, endowment fund, building on strong with the high quality education the Ayala group, for Social Impact volunteerism activities the proficiency of our teachers corporate foundations are numerous, and partnerships with private and public conglomerate for the poor through particularly Ayala • Generated at least 340,000 volunteer within the group as well as through coaching and work hand-in-hand with businesses to donors to sustain flagship projects and teacher training on CSI’s footprint in hours through programs like Brigadang disaster relief, recovery, and mentoring, benefitting 34,600 undertake community outreach and other new programs and initiatives. Focus on pedagogy, classroom volunteerism and CSR Ayala, Macquarie Run, and others rehabilitation initiatives students in 87 public schools. corporate social responsibility activities. stronger management, and critical across the group • Led the Ayala group’s coordinated The foundation equipped Manufactured community thinking; scholarships; response to disaster relief in Further strengthen community schools with ICT facilities to The civil society sector in the Philippines has Ayala Museum and Filipinas Heritage engagement center-based modelling Further strengthen Pampanga and Davao reach of key programs in improve learning of 12,730 frequently been cited as one of the most wellLibrary offer a variety of art and library of strategies; and ICT community reach Implemented various partnership education, community students from 31 public developed and institutionalized in the world. collections; permanent, changing, Make an interventions. of key programs in projects with other Ayala business units leadership, suitable and schools. It also supported CSOs are cited for their role in championing travelling, online exhibitions; and impact on education, community • Through the partnership with Ayala sustainable livelihood, and arts 548 scholars. Balanced early improvements in the delivery of social public programs on the rich history the country’s Arts and Culture leadership, suitable Land, generated at least ₱160 million and culture childhood care and values services, as well as advocating greater social and artistic heritage of the nation, development Making Philippine history, and sustainable in social value in various social formation supported the early and economic participation among the poor cultivating pride in being Filipino. goals and in culture, and art accessible livelihood, and arts development projects implemented in Continue conversations on love childhood formation of 115 and underserved. promoting and inspirational through and culture El Nido communities of country and participation economically disadvantaged Intellectual national pride art exhibitions, library Strengthened presence of key in nation-building through our children. At present, there is a combined total of The foundation possesses expertise in and information services, Continue programs across the country programs 208,963 CSOs registered with various community development, education, Improve the public programs, and conversations on • CENTEX Batangas recognized as a Country agencies such as the Securities and community leadership, research and efficiency increasing brand and love of country benchmark school the province Strengthen Ayala Foundation Through Ayala Museum and Exchange Commission and the Cooperative publication, art curation, library and of internal advocacy awareness and and participation • Leadership Communities program citizens as advocates of Filipinas Heritage Library, the Development Authority, among others. information services, preservation processes and reach through traveling in nationbuilding trained 245 young leaders in five sites community development, in foundation also helped widen and dissemination of documentary build a strong exhibitions. through our programs • Ayala Museum reached wider support of expanded programs cultural appreciation, both While the not-for-profit sector in the heritage on the Philippines, and impact talent pool audiences through its outreach locally and internationally. Philippines remains one of the most robust assessment using social return on Youth Leadership Strengthen Ayala program Ayala Museum On-the-Go, Integrate SROI measurement in Asia, the sector has also been facing investment as a framework. Measure Investing in potential Foundation citizens as which was seen by close to 400,000 into program planning and Young Leaders challenges. A 2018 study conducted by impact of leaders of the country advocates guests implementation, while also It supported the development the Caucus of Development NGO Networks Human initiatives and communities of community • Brought the Maging Magiting program introducing it to the Ayala of young leaders and (CODE-NGO) noted that the general Its pool of committed talents has using the through youth leadership development, in to all 17 geographic regions in the group” contributed to their capacity sustainability of CSOs in the country is the capacity to link the shared value social return training and supporting support of expanded country, with stronger links with building. These young leaders virtually unchanged, a decline has been noted created by Ayala business units to the of investment community projects. programs national agencies like the National were able to ideate and on the following factors—legal environment, needs of people with less capacity and (SROI) Historical Commission of the implement community-based advocacy, and public image. Philippine CSOs access to resources. framework Sustainable Livelihood Integrate SROI Philippines, Department of Education, projects that improve livelihood remained stable in terms of organizational Organizing community measurement into and the Philippine National Police, and support community capacity, financial viability, service provision, Social and Relationship enterprises, and providing program planning among others development and sectoral infrastructure. Good relationships and linkages access to capacity, and implementation, • Focused on an enterprise-wide risk with local government units, local capital, technology and while also introducing management program, showing Communities government agencies, non-government market link to low income it to the Ayala group improved risk maturity Livelihood projects organizations, and community groups families. • Cited for continued commitment implemented across to ensuring service excellence and the country helped the Put together local stakeholders to Employee Engagement accountability by the Philippine Council communities improve establish partnership around Social Providing opportunities for NGO Certification economic productivity and Development Goals at the local level. for the Ayala group • Implemented a strategic employee cultural preservation. to exercise corporate engagement program, covering Natural citizenship and help the training, continued learning, and other Employees The Calauan property is utilized by foundation’s partner activities Employees from across farmers to produce ornamental plants schools and communities • Digitized numerous process to improve the Ayala group are given for the requirements of MDC Greens, through Brigadang Ayala, efficiency opportunities for volunteerism and vegetable to increase income Macquarie Fun Run and • Secured a level-one certification from in communities that it serves streams Farmer for a Day. Social Value International, • Applied SROI principles in measuring our various program’s impacts 191 192 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 193 194 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT GOVERNANCE IN THE AGE OF DIGITALIZATION Ayala’s corporate governance practices have been Compliance Officer, and Chief Audit Executive for the consistently recognized in various awards, polls, and year 2019. Ayala believes good corporate governance is an Further, the company’s governance system ensures publications in the Philippines and in the ASEAN important pillar of its operations and is vital to the protection of its shareholders and their right region. For more details on awards, please refer to BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT the achievement of its strategic goals, particularly to participate and vote in stockholders’ meeting page 213-214. Roles and Responsibilities with the increasing focus on digitalization. Ayala through the Committee of Inspectors of Proxies A culture of good governance is fostered throughout is fully committed to upholding the principles of and Ballots, a committee created by the board but COMPLIANCE WITH THE CORPORATE the organization, with the management and the good governance, including transparency, integrity, composed of non-directors. The Committee is tasked GOVERNANCE CODE Board equally responsible for ensuring that adequate accountability, fairness and professionalism in all with validation of proxies and tabulation of votes for Ayala complies with the Code of Corporate mechanisms and structures for good governance are its activities. shareholders’ meetings. Governance for Publicly Listed Companies set forth in place and working effectively. by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), The company’s Corporate Governance System Ayala is constantly reviewing, evaluating and except for the deviations provided in the table below. Board of Directors takes into consideration the organizational improving its governance structures, systems, The Board has the responsibility to oversee the structure as a whole; led by an effective Board and procedures, to be able to meet the changing This compliance is supported by an attestation affairs of the corporation, act on behalf of the and Board Committees; supported by empowered expectations of regulators, investors and from the company’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief company as a whole and be accountable to all and accountable Management and Management other stakeholders. Setting up an effective risk Committees; guided by strong core values across all management process and adequate internal DEVIATIONS FROM THE CODE EXPLANATION levels captured in clear Vision-Mission statements; controls system while complying with regulatory with sound policies and effective risk management requirements and international standards allow the Corporate Secretary and Compliance The combined Corporate Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer process and internal controls system. company to create a sustainable enterprise for the Officer are not different individuals is in a better position to the assist the Board in the performance long term. of its functions and to ensure compliance with laws, regulations and good corporate governance practices. The dual role does KEY COMPONENTS OF AYALA’S GOVERNANCE SYSTEM not retract from the effective performance of either functions, BOARD OF DIRECTORS CORPORATE SECRETARY particularly due to the strong team supporting the Corporate Secretary and Compliance Officer. Non-executive director serving in more Mr. Antonio Jose U. Periquet holds more than five directorships CEO than five publicly-listed companies in publicly-listed companies. As monitored and assessed by BOARD COMMITTEES the Office of the Compliance Officer, this has not affected his effectivity as an independent director particularly in terms of PRESIDENT AND COO Risk Corporate time and commitment to the Company. In 2019, Mr. Periquet Management Personnel and Executive Finance Governance Audit and Related Compensation has a perfect attendance in all board and applicable committee and Nomination Party MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES meetings. In these meetings, Ayala benefits from his active • Ayala Group participation and valuable insights. • Investment Chairman of the Board and Chief Mr. Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala is the Company’s Chairman of • Ayala Corporation Executive Officer are not different the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Albeit wearing two hats, individuals he is able to compartmentalize, decide and act in the best interest MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES SUPPORT FUNCTIONS of the Company. Moreover, the company has designated a lead independent director to further ensure the independence of the • Corporate Strategy Human and Development Finance Resources Risk Board from management. • Finance Internal Management Human Executive remuneration not The remuneration of the top five highest-paid officers is disclosed. Strategic Office of the Audit and Resources • Corporate Resources Planning Date Protection Sustainability disclosed on an individual basis Balance must be struck between full disclosure and the protection • Public Affairs Officer and privacy of the individual officers. • Corporate Governance Assisted by the Office of the Corporate Secretary, Office of the Chief Compliance Officer and Office of the Chief Legal Officer 195 196 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT shareholders. It is part of the Board’s responsibility various public fora. He has also attended various During the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting last There were no disagreements with the company’s to select and appoint senior management, and corporate governance trainings, including April 26, 2019, the shareholders re-appointed external auditor on any matter of accounting assess their performance in accordance with the Ayala’s Integrated Corporate Governance, Risk Sycip Gorres Velayo and Co. (SGV & Co.) as the principles or practices, financial statement process and criteria set in the Corporate Governance Management and Sustainability Summit. company’s external auditor for the year 2019, disclosures, or auditing scope or procedures. and Nomination Committee Charter. with Lucy L. Chan as the lead engagement partner. As Corporate Secretary, part of his responsibilities Internal Auditors A more thorough discussion on the board of directors includes assisting the Chairman in preparing The Committee met with the external auditors Internal Audit supports the Audit Committee can be found on pages 31-42. the Board meeting agenda, maintaining Board without the presence of the management team in the effective discharge of its oversight role minutes and records, facilitating the training of to discuss any issues or concern. To ensure that and responsibility. The Chief Audit Executive, Management directors, and providing directors with updates the external auditor maintains the highest level Catherine H. Ang, reports functionally to the Management is responsible to the Board of on relevant statutory and regulatory changes. of independence from the company, both in fact Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, Directors for the operations of the company and its The appointment and removal of the Corporate and appearance, the Audit Committee approved and administratively to the President and Chief performance, and informs the Board in a regular Secretary is subject to the approval of the Board. all audit, audit-related, and permitted non-audit Operating Officer or his designate. The activities and timely manner about any issues concerning services rendered by the external auditor. Nonof Internal Audit are governed by a separate the company’s strategy, risk management, and As Chief Compliance Officer, his functions include, audit services expressly prohibited by regulations Internal Audit Charter approved by the Audit regulatory compliance. among others, identification and management of the SEC were awarded to other audit firms Committee and the Board. of compliance risks, ensuring the company’s to ensure that the company’s external auditor Chief Executive Officer and President/ adherence to sound corporate governance best carries out its work in an objective manner. Internal Audit adopts a risk-based audit approach Chief Operating Officer practices, and monitoring, reviewing, evaluating in developing its annual work plan, which is The respective roles of the CEO and the and ensuring compliance by the corporation, its Total fees billed by SGV & Co. for the years ended reassessed quarterly to consider emerging risks. President/COO are complementary and ensure officers and directors with relevant laws, rules December 31, 2019 and 2018 amounted to The Audit Committee reviews and approves the a strategic distribution of leadership functions and regulations, including the Code of Corporate ₱13.17 million and ₱11.04 million, respectively, annual work plan and all deviations therefrom and with clearly defined accountabilities: Governance for Publicly Listed Companies inclusive of VAT. The Audit Committee reviewed ensures that internal audit examinations cover • The CEO takes the lead on company strategy, and other governance issuances of regulatory the nature of non-audit services rendered by SGV the evaluation of adequacy and effectiveness visioning, and developing business partnerships. agencies. & Co. and the corresponding fees, and concluded of controls encompassing the company’s • The President/COO is responsible for daily that these are not in conflict with their function as governance, operations, and information operations, new business initiatives, corporate Related to these functions, Atty. Hermosura is the company’s external auditor. The breakdown of systems; reliability and integrity of financial and policies, and resource allocation. also the company’s Group Head of Corporate the fees for 2019 and 2018 are shown below: operational information; safeguarding of assets; In all functions and critical issues, both Governance and Chief Legal Officer. and compliance with laws, rules, and regulations. coordinate closely with each other. The CEO and EXTERNAL AMOUNT IN MILLIONS OF PESOS The Committee also ensures that audit resources the President/COO are supported by management INTERNAL GOVERNANCE MECHANISMS AUDITOR FEES 2019 2018 are adequate and reasonably allocated to the committees composed of key executives who Accountability and Audit Audit and areas of highest risk, including the effectiveness P13.05 P10.92 meet regularly to discuss business performance External Auditors Audit-Related Fees of the internal audit function. During the year, and issues critical to the operations and growth The Audit Committee has the primary Non-Audit Fees .12 .12 the Committee regularly met with the Chief Audit of the company, and to facilitate the flow of responsibility to recommend the appointment GRAND TOTAL 13.17 11.04 Executive without the presence of management strategic and operational information among the and removal of the external auditor. The external to discuss any issues or concern. company’s decision-makers. auditors are directly accountable to the Audit Committee in helping ensure the integrity of the Audit and Audit-Related Fees include the audit To strengthen corporate governance, Ayala’s Corporate Secretary and Chief Compliance company’s financial statements and financial of Ayala’s annual financial statements and Internal Audit adopted portfolio-based subsidiary Officer reporting process. Their responsibility is to assess the mid-year review of financial statements in oversight to standardize the implementation of The company’s Corporate Secretary and and provide an opinion on the conformity of the connection with the statutory and regulatory good practices and ensure that critical issues are Chief Compliance Officer is Atty. Solomon M. audited financial statements with Philippine filings or engagements for the years ended 2019 monitored and addressed across the Ayala group. Hermosura. He is legally trained, knowledgeable Financial Reporting Standards and the overall and 2018. These also include assurance services on legal and regulatory requirements and has quality of the financial reporting process. The that are reasonably related to the performance of As of 2019, the audit team has an average of 13.4 kept abreast on relevant developments by taking Audit Committee oversees the work of the external the audit or review of Ayala’s financial statements years audit experience and an average of 4.3 on a part time role in teaching graduating law auditors and ensures that they have unrestricted pursuant to the regulatory requirements. Nonyears tenure in the Ayala group. The audit team students, attending executive development access to records, properties, and personnel to Audit Fees include special projects / consulting has the following certifications and professional programs and participating as a speaker in enable performance of the required audit. services. affiliations: certified public accountants, 197 198 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT certified internal auditors, certified fraud strengthen synergistic collaboration within the DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY This information, past annual reports, and this examiner, certified information systems auditor, group. Regular meetings are held by the AGIAN Accurate and Timely Disclosures Integrated Report and the consolidated audited certified foreign exchange professional, crisis Council and the four AGIAN Circles to discuss Emphasis is given on providing quality, accurate, financial statements are disseminated to communication planner; certified in ISO 9001, activities that will enable effective teamwork, and timely disclosures to regulators and the shareholders through the company’s website at ISO 22301, ISO 27001, IT Infrastructure Library, increase collaboration, sharing of resources, and investing public, including information on the www.ayala.com.ph and through media and analysts’ COBIT 5 (F), and Global Innovation Management best practices within the group. In November results of its operations and financial performance. briefings. Institute Level 1; a member of the Financial 2019, in lieu of its annual conference, the Ayala Ayala created procedures for internal reporting Executives of the Philippines; and a Fellow of the group internal auditors volunteered for Project to ensure consistency in providing the investing Ownership Structure Institute of Corporate Directors. All the internal Kasibulan. A total of 61 internal auditors from public with prompt disclosures on significant and As of December 31, 2019, Ayala’s outstanding auditors are also members of The Institute of across the group volunteered 2,196 hours market sensitive information that may affect their common shares were held as follows: Internal Auditors Philippines and adopt the and planted 1,210 seedlings for a total of investment decisions. Policies and procedures are OUTSTANDING International Professional Practices Framework 3,406 volunteer hours for the Project 185th also in place to ensure the company’s compliance % OWNERSHIP COMMON SHARES promulgated by The Institute of Internal Auditors, Volunteer Program in support of Ayala’s renewed with disclosure requirements under the listing rules Mermac, Inc. 296.6 million 47.33 Inc. commitment to help improve Filipino lives as the of the SEC, Philippine Stock Exchange (PSE), and PCD Nominee 165.3 million 26.38 company celebrates its 185th year in business. Philippine Dealing and Exchange Corporation (PDEx). Corporation In November 2019, the Internal Audit Unit (Non-Filipino)* engaged an External Quality Assessment Quarterly technical sessions were also held to Investors, analysts, and media were engaged by PCD Nominee 105.4 million 16.82 Review (EQAR) to be conducted by provide the members with the knowledge, tools Ayala through conducting meetings and quarterly Corporation PricewaterhouseCoopers. As a result, Internal and required auditing skills to enable them to briefings, where the senior management discusses (Filipino)* Audit continues to maintain the “Generally perform their responsibilities. Since 2018, AGIAN the results of the company’s operations with Mitsubishi 37.8 million 6.03 Corporation Conforms” rating from the 2014 external review. has partnered with The Institute of Internal investment and financial analysts. More details on The rating, considered the highest possible score Auditors Philippines to accredit the quarterly management’s discussion and analysis of financial Others 21.6 million 3.44 for the EQAR, demonstrates that the Internal AGIAN trainings for Continuing Professional condition and results of operations are available on TOTAL 626.7 million 100 Audit’s activities continue to conform to the Development for renewal of licenses and pages 217-222. International Standards for the Professional certifications. This is in addition to the continuing * Out of the 270.7 million common shares registered Practice of Internal Auditing and are continuously training and development programs, from specific All relevant disclosures were filed in a timely manner under the name of PCD Nominee Corporation, 6.2 evaluated through an independent Quality job skills to long-term professional development with the SEC, PSE, and PDEx. All the 2019 filings and million or 9.89% are for the account of Deutsche Assessment Review conducted every five years. provided by the respective companies of the relevant information were provided ahead of time, Bank Manila while 4.5 million or 7.2% are for the group to their employees. details as follows: account of Hongkong Shanghai Banking Corporation Ayala Group Internal Auditors’ Network (AGIAN) continues to perform activities that • On April 11, 2019, the Annual Report (SEC Form OUTSTANDING % FOREIGN 17-A) together with the consolidated audited COMMON SHARES OWNED financial statements for 2018 were submitted to Common Shares 626.7 million -the SEC, within 120 days after year-end. • On March 21, 2019, the Notice of the Annual Voting 200.0 million -Preferred Shares Stockholders’ Meeting with a detailed explanation of the Agenda items was released to the SEC Total Voting Shares 826.7 million 27.38% and PSE, 36 days ahead of the scheduled annual meeting on April 26, 2019. Preferred B Shares 20.0 million -Series 1 Shares • On March 22, 2019, the audited financial statements as contained in the Definitive Preferred B Shares 30.0 million -Series 2 Shares Information Statement were submitted to the SEC and PSE, 35 days before the annual stockholders’ TOTAL OUTSTANDING 876.7 million 25.83% SHARES meeting. • Interim or quarterly financial statements and results of operations were submitted to the There were no cross or pyramid shareholdings. regulators within 45 days from the end of the financial period. In lieu of its annual conference, AGIAN volunteered for Project Kasibulan 199 200 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Financial and Non-Financial Reports There were no RPTs classified as financial assistance The Board of Directors has a responsibility to to entities other than wholly-owned subsidiaries. 2019 Disclosures 29. AC Energy’s partner to take over Kauswagan coal plant In 2019, the company filed, among others, 30. Resignation of an Officer the shareholders to ensure the integrity of the There were also no cases of noncompliance with the unstructured disclosures and clarifications of news 31. First-half 2019 Financial and Operating Results company’s consolidated financial statements and laws, rules, and regulations pertaining to significant articles involving the following: 32. Redemption of 27,000,000 Class B Preferred Shares non-financial information disclosed in the company’s or material RPTs in the past three years. (“ACPB2”) Integrated Report. The financial statements comply 1. Attendance of Directors in 2018 Board of Directors 33. Exercise of the option for redemption of the Class Meetings B Preferred Shares, Setting of Record Date, Trading with the Philippine Financial Reporting Standards, CODE OF CONDUCT AND ETHICS 2. AC Energy’s acquisition of 51.48% stake in AC Energy Suspension, and Redemption Guidelines with significant accounting judgments and estimates The Code of Conduct and Ethics was established Philippines, Inc. (formerly PHINMA Energy Corporation) 34. Notice on the Redemption of ACPB2 Shares also disclosed. Nonfinancial performance was by the Board to guide all directors, officers, (“ACEPH”) 35. Updated Corporate Contact Details 3. AC Energy’s launching of Maiden Green Bond 36. Transactions of AC Energy with ACEPH prepared in line with the guiding principles and and employees in executing their roles and 4. Asian Development Bank and International Finance 37. AC Energy partners with Yoma Strategic Holdings Ltd. content elements of the Integrated Reporting responsibilities. As the overall governing body, Corporation investments in AC Energy Green Bonds 38. Ayala Corporation’s announcement of mandate to banks framework and referred to the Global Reporting the Board ensures that all directors, officers, and 5. AC Education Inc.’s and iPeople, Inc’s execution of Plan for US$ Fixed for Life (Non-Deferrable) Senior Perpetual Initiative (GRI) Standards 2016 to report the employees of the company adhere to the Code. and Articles of Merger Notes 6. AC Energy signing of an investment agreement with 39. Ayala Corporation’s successful launch of US$400 million sustainability performance. PHINMA Corporation and Philippine Investment senior unsecured and guaranteed fixed for life perpetual All the company’s directors, officers and employees Management, Inc. to acquire 51.48% stake in ACEPH notes A more comprehensive disclosure on both financial are expected to avoid situations of conflicts of 7. Notice and Agenda of the 2019 Stockholders’ Meeting 40. Revised RPT Policy and non-financial performance indicators are interest or impropriety and those who have personal 8. Philippine Competition Commission’s (“PCC’s”) approval 41. Third Quarter 2019 Financial and Operating Results of the sale by AC Energy of 49% Voting Stake and 60% 42. Special Analyst and Investor Briefing Conference Call thoroughly discussed in the Integrated Report to or pecuniary interest on any RPT are required to fully Economic Stake in AA Thermal Inc. to Aboitiz Power 43. Ayala Corporation’s acquisition of 20% stake in Yoma help shareholders understand the company’s various disclose the relevant facts of the situation to ensure Corporation Strategic Holdings, Inc. and another 20% stake in First businesses and their impact on the company’s that potential conflicts of interest are reported and 9. Amendments to the Company’s Articles of Incorporation Myanmar Investment Public Co. Ltd. and By-Laws 44. AC Energy’s announcement of mandate for notes offering overall value creation. Refer to pages 217-222 brought to the attention of management, whether 10. AC Industrial’s acquisition of a controlling stake in C-Con 45. AC Energy’s successful launch of first ever Perpetual and 89-124 for the financial and non-financial actual or apparent. Management is responsible for Group Fixed-for-life Green Bond performance indicators, respectively. enforcing and monitoring compliance with the Code 11. 2018 Financial and Operating Results 46. Results of the offer of new series of Class B Preferred and imposing sanctions for violations thereof. 12. Ayala Healthcare’s purchase of additional stake in the Shares (“APB2R”) Generika group of companies 47. Setting of 2020 Stockholders’ Meeting Related Party Transactions 13. Updated Notice and Agenda of the 2019 Stockholders’ 48. AC Health’s acquisition of Healthway Philippines In dealing with related party transactions (RPTs), It is the policy of Ayala that all directors, officers, Meeting 49. Ayala Corporation’s buying of own issued Ayala is governed by its policy to ensure that the and employees shall conduct business in accordance 14. PCC’s approval of AC Energy’s acquisition of ACEPH shares from the market transactions are at arm’s length, fair, and will inure with Philippine Laws and regulations, including Anti15. SEC’s approval of the Plan and Articles of Merger by and 50. Ayala Corporation’s clarification on Share Buyback between AC Education and IPO Program to the best interest of the company and all its Money Laundering Law. Employees shall consult 16. Results of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and 51. Notices of Analysts’ Briefing shareholders. The RPTs are transactions involving with the Corporate Governance Officer and Chief Organizational Meeting of the Board of Directors a transfer of resources, services or obligations Legal Officer whenever there is any doubt concerning 17. AC Energy’s completion of the sale of 49% voting stake Clarification of News Reports and 60% economic stake in AA Thermal, Inc. to Aboitiz 1. Ayala Corporation 2019 capex set at P249.4 billion between the company and a related party as the legality of any matter. Any suspected criminal Power 2. Ayala Energy plans divestment of oil and gas part of defined in the policy, regardless of whether a price is violations will be reported to the appropriate 18. Completion of the Merger of AC Education, Inc. with PHINMA acquisition charged. As per policy, all SEC defined and company authorities and non-criminal violations will be iPeople, Inc. 3. Ayala Corporation on track to post ₱50B profit recognized material RPTs shall be reviewed by the investigated and addressed as appropriate. 19. First Quarter 2019 Financial and Operating Results 4. AC Energy, partner looking at wind-power project in 20. Re-pricing of the dividend rate of Ayala Corporation’s Vietnam Risk Management and Related Party Transactions voting preferred shares 5. Ayala Corporation launches $150M venture capital fund Committee and approved by the Board before Anti-Corruption Policy 21. Ayala Corporation purchases common shares from 6. AC Energy eyes Phinma Energy tender offer in Q2 its commencement, except transactions that are Ayala is committed to doing its business with the Mitsubishi Corp 7. AC Energy, UPC forms renewable energy venture explicitly exempted by the SEC and transactions the highest ethical standards and has adopted a zero22. 2019 ESOWN Grant 8. 6 Firms Bid for $10-B Sangley Airport 23. PCC’s approval of Ayala Healthcare’s increase in stake in 9. AC Energy has $1B war chest for expansion review of which are delegated to management. SEC tolerance policy towards fraud, corruption, bribery the Generika companies defined material RPTs are transactions amounting in any form, and all unethical practices, and is 24. AC Health’s investment in Fibronostics Structured Reports submitted to SEC, PSE, and PDEx to ten percent or higher of the Corporation’s committed to complying with all relevant laws and 25. Completion of acquisition of PHINMA Energy by AC 1. Top 100 Stockholders Report Energy 2. Public Ownership Reports total assets based on its latest audited financial standards. The Anti-Corruption Policy embodied in 26. Participation of directors and key officers in Ayala Group 3. Statement of Changes in Beneficial Ownership of statements while company recognized material RPTs the Code provides guidance to all directors, officers, Integrated Summit and other seminars on corporate Securities of directors, officers and 10% owners are transactions that meet the threshold values and employees on how to conduct business in a governance 4. Quarterly Financial Reports – P50 million or five percent of the total assets of fair, ethical, and legal manner. It must be strictly 27. Issuance of new shares under Employee Stock Option Plan 5. Annual Report 28. Declaration of Cash Dividends to all outstanding shares either party, whichever is lower. These transactions observed in all their transactions and dealings with are discussed and quantified in the Notes to the customers, suppliers and business partners of the Consolidated Financial Statements under Related company as well as with the government. Party Transactions, which are made available on the company’s website. 201 202 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDINGS Reported trades in Ayala Securities of the directors and officers in 2019: The company has also set guidelines for dealing There have been no violations of the company’s BALANCE AS OF BALANCE AS OF with gifts and gratuities to protect the integrity of insider trading and trading blackout policies in the SECURITY DECEMBER 31, ACQUIRED DISPOSED OF DECEMBER 31, its employees and its business interests. Seeking past three years. 2018 2019 undue financial and material advantage from any Directors transaction is strictly prohibited. Any offer or gift of Reporting of Transactions Jaime Augusto Common 300,187 89,950 390,137 Zobel de Ayala value given to directors, officers, and employees, Ayala has established and implemented guidelines Preferred B Series 1 20,000 20,000 or their immediate family, with a view to get favors for all directors, officers, employees and consultants Voting Preferred 543,802 543,802 or to influence business recommendations are on reporting trades. All directors and officers from Fernando Zobel de Ayala Common 306,317 88,616 394,933 immediately reported to the appropriate reporting Managing Directors and above, the Comptroller, Voting Preferred 554,983 554,983 level. Directors, officers, and employees are likewise Chief Audit Executive, Chief Risk Officer, Treasurer, Keiichi Matsunaga Common 1 1 instructed not to accept gifts or invitations of any Chief Compliance Officer, Corporate Secretary, Delfin L. Lazaro Common 33,775 7,354 41,129 form, except when it meets the criteria set by the and Assistant Corporate Secretary must report to company. The policy also applies even if the offer or the company all acquisitions or disposals, or any Voting Preferred 258,297 258,297 bribe is made through another person. changes in their shareholdings in the company within Xavier P. Loinaz Common 126,614 126,614 three business days from the transaction date. All Voting Preferred 65,517 65,517 INSIDER TRADING POLICY other officers and employees must submit to the Antonio Jose U. Periquet Common 1,200 1,200 To protect shareholders, Ayala defined a policy Chief Compliance Officer a quarterly report on their Preferred B Series 2 400,000 400,000* against insider trading of company securities and trades of company securities. Ramon R. del Rosario, Jr. Common 1 1 non-disclosure of material non-public information Officers to any person until the information is disseminated A schedule showing the changes in shareholdings of Jose Rene Gregory Common 66,099 46,389 112,488 to the public and two full trading days had lapsed the directors and officers in 2019 is disclosed in the D. Almendras from the disclosure thereof. The Policy ensures next page. Catherine H. Ang Common 22,505 3,268 25,773 compliance with disclosure rules and prevention Voting Preferred WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY 5,290 5,290 of the unlawful practice of using confidential Shares In pursuit of integrity, Ayala strives to enhance the Preferred B Series information to one’s own benefit. 2,000 2,000 level of transparency within the company through 2** the establishment of the Whistleblower Policy Alfredo I. Ayala Common 163,409 11,368 174,777 Trading Blackout to encourage directors, officers, employees and Estelito C. Biacora Common 2,712 2,712 The Policy prohibits trading in Ayala’s shares by all suppliers, business partners, contractors and all company directors, officers, consultants, and Paolo Maximo F. Common 51,210 14,101 65,311 subcontractors, and other third parties to report Borromeo employees, including their immediate family any perceived wrongdoing or malpractice involving Cezar P. Consing Common 91,461 members living in the same household, who may 16,465 107,926 the company or its personnel. The policy is meant have knowledge of material non-public information Ernest L. Cu*** Common 117,435 16,067 133,502 to encourage the reporting of such matters in good about the company during trading blackout Josephine G. de Asis Common 23,038 3,946 26,984 faith, with utmost confidence that the whistleblower periods. They are also required to submit annually will be treated fairly and protected from reprisal, Bernard Vincent O. Dy Common 21,681 21,681 a certification of compliance with the prohibition harassment, disciplinary action, or victimization for John Eric T. Francia Common 147,933 9,079 36,788 120,224 against trading. whistleblowing. Solomon M. Hermosura Common 90,100 31,860 121,960 For structured disclosures, the blackout period Voting Preferred 53,583 53,583 To further strengthen integrity, objectivity, and Shares commences from five trading days before and ends confidentiality, including ensuring the protection Jose Teodoro K. two trading days after the disclosure of quarterly Limcaoco Common 257,689 46,389 2,010 302,068 of the whistleblower, Ayala has implemented an and annual financial results. For non-structured Ruel T. Maranan Common 17,089 4,582 21,671 outsourced receipt and processing of whistleblower disclosures, blackout period is two trading days after John Philip S. Orbeta reports to Punongbayan and Araullo through Common 575,491 32,176 607,667 the disclosure of any material information other than the reporting channel https://proactivehotline. Arthur R. Tan Common 319,158 40,585 359,743 quarterly and financial results. punongbayan-araullo.com/report/ayalacorporation. Dodjie D. Lagazo Common The website allows anonymous reporting and is During the year, notices of trading blackouts were Joanne M. Lim Common accessible anytime and anywhere via internet. Status regularly disseminated and issued to all personnel TOTAL 4,633,865 466,907 438,798 4,661,974 of all reports are trackable with available monthly via e-mail. Compliance was strictly enforced during reports. * Mandatory Redemption of ACPB2 Shares these trading blackout periods. **APB2R shares issued on November 29, 2019 *** Not a reportable officer of Ayala but a member of the Ayala Group Management Committee 203 204 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The whistleblower may still choose to submit a processing of personal data. There were no reported For the year ended 31 December 2019 written report directly to the Office of the Chief data privacy breaches for Ayala during the year. Compliance Officer, or by e-mail to whistleblower@ ayala.com.ph, or through a face-to-face meeting with Inquiries or concerns regarding data privacy or data The Executive Committee is mandated to exercise the powers and perform the duties any member of the Disclosure Committee composed subjects’ rights may be communicated in writing of the Board within the authority granted to them. It acts by majority vote of all its members of one representative each from the Office of the directly to the Office of the Data Protection Officer, or during the intervening period between scheduled Board meetings. In 2019, the Committee Chief Legal Officer, Strategic Human Resources, by email to acdataprivacy@ayala.com.ph. deliberated, reviewed and approved the following transactions: Internal Audit, and Group Risk Management. There is an established Disclosure Committee and WEBSITE • Funding for the upgrade and expansion of Vermosa Sports Hub; investigation process for reported violations of Information on the company’s corporate governance • Investment in Redeemable Cumulative Preference Shares of AC Industrials Singapore; company policies, rules and regulations. All reports initiatives, this Integrated Report, and all other • Upstreaming of Proceeds from the Partial Divestment of AC Energy’s Thermal Assets; are treated in confidence and discussed with the relevant information is available on the company’s • Selection of MCX Expressway Partnership Programme Partner; Audit Committee, which monitors the resolution and website at www.ayala.com.ph. As part of our • Bridge Financing for IMI (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. through Investment in Redeemable Preference Shares; closure of all reports. stakeholder engagement, Ayala also maintains social • Issuance of up to USD500 Million Guaranteed Undated Notes by AYC Finance Ltd.; media accounts at Facebook.com/AyalaCorporation • Revised Related Party Transactions Policy; and In 2019, there were no incidents reported through and https://ph.linkedin.com/company/ayala• Investment in Yoma Strategic Holdings, Inc. and First Myanmar Investment Public Co. Ltd. Ayala Corporation’s whistleblower reporting corporation. channels. DATA PRIVACY POLICY March 12, 2020. As part of its continuing commitment to uphold the data privacy of all stakeholders, Ayala’s Data Privacy Office headed by the Data Protection Officer, Atty. Solomon M. Hermosura works closely with all the business units to regularly review the physical, technical and organizational measures adopted by the Company for the protection of personal data. JAIME AUGUSTO ZOBEL DE AYALA FERNANDO ZOBEL DE AYALA KEIICHI MATSUNAGA This is to ensure the integrity, confidentiality and Chairman Member Member availability of the personal data that the Company collects and processes, and protect these against natural and human dangers, such as accidental loss or destruction, unauthorized access, fraudulent misuse, and unlawful alteration. In 2019, the Company: (1) continued its legal gap assessment to identify and execute the necessary data sharing and outsourcing agreements with relevant parties, (2) issued its Personal Data Protection Statement for Employees to better inform them of their rights as data subjects, (3) conducted capacity building activities to Ayala Group employees to ensure their strict compliance with the Data Privacy Act of 2012 and other relevant issuances of the National Privacy Commission, and (4) initiated the preparation of the Data Privacy Compliance Dashboard to easily update its personal Data privacy awareness programs regularly conducted for Ayala data inventory and monitor the different aspects of employees 205 206 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT REPORT OF FINANCE COMMITTEE TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATION For the year ended 31 December 2019 COMMITTEE TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS For the year ended 31 December 2019 The Finance Committee oversees the Corporation’s financial policy and strategy, including capital structure, dividend policy, and capital allocation decisions. In 2019, the Committee accomplished The Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee is tasked with ensuring that good corporate the following: governance principles and practices are complied with and observed by the company. In line with this mandate, the Committee met four times and accomplished the following in 2019: 1. Discussed, deliberated on and approved the following: a. Investment in Redeemable Cumulative Preference Shares of AC Industrials Singapore; • Reviewed the qualifications of all persons nominated to positions requiring appointment by the Board. b. Buyback of AC Shares from Mitsubishi Corporation; • Approved the final list of nominees for directors for election at the 2019 annual stockholders’ meeting c. Exercise of Call Option on the Corporation’s Class B Series 2 Preferred Shares after ensuring that all nominees to the Board have met all the qualifications and none of the and Reissuance of the Same Shares; disqualifications as set forth in the Corporation’s By-Laws, Revised Manual of Corporate Governance d. Investment in Active Fund by AC Ventures Holding Corp. and AC Industrial Technology and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Holdings, Inc.; • Approved the final list of nominees for Chairpersons and Members of the Board Committees, Lead e. Investment in Yoma Strategic Holdings, Inc. and First Myanmar Investment Public Co. Ltd.; Independent Director and key officers at the 2019 organizational board meeting after ensuring that all f. Additional Investment Outlets and updating of bank credit lines as well as counterparty limits; nominees to the Board have met all the qualifications and none of the disqualifications as set forth in the g. Issuance of up to USD500 Million Guaranteed Undated Notes; Corporation’s By-Laws, Revised Manual of Corporate Governance and the rules of the SEC. h. Bridge Financing for IMI Singapore through Investment in Redeemable Preference Shares; • Reviewed, evaluated and approved changes in the criteria for promotions to the Senior Managing Director level. i. Additional Equity Infusion into AC Energy, Inc.; • Reviewed, evaluated and approved Senior Executive promotions. j. Shift of ACIFL’s investment to ACE Thermal SG; and • Endorsed for Board approval the engagement of Aon as external facilitator for the Board assessment. k. Additional capital allocation to Ayala Healthcare Holdings, Inc. • Reviewed and endorsed for Board Approval the revision of the Insider Trading Policy. 2. Discussed updates on the Corporation’s exchangeable bond which matured already. 3. Conducted a portfolio review o the Corporation, its affiliates and associates. March 12, 2020. March 12, 2020. RAMON R. DEL ROSARIO, JR. XAVIER P. LOINAZ ANTONIO JOSE U. PERIQUET Chairman Member Member DELFIN L. LAZARO JAIME AUGUSTO ZOBEL DE AYALA Chairman Member FERNANDO ZOBEL DE AYALA ANTONIO JOSE U. PERIQUET Member Member 207 208 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS For the year ended 31 December 2019 The Board-approved Audit Committee Charter defines the duties and responsibilities of the Audit • We have evaluated the performance of the Chief Audit Executive and the effectiveness of the Committee. In accordance with the Charter, the Committee assists the Board of Directors in internal audit function, including compliance with the International Standards for the fulfilling its oversight responsibilities to the shareholders with respect to the: Professional Practice of Internal Auditing; • Integrity of the Company’s financial statements and the financial reporting process; • We have reviewed and approved all audit, audit-related and non-audit services provided by • Appointment, remuneration, qualifications, independence and performance of the external SGV & Co. to Ayala Corporation and the related fees for such services. We have also assessed auditors and the integrity of the audit process as a whole; the compatibility of non-audit services with the auditors’ independence to ensure that such • Effectiveness of the system of internal control; services will not impair their independence; • Performance and leadership of the internal audit function; and • Company’s compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. • We have conducted an annual assessment of our performance, in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission guidelines, and confirmed that the Committee had satisfactorily In compliance with the Audit Committee Charter, we confirm that: performed its responsibilities based on the requirements of its Charter; and • The Chairman and another member of the Committee are independent directors; • We have reviewed the Audit Committee Charter and Internal Audit Charter to ensure that it is updated and aligned with regulatory requirements. • We had four (4) regular meetings and executive meetings with the internal auditors and external auditors; Based on the reviews and discussions undertaken, and subject to the limitations on our roles and responsibilities referred to above, the Audit Committee recommends to the Board of Directors • We have recommended for approval of the Board and endorsement to the shareholders the that the audited consolidated financial statements be included in the Annual Report for the reappointment of SGV & Co. as the Company’s 2019 external auditor and the related audit fee; year ended December 31, 2019 for filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Philippine Stock Exchange. We are also recommending the reappointment of SGV & Co. as Ayala • We have reviewed and discussed the quarterly unaudited consolidated financial statements Corporation’s external auditor and the related audit fee for 2020 based on their performance and and the annual audited consolidated financial statements of Ayala Corporation and qualifications. Subsidiaries, including the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the significant impact of new accounting standards, with management, internal auditors and SGV & Co. We also reviewed and discussed the annual Parent Company Financial Statements. These activities were performed in the following context: March 6, 2020. Management has the primary responsibility for the financial statements and the financial reporting process; and SGV & Co. is responsible for expressing an opinion on the conformity of the Ayala Corporation’s audited consolidated financial statements with the Philippine Financial Reporting Standards. • We have approved the overall scope and the respective audit plans of the Company’s internal auditors and SGV & Co. We have reviewed the adequacy of resources, the competencies of XAVIER P. LOINAZ RAMON R. DEL ROSARIO, JR. KEIICHI MATSUNAGA staff and the effectiveness of the auditors to execute the audit plans ensuring that resources Chairman Member Member are reasonably allocated to the areas of highest risks. We have also discussed the results of their audits, their assessment of the Company’s internal controls, and the overall quality of the financial reporting process including their management letter of comments. Based on the assurance provided by the internal audit as well as SGV & Co. as a result of their audit activities, the Committee assessed that the Company’s system of internal controls, risk management, compliance, and governance processes are adequate; 209 210 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT REPORT OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT AND RELATED PARTY REPORT OF PERSONNEL AND COMPENSATION TRANSACTIONS COMMITTEE TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEE TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS For the year ended 31 December 2019 For the year ended 31 December 2019 The Risk Management and Related Party Transactions Committee assists the board in fulfilling its The Personnel and Compensation Committee is mandated to establish a formal and transparent oversight mandate with respect to risk governance and related party transactions. Its objectives are to procedure for the development of an executive renumeration policy and for determing the remuneration ascertain that there exists a sound risk management framework and supporting infrastructure within the packages of corporate officers and directors, in a manner that is consistent with the company’s culture, company, as well as to ensure that all related party transactions are pursued in the best interest of its strategy, and control environment; and aligned with the long-term interests of the company and its shareholders. stakeholders, while remaining competitive against the market. The Committee held seven meetings in 2019, during which, it: The Committee met two times in 2019 and accomplished the following: • Reviewed management’s adopted risk management framework and its ongoing programs • Reviewed the special report prepared by Willis Towers Watson Singapore on the competitiveness of to promote risk awareness within the company. the current executive compensation program design and remuneration levels of senior executives and management across the Ayala Group of Companies. The benchmarking exercise covered market data • Reviewed its Committee charter and risk governance policies, including those for from leading companies across Southeast Asia including the Philippines; enterprise-wide risk, crisis management and related party transactions. • Reviewed and endorsed for Board approval the 2018 performance bonus multiples and 2019 merit • Evaluated and recommended for approval proposed investments, advances and leases increase guidelines for the employees of the Corporation; involving related parties. • Reviewed and endorsed for Board approval the compensation actions for the Chief Executive Officer • Identified sources of downside risk and their possible effects on the company. and Chief Operating Officer including their performance bonus for 2018, merit increase for 2019 and 2019 ESOWN award; and March 02, 2020. • Reviewed and endorsed for Board approval the 2019 Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOWN). March 04, 2020. ANTONIO JOSE U. PERIQUET RAMON R. DEL ROSARIO, JR. KEIICHI MATSUNAGA Chairman Member Member RAMON R. DEL ROSARIO, JR. DELFIN L. LAZARO KEIICHI MATSUNAGA Chairman Member Member 211 212 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS OCTOBER Among 500 finalists from 2,000 of the world’s largest public companies, Ayala Corporation was named one of DECEMBER Forbes’ World’s Best Employers in Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala was one 2019. of eight recipients of the Best CEO of the Year Award from The Asset Best Corporate Best CEO Best Investor Platinum of the Year Award Relations Team Award Awards 2019. Award Ayala Corporation was an awardee of The SEPTEMBER Asset Best Investor Relations Team Award, Ayala Corporation’s Head of Group recognized for providing an efficient and Risk Management and Sustainability, effective interface for its investors and Ma. Victoria Tan, was named analysts. one of Asia’s Top Sustainability Superwomen by CSR Works. Ayala Corporation was given The Asset ESG Corporate Platinum Award for its commitment towards good governance, social responsibility, and environmental responsibility. JUNE Under the 2018 ASEAN Corporate Governance Scorecard (ACGS), Ayala Corporation was recognized as one of the top performing Philippine Jose Teodoro Limcaoco was recognized publicly listed companies in terms of as one of the 25 Most Influential DOers & governance standards and practices. Shakers in Purposeful Organizations for his contributions in leading Ayala Corporation into becoming a more purposeful company through the launch of the Ayala Sustainability Blueprint. APRIL FinanceAsia’s 19th Best Companies Poll awarded Ayala Corporation and its management in multiple categories, namely first place Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala NOVEMBER in Best Managed Company, Best Ayala Chairman & CEO Ma. Victoria Tan, Ayala Corporation’s Growth Strategy, BEST ESG, Best Head of Group Risk Management and CEO (Jaime Augusto Zobel de Sustainability, was recognized as one Ayala), and Best CFO (Jose Teodoro of Eco-Business’ 2019 A List of most Limcaoco). Ayala Corporation also influential corporate sustainability leaders placed third in the Best Investor in the Asia Pacific. Relations category. Jose Teodoro K. Limcaoco Ayala Chief Financial Officer 213 214 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT ANNEXES 215 216 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FULL-YEAR HIGHLIGHTS requires applying a fair market value accounting for spaces, middle-market residential products, and by 12 percent to ₱9.67 billion from previous year’s • Ayala Corporation’s full year earnings amounted to Ayala’s investment in Manila Water, if the completion improved performance of its leasing segments. ₱8.61 billion, with the new offices in Ayala North ₱35.3 billion, including the divestments gains of of the divestment and or subsequent loss of voting This was further supported by increments from AC Exchange, Vertis North, and Circuit Makati improving ₱23.6 billion from AC Education and AC Energy. control is expected to occur within one year from the Energy’s retail electricity supply unit and AC Health. the segment’s performance. Revenues coming • Strong consumer driven revenue growth of ALI, date of the financial statement. It also requires the However, this was partly offset by AC Industrials’ from hotels and resorts rose by 19 percent to Globe and BPI drove the bottom-line. assets and liabilities of MWC to be presented as one lower revenues. ₱7.62 billion from ₱6.39 billion in 2018 on strong • Results tempered by the recognition of a line item in the consolidated balance sheet and P&L patronage of Seda Ayala Center Cebu and Seda Lio. remeasurement loss of ₱18.1 billion for Manila in 2019 as opposed to line by line consolidation in REAL ESTATE Water. prior years. The conglomerate’s real estate arm, Ayala Land, Ayala Land expanded its leasing portfolio with malls • Slowdown in AC Industrials resulted in a net loss of saw a 13 percent growth in its bottom-line in 2019, and offices totaling 2.1 million and 1.2 million square ₱2.4 billion. Please see as summary table below showing the effect which reached ₱33.2 billion for the year. Meanwhile, meters of gross leasing area, respectively, and hotels of accounting for MWC investment under PFRS 5. its total revenues increased by two percent to and resorts with 3,705 rooms. In December 2019, Ayala recognized a ₱168.79 billion from ₱166.25 billion the previous remeasurement loss of ₱18.1 billion as a result of CONSOLIDATED SALES OF GOODS AND SERVICES year, mainly supported by office and commercial and Ayala Land spent a total of ₱108.7 billion in capital the reclassification of its investment in Manila Water Sale of goods and rendering services rose three industrial lot sales as well as higher contribution of expenditures in 2019. Most of the amount supported as asset held under PFRS 5 (the accounting standard percent to ₱264.9 billion on higher revenues from new leasing assets. the construction of residential projects at 40 percent for assets held for sale). This accounting standard Ayala Land’s sale of commercial lots and office of total. Following this, 26 percent was spent on Property development revenues was slightly the company’s rental assets, 17 percent on land 2019 down two percent year-on-year, reaching ₱117.6 acquisition, 14 percent on estate development and IN MILLION PESOS 2018 billion in 2019. The performance was due to an the rest on other investments. Pre-MWCI Reclass PFRS 5 Reclass FINAL eight percent decline in residential revenues given Continuing Operations the lower contribution of its Ayalaland Premier Ayala Land, through its subsidiary, AREIT Inc., Revenues 284,704 (19,797) 264,907 256,891 and ALVEO brands as most of its vertical projects became the first Philippine company to file a real Share of profit of associates & joint ventures 22,998 (654) 22,344 19,761 recognized in 2019 were booked in previous periods estate investment trust (REIT) offering to the and are nearing completion. On the other hand, it Securities and Exchange Commission last February Interest & other income 55,995 (12,340) 43,655 18,642 exhibited growth in office for sale developments 7, 2020. AREIT is seeded with Grade A office assets 363,697 (32,791) 330,906 295,293 and commercial and industrial lots, which rose 12 located in Makati CBD and is expected to expand its Cost of sales 198,207 (8,223) 189,983 189,707 percent and 46 percent, respectively. portfolio with new acquisitions in the future. Through General and Administrative 75,737 (43,624) 32,113 25,957 this initial capital market transaction, Ayala Land During the year, Ayala Land introduced three new hopes to pave the way for the development of a REIT Interest expense & other charges 35,337 (12,928) 22,410 17,379 estates and successfully launched ₱158.9 billion market in the country, bringing another milestone to Provision for income tax 12,433 1,551 13,984 13,367 worth of property development projects. the Philippine stock market. Ayala Land seeks to do 321,714 (63,225) 258,490 246,410 an Initial Public Offering (IPO) of AREIT, Inc. after Net income from continuing operations 41982 30,433 72,416 48,884 On the other hand, commercial leasing saw receiving the regulatory approvals from the SEC and double-digit growth from all its segments as it the PSE. Operations segment under PFRS 5 (30,433) [a] (30,433) 6,181 expanded 13 percent to ₱39.3 billion during the Net Income (NIAT) 41,982 41,982 55,065 year. Revenues from shopping centers grew 11 WATER NIAT owners of Parent Co 35,279 35,279 31,818 percent to ₱22.0 billion from ₱19.91 billion on the Manila Water’s full-year net profits dipped 16 NIAT noncontrolling interests 6,703 6,703 23,247 back of sustained growth from its stable malls and percent year-on-year to ₱5.5 billion as the water increased contributions from its newly opened supply shortage in March severely impacted the East [a] Includes the 2019 NIAT of MWCI less consolidation adjustments and the ₱35.3Bn after-tax remeasurement loss on MWCI Investment (₱18.1 Bn AC share) malls, Ayala Malls Feliz, Capitol Central, and Circuit Zone concession while some cost-side challenges Makati. Similarly, office leasing revenues increased also weighed down on profitability. 217 218 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT The decline in La Mesa dam water levels caused to achieve 51 percent voting interest in Manila 200MW of additional renewable energy projects units dropped a total of 11 percent, as a function water service availability to drop significantly, with Water. Upon the grant of proxy rights to Trident within Myanmar including participation in large utility of the aforementioned slowdown in China’s the dam reaching its lowest level at 68.5 meters in Water, Ayala’s effective voting interest in Manila scale renewable projects. automotive market for the year. This was offset April 2019. To assist severely affected customers, Water will stand at 31.6 percent. The shareholders’ by the performance of IMI Europe, also largely Manila Water implemented a one-time Bill Waiver agreement will become effective after the closing Locally, subsidiary AC Energy Philippines signed automotive based, which grew three percent yearProgram. Additionally, in July, raw water allocation of the subscription agreement, which will occur share purchase agreements to increase its stakes in on-year as the company’s newest production facility from Angat Dam hit its lowest, with releases limited after certain conditions are met, including required the North Luzon Renewables wind project, and the in Serbia continued its ramp-up in its first full year to 35 cubic meters per second for the MWSS lenders’ consent and regulatory approvals. Sacasol and Islasol solar plants. It also started the of operations. In parallel, IMI’s Mexico operations, Concessionaires. To mitigate this, Manila Water construction of the 120MW Alaminos solar plant and which serve the North American markets, continued pushed for network efficiency to maintain service POWER the 150MW Ingrid peaking plant. their robust trajectories with a 50 percent revenue availability by ensuring water service of at least 7 Ayala’s more recent core business, AC Energy, growth in 2019. pounds per square inch (psi) of pressure, enough registered net profits of ₱24.6 billion in 2019, lifted In line with its commitment to scale up its renewable to reach the ground floor level, enabling it to serve by contribution from its solar projects in Vietnam, energy investments, AC Energy issued two green IMI’s core subsidiaries, Via Optronics and STI, Ltd., more than 7 million people covering over 1.3 million recovery of costs incurred from adjustments in the bonds in 2019, effectively raising US$810 million posted combined revenues of $248 million, a decline households in the East Zone. construction and operations of its power plants, in fresh capital to support its pipeline of renewable of 21 percent from the previous year. VIA’s drop was and gains from the partial divestment of its thermal energy projects. The first issuance, which happened mainly driven by the slump in the overall computing Throughout 2019, Manila Water also affirmed its assets. AC Energy increased its attributable energy in January-February 2019, was the power consumer segment and the delay in the release of wastewater commitment of providing 32 percent output in 2019 by 25 percent to 3,500 Gigawatt company’s maiden green bonds and fetched a total a new generation component from one of its major coverage of the East Zone by 2021. Wastewater hours, of which 50 percent came from renewables amount of US$410 million. The bonds were the first customers. Meanwhile, the uncertainty over Brexit, coverage in the East Zone is currently over 30 sources. publicly syndicated Climate Bond Initiative-certified which persisted at least through 2019, caused some percent, equivalent to two million people served US$ Green Bonds in Southeast Asia. Subsequently delays in the awarding of several contracts where through nearly 400 kilometers of laid sewer network. As it shifts its portfolio towards renewable energy, in November, AC Energy raised US$400 million STI is a key competitor. Wastewater coverage was only at three percent prior AC Energy has a pipeline of more than 1,000MW in through the first ever US dollar denominated fixedto Manila Water taking over operations from MWSS various renewable projects in the Philippines and for-life green bond issued globally. The perpetual AC Industrials’ Philippine vehicle distribution and in 1997. overseas that are expected to reach financial close green bonds were listed on SGX-ST and certified retail arm, AC Motors, recorded a net loss of ₱337 within 2020. This will bring AC Energy’s renewable under the ASEAN Green Bonds Standards by the million on lower sales volumes across its Honda, Considering these factors, costs and expenses for energy capacity close to 2,000MW by the end of Philippine Securities and Exchange Commission on Isuzu, Kia, and Volkswagen brands. As the industry the East Zone concession increased 32 percent to 2020, in line with its goal of achieving 5,000MW of 18 November 2019. recovers from the previous year’s sizable, policy₱6.4 billion for the year, mainly driven by the ₱534 renewables capacity by 2025. driven decline, competition continues to be highly million penalty imposed by MWSS and additional INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES competitive, with over 50 players vying for slowly service recovery and operations costs. In all, the AC Energy saw several developments that supported AC Industrials recorded a net loss of ₱2.4 billion as recovering customer demand. Manila concession’s net income for the year was at its international businesses. The start of operations headwinds in both the electronics manufacturing ₱5.1 billion, a decline of 22 percent from 2018. of the company’s solar farms in Vietnam supported services industry and the global auto industry Meanwhile, AC Industrials’ startup investments, profits during the year. Three plants with a total of hampered earnings across its several business lines. Merlin Solar, MT Technologies, and C-CON, recorded In February, Ayala announced a strategic partnership 410MW commenced commercial operations in the The company’s EMS platform, Integrated Microhigher net losses during the period as they continue with an infrastructure company of Enrique K. second quarter, in time to meet Vietnam’s solar feedElectronics Inc., continued to weather challenges to grow their revenue pipelines, invest in capacity Razon Jr., Prime Metroline Holdings Inc., through a in tariff deadline. in its main market segments, particularly the and infrastructure, and manage underutilization company that it will incorporate for the transaction industrial and consumer spaces. As the automotive of capacity resulting from the global downturn in (hereafter, “Trident Water”), with the acquisition AC Energy also announced a joint venture project sector contracted globally, most notably in China, automotive and manufacturing. of a 25 percent stake in Manila Water. Ayala with UPC Solar Asia Pacific, its existing partner for IMI’s revenues, dropped 17 percent year-onremains a shareholder with a 38.6 percent stake. various projects in and out of the Philippines, for the year. Additionally, investments in capacity and SHARE IN NET PROFITS OF ASSOCIATES AND Subsequently, Ayala announced that as part of the development of solar projects in the Asia-Pacific technical capabilities for future growth increased JOINT VENTURES shareholder agreement to be executed among Ayala, region. the company’s overhead expenditures, which partly Share in net profits of associates and joint ventures its wholly owned subsidiary Philwater Holdings affected gross profit margins. Overall, these factors expanded 13 percent to ₱22.3 billion on Globe’s Company, and Trident Water, the conglomerate’s In addition, AC Energy and Yoma Strategic Holdings hindered IMIs growth in 2019, with the company higher revenues and lower non-operating expenses Executive Committee approved the grant of proxy Ltd. also announced its decision to form a 50:50 joint posting a net loss of US$7.8 million for the year. and BPI’s higher interest and non-interest income. rights by Philwater to Trident Water over such venture to drive the growth of Yoma Micro Power Revenues from IMI’s wholly owned operations This was, however, partly offset by lower earnings number of preferred shares to enable the latter (S) Pte. Ltd., and jointly explore developing around tallied at US$1 billion, down 7 percent from the from AC Energy’s investee companies. previous year. The company’s Asian operating 219 220 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT BANKING both well above regulatory requirements. Return on year, Globe put up more sites and added more 3G At the end of 2019, total debt at the consolidated BPI’s net earnings, which was supported by solid equity for 2019 was at 10.97 percent. and 4G base stations. level stood at ₱405.3 billion, two percent lower from core income, higher securities trading gains, and its end-2018 level, despite additional borrowings steadily growing fee-based businesses, jumped 25 BPI also issued over ₱3.1 billion of Long-Term COSTS AND EXPENSES of Ayala Land and AC Energy as MWCI’s total debt percent to ₱28.8 billion in 2019. Negotiable Certificates of Time Deposit (LTNCTDs) in General and administrative expenses rose 24 of ₱56.4 billion was reclassified to liabilities under October 2019. The LTNCDs have a tenor of 5.5 years percent to ₱32.1 billion, mainly driven by AC PFRS 5. Total revenues grew 20 percent to ₱94.3 billion as and an interest rate of 4 percent p.a. In December Energy’s higher manpower costs, professional both net interest income and non-interest income 2019, BPI Family Savings Bank (“BFSB”), the Bank’s fees, and restructuring costs related to the partial Ayala’s parent level cash stood at ₱22.6 billion, with saw robust growth for the full year. BPI’s net interest wholly-owned thrift bank and consumer lending unit, divestment of its thermal assets drove the increase. net debt at ₱83.2 billion. Ayala’s parent net debt-toincome was up 18 percent to ₱65.9 billion on the issued ₱9.6 billion of 2.5-year bonds with an interest AC Industrials’ manpower and advertising costs as equity ratio stood at 63 percent. The conglomerate’s back of a 9-percent improvement in average asset rate of with 4.3 percent p.a. well as AC Health’s clinic network expansion and the loan-to-value ratio, the ratio of its parent net debt to base and a 24-basis point expansion in net interest consolidation of Generika and Entrego into AC Health the total value of its assets, was at 6.5 percent at the margin. Net interest margin increased from 3.11 TELCO and AC Infra, respectively, likewise drove the higher end of 2019. percent in 2018 to 3.35 percent in 2019, as a result Globe’s net income ended at ₱22.3 billion, up 20 GAE. of asset yields rising 69 basis points, partially offset percent, boosted by the company’s data-related The consolidated capital expenditure of the group by higher cost of funds. products and services. BALANCE SHEET HIGHLIGHTS reached ₱215 billion in 2019, mainly driven by Ayala The company’s balance sheet remains strong with Land and Globe, which respectively tallied ₱109 Total loans grew 9 percent year-on-year, reaching Overall, Globe’s total service revenues were up enough capacity to support its future investments billion and ₱51 billion in capital outlay for the year. ₱1.48 trillion, primarily driven by consumer loans 12 percent to ₱149 billion, lifted by data-related and cover dividend and debt obligations. Parent-only capital expenditure, on the other hand, which grew 13 percent, much faster than corporate services, which accounted for 71 percent of the reached ₱30 billion, which went mostly to the newer and SME loans, which also grew 8 percent and 6 total. At the end of 2019, Ayala’s total assets stood at ₱1.3 businesses of Ayala. For 2020, the Ayala Group has percent, respectively. Total deposits rose 7 percent trillion. Investment properties expanded 8 percent programmed ₱275 billion in capital expenditures, to ₱1.70 trillion during the year. The bank’s CASA The company’s strategy is aligned to the evident to ₱246.7 billion on the back of ALI’s malls and of which ₱20.8 billion has been earmarked under ratio stood at 69.1 percent, while the loan-togrowth in data driven customers across all office expansion. Investments in associates and joint the parent to support the emerging businesses in its deposit ratio was at 87.0 percent. segments. Mobile data users rose 7 percent to 39.6 ventures, meanwhile, ended at ₱246.7 billion on portfolio. million subscribers, which consequently pushed account of higher equity in net earnings contribution Non-interest income was ₱28.4 billion, an increase mobile data traffic up substantially by 78 percent of BPI and Globe as well as additional investments of 25 percent versus 2018, primarily from higher to 1.7 petabytes. Likewise, the company’s home made by Ayala Land, AC Health, AC Infra, and AC securities trading gains and fee-based income. broadband subscriber base increased 25 percent to Ventures. Fees, commissions, and other income increased by over 2 million customers as Globe Home Pre-paid 12 percent, driven by higher fees from credit cards, Wifi gained more traction in its segment. In order to transaction banking, branch services, and digital further solidify its foothold in the home broadband channels. space through an expanded portfolio of data offerings, Globe also launched At Home Air Fiber 5G Operating expenses totaled ₱50.1 billion, higher on July 2019. by 15 percent from the previous year. Cost-toincome ratio was at 53.1 percent, lower than the Globe’s EBITDA ended at ₱76 billion, up 17 percent 55.5 percent recorded in the prior year. Provision due to robust service revenues as well as subdued for losses for 2019 was ₱5.8 billion, increasing the operating expenses. Operating expenses grew a Bank’s loss coverage ratio to 104.8 percent. NPL modest eight percent despite higher costs related ratio improved to 1.66 percent from 1.85 percent in to marketing, subsidies, and staff as interconnect 2018. charges dropped significantly during the period. The company’s EBITDA margin was steady at 51 percent The bank’s total assets stood at ₱2.21 trillion, higher for 2019. by 6 percent year-on-year, with return on assets at 1.38 percent. Total equity amounted to ₱269.6 Capital expenditure reached a record-high of ₱51 billion, with a common equity tier 1 ratio of 15.17 billion, 18 percent higher year-on-year. This was percent and capital adequacy ratio of 16.07 percent, allocated to fast-tracking network rollout. During the 221 222 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Introduction • Review of approaches to materiality determination and review of outcomes of stakeholder engagement; DNV DNV GL AS Philippines Branch (“DNV GL”) has been commissioned by the management of Ayala Corporation GL did not have any direct engagement with external stakeholders; (“Ayala Corp.” or the “Company”, SEC Identification Number: 34218) to undertake an independent assurance • Review of information provided to us by the Company on its reporting and management processes related of the sustainability/non-financial disclosures in Ayala Corporation’s 2019 Integrated Report (the “Report”) in to sustainability performance for the reporting year based on the framework adopted by Ayala Corporation its printed format for the year ended 31st December 2019. This Report is prepared by Ayala Corporation based • Interviews with selected members of leadership team, and senior managers responsible for management of on the Guiding Principles and Content Elements of the International <IR> Framework (“<IR> Framework”) sustainability issues and review of selected evidence to support generic disclosures. We were free to choose and presenting the Company’s performance related to its identified material topics for both listed and unlisted interviewees and interviewed those with overall responsibility for the programmes to deliver the targets for subsidiaries and affiliates as detailed in section “Reporting Scope” of the Report. The intended users of this mediumand long-term vision, mission and milestones; Assurance Statement are the management of the Company. • Performed desk review of selected sustainability parameters for sampled entities, and discussed findings with the Corporate Sustainability Team; We performed this assurance engagement using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1, which is • Planned site visits to review the processes and systems for preparing site level sustainability data and based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard implementation of sustainability strategy. We were free to choose the sites for verification; on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised*, along with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (“GRI’s”) • Review of supporting evidence for key claims and data disclosed in the Report. Our verification processes Principles for Defining Report Content and Report Quality. The verification engagement was carried out from were prioritised based on risk-based approach, i.e. relevance of identified material topics and sustainability December 2019 to April 2020. context of the business; • Review of the processes for gathering and consolidating the performance data and, for a sample, checking We understand that the reported financial data and related information are based on statutory disclosures the data consolidation at site and corporate levels. and Audited Financial Statements, which are subject to a separate independent statutory audit process. We did not review financial disclosures and data as they are not within the scope of our assurance engagement. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and are shorter in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance Responsibilities of the Management of Ayala Corporation and of the Assurance Provider engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained if a reasonable assurance The Board of Ayala Corporation has sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report and is responsible engagement had been performed. During the assurance process, we did not come across limitations to the for all information provided as well as the processes for collecting, analysing and reporting the information scope of the agreed assurance engagement. presented in the Report. Ayala Corporation has stated that this Report was based on the <IR> Framework and has adopted general disclosures and selected performance indicators for disclosures related to identified Opinion and Observations material topics from the GRI Standards 2016. On the basis of the assurance engagement undertaken, nothing has come to our attention to suggest that Ayala Corporation’s 2019 Integrated Report does not properly describe the non-financial performance of identified Our verification engagement included limited level of verification of sustainability performance disclosures material topics based on the International <IR> Framework. for the identified material topics of Ayala Corporation in the section “Materiality” of the Report. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the Company Without affecting our assurance opinion, we also provide the following observations: to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith, true, and free from material misstatements. Because of the selected nature (sampling) and other inherent limitation of both procedures and systems of Stakeholder Inclusiveness internal control, there remains the unavoidable risk that errors or irregularities, possibly significant, may not The participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to have been detected. Our verification applies a ±5% uncertainty threshold towards errors and omissions for the Sustainability. performance data brought out in the Report Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Report does not meet the requirements related to the Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statement or datum included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person The Report has brought out key stakeholders (eg. investors and shareholders, employees, government agencies or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. and regulators, creditors and suppliers, customers, communities, industry associations) to engage with, to build trust based on significant influence on Ayala Corporation’s sustainability performance. The Process Basis of our Opinion and Limitations considers the influence that each stakeholder has in the range of businesses and overall decisionmaking A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed assurance at the Head Office processes. The Report also describes the engagement modes such as consulting, involving, or collaborating at Makati City, and selected sites of subsidiaries of Ayala Corporation. We undertook the following activities: with each stakeholder considering based on the extent of influence and articulates the value Ayala Corporation • Review of the non–financial sustainability disclosures in this Report; seeks to deliver through various engagement platforms. 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available on dnvgl.com. * Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Project No.: PRJN-177672-2019-AST-PHL Project No.: PRJN-177672-2019-AST-PHL 223 224 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Materiality Neutrality The process of determining the issues that are most relevant to an organization and its stakeholders. The extent to which a report provides a balanced account of an organization’s performance, delivered in a Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Report does not meet the requirements related to the neutral tone. Principle of Materiality. Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Report does not meet the requirements related to the The Report describes the process adopted by Ayala Corporation in reviewing the material topic i.e. review of Principle of Neutrality. material topics considering rapidly shifting business and Environment Social and Governance (ESG) landscape, The Report presents disclosures related to the Company’s performance, challenges and concerns of including review of its 360o Sustainability Reporting Framework in the context of emerging trends and urgent stakeholders during the reporting period in a neutral, consistent and balanced manner, applying adequate issues that affect its stakeholders. Further the Report states materiality is aligned to GRI Standards, SASB consideration to not unduly influence stakeholders’ opinion made based on the reported data and information. industry-specific topics and disclosures, and the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact and WBCSD programs for business transformation and integrated Material topics to relevant Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s). Statement of Competence and Independence DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance Responsiveness with ISO/IEC 17021:2015 Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification The extent to which an organization responds to stakeholder issues. of management systems, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards, Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Report does not meet the requirements related to the and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the DNV GL Code of Conduct2 during Principle of Responsiveness. the assurance engagement and maintain independence wherever required by relevant ethical requirements. The Report brings out the Company’s responses to identified material topics and significant issues which have arisen during the reporting period through disclosures on Corporate Governance, Business Review, Business This engagement work was carried out by an independent team of sustainability assurance professionals. model, strategic responses to key stakeholders’ concerns, to deliver shared values. Further the Report also DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statement or datum included in the Report except for brings out its non-financial performance related to its material topics through selected GRI Topic Specific this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward internal stakeholders interviewed Standards as Performance Indices and its linkages to Six Capitals of <IR> framework. during the assurance process. Reliability DNV GL has provided assurance to Bank of the Philippine Islands, Ayala Land Inc., AC Energy, Manila Water The accuracy and comparability of information presented in the report, as well as the quality of underlying data Company Inc. and Globe Telecom, Inc. In our opinion, there is no conflict of interest in the assurance management systems. engagement provided to the business units of Ayala Group. DNV GL did not provide any services to Ayala Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Report does not meet the requirements related to the Corporation in 2019 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. Principle of Reliability. For and on behalf of DNV GL AS Philippines Branch The majority of the performance disclosures verified through onsite and offsite verification, i.e. at the Head Office and sampled sites, and through desk reviews, were found to be fairly accurate, reliable, identifiable and traceable to the source. Considering the limited sampling, we did not detect any major errors related to data collection or aggregation. We also reviewed the calculations and related assumptions used for its suitability, taking into account the principle of Reliability. Some of the data inaccuracies identified during the verification process were found to be attributable to interpretation and aggregation errors. These identified errors were communicated, and the responses and corrections made to the reported data and information were reviewed. Vadakepatth Nandkumar, Heng Chwin Mak Prasun Kundu, Completeness Assurance Reviewer, Operations Manager – Assurance Reviewer, How much of all the information that has been identified as material to the organization and its stakeholders is Head Sustainability Operations, South East Asia DNV GL – Business Assurance reported. DNV GL – Business Assurance India DNV GL Technology Centre. India Private Limited. Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Report does not meet the requirements related to the Private Limited. Singapore 118227 Principle of Completeness. The Report discloses the Company’s non-financial disclosures based on the <IR> Framework and performance 06th April 2020, Manila, Philippines during the reporting period 2019 related to its material issues using appropriate GRI Topic Specific Standards, for the identified boundary of operations and covering the Company’s approaches to value creation and responses to key challenges faced during the reporting period. DNV GL AS Philippines Branch is part of DNV GL – Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. www.dnvgl.com 2 The DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from the DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com) Project No.: PRJN-177672-2019-AST-PHL Project No.: PRJN-177672-2019-AST-PHL 225 226 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT MATERIALITY INDEX This Integrated Report has used and referenced relevant SASB Standards and GRI Standards in disclosing performance across material topics. GRI STANDARDS PAGE NUMBER MATERIALITY THEMES MATERIAL TOPICS RELEVANT UN SDG UNGC PRINCIPLES SASB ACCOUNTING METRICS DISCLOSURES OR RESPONSE Climate change and biodiversity GHG emissions SDG 9 and 13 Principles 7, 8 and 9 IF-EU-110a.1 (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered under (2) emissions-limiting 305-1 235 regulations, and (3) emissions-reporting regulations TR-RA-110a.1 Gross global Scope 1 emissions 305-1 235 TR-AF-110a.1 FN-CB-410a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of environmental, social, and governance 103-2 90 (ESG) factors in credit analysis Energy resource planning SDG 7 and 13 IF-EU-000.D Total electricity generated, percentage by major energy source, percentage in 120 regulated markets IF-EU-110a.3 Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 103-2 90, 123 TR-RA-110a.2 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against those targets Physical impacts of climate change SDG 11 and 13 IF-RE-450a.2 Description of climate change risk exposure analysis, degree of systematic portfolio 103-2 90, 75-78 exposure, and strategies for mitigating risks IF-WU-450a.4 Description of efforts to identify and manage risks and opportunities related to the 103-2 90 impact of climate change on distribution and wastewater infrastructure Biodiversity SDG 14 and 15 304-3 91 Resource efficiency and waste Energy management SDG 9 and 13 Principles 7, 8 and 9 IF-RE-130a.2 (1) Total energy consumed by portfolio area with data coverage, (2) percentage grid 302-1 234 management electricity, and (3) percentage renewable, by property subsector TC-TL-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, (3) percentage renewable 302-1 234 IF-WU-130a.1 CG-MR-130a.1 HC-DY-130a.1 HC-DR-130a.1 TR-RA-110a.3 Total fuel consumed, percentage renewable 302-1 233-234 TR-AF-110a.3 Fuel consumed by (1) road transport, percentage (a) natural gas and (b) renewable, 302-1 233-234 and (2) air transport, percentage (a) alternative and (b) sustainable IF-RE-130a.5 Description of how building energy management considerations are integrated into 103-2 92 property investment analysis and operational strategy IF-RE-410a.3 Discussion of approach to measuring, incentivizing, and improving sustainability 103-2 92 impacts of tenants Water management SDG 6 and 15 IF-WU-000.B Total water sourced, percentage by source type 303-3 233 IF-WU-440a.1 Total water sourced from regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress, 303-3 233 percentage purchased from a third party IF-RE-140a.2 (1) Total water withdrawn by portfolio area with data coverage and (2) percentage in 303-3 233 regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress, by property subsector IF-EU-140a.1 (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, percentage of each in regions 303-3 and 303-5 233 TC-ES-140a.1 with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress IF-RE-140a.4 Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices to 303-1 92 mitigate those risks 103-2 IF-WU-440a.3 Discussion of strategies to manage risks associated with the quality and availability of 303-1 111-112 water resources 103-2 Water distribution network SDG 6 IF-WU-140a.2 Volume of non-revenue real water losses 111-112 efficiency IF-WU-420a.2 Customer water savings from efficiency measures, by market 111-112 IF-WU-000.A Number of: (1) residential, (2) commercial, and (3) industrial customers served, by 111-112 service provided IF-WU-000.C Total water delivered to: (1) residential, (2) commercial, (3) industrial, and (4) all 111-112 other customers IF-WU-000.E Length of (1) water mains and (2) sewer pipe 111-112 Wastewater management SDG 6 IF-WU-000.D Average volume of wastewater treated per day, by (1) sanitary sewer, (2) stormwater, 111-112 and (3) combined sewer IF-WU-140b.2 Discussion of strategies to manage effluents of emerging concern 303-2 111-112 103-2 Waste and hazardous materials SDG 12 IF-EU-150a.1 Amount of coal combustion residuals (CCR) generated, percentage recycled 306-2 120 management TC-TL-440a.1 (1) Materials recovered through take back programs, percentage of recovered 306-2 231-232 materials that were (2) reused, (3) recycled, and (4) landfilled TC-ES-150a.1 Amount of hazardous waste from manufacturing, percentage recycled 306-2 231-232 TC-ES-410a.1 Weight of end-of-life products and e-waste recovered, percentage recycled 306-2 231-232 HC-DY-150a.1 Total amount of medical waste, percentage (a) incinerated, (b) recycled or treated, 306-2 231-232 and (c) landfilled HC-DY-150a.2 Total amount of: (1) hazardous and (2) nonhazardous pharmaceutical waste, 306-2 231-232 percentage (a) incinerated, (b) recycled or treated, and (c) landfilled Materials SDG 12 TC-ES-440a.1 Description of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materials 103-2 103 Workplace experience and future Employee engagement SDG 8 Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 TC-ES-000.C Number of employees 102-7 239 of work TR-RA-000.E TR-AF-000.C Number of employees, number of truck drivers 102-7 239 CG-MR-310a.2 (1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for in-store employees 401-1 240 HC-DY-330a.1 (1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for: (a) physicians, (b) non-physician 401-1 240 health care practitioners, and (c) all other employees HC-DY-330a.2 Description of talent recruitment and retention efforts for health care practitioners 103-2 94-98 227 https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles 228 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT GRI STANDARDS PAGE NUMBER MATERIALITY THEMES MATERIAL TOPICS RELEVANT UN SDG UNGC PRINCIPLES SASB ACCOUNTING METRICS DISCLOSURES OR RESPONSE Workplace experience and future Training and education SDG 8 Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 404-1 and 404-2 242-243 of work Occupational health and safety SDG 8 IF-EU-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate, and (3) near miss frequency 403-9 97 TR-RA-320a.1 rate (NMFR) TC-ES-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) and (2) near miss frequency rate (NMFR) for 403-9 97 (a) direct employees and (b) contract employees IF-EN-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) and (2) fatality rate for (a) direct employees 403-9 97 and (b) contract employees Non-discrimination SDG 8, 5 and 10 CG-MR-330a.1 Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group representation for (1) management and 102-7 240 (2) all other employees TC-SI-330a.3 Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group representation for (1) management, (2) 102-7 240 technical staff, and (3) all other employees Child labor SDG 8 408-1 No cases filed against Ayala group for child labor. Forced labor SDG 8 p. 97 409-1 No cases filed against Ayala group for forced labor. p. 97 FN-CB-240a.1 (1) Number and (2) amount of loans outstanding qualified to programs designed to 115 Customer experience and Product and service quality and SDG 3, 4, 6, 9, 11 and 12 Principles 1 and 2 promote small business and community development protection safety TC-TL-550a.2 Discussion of systems to provide unimpeded service during service interruptions 103-2 116 TC-TL-000.A Number of wireless subscribers 116 TC-TL-000.C Number of broadband subscribers 116 IF-WU-240a.4 Discussion of impact of external factors on customer affordability of water, including 103-2 111-112 the economic conditions of the service territory IF-WU-250a.2 Discussion of strategies to manage drinking water contaminants of emerging concern 103-2 111-112 IF-EN-160a.2 Discussion of processes to assess and manage environmental risks associated with 103-2 92 project design, siting, and construction HC-DY-000.A Number of (1) facilities and (2) beds, by type 108 HC-DR-250a.1 Description of efforts to reduce the occurrence of compromised drugs within the 103-2 103 supply chain HC-DR-000.A Number of pharmacy locations 108 SV-ED-260a.1 Graduation rate 110-111 SV-ED-260a.3 Job placement rate 110-111 SV-ED-000.A Number of students enrolled 110-111 TC-ES-000.A Number of manufacturing facilities 121 TR-RA-000.A Number of carloads transported 117 TC-SI-230a.1 (1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage involving personally identifiable 418-1 101 Customer privacy SDG 9 information (PII), (3) number of users affected FN-CB-230a.2 Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks 103-2 101 TC-TL-230a.2 Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks, including 103-2 101 TC-SI-230a.2 use of third-party cybersecurity standards TC-TL-220a.1 Description of policies and practices relating to behavioral advertising and customer 103-2 101 privacy HC-DY-230a.4 Description of policies and practices to secure customers’ protected health 103-2 101 HC-DR-230a.1 information (PHI) records and other personally identifiable information (PII) SV-ED-230a.2 Description of policies and practices relating to collection, usage, and retention of 103-2 101 student information 401-1 101 Security practices SDG 8 205-1 195-205 Equitable business practices Business ethics SDG 16 Principles 1,2, and 10 201-1 237 Economic value distribution SDG 8 308-2 There were no Supply chain sustainability SDG 12 414-2 reported cases of negative environmental impacts in our companies' supply chain. p. 103 Community engagement SDG 1, 10 and 11 FN-CB-240a.4 Number of participants in financial literacy initiatives for unbanked, underbanked, or 413-1 104 underserved customers https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles 229 230 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT PERFORMANCE HAZARDOUS WASTE CHEMICAL WASTE 2017 2018 2019 GENERATED BY IN KG 2017 2018 2019 COMPANY IN KG IMI 35,478.0 130,796.6 106,965.2 INDICES (306-4) AC Motors 430,153.0 276,906.8 217,549.8 iPeople 27,842.8 AC Energy 416,832.8 1,137,100.7 Manila Water 160.0 233.1 337.1 AC Health 3,683.8 5,943.5 AC Infra 1,379.9 74,672.5 60,608.7 TOTAL 12,263.0 42,809.0 135,145.1 Ayala Land 97,448.2 112,761.1 1,301,588.0 GREASE WASTE IN KG 2017 2018 2019 MATERIALS & NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE Globe 361,313.9 449,779.6 528,991.6 IMI 757,659.0 732,324.3 970,395.8 AC Energy 200.0 MATERIALS USED AND RESIDUALS IN TONNES 2017 2018 2019 WEIGHT BY TYPE IN 2017 2018 2019 iPeople 27,842.8 Globe 12,263.0 6,067.0 898.0 TONNES (301-1) iPeople 1.9 77.5 Manila Water 143,027.5 67,929.2 27,715.5 Rebar/steel 165,625.0 171,755.7 196,031.0 IMI 30,367.0 29,522.0 AC Health 315.0 29.0 TOTAL 1,790,981.5 2,134,890.1 4,277,736.2 Consumed cement 355,876.0 277,718.1 249,660.0 AC Infra 61.2 77.6 Manila Water 6,375.0 7,720.0 IMI Global sites in China, Mexico and Bulgaria started reporting in 2017. Ayala Land 16,867.0 25,866.7 20,948.4 TOTAL 521,501.0 449,473.8 445,691.0 TOTAL 12,263.0 42,809.0 38,340.0 AC Energy, AC Health and IMI Global sites in Czech Republic, Serbia, Globe 155.5 150.9 153.6 Japan (VIA), and London (STI) and Cebu (Phils) started reporting in 2018. Rebar consumption 1.2 1.0 1.2 IMI 151.9 478.8 770.1 intensity EXPIRED MEDICINES 2017 2018 2019 (Tonnes per million Manila Water 156.4 BATTERIES IN KG 2017 2018 2019 pesos revenue) AC Health 231.6 5,341.5 TOTAL 17,174.4 26,874.5 22,212.5 AC Motors 14,922.0 34,585.2 53.0 Cement consumption 2.5 1.7 1.5 intensity Residual construction 1,546,272.0 1,460,284.5 413,914 AC Energy 4,436.5 10,573.1 (Tonnes per million waste from Ayala Land MEDICAL WASTES 2017 2018 2019 pesos revenue) AC Infra 474.1 1,568.5 This table refers to the non-hazardous wastes generated by Ayala AC Health 3,452.2 602.0 This table refers to the materials used by the Makati Development companies which can no longer be recycled, reused or composted Ayala Land 19,927.1 11,602.1 575,526.0 Corporation, Ayala Land’s construction arm. Globe 116,298.0 150,720.0 448,269.0 Increase in residuals is primarily due to inclusion of iPeople, BUSTED FLUORESCENT AC Health and AC Infrastructure in 2018. 2017 2018 2019 IMI 3,208.0 4,659.0 1,043.5 LAMPS IN KG NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATED IN 2017 2018 2019 Manila Water 7,533.5 2,047.2 3,236.8 AC Energy 105.8 539.6 COMPOSTABLE AND TONNES (306-2) 2017 2018 2019 FOOD IN TONNES TOTAL 161,888.6 208,524.1 1,040,269.8 AC Infra 3,730.5 4,169.5 Recyclables 6,363.2 8,735.9 11,793.5 Ayala Land 14,229.6 16,626.9 14,626.0 ELECTRONIC WASTES Ayala Land 52,626.5 16,406.2 Residual 17,174.4 26,874.5 22,212.5 This table refers to the non-hazardous wastes generated by Ayala 2017 2018 2019 companies that can be composted, including food waste. IN KG Globe 1,150.7 Compostable and Food 14,229.6 15,346.8 14,626.0 AC Motors 0.1 Waste HAZARDOUS WASTE IMI 330.0 1,182.0 1,893.6 TOTAL 37,767.2 50,957.2 48,632.0 AC Energy 625.0 1,681.0 HAZARDOUS WASTE Manila Water 16,564.0 7,449.0 558.2 Waste productivity 8.9 7.6 10.0 GENERATED BY TYPE 2017 2018 2019 AC Infra 153.5 58.0 (Million pesos revenue IN KG (306-4) TOTAL 69,520.5 28,873.5 8,311.6 per ton non-hazardous Used Oil 523,748.4 726,600.3 1,347,372.4 Ayala Land 4,399.8 2,349.4 716,267.5 waste generated) Globe 224,290.7 288,242.6 77,103.9 CONTAMINATED This table refers to the non-hazardous wastes generated by Ayala Electronic Wastes 402,444.0 574,099.1 1,151,487.3 2017 2018 2019 WASTES companies (see reporting companies below) IMI 172,460.0 282,796.5 356,435.0 Used Batteries 161,888.6 208,524.1 1,040,269.8 Globa 230.0 RECYCLABLES IN Manila Water 1,140.0 27.6 2017 2018 2019 Chemical waste 35,638.0 131,029.7 135,145.0 IMI 2,793.0 27,795.3 66,774.1 TONNES TOTAL 402,444.0 574,099.1 1,151,487.3 iPeople 11.2 202.1 Manila Water 232.03 1,762.0 Grease Waste 12,263.0 42,809.0 38,340.0 AC Health 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 2,793.0 28,027.3 68,766.1 Contaminated Waste 2,793.0 28,027.3 68,766.1 USED OIL IN KG 2017 2018 2019 AC Infrastructure 41.3 37.8 AC Motors 415,231.0 210,702.5 216,995.8 Ayala Land 4,899.2 6,137.9 7,894.2 Busted Fluorescent 69,520.5 28,873.5 8,311.6 OTHER HAZARDOUS Lamps 2017 2018 2019 WASTES AC Energy 394,617.0 1,039,235.3 Globe 15.8 20.7 18.0 Medical Waste 3,452.2 602.0 AC Motors 31,619.0 501.0 IMI 1,448.2 2,524.8 2,215.3 AC Infra 1,226.4 10,029.5 54,211.5 Expired Medicines 231.6 5,341.5 AC Energy 17,048.5 84,871.7 Manila Water 1,426.2 Ayala Land 20,494.8 82,403.5 9,794.5 TOTAL 6,363.2 8,735.9 11,793.5 Other Hazardous 582,686.0 391,243.2 482,100.4 AC Infra 60,380.4 659.2 Wastes Globe 8,462.2 4,750.0 1,340.0 Recyclable construction 466,176.0 457,592.7 893,852 TOTAL 1,790,981.5 2,134,890.1 4,277,736.2 IMI 14,204.0 17,534.9 12,105.2 IMI 529,186.0 237,193.0 395,657.2 waste from Ayala Land This table refers to the non-hazardous wastes generated by Ayala Other hazardous wastes include industry-specific wastes Manila Water 64,130.0 6,563.0 13,690.1 Manila Water 53,500.0 45,002.3 411.3 companies that can be recycled or re-used. such as spent resins for water treatment plants of Manila Water and IMI. TOTAL 523,748.4 726,600.3 1,347,372.4 TOTAL 582,686.0 391,243.2 482,100.4 231 232 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT WATER WATER CONSUMPTION DIESEL CONSUMPTION COAL CONSUMPTION ELECTRICITY/ 2017 2018 2019 FROM WATER IN LITERS OF AC ENERGY'S INDIRECT 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 UTILITIES IN CUBIC THERMAL PLANTS IN ENERGY IN METERS (303-1) AC Motors 62,059.9 181,840.0 139,921.1 TONNES GIGAJOULES AC Motors 38,818.0 73,594.1 66,578.3 AC Energy 596,865.0 2,762,126.8 43,665,929.0 SLTEC 1,239,802.0 837,305.8 782,489.3 AC Motors 26,708.0 26,644 22,892 iPeople 43,933.0 79,148.3 141,027.4 AC Infra 74,891.7 72,835.9 120,747.2 GMCP 2,867,062.0 3,161,711.0 2,569,563.9 iPeople 9,811.9 15,849.9 46,813.2 AC Energy 161,499.0 232,439.4 688,370.3 Ayala Land 7,117,510.9 10,812,952.0 8,865,510.0 TOTAL 4,106,864.0 3,999,016.8 3,352,053.2 AC Energy (through 11,788 88,686 Globe 9,922,205.6 9,371,930.5 10,864,543.9 WESM) AC Health 21,179.1 125,734.4 374,201.4 ENERGY AC Health 4,912.2 8,567.2 14,033.4 AC Infra 80,950.0 80,938.5 69,599.2 IMI 98,701.0 113,400.3 129,815.2 CONSUMPTION FROM Manila Water 1,246,410.0 1,210,377.8 598,670.9 COMBUSTION OF AC Infra 178,059.4 182,478.9 178,125.7 Ayala Land 12,868,284.0 14,235,297.0 11,880,509.9 2017 2018 2019 COAL BY AC ENERGY'S TOTAL 19,118,644.1 24,525,463.2 64,385,137.2 Ayala Land 1,346,427 1,460,073 1,690,906.6 BPI 387,087.1 381,442.6 373,285.3 THERMAL PLANTS IN GIGAJOULES BPI 175,797.0 180,228 166,539 Globe 104,129.9 383,261.2 395,737.2 ENERGY SLTEC 22,437,639.0 15,002,349.9 9,467,050.4 Globe 1,736,497.2 1,743,918.1 2,169,180.7 IMI 1,078,175.0 2,322,189.3 1,446,894.0 CONSUMPTION 2017 2018 2019 FROM DIESEL IN GMCP 47,162,478.0 52,947,077.7 44,647,858.3 IMI 452,443.2 452,443.2 586,144.0 TOTAL 14,784,055.1 17,914,044.9 GIGAJOULES 15,436,203.0 TOTAL 69,600,117.0 67,949,427.6 54,114,908.7 Manila Water 805,295.1 822,878.1 879,821.1 AC Motors 2,376.5 6,963.3 5,358.1 Water Intensity (cubic 33.46 35.53 28.79 Computed based on actual net heat rate of coal used in each plant. HCX 370.8 411.2 926.7 meters/million pesos AC Energy 22,856.1 105,771.5 1,672,121.5 SLTEC have lower energy consumption due to shutdown of its Unit 2 revenue) boiler in Q3 of 2018. AffinityX 626.3 858.0 370.9 AC Infra 2,867.9 2,789.1 4,623.8 Water Productivity 0.03 0.03 0.03 TOTAL ENERGY 4,736,948.4 4,906,137.9 5,844,439.5 Ayala Land 272,554.5 414,065.8 339,491.4 ENERGY CONSUMED CONSUMPTION (million pesos revenue/ cubic meters) FROM FUEL FROM PURCHASED Globe 379,956.0 358,884.1 416,041.5 COMBUSTION IN 2017 2018 2019 ELECTRICITY IN This table refers to the water consumed by Ayala companies from IMI 3,779.6 4,342.5 4,971.1 GIGAJOULES GIGAJOULES utility providers, including Manila Water. Manila Water’s consumption is (302-1) reported under Water Abstraction from Natural Sources Manila Water 47,729.4 46,349.6 22,925.2 Diesel 732,119.9 939,166.0 2,410,378.8 ENERGY CONSUMED TOTAL 732,119.9 939,166.0 2,465,532.7 OUTSIDE THE WATER ABSTRACTION Gasoline 149,059.7 153,498.1 192,431.4 2017 2018 2019 ORGANIZATION IN FROM NATURAL GIGA JOULES (302-2) 2017 2018 2019 Sub-bituminous coal 69,600,117.0 67,949,427.6 54,114,908.7 SOURCES IN MILLION GASOLINE AC Motors (initial fuel 5,238.5 2,534.3 5,597.8 CUBIC METERS (303-1) TOTAL DIRECT ENERGY 70,481,296.6 69,042,091.7 56,717,719.0 CONSUMPTION IN 2017 2018 2019 load of sold vehicles) Water abstracted from 89.0 85.2 93.2 LITERS CONSUMPTION ground water AC Energy(fuel of 5,590.9 12,829.5 9,002.5 AC Motors 242,132.6 140,521.7 103,179.2 Total Fuel Intensity 180.3 154.8 123.8 outsourced fleet) Water abstracted from 768.4 779.5 1,000.8 (Gigajoules/million surface water AC Energy 8,660.0 15,407.3 1,964,091.3 pesos revenue) AC Health (fuel of 0.0 1,499.3 0.0 outsourced fleet) Total water abstracted 857.4 864.8 1,094.0 AC Infra 2,933.2 2,917.7 6,674.8 from natural sources PURCHASED AC Infra (fuel of 826.4 2,283.6 21,525.4 Ayala Land 213,392.9 333,654.0 297,446.1 ELECTRICITY 2017 2018 2019 outsourced fleet) Percent abstracted from 10% 10% 9% IN KILOWATTGlobe 3,656,970.6 3,726,733.4 3,044,116.9 groundwater HOURS Ayala Land (electricity 1,477,827.7 1,735,214.1 1,614,517.0 IMI 46,025.0 43,598.9 57,751.6 consumption of tenants) Percent abstracted from 90% 90% 91% AC Motors 7,418,881.0 7,401,169.5 6,358,871.7 surface water Manila Water 130,613.0 165,953.7 189,858.0 BPI (fuel of leased 29,476.1 13,607.8 0.0 iPeople 2,725,524.0 4,402,754.9 13,003,678.9 armored vehicles) TOTAL 4,300,727.3 4,428,786.8 5,663,117.9 AC Energy 3,274,373.0 3,274,373.0 24,635,067.7 IMI (fuel of outsoured 36,266.4 25,708.1 30,640.4 ENERGY The increase in diesel and gasoline consumption in 2019 is primarily (houseload and fleet) due to AC Energy’s acquisition of AC Energy PH, which controls 6 diesel purchased through TOTAL ENERGY plants. WESM) Manila Water (fuel of 22,888.7 23,016.2 17,236.1 CONSUMED WITHIN desludging trucks) 2017 2018 2019 AC Health 1,364,502.4 2,379,785.0 3,898,179.5 THE ORGANIZATION IN TOTAL 1,578,114.6 1,816,692.9 1,698,519.2 ENERGY GIGAJOULES (302-1) AC Infra 49,460,939.0 50,688,587.1 49,479,357.0 CONSUMPTION 2017 2018 2019 Diesel 732,119.9 939,166.0 2,465,532.7 FROM GASOLINE IN Ayala Land 374,007,591.0 405,575,881.4 469,696,282.0 ELECTRICITY GIGAJOULES CONSUMED Gasoline 149,059.7 153,498.1 196,279.0 BPI 48,832,505.6 50,063,314.7 46,260,819 AC Motors 8,392.1 4,870.4 3,576.1 OUTSIDE THE 2017 2018 2019 Sub-bituminous coal 69,600,117.0 67,949,427.6 54,114,908.7 Globe 482,360,321.0 484,421,708.0 602,550,201.8 ORGANIZATION IN AC Energy 300.1 534.0 68,073.8 KILOWATT-HOURS Purchased electricity 4,736,948.4 5,080,313.2 5,844,439.5 IMI 125,678,679.6 174,060,698.4 162,817,770.5 AC Infra 101.7 101.1 231.3 Ayala Land 410,507,701.0 482,003,903.0 448,476,945.1 TOTAL DIRECT ENERGY 75,218,245.0 74,122,404.9 62,621,159.9 Manila Water 223,693,094.7 228,577,259.6 244,394,741.2 CONSUMPTION Ayala Land 7,396.0 11,564.2 10,309.2 HCX 103,000.0 114,230.0 257,429.0 Total Energy Intensity 162.2 140.8 112.1 Globe 126,747.6 129,165.5 105,506.6 (Gigajoules/million AffinityX 173,968.0 238,336.0 103,023.0 IMI 1,595.2 1,511.1 2,001.6 pesos revenue) TOTAL 1,315,819,006.3 1,411,198,097.5 1,623,455,421.6 Manila Water 4,526.9 5,751.8 6,580.3 PURCHASED Total Energy 0.01 0.01 0.01 TOTAL 149,059.7 153,498.1 196,279.0 ELECTRICITY Productivity (million pesos revenue/ Electricity 2.9 2.7 2.9 gigajoules) Intensity in MWh per million peso revenue 233 234 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT DIESEL CONSUMED GASOLINE CONSUMED TOTAL GHG GHG EMISSIONS OUTSIDE THE OUTSIDE THE EMISSIONS BASED ON EQUITY IN 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 ORGANIZATION IN ORGANIZATION IN IN TONNES CO2E TONNES CO2E 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 LITERS LITERS SCOPE 2 INDIRECT SCOPE 2 INDIRECT ENERGY EMISSIONS ENERGY EMISSIONS AC Motors 135,489.8 64,160.1 71,169.6 AC Motors 1,445.1 2,233.9 82,877.7 (305-2) (305-2) AC Energy 146,000.0 310,244.4 214,681.2 AC Energy 27,386.7 22,550.0 AC Motors 4,444.5 5,365.9 4,855.1 AC Motors 4,444.5 5,365.9 4,855.1 AC Health 39,154.0 AC Infra 913.2 43,963.0 iPeople 1,644.0 3,135.6 9,324.8 iPeople 1,644.0 3,135.6 3,123.8 AC Infra 20,753.9 19,843.4 562,116.0 IMI 35,000.0 63,473.0 32,700.3 AC Energy 765.5 16,218.4 AC Energy 765.5 8,703.1 BPI 769,741.9 355,354.8 TOTAL 37,358.3 137,056.5 138,128.1 AC Health 823.1 1,717.1 2,788.5 AC Health 823.1 1,717.1 2,788.5 IMI 915,385.0 476,423.0 770,550.3 AC Infra 29,385.1 30,181.5 35,241.9 AC Infra 29,385.1 30,181.5 12,585.5 Manila Water 597,717.4 601,046.2 450,105.7 Ayala Land 210,931.0 242,275.7 258,606.0 Ayala Land 99,348.5 113,845.4 114,821.1 TOTAL 2,585,087.9 1,866,225.8 2,068,622.8 BPI 28,700.6 35,860.7 32,947.0 BPI 13,833.7 17,435.5 16,012.2 Globe 271,458.8 352,389.6 435,073.8 Globe 84,152.2 108,994.1 134,568.3 EMISSIONS IMI 89,508.4 123,966.0 102,436.1 IMI 45,649.3 63,222.7 52,242.4 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS Manila Water 157,058.6 164,014.3 173,750.6 Manila Water 81,042.2 84,303.4 89,307.8 GHG EMISSIONS IN BASED ON EQUITY IN TONNES CO2E TONNES CO2E HCX 62.1 81.4 1,022.8 HCX 62.1 81.4 1,022.8 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 SCOPE 1 DIRECT SCOPE 1 DIRECT ENERGY EMISSIONS ENERGY EMISSIONS AffinityX 104.9 169.7 183.3 AffinityX 104.9 169.7 183.3 (305-1) (305-1) AC Motors 1,131.3 769.1 415.8 AC Motors 1,131.3 769.1 491.9 TOTAL 794,121.2 959,923.1 1,072,448.4 TOTAL 360,489.7 429,217.7 440,214.0 AC Energy 7,359,204.3 6,949,775.3 5,479,081.7 AC Energy 1,790,232.1 1,603,275.9 967,724.7 Scope 2 Intensity 1.7 1.9 1.9 Scope 2 Intensity 0.8 0.9 0.8 (tonnes CO2e per MPhp (tonnes CO2e per MPhp AC Infra 147.0 198.2 334.3 AC Infra 51.4 69.4 334.3 revenue) revenue) Our Scope 2 emissions include the indirect energy emissions from the purchase of electricity from the national grid. Ayala Land 89,171.6 31,388.1 66,603.0 Ayala Land 41,999.8 14,749.3 29,571.7 Location-based grid emission factors used for local facilities are based on the Department of Energy (Philippines). Factors used for global sites are based Globe 38,531.8 36,167.2 36,574.2 Globe 11,944.8 11,186.5 11,312.4 on the GHG Protocol Corporate Accouting and Reporting Standard. The gases reported include carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide. IMI 369.0 402.9 406.7 IMI 188.2 205.5 207.4 TOTAL GHG GHG EMISSIONS EMISSIONS IN BASED ON EQUITY IN Manila Water 3,702.1 3,620.5 4,623.7 Manila Water 1,910.3 1,860.9 2,376.6 TONNES CO2E TONNES CO2E 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 SCOPE 3 OTHER SCOPE 3 OTHER AC Energy (renewables) (196,224.2) (342,070.6) AC Energy (renewables) (92,192.6) (115,669.7) INDIRECT EMISSIONS INDIRECT EMISSIONS (305-3) (305-3) TOTAL 7,492,257.0 7,022,321.2 5,588,039.4 TOTAL 1,847,457.9 1,632,116.5 1,012,019.1 AC Motors 367.2 177.0 305.3 AC Motors 367.2 177.0 305.3 Scope 1 Intensity 19.2 15.7 12.2 Scope 1 Intensity 4.73 3.66 2.21 AC Energy 12,472,719.3 12,040,202.9 6,129,392.9 AC Energy 2,597,166.9 2,452,032.1 547,464.9 (tonnes CO2e per MPhp (tonnes CO2e per MPhp revenue) revenue) AC Health 0.0 104.9 0.0 AC Health 0.0 104.9 0.0 As a holding company, Ayala Corporation’s greenhouse gas emissions are reported based on equity ownership. By doing so, we are able to make informed investment decisions based on the carbon footprint of the assets we own. AC Infra 0.0 153.0 336.1 AC Infra 0.0 153.0 203.3 Our Scope 1 emissions include the direct combustion of various diesel and gasoline among our companies’ generator sets and company-owned vehicles, Ayala Land 266,780.1 295,756.4 256,690.3 Ayala Land 125,653.4 138,975.9 113,970.5 as well as, the combustion of coal in AC Energy’s thermal plants. BPI 1,958.7 952.9 0.0 BPI 944.1 463.3 0.0 Standards used for the computations are based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Accouting and Reporting Standard. The gases reported include carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide. Globe 1,610.4 0.0 0.0 Globe 499.2 0.0 0.0 Manila Water 1,652.9 1,610.8 1,488.1 Manila Water 852.9 828.0 764.9 IMI 2,532.7 1,790.7 1,721.9 IMI 1,291.7 913.3 878.2 TOTAL 12,747,621.2 12,340,748.7 6,389,934.6 TOTAL 2,726,775.4 2,593,647.5 663,587.0 Our Scope 3 emissions include the equivalent fuel combustion emissions of diesel and gasoline of outsourced and third-party vehicles, as well as, the equivalent fuel consumed in the transport of coal by AC Energy’s thermal plants. This also covers the electricity consumption of tenants of Ayala Land properties. Standards used for the computations are based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Accouting and Reporting Standard. The gases reported include carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide. 235 236 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (201-1) ECONOMIC VALUE EMPLOYEE WAGES PAYMENTS TO GROUWPWIDE GENERATED 2017 2018 2019 AND BENEFITS 2017 2018 2019 GOVERNMENT 2017 2018 2019 ECONOMIC 2017 2018 2019 (PHP MILLION) (PHP MILLION) (PHP MILLION) PERFORMANCE AC Motors 33,698.38 23,156.29 27,413.16 AC Motors 1,416.73 671.25 639.30 AC Motors 206.50 261.21 311.68 Economic value 462,700.65 515,972.87 560,157.49 generated iPeople 34.96 48.45 3,617.16 iPeople 47.05 47.19 1,197.71 iPeople 0.37 1.01 54.28 Operating cost 230,327.83 236,060.54 231,634.98 AC Energy 2,215.64 6,547.66 7,067.55 AC Energy 115.00 176.86 1,107.90 AC Energy 167.86 59.72 302.70 Employee wages and 47,062.23 50,593.97 57,593.13 benefits AC Health 16.30 34.39 38.99 AC Health 34.03 38.45 56.46 AC Health 2.79 6.32 0.70 Payments to providers 59,473.71 68,573.00 83,850.08 AC Infra 6.83 22.82 50.81 AC Infra 24.81 28.57 38.10 AC Infra 18.34 4.44 7.92 of capital Payments to 39,072.07 41,635.60 56,750.84 Ayala Land 142,297.00 163,746.80 168,793.70 Ayala Land 7,007.24 6,485.60 6,766.70 Ayala Land 13,296.10 15,675.90 18,096.20 government BPI 71,020.00 78,522.00 94,300.00 BPI 13,652.65 15,161.00 17,350.00 BPI 13,578.03 16,358.00 23,070.00 Community investments 177.62 227.06 531.34 Globe 137,550.40 151,910.07 168,250.55 Globe 12,236.30 13,163.66 15,364.19 Globe 8,020.10 5,328.72 10,901.67 Economic value retained 86,587.20 118,882.71 129,797.14 IMI 55,028.26 69,731.03 64,277.48 IMI 9,319.86 11,310.67 11,248.93 IMI 682.25 657.15 524.47 PARENT COMPANY ECONOMIC 2017 2018 2019 Manila Water 18,877.51 20,266.82 22,273.11 Manila Water 2,081.64 2,342.74 2,355.24 Manila Water 3,082.86 3,237.64 3,346.47 PERFORMANCE HCX 208.69 202.53 210.58 HCX 123.15 118.56 116.96 HCX 1.85 1.67 8.74 Economic value 259,656.58 293,487.79 309,565.00 generated AffinityX 1,746.67 1,784.01 2,191.65 AffinityX 1,003.76 1,049.42 1,176.12 AffinityX 15.02 43.81 37.85 Operating cost 168,029.26 189,661.58 187,297.05 AC Ventures 1,642.75 AC Ventures 175.51 AC Ventures 18.39 Employee wages and 21,274.78 23,786.59 28,694.33 benefits TOTAL 462,700.65 515,972.87 560,157.49 TOTAL 47,062.23 50,593.97 57,593.13 TOTAL 39,072.07 41,635.60 56,750.84 Payments to providers 20,025.44 24,719.56 31,366.00 of capital OPERATING COSTS PAYMENTS TO PAYMENTS TO Payments to 50,492.09 60,866.93 71,026.44 2017 2018 2019 (PHP MILLION) PROVIDERS OF COMMUNITIES 2017 2018 2019 government 2017 2018 2019 CAPITAL (PHP MILLION) AC Motors 31,148.60 21,486.71 26,006.66 (PHP MILLION) Community investments 254.89 565.30 547.60 AC Motors iPeople 82.60 50.94 1,546.35 AC Motors 144.81 (60.78) 632.34 Economic value retained (419.88) (6,112.17) (9,366.42) iPeople 0.20 0.03 275.24 AC Energy 1,134.34 3,194.80 3,994.59 iPeople 200.19 AC Energy 4.15 2.53 AC Health 82.45 92.61 117.65 AC Energy 40.34 165.73 2,249.06 AC Health 1.10 AC Infra 79.62 48.98 50.81 AC Health AC Infra Ayala Land 76,931.36 93,611.70 83,453.00 AC Infra Ayala Land 52.67 76.10 53.50 BPI 13,380.13 16,106.00 17,240.00 Ayala Land 15,041.67 17,079.90 19,921.30 BPI 87.21 24.00 110.00 Globe 60,458.40 38,852.60 36,961.69 BPI 22,226.30 27,761.00 35,650.00 Globe 5.00 77.83 66.93 IMI 41,979.81 56,722.25 52,705.53 Globe 17,538.90 19,274.00 19,920.75 IMI 0.65 0.66 0.10 Manila Water 4,481.38 5,211.61 7,078.42 IMI 768.65 519.62 907.65 Manila Water 31.84 44.27 21.03 HCX 6.93 87.75 73.83 Manila Water 3,679.95 3,792.87 4,325.43 HCX 0.02 AffinityX 562.21 594.59 850.51 HCX 0.19 AffinityX 0.04 0.00 0.00 AC Ventures 1,555.95 AffinityX 33.10 40.66 43.16 AC Ventures 0.91 TOTAL 230,327.83 236,060.54 231,634.98 AC Ventures 0.00 TOTAL 177.62 227.06 531.34 TOTAL 59,473.71 68,573.00 83,850.08 237 238 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT DIRECT EMPLOYEES 2017 2018 2019 TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES 2017 2018 2019 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER TOTAL JOBS 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 (401-1) GENERATED AC Motors 1,759 1,827 1,886 AC Motors 26 18 AC Motors 309 386 578 AC Motors 2,457 2,122 2,461 iPeople 1,297 1,610 2,721 iPeople 118 709 1,219 iPeople 213 417 558 iPeople 1,502 1,775 3,076 AC Energy 606 572 885 AC Energy 22 21 AC Energy 58 47 81 AC Energy 1,426 1,332 1,733 AC Health 1,093 2,710 2,095 AC Health 743 146 AC Health 90 455 793 AC Health 1,183 2,920 2,119 AC Infra 1,553 1,777 1,917 AC Infra 109 112 AC Infra 69 100 166 AC Infra 1,715 5,853 5,542 AFI 78 110 112 AFI 35 33 AFI 13 14 31 AFI 146 161 163 ALI 9,661 5,358 11,251 ALI 4,621 0 5,071 ALI 611 668 737 ALI 63,435 59,727 55,635 BPI 17,036 18,911 21,429 BPI 0 9 BPI 1,943 1,786 2,069 BPI 19,451 21,636 24,065 Globe 7,230 7,736 8,065 Globe* 24 20 17 Globe 155 678 605 Globe 15,403 11,761 11,490 IMI 16,748 16,698 17,215 IMI 340 791 IMI 5,541 6,381 9,057 IMI 17,315 18,093 18,323 Manila Water 2,022 2,233 2,412 Manila Water 115 115 Manila Water 186 362 292 Manila Water 2,427 2,893 2,608 AffinityX 564 531 645 AffinityX 86 25 AffinityX 31 35 193 AffinityX 583 531 645 HCX 113 141 119 HCX 19 7 HCX 35 158 55 HCX 124 151 124 Ayala Corporation 149 154 160 Ayala Corporation 2 4 Ayala Corporation 8 18 12 Ayala Corporation 202 210 268 AC Industrials 12 AC Industrials 0 AC Industrials 0 AC Industrials 12 AC Ventures 1,089 AC Ventures 12 AC Ventures 248 AC Ventures 1,328 TOTAL 60,009 60,368 72,013 TOTAL 4,763 2,226 7,600 TOTAL 9,262 11,505 15,475 TOTAL 127,369 129,165 129,592 This table includes headcount of permanent and temporary employees in Globe’s 2017 and 2018 data were corrected to align with groupwide This table includes direct employees who retired, ended their contracts, local and global operations. definition left voluntarily, and left involuntarily PERMANENT 2017 2018 2019 EMPLOYEES BY PERMANENT GENDER Male Female Male Female Male Female 2017 2018 2019 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES 2017 2018 2019 HEADCOUNT OF EMPLOYEES 2017 2018 2019 SUPPORT STAFF AC Motors 1,042 717 1,070 731 1,113 755 AC Motors 1,759 1,801 1,868 AC Motors 450 470 651 AC Motors 698 295 575 iPeople 481 816 349 552 637 865 iPeople 1,179 901 1,502 iPeople 444 478 731 iPeople 105 165 355 AC Energy 438 168 413 137 633 231 AC Energy 606 550 864 AC Energy 146 87 172 AC Energy 820 760 848 AC Health 606 487 590 1,377 605 1,344 AC Health 1,093 1,967 1,949 AC Health 23 931 1,142 AC Health 90 210 24 AC Infra 1,064 489 1,101 567 1,160 645 AC Infra 1,553 1,668 1,805 AC Infra 188 260 301 AC Infra 162 4,076 3,625 AFI 27 51 25 50 26 53 AFI 78 75 79 AFI 16 31 28 AFI 68 51 51 ALI 2,461 2,579 2,571 2,787 2,985 3,195 ALI 5,040 5,358 6,180 ALI 1,199 1,109 1,326 ALI 53,774 54,369 44,384 BPI 5,214 11,822 6,037 12,874 7,019 14,401 BPI 17,036 18,911 21,420 BPI 3,652 3,649 4,575 BPI 2,415 2,725 2,636 Globe 3,860 3,346 4,143 3,573 4,298 3,750 Globe 7,206 7,716 8,048 Globe 753 1,220 927 Globe 8,173 4,025 3,425 IMI 6,261 9,011 6,899 9,459 6,590 9,538 IMI 16,748 16,358 16,424 IMI 4,891 6,773 8,528 IMI 567 1,395 1,108 Manila Water 1,250 772 1,351 767 1,578 834 Manila Water 2,022 2,118 2,297 Manila Water 414 432 635 Manila Water 405 660 196 AffinityX 292 272 229 216 309 311 AffinityX 564 445 620 AffinityX 35 124 312 AffinityX 19 0 0 HCX 50 63 53 69 48 64 HCX 113 122 112 HCX 28 59 42 HCX 11 10 5 Ayala Corpo70 79 69 83 69 87 Ayala Corporation 149 152 156 Ayala Corporation 10 23 17 Ayala Corporation 53 56 108 ration AC Industrials 12 AC Industrials 8 AC Industrials 0 AC Industrials 7 5 AC Ventures 1,077 AC Ventures 439 AC Ventures 239 AC Ventures 533 544 TOTAL 55,246 58,142 64,413 TOTAL 12,249 15,646 19,834 TOTAL 67,360 68,797 57,579 TOTAL 23,116 30,672 24,900 33,242 27,610 36,622 This table includes the support staff from the group-wide supply chain in local and global operations No data available from IMI sites in Germany and United Kingdom for 2017 and 2018. No data available from IMI site in Suzhou China in 2019 239 240 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2017 2018 2019 TOTAL TRAINING AVERAGE TRAINING PERMANENT 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 HOURS (404-1) HOURS (404-1) EMPLOYEES BY AGE Below 30 30-50 Over 50 Below 30 30-50 Over 50 Below 30 30-50 Over 50 years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old AC Motors 29,249.00 49,979.00 48,470.00 AC Motors 16.63 27.75 25.95 AC Motors 863 800 96 858 824 119 872 870 126 iPeople 37,605.50 68,485.50 50,432.50 iPeople 29.40 76.01 33.58 iPeople 700 465 132 370 401 130 420 763 319 AC Energy 7,447.00 18,171.00 35,948.00 AC Energy 12.29 33.04 41.61 AC Energy 197 359 50 156 350 44 244 491 129 AC Health 4,332.00 10,682.00 59,750.03 AC Health 3.96 5.43 30.66 AC Health 636 441 16 781 612 17 1,005 922 22 AC Infra 10,719.00 43,754.50 945,953.25 AC Infra 6.90 26.23 524.07 AC Infra 383 959 211 375 1,058 235 445 1,108 252 AFI 1,638.00 1,504.50 1,678.00 AFI 21.00 20.06 21.24 AFI 23 43 12 17 42 16 20 43 16 ALI 132,337.29 134,683.30 204,755.00 ALI 26.26 25.14 33.13 ALI 2,144 2,552 344 2,316 2,739 303 2,733 3,071 376 BPI 342,344.00 277,679.00 881,226.00 BPI 20.10 14.68 41.14 BPI 8,484 7,494 1,058 9,543 8,206 1,162 11,290 8,895 1,235 Globe 124,602.00 193,203.00 416,370.00 Globe 17.29 25.04 51.74 Globe 1,609 5,304 293 1,908 5,490 318 1,956 5,707 385 IMI 938,925.00 935,969.00 1,149,003.73 IMI 56.06 57.22 69.96 IMI* 6,871 7,594 807 6,417 8,796 1,145 5,585 9,198 1,345 Manila Water 43,854.00 45,006.50 42,476.70 Manila Water 21.69 21.25 18.49 Manila Water 600 907 515 646 968 504 660 1,147 490 AffinityX 24,515.10 53,173.00 9,895.63 AffinityX 43.47 119.49 15.96 AffinityX 379 181 4 265 176 4 406 202 12 HCX 701.00 1,701.00 6,620.00 HCX 6.20 13.94 59.11 HCX 52 59 2 59 61 2 43 66 3 Ayala Corporation 4,298.00 2,733.00 3,878.29 Ayala Corporation 28.85 17.98 24.86 Ayala Corporation 16 76 57 17 84 51 17 83 56 AC Industrials 60.50 AC Industrials 5.04 AC Ventures 5,372.00 AC Industrials 4 6 2 AC Ventures 4.99 TOTAL 1,702,566.89 1,836,724.30 3,861,889.63 AC Ventures 536 537 4 TOTAL 30.82 31.59 59.96 TOTAL 22,957 27,234 3,597 23,728 29,807 4,050 26,236 33,109 4,772 2017 2018 2019 *No data available from IMI sites in Germany and United Kingdom for 2017 and 2018. No data available from IMI site in Suzhou China in 2019. TOTAL TRAINING HOURS BY RANK Middle Senior Middle Senior Middle Senior (404-1) Rank and Rank and Rank and 2017 2018 2019 File File File Management Management Management PERMANENT EMPLOYEES BY Middle Senior Middle Senior Middle Senior Rank and Rank and Rank and AC Motors 27,664.00 1,271.00 314.00 46,946.00 2,082.00 951.00 43,965.50 3,040.50 1,464.00 POSITION File Management File Management File Management iPeople 32,187.00 4,065.00 1,353.50 62,089.50 5,592.50 803.50 26,720.50 20,451.50 3,261.00 AC Motors 1,588 128 43 1,622 125 54 1,678 133 57 AC Energy 1,569.00 5,638.00 240.00 7,256.00 8,821.00 1,544.00 22,505.50 12,481.50 1,350.00 iPeople 1,127 149 21 712 167 24 1,207 241 54 AC Health 2,844.00 1,416.00 72.00 7,710.00 1,188.00 1,784.00 56,538.03 2,612.00 600.00 AC Energy 278 278 50 264 242 44 326 466 72 AC Infra 2,127.00 7,730.00 862.00 17,788.00 25,204.00 517.50 711,367.00 232,240.25 2,346.00 AC Health 70 18 3 1,242 151 17 1,728 195 26 AFI 1,027.00 554.00 57.00 857.00 452.50 195.00 899.00 611.00 168.00 AC Infra 1,091 397 65 1,119 491 58 1,314 452 39 ALI 89,275.19 39,725.10 3,337.00 105,314.00 29,057.25 312.00 154,125.00 50,429.00 201.00 AFI 55 20 3 3 22 50 51 25 3 BPI 250,360.00 90,848.00 1,136.00 206,047.00 70,680.00 952.00 468,676.00 404,092.00 8,458.00 ALI 3,700 1,276 64 4,249 1,081 28 4,932 1,223 25 Globe 30,884.00 91,953.00 1,765.00 57,440.00 128,959.00 6,196.00 123,984.00 281,246.00 11,140.00 BPI 10,427 6,411 198 12,250 6,442 219 14,068 7,133 219 IMI 817,724.00 107,666.00 13,535.00 787,277.00 134,714.00 14,266.00 1,030,155.55 101,428.28 17,646.60 Globe 2,527 4,203 476 2,790 4,446 480 2,191 5,336 521 Manila Water 2,351.00 38,735.00 2,768.00 3,123.00 35,862.50 6,021.00 5,722.00 33,991.70 2,763.00 IMI* 13,137 1,747 388 14,325 1,595 438 13,360 2,163 478 AffinityX 23,039.00 1,177.00 300.00 52,725.00 362.00 86.00 9,840.00 48.38 7.25 Manila Water 444 1,444 134 513 1,462 143 568 1,583 146 HCX 156.00 521.00 24.00 819.00 851.00 32.00 3,863.50 2,453.50 303.00 AffinityX 491 67 6 418 22 5 585 28 7 Ayala Corporation 1,985.00 2,217.00 96.00 976.00 1,687.00 70.00 2,121.63 1,682.41 74.25 HCX 69 42 2 72 47 3 63 45 4 AC Industrials 11.50 0.00 49.00 Ayala Corporation 54 71 24 58 70 24 61 72 23 AC Ventures 2,292.00 2,512.00 112.00 AC Industrials 1 4 7 TOTAL 1,283,192.19 393,516.10 25,859.50 1,356,367.50 445,512.75 33,730.00 2,662,786.71 1,149,320.02 49,943.10 AC Ventures 733 287 57 TOTAL 35,058 16,251 1,477 39,637 16,363 1,587 42,866 19,386 1,738 No data available from IMI sites in Germany and United Kingdom for 2017 and 2018. No data available from IMI sites in Germany and Suzhou China for 2019. 241 242 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT AYALA GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE MEMBERS AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS BY RANK (404-1) Rank and 2017 Middle Senior Rank and File 2018 Middle Senior Rank and File 2019 Middle Senior PROFILES File Management Management Management JOSE RENE GREGORY D. ALMENDRAS, Filipino, 59 banking divisions from 1980 – 1985 AC Motors 32.06 1.59 3.27 54.72 2.53 7.99 26.20 22.86 25.68 Senior Managing Director • Senior Managing Director J.P. Morgan & Co. in Hong iPeople 45.98 8.74 10.25 167.81 13.95 6.18 22.14 84.86 60.39 Kong and Singapore from 1985 – 2004; co-head President and Chief Executive Officer of Manila AC Energy 7.96 15.70 4.80 46.51 25.20 35.09 69.04 26.78 18.75 of the firm’s investment banking business in Asia Water Company, Inc. and AC Infrastructure Holdings AC Health 4.47 3.21 4.50 9.87 1.94 104.94 32.72 13.39 23.08 Pacific from 1997 – 2004; member of the firm’s Corporation and member of the Ayala Corporation AC Infra 5.55 8.06 4.09 47.43 23.82 2.20 541.38 513.81 60.15 global investment banking management committee Management Committee and the Ayala Group AFI 44.65 12.88 4.75 50.41 10.77 12.19 17.63 24.44 56.00 and its Asia Pacific management committee; Management Committee since August 2016 ALI 41.64 15.57 9.70 45.47 10.61 1.03 31.25 41.23 8.04 President of J.P. Morgan Securities (Asia Pacific) BPI 29.51 12.12 1.07 21.59 8.61 0.82 33.32 56.65 38.62 Academic/Professional Qualifications Ltd.from 1999 – 2004 Globe 19.19 17.34 6.02 30.10 23.49 19.48 56.59 52.71 21.38 • B.S. in Business Management degree from the • Partner at The Rohatyn Group from 2004 – 2013, IMI 119.01 14.18 16.77 122.69 15.32 12.46 77.11 46.89 36.92 Ateneo de Manila University in 1981 ran its Hong Kong office and its private investing Manila Water 3.92 42.71 5.37 4.83 37.05 11.95 10.07 21.47 18.92 • Strategic Business Economics Program from business in Asia, and was a board director of its AffinityX 60.79 6.50 75.00 198.96 2.06 21.50 16.82 1.73 1.04 University of Asia & the Pacific in 1999 real estate, and energy and infrastructure private HCX 3.00 8.83 12.00 13.88 13.95 16.00 61.33 54.52 75.75 • Former President of Manila Water Company, Inc. equity investing subsidiaries Ayala Corporation 124.06 29.17 1.68 57.41 20.08 1.37 34.78 23.37 3.23 • Former officer in Ayala Land, Inc. AC Industrials 11.50 0.00 7.00 Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) • Secretary of Foreign Affairs for the Republic of the AC Ventures 3.13 8.75 1.96 • Independent Director of Jollibee Foods Corporation Philippines from March to June 2016 TOTAL 55.90 14.45 7.19 57.16 14.95 8.33 101.49 34.71 10.47 • President of Bancnet, Inc. • Cabinet Secretary under the Office of the President • Chairman of Philippine Dealing Systems Holdings from November 2012 to March 2016 Corp. • Secretary of the Department of Energy from July • Chairman and President of the Bankers Association 2010 to October 2012 GRI Reference Claim Table of the Philippines • Former CEO and President of City Savings Bank of This material references: • Director of LGU Guarantee Corporation, Filgifts. the Aboitiz Group at the age of 37 • Disclosure 102-7 from GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 com., The Rohatyn Group, Sqreem Technologies • Spent 13 years with the Citibank where he started • Disclosure 201-1 and 201-2 from GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016, and Endeavor Philippines as a management trainee • Disclosure 204-1 from GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016, • Director of the US-Philippines Society, Trustee of • Disclosure 205-3 from GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016, Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) the Manila Golf Club Foundation, and a member of • Disclosures 302-1, 302-2 and 302-3 from GRI 302: Energy 2016, • Chairman of the Executive Committee of Manila the Trilateral Commission • Disclosures 303-1, 303-2, 303-3 and 303-5 from GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018, Water Company, Inc. • Disclosure 304-3 from GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016, • Director of AF Payments Inc. Light Rail Manila BERNARD VINCENT O. DY, Filipino, 56 • Disclosures 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 and 305-4 from GRI 305: Emissions 2016, Holdings, Inc. MCX Tollway Inc. and AC Energy Senior Managing Director • Disclosure 306-2 from GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016, Philippines, Inc. • Disclosure 308-2 from GRI: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016, President and Chief Executive Officer of Ayala Land, • Disclosure 401-1 from GRI 401: Employment 2016, Inc. and member of the Ayala Group Management CEZAR P. CONSING, Filipino, 60 • Disclosure 403-9 from GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018, Committee since April 2014 Senior Managing Director • Disclosures 404-1 and 404-2 from GRI 404: Training and Education 2016, Academic/Professional Qualifications • Disclosure 405-1 from GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016, President and CEO of Bank of the Philippine Islands • B.B.A Accountancy from the University of Notre • Disclosure 408-1 from GRI 408: Child Labor 2016, and Member of the Ayala Group Management Dame in 1985 • Disclosure 409-1 from GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016, Committee since April 2013 • Master’s Degree in Business Administration in • Disclosure 410-1 from GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 Academic/Professional Qualifications 1997 and in International Relations in 1989, both • Disclosure 413-1 from GRI 413: Local Communities 2016, • A.B (Accelerated Program) Economics (Magna Cum at the University of Chicago • Disclosure 414-2 from GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016, Laude) from De La Salle University in 1979 • Worked as Head of the Ayala Land, Inc.’s • Disclosure 418-1 from GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016, and • M.A. Applied Economics from the University of Residential Business, Commercial Business and • Disclosures 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 from GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. Michigan, Ann Arbor, in 1980 Corporate Marketing and Sales • Worked for BPI’s corporate planning and corporate 243 244 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) and Treasurer of Ayala Foundation, Inc., President • Chairman of the Board of Surface Technology PAOLO MAXIMO F. BORROMEO, Filipino, 42 • Director of Cebu Holdings, Inc, AyalaLand Logistics of myAyala.com, and CFO of Azalea Technology International (STI), Ltd. Managing Director Holdings Corp.. and MCT Bhd of Malaysia Investments, Inc. • President and Chief Executive Officer of SpeedyCorporate Strategy and Development Group Head, • Chairman of Alveo Land Corp., Ayala Property • President of the Chamber of Thrift Banks from Tech Electronics Ltd. President and Chief Executive Officer of Ayala Management Corporation, Makati Development 2013 – 2015 • Chairman of the Advisory Board of Via Optronics Healthcare Holdings, Inc., and member of Ayala Corporation, Amaia Land Corporation, Avencosouth • Worked with JP Morgan & Co. and with BZW Asia GmbH and MT Technologies GmbH Corporation Management Committee and the Ayala Corp., Bellavita Land Corporation, Ayagold Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) Group Management Committee since September Retailers, Inc., Station Square East Commercial • Director of Bank of the Philippine Islands, ERNEST LAWRENCE L. CU, Filipino, 59 2014 Corporation, Aviana Development Corp., Cagayan Globe Telecom, Inc. and Integrated MicroDe Oro Gateway Corp., BGSouth Properties, Inc., President and Chief Executive Officer of Globe Academic/Professional Qualifications Electronics, Inc. BGNorth Properties, Inc., BGWest Properties, Telecom, Inc and member of the Ayala Group • B.S. degree in Management Engineering from the • Independent director of SSI Group, Inc. Inc., Nuevocentro, Inc., Portico Land Corp. and Management Committee since January 2009 Ateneo de Manila University • Chairman of Darong Agricultural and Development Philippine Integrated Energy Solutions, Inc. • Master’s in Business Administration with honors Corporation and Zapfam Inc. Academic/Professional Qualifications • Vice Chairman of Ayala Greenfield Development from the Wharton School at the University of • Vice Chairman of Lagdigan Land Corporation • BS Industrial Management Engineering from De La Corporation and Alviera Country Club, Inc. Pennsylvania • President and CEO of AC Ventures Holding Corp., Salle University in 1982 • Director and President of Bonifacio Land • Former Principal at Booz & Company, a global AYC Finance Limited, Bestfull Holdings Limited and • Master’s Degree in Business Administration at Corporation, Emerging City Holdings, Inc., strategy consulting firm, based in San Francisco, Purefoods International Limited the JL Kellogg Graduate School of Management in Columbus Holdings, Inc., Berkshires Holdings, Inc., California, USA • President of Liontide Holdings, Inc. and Philwater 1984 Fort Bonifacio Development Corporation, Aurora Holdings Company, Inc. • President and CEO of SPI Technologies, Inc. prior Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) Properties Incorporated, Vesta Property Holdings, • Director of Ayala Hotels, Inc., AC Energy, Inc., to joining Globe • President and Chief Executive Officer of Ayala Inc., Ceci Realty Inc., Alabang Commercial Ayala Healthcare Holdings, Inc., AC Infrastructure Healthcare Holdings, Inc. and of Zapfam, Inc. Corporation and Accendo Commercial Corp. Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) Holdings Corporation, Ayala Aviation Corporation, • Vice Chairman of the Generika Group of Companies • President of the Hero Foundation Incorporated and • Trustee of Ayala Foundation, Inc. and Hero AC Education, Inc., Asiacom Philippines, Inc., Ayala • Director of AC Ventures Holding Corp., AC Bonifacio Art Foundation, Inc. Foundation, Inc. Group Legal, Michigan Holdings, Inc., AC Industrial Industrial Technology Holdings Inc., HCX • Director of Avida Land Corp., Amicassa Process • Director of various subsidiaries of Globe Telecom, Technology Holdings, Inc., A.C.S.T Business Technology Partners, Inc., Ayala International Solutions, Inc., Whiteknight Holdings, Inc., Inc. Holdings, Inc., LICA Management Inc., and Just For Holdings Limited, AG Holdings Limited and LiveIt AyalaLand Medical Facilities Leasing, Inc., Kids, Inc. Investments Limited Serendra, Inc., Alveo-Federal Land Communities, • Treasurer of Ayala Retirement Fund Holdings, Inc. ALFREDO I. AYALA, Filipino, 58 Inc., ALI Eton Property Development Corporation Managing Director and AKL Properties, Inc. JOHN ERIC T. FRANCIA, Filipino, 48 • Trustee of Ayala Foundation, Inc. and Ayala Group ARTHUR R. TAN, Filipino, 60 President and Chief Executive Officer of LiveIt Managing Director Club, Inc. Senior Managing Director Investments Limited, Chief Operating Officer of • Member of the Advisory Council of the National President and Chief Executive Officer of AC iPeople, Inc., and member of the Ayala Group President and Chief Executive Officer of AC Industrial Energy, Inc and member of the Ayala Corporation Advisory Group for the Police Transformation Management Committee since June 2006 Technology Holdings, Inc., Chief Executive Officer of Management Committee and the Ayala Group Development of the Philippine National Police Integrated Micro-Electronics, Inc. (IMI) and member Academic/Professional Qualifications Management Committee since January 2009 of the Ayala Group Management Committee since • B.A. in Development Studies (Honors) and JOSE TEODORO K. LIMCAOCO, Filipino, 57 2002 Academic/Professional Qualifications Economics from Brown University in 1982 Senior Managing Director • BA in Humanities and Political Economy (magna • MBA from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Academic/Professional Qualifications cum laude) from the University of Asia & the Pacific Chief Finance Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Administration in 1987 • B.S. in Electronics Communications Engineering in 1993 Sustainability Officer, Finance Group Head, and degree from Mapua Institute of Technology in 1982 Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) • Master’s Degree in Management Studies (First member of Ayala Corporation Management • Post-graduate programs at the University of Idaho, • Director of Affinity Express Holdings, Ltd., and Class Honors) at the University of Cambridge in the Committee and the Ayala Group Management Singapore Institute of Management, IMD and Azalea International Venture Partners Limited United Kingdom in 1995 Committee since 2015 Harvard Business School • Chairman and President of AC College of Enterprise • Former Corporate Strategy and Development • President of IMI from July 2001 to June 2016 and Technology, Inc., National Teachers College, Group Head of Ayala Corporation Academic/Professional Qualifications • Managing Director for Asia Pacific Region/Japan of and LINC Institute • Former Senior consultant and member of • BS Mathematical Sciences (Honors Program) from American Microsystems Inc. from 1998 to 2001 • Chairman of Affordable Private Education Center, the management team of Monitor Group, a Stanford University in 1984 • Northeast Area Sales Manager and Acting Design Inc., Newbridge International Investments Limited strategy consulting firm based in Cambridge, • MBA (Finance and Investment Management) Center Manager of American Microsystems Inc. and University of Nueva Caceres Massachusetts, USA from the Wharton School of the University of (Massachusetts, USA) from 1994 to 1998 • Vice Chairman and Vice President of Affinity Pennsylvania in 1988 Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) • Former President of BPI Family Savings Bank, and Express Philippines, Inc. Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) • Director of Purefoods International Limited, Ayala BPI Capital Corporation, Officer-in-Charge for Ayala • Trustee of Ayala Foundation, Inc and Philippine • Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Healthcare Holding, Inc., AC College of Enterprise Life Assurance, Inc. and Ayala Plans, Inc., Trustee Business for Education (PBEd) Officer of PSi Technologies Inc. and Merlin Solar Technologies (Phils.), Inc. 245 246 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT and Technology, Inc., LINC Institute, Inc., AC Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) Ventures Holding Corp., Ayala Aviation Corporation, • Director of Asticom Technology, Inc. and People’s SENIOR Zapfam, Inc., Northwind Power Development Management of the Philippines Foundation Corporation, North Luzon Renewable Energy • Member of the Board of Advisers of Natasha LEADERSHIP Corporation, Light Rail Manila Corporation, AC Goulbourn Foundation Infrastructure Holdings Corporation, Ayala Hotels, • Member of the board of representatives of CIFAL Inc., Michigan Holdings, Inc., and other various Philippines companies under the AC Energy Group JOHN PHILIP S. ORBETA, Filipino, 58 ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR MANAGING DIRECTOR SOLOMON M. HERMOSURA, Filipino, 57 Managing Director Yla Patricia G. Alcantara Emmanuel A. Aligada Managing Director Maria Susana C. Bables Alfredo Antonio I. Ayala Chief Human Resources Officer, Group Head for Robert Michael N. Baffrey Paolo Maximo F. Borromeo Chief Legal Officer, Corporate Secretary, Chief Corporate Resources, and member of the Ayala Celeste M. Jovenir Ma. Cecilia T. Cruzabra Compliance Officer, Data Protection Officer and Corporation Management Committee since May Guillermo M. Luz John Eric T. Francia Corporate Governance Group Head, and member of 2005 and the Ayala Group Management Committee Gabino Ramon G. Mejia Solomon M. Hermosura the Ayala Corporation Management Committee since since April 2009 Reinabelle C. Reyes Ruel T. Maranan 2009 and the Ayala Group Management Committee Academic/Professional Qualifications Vivian L. Santamaria John Philip S. Orbeta since 2010 • A.B. Economics from the Ateneo de Manila Gabriel Q. Villaluz Ginaflor C. Oris Academic/Professional Qualifications University in 1982 Virgilio C. Rivera • Bachelor of Laws (Valedictorian and top 3 in the • Former President and CEO of Ayala Automotive EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Sheila Marie U. Tan 1986 Bar Examination) from San Beda College in Holdings Corporation and Automobile Central Josette Adrienne A. Abarca Jaime E. Ysmael 1986 Enterprise, Inc. (Philippine importer of Volkswagen) Fatima P. Agbayani • Former Chairman and CEO of Honda Cars Makati, Catherine H. Ang SENIOR MANAGING DIRECTOR Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) Inc., Isuzu Automotive Dealership, Inc. and Iconic Estelito C. Biacora Jose Rene Gregory D. Almendras • President and Chief Executive Officer of Ayala Dealership, Inc. Josephine D. De Asis Cezar Juan P. Consing Group Legal • Former Vice President and Global Practice Director Emily C. De Lara Bernard Vincent O. Dy • Corporate Secretary and Group General Counsel of of the Human Capital Consulting Group at Watson Rosallie A. Dimaano Jose Teodoro K. Limcaoco Ayala Land, Inc. Wyatt Worldwide (now Willis Towers Watson) Felipe Antonio P. Estrella Arthur R. Tan • Corporate Secretary of Globe Telecom, Inc., Manila Romualdo L. Katigbak Water Company, Inc., Integrated Micro-Electronics, Present Directorship(s)/Position(s) Noel Eli B. Kintanar CONSULTANT Inc., AC Energy Philippines, Inc. and Ayala • Chairman of Ayala Aviation Corporation, Ayala Jenara Rosanna F. Ong Gerardo C. Ablaza Foundation, Inc. Group HR Council, Ayala Group Corporate Security Alfonso Javier D. Reyes Delfin L. Lazaro • Corporate Secretary and a member of the Board Council and Ayala Business Clubs Ma. Victoria P. Sugapong Simon C. Mossesgeld of Directors of a number of companies in the Ayala • Chairman and President of HCX Technology Ma. Victoria A. Tan Marciano A. Paynor group Partners, Inc. Norma P. Torres • Member of the faculty of the College of Law of San • Vice Chairman of Ayala Group Club, Inc. Beda University • Director of AG Counselors Corporation, AC Industrial Technology Holdings, Inc., Ayala Foundation Inc., Ayala Healthcare Holdings, Inc., RUEL T. MARANAN, Filipino, 57 Ayala Retirement Fund Holdings, Inc., ZapFam Inc., Managing Director Generika Group of Companies, BPI Family Bank, President of Ayala Foundation, Inc. Inc., ALFM Growth Fund, Inc., ALFM Money Market Fund, Inc., ALFM Peso Bond Fund, Inc., ALFM Academic/Professional Qualifications Dollar Bond Fund, Inc., ALFM Euro Bond Fund, Inc., • AB Social Sciences degree from the Ateneo de ALFM Global Multi-Asset Income Fund, Inc., ALFM Manila University Retail Corporate Fixed Income Fund, Inc. and the • Bachelor of Laws degree from the University of Philippine Stock Index Fund Corporation Santo Tomas • Leadership Management Program from Harvard University • Group Director of Manila Water Company, Inc. (MWC)’s Corporate Human Resources Group from 2004 to 2014 247 248 AYALA CORPORATION 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT AYALA GROUP NETWORK AYALA CORPORATION GLOBE TELECOM AC INDUSTRIALS TECHNOLOGY HOLDINGS, INC. AC HEALTH 34F Tower One Ayala Triangle and Exchange Plaza The Globe Tower 32nd floor Tower One Exchange Plaza, Ayala 3F Makati Stock Exchange Building Ayala Ave., Makati City 1226, Philippines 32nd Street cor 7th Avenue Bonifacio Global City Triangle, Ayala Avenue 6767 Ayala Avenue Makati 1226 Philippines Tel: +63 2 7908 3000 Taguig 1634, Philippines Makati City 1226 Philippines Tel: +63 2 745 2508 www.ayala.com.ph Tel: +63 2 7 797 2000 (Globe Corporate Office) Tel: +63 2 7 908 3328 www.achealth.com.ph +63 2 7 730 1000 (Customer Care) acindustrialtech.com.ph info@achealth.com.ph Investor Relations: +63 2 7 730 1010 (Sales) Email: investorrelations@ayala.com.ph Sustainability: Sustainability: +63 2 7 730 1288 Email: milan.fr@acindustrialtech.com.ph Email: panganiban.jms@achealth.com.ph Sustainability: (Globe Business and Globe myBusiness) Email: sustainability@ayala.com.ph Mobile: 211 esg@ayala.com.ph www.globe.com.ph INTEGRATED MICROELECTRONICS, INC IPEOPLE, INC. Investor Relations: North Science Avenue, Laguna Technopark 3F, Grepalife (GPL) Building, 219 Email: ir@globe.com.ph Special Export Processing Zone, Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue, Makati City, AYALA LAND Biñan Laguna 4024 Philippines 1200, Philippines 31F Tower One Ayala Triangle and Exchange Plaza Sustainability: Tel: +63 2 7 756 6840 Tel: +63 2 8 253-3637 Ayala Ave., Makati City 1226, Philippines Email: gtcorpcomm@globe.com.ph www.global-imi.com www.ipeople.com.ph Tel: +63 2 7 9083111 www.ayalaland.com.ph Investor Relations: Sustainability: AC ENERGY Email: ir@global-imi.com Email: djparenillo@mapua.edu.ph Investor Relations: 4F 6750 Building Ayala Avenue Email: investorrelations@ayalaland.com.ph Sustainability: Makati City 1226, Philippines Email: john.madriaga@global-imi.com Sustainability: Tel: +63 2 7 730 6300 AYALA FOUNDATION Email: sustainabilityteam@ayalaland.com.ph www.acenergy.com.ph 8F 111 Paseo de Roxas corner Legaspi Street Legaspi Village Makati 1229 Philippines Investor Relations: AC ENERGY PHILIPPINES Tel: +63 2 7 7598288 Email: investorrelations@acenergy.com.ph 4F 6750 Office Tower, Ayala Avenue, BANK OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS Fax: +63 2 8 813 4488 Makati City, Philippines 1226 Ayala North Exchange, Tower One Sustainability: www.ayalafoundation.org Tel: +632 7 730 6300 6796 Ayala Avenue corner Salcedo St., Legaspi Email: maranan.is@acenergy.com Sustainability: Village, Makati City 1229 Investor Relations: Email: rebete.ji@ayalafoundation.org Express Phone Banking: +63 2 8 89 10000 Email: investorrelations@acenergy.com.ph www.bpi.com.ph MANILA WATER Sustainability: www.bpiexpressonline.com 2F MWSS Administration Building Email: maranan.is@acenergy.com.ph 489 Katipunan Road Balara Investor Relations: Quezon City 1105, Philippines Email: investorrelations@bpi.com.ph Tel: +63 2 7 917 5900 AC INFRASTRUCTURE Sustainability: Hotline: +63 2 1627 32F Tower One Email: sustainability@bpi.com.ph www.manilawater.com Ayala Triangle and Exchange Plaza Investor Relations: Ayala Ave., Makati 1226 Philippines Email: invrel@manilawater.com Tel: +63 2 7 908 3032 Fax: +63 2 7 759 4881 Sustainability: www.acinfra.com.ph Email: sustainability@manilawater.com Sustainability: Email: quesada.jam@acinfra.com.ph 249 250 AYALA CORPORATION BUILDING A DIGITAL AND CORPORATE FUTURE-READY AYALA INFORMATION “The Ayala group is undergoing a transformation journey to build a digital and future-ready Ayala. We STAKEHOLDER INQUIRIES SHAREHOLDER SERVICES AND ASSISTANCE recognize that to continue to thrive under a rapidly changing environment, we must evolve from traditional Ayala Corporation welcomes inquiries from analysts, For inquiries regarding dividend payments, change analog thinking to incorporating a digital perspective into our strategy and operations. This perspective the financial community, institutional and retail of address and account status, and lost or damage has become part and parcel of our strategic agenda as we embark on a group-wide digital transformation investors, customers, media, and the general public. stock certificates, please write or call: framework we rolled out in 2019. We are aware of the long and challenging road ahead in this digital Please contact: transformation journey. However, with the engagement of our people across all levels, we are confident that the BPI Stock Transfer Office digital and future-ready Ayala that we are aspiring for can be built within the foreseeable future.” Investors: investorrelations@ayala.com.ph 3F BPI Buendia Center Sustainability: sustainability@ayala.com.ph 372 Sen Gil Puyat Avenue Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala, Chairman and CEO Governance: corporatesecretary@ayala.com.ph Makati City 1226 Philippines Data Privacy: acdataprivacy@ayala.com.ph Tel: +632 8580-4693 to 95 Customers: acquery@ayala.com.ph smpongol@bpi.com.ph Media: corpcomm@ayala.com.ph jmpelideros@bpi.com.ph Career: careers@ayala.com.ph stocktransferoffice@bpi.com.ph FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ayala’s 2019 Financial Statements are available for download on its website: www.ayala.com.ph Developed and produced by Investor Relations and Group Risk Management and Sustainability Unit AYALA AYALA LAND BPI GLOBE Concept and design by Publicis JimenezBasic Execution by Whitewall Design Studio Portraits by Tom Epperson Operational photography by Rolly Barayang Additional photographs from the Ayala group of companies MANILA WATER AC ENERGY PHILIPPINES IMI AYALA FOUNDATION 251 AYALA CORPORATION 34F Ayala Tower One and Exchange Plaza, Ayala Triangle, Ayala Avenue, Makati City 1226 Philippines Tel: +632 7908-3000 Fax: +632 7848-5846
