Sustainability ­Report 2019 Portrait SAF-HOLLAND Group is the largest independent listed supplier to the commercial vehicle market in Europe delivering mainly to the trailer markets. With sales of approximately EUR 1,280 million in 2019, the Company is one of the world’s leading manufacturers and suppliers of chassis-related systems and components primarily for trailers, trucks, buses, and recreational vehicles. The product range ­comprises axle and suspension systems, fifth wheels, coupling systems, kingpins, and landing gear marketed under the brands SAF, Holland, Neway, KLL, V.Orlandi and York. SAF-HOLLAND is internationally ­positioned and present in almost all markets worldwide. Approximately 4,000 ­committed employees worldwide are already today working on the future of the transportation industry. 2 Key figures GRI 201-1 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FINANCIAL POSITION in EUR thousands in EUR thousands Q1-Q4/2019 Q1-Q4/2018 Q1-Q4/2019 Q1-Q4/2018 Sales 1,284,155 1,300,555 Cash flow from operating activities before income tax paid 109,108 66,519 Gross profit 201,741 199,263 Cash conversion rate in % 136.7 74.2 Gross profit margin in % 15.7 15.3 Cash flow from operating activities 90,546 40,780 EBIT 35,199 77,970 Cash flow from investing activities –59,692 –39,586 EBIT margin in % 2.7 6.0 Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets –52,981 –40,786 Adjusted EBIT 79,816 89,578 Operating free cash flow 37,565 –6 Adjusted EBIT margin in % 6.2 6.9 Result for the period 10,297 48,115 Adjusted result for the period 49,756 55,507 EMPLOYEES Adjusted undiluted earnings per share in EUR 1.10 1.22 Adjusted diluted earnings per share in EUR 0.95 1.05 Q1-Q4/2019 Q1-Q4/2018 Dividend per share in EUR 0.001 0.45 Employees as of December 31 3,924 4,470 Employees (on average) 4,218 4,293 Sales per employee in kEUR 304.4 302.9 NET ASSETS in EUR thousands 12/31/2019 12/31/2018 YIELD Balance sheet total 979,244 977,416 in % Equity 318,007 318,072 2 Q1-Q4/2019 Q1-Q4/2018 Equity ratio in % 32.5 32.5 Return on capital employed (ROCE)3 5.5 9.9 2 Cash and cash equivalents 131,166 155,009 1 Proposal. Net debt 251,667 213,615 2 Adjusted according to IAS 8.42 (cp. Section 2.4.2 in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2019 Annual Report). Net working capital 164,381 172,468 3 ROCE = EBIT / (total assets current liabilities). Net working capital in % of sales 14.9 13.5 3 ESG Key Performance Indicators TOTAL EMEA AMERICAS APAC CHINA Sales Sales Sales Sales 49% 42% 7% 3% Sales €1,284.155 M €626.236 M €534.455 M €88.578 M €34.886 M Energy Energy Consumption Energy Consumption Energy Consumption Energy Consumption Consumption 99,912 MWh 27% 26,857 MWh 69% 68,598 MWh 1% 1,441 MWh 3% 3,016 MWh CO2 Emissions 4 CO2 Emissions 4 CO2 Emissions 4 CO2 Emissions 4 CO2 Emissions 29% 64% 3% 4% 4 46,980 TONS 13,397 TONS 30,197 TONS 1,420 TONS 1,965 TONS EMPLOYEES Employees Employees Employees Employees 3,670 1,503 1,852 194 121 Lost Time Injury Lost Time Injury frequency rate Lost Time Injury frequency rate Lost Time Injury frequency rate Lost Time Injury frequency rate frequency rate 15.6 26.2 14.2 9.5 1.7 4 4 CO2 emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2) SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Contents CONTENTS 6 Message from the CEO 8 Why we rely on digitization for training 12 Waste prevention already starts with the packaging 16 Waste recycling to rely on 18 How we think corporate 8 responsi­bility in India through to the end Reporting on sustainability 12 23 Organizational profile 26 Sustainability strategy and management 32 Corporate governance and compliance ABOUT THIS REPORT 39 Supply chain This report is an interactive pdf file 41 16 Climate strategy and CO2 management that offers you many advantages. 45 Product innovations for the safe and You can ­navigate quickly and easily efficient transport of goods through the report using the elements 48 Memberships in associations and initiatives listed below. 49 Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, Navigate through the report environment and energy by mouse-click 50 Environmental efficiency of operational processes Return to table of contents Search the document 55 Employees Return to last page 61 Social commitment 65 GRI Content Index More information 70 UNGC Index 71 SDG Index Page reference 72 TCFD Index Reference to online content 73 Non-financial statement Reference to NFR 74 About this report 75 Imprint 5 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Message from the CEO GRI 102-14 Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Shareholders and Investors, I’m delighted to present to you the third Sustainability Report of the SAF-HOLLAND Group. As you will notice while reading, we have achieved a lot in this area over the last year. For you, as readers of this report, one change might be partic­ ularly useful: For the first time, we are able to report on all our global production locations and thus provide complete Group-wide ­disclosures. This highlights the global orientation of our management approach towards the sustainability of our operations. In addition, many external factors impacted our actions over the year. This is particularly true of the major socio-political discussions concerning sustainability – from social responsibility through to climate change and environmental protection. These discussions motivate us to question our actions every day anew. And, as you will read in this report, there are some interesting examples of improvements within our group of companies. Alexander Geis Chief Executive Officer (CEO) The external influences also include changes in the regulatory framework. The “CSR Directive Implementation Act” commits companies to greater transparency. In order to meet the new information requirements, companies often need to implement completely new data collection processes. This also posed a challenge for us, but opened up new opportunities at the same time. We are now able to collect data on non-financial risks, which we simultaneously integrate in our risk management system. 6 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Message from the CEO Beyond that, we initiated a whole range of actions. For example, tics. But one thing is certain: holistic solutions along the entire our Code of Conduct is now available in an updated version in value chain are more in demand than ever before. It is not with­eleven languages. We also – in accordance with the “National Action out reason that the motto of the IAA Commercial Vehicles 2020 is Plan for Business and Human Rights” – implemented additional “­Beyond Transport & Logistics”. measures to fulfill our duty of care in terms of human rights. Our Human Rights Policy and our Statement on the “UK Modern Slavery We are convinced that with our product universe we will ­contribute Act” are concrete results of these efforts. In addition to awareness significantly to a more sustainable transport industry. We put our campaigns, we provided comprehensive training to our staff to ­focus on lightweight construction, durable quality products, data-­ further anchor the issue of sustainability in our mindset and in our driven fleet management and electrified drive axles. actions. These product innovations are of strategic importance. How we will Taken together, there have been many changes, but a lot has reposition ourselves in the coming years will be outlined in detail in mained unchanged, such as our commitment to the Ten Principles our “Strategy 2025”. One major element of our mid-term strategy, of the UN Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals which you can read more about in this Sustainability Report, is our of the United Nations. This puts our efforts into a larger context approach to climate strategy. and makes a statement that this is a long-term commitment. I appreciate your interest in the sustainability activities of the You have no doubt already heard that the entire mobility sector SAF-HOLLAND Group and hope you enjoy reading this report. is undergoing change. Most of all, it is the passenger car sector that is in the public eye, but obviously the transport industry also Sincerely yours, needs to reinvent itself to a certain extent. It is still uncertain which drive concepts and product innovations will prevail in logis­ Alexander Geis Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 7 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Truly virtual Why we rely on digitization for training Truly virtual Why we rely on digitization for training 8 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Truly virtual Why we rely on digitization for training The newest tools of our trainees? When thinking about her apprenticeship, ­Smartphones and virtual reality g­ lasses! Tabea Jakic reaches for her smartphone. With good reason: Since March 2019 we have Because we have digitized our training been using our training app APPRENTIO®. ­courses. Exams, documentation and training APPRENTIO® is a digital classroom and virtual plans are no longer available on paper. training folder in one. The app includes deployment plans, record books, assessments, And how to weld correctly is practiced in education programs, a messenger function virtual ­reality first. and information on the contact persons and learning goals. And most importantly, all written exams on our training courses are taken directly within the app. Whoever prefers to work on a big screen can use the software in a browser-based version on their laptop or PC. More information is available “Thanks to the app I have a much ­better overvia the following web link: view of my training. And if plans or rooms apprentio.de change at short notice, we ­trainees are informed faster,” says Tabea Jakic ­happily, who still remembers the time before the implementation of APPRENTIO®. The super­visors The commercial supervisor, Katja ­Hedderich, are satisfied as well because the software is happy that the solution conserves resources. makes the training more transparent and effi­ “We eliminated the use of paper for training.” cient. For example, the trainees receive the These saving effects can even be multiplied as results of their exams faster than before, as vocational schools and IHK can be connected the commercial technical super­visor, ­Stefan to the system via suitable interfaces. Roth, explains. “Correcting exams via the app facilitates our work enormously, and the resulting time saving can be used to further Link to the training site: corporate.safholland.com/en/ improve the quality of the training.” career/apprenticeship 9 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Truly virtual Why we rely on digitization for training Virtually putting skills into practice using a designated training machine. Special the welding apparatus. Moreover, with this Digitization is present throughout the entire cameras and sophisticated augmented reality method we save metal sheet, shielding gas, apprenticeship: For example, trainees spend technology create a realistic simulation of the electrodes, power and other important retwo weeks in a virtual workshop where they welding process. With this training using the sources. learn how to operate complex machines via virtual welding machine, trainees gain condigital images before using the “real” mafidence and a first ­impression of controlling chines. The user interfaces of the virtual turning, milling and drilling machines or measuring tables correspond exactly to the original ones used in practice. Also, manual skills can be trained using digital methods. For example, “virtual welding”. For one week, trainees learn the basics of various ­welding techniques Apprenticeships • Industrial Engineering • Industrial Business Management • IT Specialist for System ­Integration • Electronics Technician for ­Industrial Engineering • Technical Product Designer Very close to the original: a view inside the virtual workshop. 10 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Truly virtual Why we rely on digitization for training «We want to introduce all employees to digitization.» Thomas Grimm Vice President Human Resources Group A typical tool: SAF-HOLLAND Tablets are part of our daily production processes. Learning more with digital offers role here. In the reporting year, comprehen“Not all classroom training can be replaced by From trainee to manager, digitally ­supported sive training modules have been developed digital formats. Traditional training formats are HR processes are part of our daily work. to firmly establish the topic of sustainabi­lity particularly suitable for practical subjects. But ­Thomas Grimm, Vice President Human Reamong our staff. E-learning is offered at many complementing them with digital learning forsources Group, considers the HR department locations. These digital training offers can be mats simply makes sense because it is importas a forerunner for the digitization within the used on company computer terminals or some ant to introduce all employees to digitization.” Group. “For example, all our employees have of them on mobile devices. These e-learning the opportunity to manage their personnel offerings complement our training offers, matters directly in a designated IT system. This provide flexibility to our employees in terms saves administrative effort and improves work of time and location, and make efficient use processes.” Especially in the training area, of resources. Will training and further educadigitization opens up new opportunities. Our tion only be provided in digital form in future? Learning Management System plays a central Thomas Grimm rather relies on a sound mix: 11 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Smart container Waste prevention already starts with the packaging Smart container Waste prevention already starts with the packaging 12 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Smart container Waste prevention already starts with the packaging We operate with global supply chains. Some of our suppliers’ upstream products The metal cage containers serve as cover long distances before arriving at our protection during transport. gates. A central factor regarding transport is safe and efficient packaging. Wooden ­single-use ­packaging that was used in the past has in the meantime been replaced by reusable metal packaging. Case study: After unloading, Our products meet the highest quality stanthey are folded and used in a dards. We also expect that our suppliers denew application. liver their upstream products to us without ­defects. In order to ensure this over long disIn the past, wood-based packaging was ideal tances and on various carriers, the right packfor the delivery of production material to avoid aging is decisive. The delivered parts are often any transport damage. Under this method, made of metal and are very heavy. To protect the parts are piled up on wooden pallets, surthem from impact and to make sure that they rounded with particle board on all four sides are not accidentally unfastened during transand the top, and then secured ­externally port they need to be secured professionally. with straps. 13 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Smart container Waste prevention already starts with the packaging wooden packaging because of the lack of the requisite information on the type and treatment of the wood used. In response, we have been using foldable wire mesh containers for our intercompany logistics for a number of years now. They protect transported goods quite well and can be reused over the long term. In close cooperation with one supplier, we now also rely on wire mesh containers for the intercontinental delivery of upstream products. This seems to be a small change, but with great impact, even in terms of the necessary preparatory work. No need to bend down: The wire mesh c­ ontainers support ergonomic According to Marcus Schlosser, Director Logis­ working. tics, this is a practicable method but not an optimal solution: “Taking a look at the costs and the delivered volumes we noticed relatively quickly that there’s room for improvement.” This is mainly due to the fact that after delivery, wooden packaging cannot be reused. Moreover, in terms of waste management legislation, it is not possible to recycle or upcycle Frequent travelers: Wire mesh ­containers are constantly in use. 14 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Smart container Waste prevention already starts with the packaging «Taking a look at the costs we quickly noticed that there’s room for Employees from the purchasing and logistics departments at SAF-HOLLAND were involved aspect is interesting in this context: Besides the actual cost for the repackaging, we were able ­improvement.» in this transition as various issues needed to to do away with individual packaging of the Marcus Schlosser be solved: Will the quality of the delivered production materials and therefore generate Director Logistics products remain constant? What is going to additional cost benefits in addition to reducing SAF-HOLLAND change in the handling of the delivered goods? the environmental impact. Is it possible that ergonomic problems arise while loading and unloading the containers? To avoid a logjam in the logistics cycle, the supHow, exactly, can we return the empty wire plier must have a sufficient number of empty mesh containers to the supplier? boxes available at all times. “This is why we track all the incoming and outgoing goods in After introducing the foldable wire mesh a container booking system, so that we can I­nhibitor) protective films, for example, that containers, it quickly became clear that the always check the supplier-side availability of protect ­metal parts from corrosion during change had paid off, both economically and empty containers,” says Marcus Schlosser. At transport. In more specific terms, we are asecologically. The wire mesh containers can be SAF-HOLLAND, the empty boxes are folded, sessing whether the thickness of the film can integrated perfectly in the plant processes. Unloaded into shipping containers and then used be reduced without compromising the proteclike wooden packaging, they correspond to the for a new application. tive effect. These are small steps, but they are European standard measures, which we also necessary to gradually meet our objective of applied to all our racks, assembly spaces and Due to the positive experience in this pilot efficient and sustainable production. storage areas at the plant. Due to their metal project we are currently assessing which design, the containers can be piled up more suppliers and regions of SAF-HOLLAND could easily and higher than their wooden predecesimplement similar improvements to their prosors. And probably the most relevant indicator cesses. Moreover, we keep assessing where is that our disposal costs have decreased sigwe can save costs and material. Currently, nificantly since the transition. The following we are focusing on VCI (Volatile Corrosion 15 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 A good mix Waste recycling to rely on This is how waste is processed producing a valuable secondary fuel. A good mix Waste recycling to rely on 16 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 A good mix Waste recycling to rely on What’s the most commonly used material in the world? Answer: cement. What is used to sinter clinker? Answer: production waste, as is the case in Brazil where our subsidiary KLL Equipamentos para Transporte Ltda found a way to reuse ­production waste. Instead of ending up in landfill, these substances end up in the ­cement ­factory. Energy source: Various waste ­materials are shredSummer 2015: The analyst for environmental In response, she started to search for alternaA waste management company picks up ded and remixed, management, Izabelle Salaverry, at our Braziltive recycling methods for this residual waste the non-recyclable waste on a weekly basis. ­resulting in a secondian subsidiary, KLL, deals with the materials in 2015 and came across the possibility of us­Afterwards, it is processed together with other ary fuel that saves fossil resources. flows at our plants. Therefore, she knows that ing certain waste fractions in the production industrial waste creating a secondary fuel that although a lot of production waste such as of cement via a collection system. “The costs serves as an energy source in the production ­paper, various types of plastic or wood can for this disposal method were comparable with process at a cement factory. In this way, our be recycled, a significant residual amount of the previous approach but considering the production waste is used more effectively waste ends up in the landfill. And this landecological footprint this option was interestthan being landfilled. And for our colleagues fill happens to be 500 kilometres away from ing,” says Izabelle Salaverry. After a successful at KLL, this leads to reduced administrative the KLL plant in the state of Santa Catarina. test run back in 2015, the new waste recycling ­efforts as the documentation processes for “I didn’t like this situation,” says Izabelle method was established at the KLL plant. the waste transport to Santa Catarina have ­Salaverry. been eliminated. 17 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Shaping schools How we think corporate responsibility in India through to the end Shaping schools How we think corporate responsi­bility in India through to the end 18 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Shaping schools How we think corporate responsibility in India through to the end As a group with global operations, we have to deal with many different ­legal and cultural standards. The standards that we apply to our own ­actions are set forth in our Code of Conduct, which was updated in 2019. In this code we make clear: We do not accept child labor. As a logical «We managed ­consequence, we instead fight for the right of children to receive a good to incorporate education instead. What that means in practice is demonstrated by our colleagues in India. our corporate values and culture in the revised Code of Why does a global industrial group take a Our Code of Conduct was drawn up in 2013 Conduct in a trendstand on behalf of Indian primary schools? To answer this question, it pays to look – in for the first time and comprehensively revised in 2019. In order to incorporate as many persetting manner.» addition to the Human Rights Policy and the spectives as possible, many colleagues were Natascha Müller-Ohl Statement on the UK Modern Slavery Act – at involved in this process. In addition to manIn-house lawyer our Code of Conduct. In this code, we ­describe agement, experts in the departments of CSR, SAF-HOLLAND how we want to conduct our business and Data Protection, HR, HSEQ (Health, Safety, what we expect from our employees. We also Environment, Quality), Compliance & Legal set forth that we want our cooperation to be Affairs, Purchasing and the works council parbased on respect, trust, integrity and fairness. ticipated in the project. According to Natascha In addition, the Code of Conduct makes clear Müller-Ohl, in-house lawyer at SAF-HOLLAND, that SAF-HOLLAND does not accept any kind the efforts paid off: “We managed to incorpo­ of child labor. Children should exercise their rate our corporate values and culture in the right to education. And the better equipped revised Code of Conduct in a trendsetting the school is, the better they succeed. manner.” How the Code of Conduct and entrepreneurial activity can go hand in hand is demonstrated by one of our Indian locations, for example. In India, companies are required to establish 19 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Shaping schools How we think corporate responsibility in India through to the end a CSR committee and to spend two percent as school bags, stationery or water bottles of their annual average net profit over the are taken for granted – in Pune many families previous three years on charitable activities. can’t afford these things for their children. Therefore, even small contributions have a big The CSR committee of our subsidiary, York impact here and cause great joy. Moreover, Transport Equipment, quickly realized that the school administrations received support one area of focus should be supporting school in the form of new blackboards or laptops. education. In the direct vicinity of the plant in Pune, there were too many children lackIn the meantime, almost 350 students in seving basic school equipment. In other parts of eral schools have benefited from the support the world, equipment for first graders such from York. But this cooperation also benefits the company itself. “It is our conviction that supporting the growth and prosperity of people in need and the disadvantaged community «We will is the right thing to do and we will maintain this support in future,” says G. S. Chatterjee, continue with Managing Director of York Transport Equipment (India) and member of the company’s our support CSR committee. This demonstrates how we in the future.» can breathe life into our Code of Conduct. G. S. Chatterjee Managing Director York Transport Equipment Well equipped at the Navlakh Umbre Primary School: With a new school bag, learning is much more fun. 20 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Claim From our Code of Conduct From our Code of Conduct Our entrepreneurial success and our social as well as societal responsibility are inextricably linked. 21 Reporting on sustainability www.safholland.com 22 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Organizational profile ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Contents SAF-HOLLAND GROUP AT A GLANCE In January 2019, SAF-HOLLAND acquired a stake of 51 percent in the tire Message from the CEO GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 102-10, 201-1, pressure management system “PressureGuard”. A purchase option for the Magazine 201/103 remaining shares in the company was agreed with the previous owner, SerWith revenue of EUR 1,284.2 million, and on average 4,218 employvitech Industries, Inc. This option may be exercised at a later date. Organizational profile ees in the year 2019, SAF-HOLLAND S.A., based in Luxembourg, is one of Sustainability strategy and management the largest publicly listed suppliers to the commercial vehicles sector in EuEffective February 1, 2019, SAF HOLLAND acquired all the shares in the Corporate governance and compliance rope. Internationally we are among the leading producers of chassis-reStara Group based in Finland. As a result, SAF-HOLLAND acquired the opSupply chain lated assemblies and components for trailers, trucks and buses. With erations of the two entities, AB Stara Parts Oy, Finland, and Trailax AktieClimate strategy and CO2 management roughly 10,000 spare parts and service stations, alongside dealers and rebolag, Sweden. pair shops in over 80 countries worldwide, SAF-HOLLAND possesses one of Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods the densest spare parts and service station networks in the entire industry. Memberships in associations and initiatives The product range comprises axle and suspension systems, fifth wheels, Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy kingpins and landing gears that are marketed under the SAF, Holland, Environmental efficiency of operational processes Neway, KLL, Corpco, V.Orlandi and York OEM brands with the aftermarket being catered to by the brands SAF-HOLLAND Original Parts, SAUER QUALEmployees ITY PARTS and GOLD LINE QUALITY PARTS. Social commitment GRI Content Index SAF-HOLLAND products are manufactured at 24 production facilities loUNGC Index cated in 14 countries worldwide. In addition to its plants in its core markets SDG Index of North America, Europe and China, SAF-HOLLAND also has production and assembly facilities in Brazil, South Africa, India, Australia and the TCFD Index United Arab Emirates. Development activities are concentrated at two loNon-financial statement cations: Bessenbach (Germany) and Muskegon (USA). About this report Imprint In Europe and North America, SAF-HOLLAND is among the top three producers in the relevant product segments of the trailer axle and fifth wheel markets. In Europe, SAF-HOLLAND is the market leader for trailer axles and suspension systems. Moreover, in North America, SAF-HOLLAND occupies a leading market position in fifth wheels, landing gears and kingpins. Group sales in the 2019 financial year came to EUR 1,284.2 million, 1.3 percent down on the prior-year figure of EUR 1,300.6 million. Adjusted EBIT amounted to EUR 79.9 million in the 2019 financial year (previous year: EUR 89.6 million). 23 1 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Organizational profile SAF-HOLLAND�S PRODUCTION SITES Contents Message from the CEO Magazine Organizational profile Sustainability strategy and management Corporate governance and compliance Supply chain Climate strategy and CO2 management Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods Memberships in associations and initiatives Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy Environmental efficiency of operational processes Employees Social commitment GRI Content Index UNGC Index SDG Index TCFD Index Non-financial statement EMEA AMERICAS APAC CHINA About this report Imprint Germany USA Brazil Australia China Bessenbach-Frauengrund Cincinnati Alvorada Melton Yangzhou Bessenbach-Keilberg Warrenton North Singen Warrenton South Canada India Dumas North Woodstock Pune Italy Dumas South Flero Nashville Mexico Malaysia Nave Wylie Querétaro City Kuala Lumpur South Africa Singapur Johannesburg Singapur Turkey Thailand Düzce Bangkok UAE Dubai 24 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report 2019 Organizational profile SAF-HOLLAND’S PRODUCT BRANDS Contents Message from the CEO Magazine Organizational profile Sustainability strategy and management Trailer axles and suspension systems Towing and lifting technology Suspensions for vocational trucks and buses Corporate governance and compliance Supply chain Climate strategy and CO2 management Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods Memberships in associations and initiatives Integrated management systems for ­occupational Air suspensions for trucks and buses Air suspensions for trucks Coupling systems for trucks, semi­trailers, health and safety, quality, environment and energy and axles and suspension systems for and buses in China trailers and special applications Environmental efficiency of operational processes trailers in South America Employees Social commitment GRI Content Index UNGC Index SDG Index TCFD Index Non-financial statement Trailer axles and suspension systems About this report Imprint SAUER ® QUALITY PARTS SAF­HOLLAND ORIGINAL PARTS SAUER QUALITY PARTS AND GOLD LINE QUALITY PARTS is the aftermarket brand for our are the aftermarket brands for our quality products premium products developed and tested to developed and tested as the industry standard. meet the most stringent requirements. 25 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability strategy and management SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Contents ORGANIZATIONAL ANCHORING OF SUSTAINABILITY AT SAF-HOLLAND GROUP Message from the CEO Magazine chieF FinanciaL oFFicer Organizational profile Sustainability strategy and management Strategy development Reports Corporate governance and compliance Supply chain csr oFFicer Climate strategy and CO2 management Product innovations for the safe and efficient Identification of relevant topics strategic transport of goods csr coUnciL Project deVeLoPMent MeMbers: Aftermarket, Compliance, Memberships in associations and initiatives Controlling, Finance, HSEQ, Monitoring HR, Investor Relations, Logistics, Integrated management systems for ­occupational of KPIs, health and safety, quality, environment and energy Marketing, Procurement, R&D Jury validation Environmental efficiency of operational processes of savings Employees Senior Executives Involvement of all employees Social commitment GRI Content Index dePartMents UNGC Index Implementation of the projects SDG Index TCFD Index Non-financial statement CORE PROCESSES well as social concerns. The members appointed to the committee are choAbout this report GRI 102-18 sen from various locations and departments. It is comprised of senior Imprint The Corporate Social Responsibility Council (CSR Council) sets the strarepresentatives from the following areas of the company: Aftermarket, tegic guidelines for structuring and developing sustainability management Compliance, Controlling, Finance, Health, Safety, Environment & Quality within the SAF-HOLLAND Group. In addition to CSR reporting, this mainly Management, Human Resources, Investor Relations, Logistics, Marketing, concerns the integration of the topic of sustainability in business processes Procurement and Research & Development. External experts provide with a focus on the supply chain, product development and manufacturadditional impulses for the council’s work. ing. The corresponding sustainability objectives are set by the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), who chairs the CSR Council. The CSR Officer implements The work of the Council during the year focused, in particular, on sustainand communicates the defined projects. Moreover, the CSR Officer initiability in the supply chain, the visualization of material and energy flows ates other sustainability activities. He reports directly to the CFO. and revising the materiality matrix. The latest topics related to CSR are discussed by the council, along with environmental aspects, questions on occupational health and safety as 26 4 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability strategy and management STAKEHOLDER DIALOG GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 Continuous dialog with stakeholders is of special importance to us. Contents SAF-HOLLAND remains in communication with its stakeholder groups via a Message from the CEO range of channels in order to understand their expectations and identify Magazine any material sustainability issues in good time. Organizational profile Sustainability strategy and management stakehoLders issUes coMMUnication PLatForMs Corporate governance and compliance cUstoMers – Product quality and safety – Trade fairs and exhibitions – Fuel efficiency of products – Customer surveys Supply chain – Compliance – Customer visits – Technology days Climate strategy and CO2 management – Customer audits Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods networks and – Innovations and technology subsidies – Meetings and committees associations – Attending congresses and events Memberships in associations and initiatives (see also membership in associations) Integrated management systems for ­occupational Media – Innovation and technologies – Information for the press health and safety, quality, environment and energy – SAF­HOLLAND as the employer – Trade fairs and exhibitions – Finances – Plant tours Environmental efficiency of operational processes – Local plant development – Visits by journalists Employees – Compliance Social commitment eMPLoyees – Health and safety – Employee surveys – Career and training – Ideas management GRI Content Index – Diversity and equal opportunity – Works’ assemblies UNGC Index – Co­determination – Internal media – Work­life balance SDG Index caPitaL Market – Product innovations – Conferences TCFD Index – Responsible governance – Roadshows Non-financial statement – Risk management – Bilateral dialog – Compliance – Trade fairs and exhibitions About this report – Goals and goal attainment Imprint LocaL stakehoLders – Social commitment – Face­to­face meetings – Environmental protection – Plant tours – SAF­HOLLAND as the employer – Neighborhood initiatives – Local plant development PoLitics and – Technological development and subsidies – Cooperation in trade associations oFFiciaL aUthorities – Training – Site visits – Political environment – Trade fairs and exhibitions – Local plant development – Delegations – Demographic change ngos – Environmental protection and efficient use of resources – Round­table meetings – Business ethics sUPPLiers – Product quality and safety – Supplier interviews and audits – Human rights – Industry initiatives – Environmental protection – Conferences and symposiums – Compliance 27 5 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability strategy and management MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT For example, the topics of GRI 102-42, 102-43, 102-46 The materiality assessment from 2017 was validated and updated in the — “Supplier environmental assessment” and “Supplier development” Contents reporting year. We relied on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for orienwere subsumed under the one heading “Sustainability in the supply Message from the CEO tation. The relevant issues and stakeholders were selected in internal workchain”, Magazine shops at regional level with the direct involvement of the CSR Council (see “Stakeholder dialog” page 27). SAF-HOLLAND prepared a separate ma— “Data security and IT security” and “Intellectual property” were subOrganizational profile teriality matrix for each region in order to determine regional specifics sumed together under the heading “Protection of data and intellectual Sustainability strategy and management when designing the sustainability strategy and to reflect even more property”, Corporate governance and compliance strongly on the different socio-cultural factors and the understanding of Supply chain sustainability within the regions. In addition, a global materiality matrix — “Anti-corruption”, “Anti-competitive behavior”, “Human rights and Climate strategy and CO2 management was developed (shown in this report). Deriving the relevant issues in intenmodern slavery” and “Diversity, equal opportunity and non-discriminasive dialog with the four regions and separately calculating the results at tion” were all subsumed under the heading of “Business ethics and huProduct innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods regional level gave rise to some great ideas for the initiation of specific proman rights”, Memberships in associations and initiatives grams. This gives more expression to the expectations of regional stakeholders. — “Materials”, “Environmental compliance”, “Energy consumption in proIntegrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy duction” and “Environmental impacts of production processes” were Environmental efficiency of operational processes In total, 19 topics in the fields of environmental, social and governance subsumed under the heading “Environmental efficiency in operating were presented to the stakeholders for assessment. All relevant stakeholdprocesses”. Employees ers were considered when selecting the interviewees. In addition, the Social commitment Group Management Board assessed the topics in terms of their relevance The sustainability issues were analyzed and evaluated with regard to the GRI Content Index for long-term business development. requirements of the Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and UNGC Index of the Council of 22 October 2014 amending Directive 2013/34/EU as reSDG Index Apart from presenting the issues in matrix form to allow comparison of the gards disclosure of non-financial and diversity information by certain large parameters “impact on business activities” and “stakeholder relevance” at undertakings and groups (see also “Non-Financial Statement” page 73). TCFD Index regional and global levels, the issues were also presented in heat maps to Non-financial statement visualize the relevance of the individual issues both within the respective About this report regions and also within stakeholder groups, and to allow more in-depth Imprint analysis. In the course of preparing the results from the stakeholder survey, the individual sustainability issues were clustered and, in some cases, aggregated under one heading. This reduced the number of issues from 19 to 11 without narrowing the full spectrum. 28 6 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability strategy and management DERIVATION OF MATERIALITY IN THE FOUR REGIONS OF SAF-HOLLAND IDENTIFICATION Contents Message from the CEO csr rePorting goVernance enVironMentaL sociaL Magazine 51 csr coUnciL MeMbers FraMework Organizational profile Together with representatives of the CSR Council, Global Reporting – Product safety and – Operational energy – Occupational health relevant ESG topics were selected for the stake­ Initiative (GRI) product liability consumption and safety Sustainability strategy and management holder survey in each region, taking into account – Economic – Operational – Employer branding Corporate governance and compliance performance environmental and attractiveness the GRI reporting framework. Supply chain impacts – Privacy & – Equal opportunity and Climate strategy and CO2 management 8 IT security – Environmental compliance non­discrimination Product innovations for the safe and efficient GOVERNANCE – Intellectual property – Corporate ISSUES – Electrified vehicle volunteering transport of goods 19 sUstainabiLity issUes – Anti­corruption concepts Memberships in associations and initiatives Integrated management systems for ­occupational A total of 19 topics were worked out, which are 7 – Human rights and modern slavery – Smart trailer ENVIRONMENTAL solutions health and safety, quality, environment and energy located in the individual stages of value creation ISSUES – Anti­competitive and also reflect SAF­HOLLAND’s business strategy. – Materials Environmental efficiency of operational processes behavior Employees 4 – Supplier – Supplier environmental SOCIAL development assessment Social commitment ISSUES GRI Content Index ANALYSIS UNGC Index SDG Index TCFD Index 5 Major coMMUnication stakehoLders 75 35 30 10 9 Non-financial statement Employees Suppliers Customers Investors Others Five major stakeholder groups from all regions About this report were taken into account in the survey. A total Imprint of 706 stakeholders were involved. stakehoLder 8% China 159 coMPLeted resPonses 9% 47% APAC Internal A total of 159 completed responses were used for the evaluation. To round off the overall 50% picture, personal interviews were conducted EMEA with selected key stakeholders. 33% 53% Americas External distribUtion 29 7 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability strategy and management VALIDATION Contents 11 Major sUstainabiLity issUes 22 gri sPeciFic toPics Message from the CEO In an internal workshop, individual sustainability issues were grouped and, The eleven material topics identified were assigned to the topic­specific GRI Magazine in some cases, aggregated under one heading. This reduced the number of standards. They were used as the basis for reporting. Organizational profile topics from 19 to 11, without narrowing the overall spectrum. Sustainability strategy and management Corporate governance and compliance MATERIALITY MATRIX Supply chain Very high relevance Climate strategy and CO2 management Product safety and Product innovations for the safe and efficient product liability transport of goods Memberships in associations and initiatives Occupational health Integrated management systems for ­occupational and safety health and safety, quality, environment and energy Environmental efficiency of operational processes Environmental efficiency of Supply chain operational processes Employees sustainability Social commitment Business ethics and human rights Protection of data and STAKEHOLDER RELEVANCE GRI Content Index intellectual property UNGC Index SDG Index Economic performance Smart trailer (internal and external) TCFD Index solutions Non-financial statement About this report Electrified Imprint vehicle concepts Employer branding Corporate volunteering and attractiveness Governance Environmental Social High relevance Relevance for long-term business development medium high Low IMPACT OF BUSINESS High 30 8 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability strategy and management SAF-HOLLAND´S MATERIALITY ISSUES AND VALUE CHAIN GRI 102-47 Contents Aspect MAteriAlity issue Gri Guideline topics supply chAin operAtion product society Message from the CEO GovernAnce Economic performance Economic performance Magazine Business ethics and Anti-corruption, antiOrganizational profile competitive behavior, human rights Sustainability strategy and management human rights assessment, diversity and equal opporCorporate governance and compliance tunity, non-discrimination Supply chain Protection of data and Customer privacy intellectual property Climate strategy and CO2 management Product innovations for the safe and efficient Product safety and Customer health and safety transport of goods product liability Memberships in associations and initiatives Supply chain sustainability Procurement practices, Integrated management systems for ­occupational supplier environmental health and safety, quality, environment and energy assessment, child labor, forced or compulsory labor, Environmental efficiency of operational processes supplier social assessment Employees environMentAl Environmental efficiency Energy, water and effluents, Social commitment of operational processes emissions, waste GRI Content Index Electrified vehicle concepts No GRI standard UNGC Index SDG Index Smart trailer solutions No GRI standard TCFD Index sociAl Employer branding Employment, training and Non-financial statement and attractiveness education, freedom of association and collective About this report bargaining Imprint Occupational health Occupational health and safety and safety Corporate volunteering Local communities 31 9 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance and compliance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE Contents GRI 102-18 SUSTAINABILITY AND THE ROLE OF THE BOARD OF Message from the CEO SAF-HOLLAND S.A. is a company governed by Luxembourg law. Therefore, DIRECTORS (BOD) AT SAF-HOLLAND Magazine the management and control of the company deviate from the organizaIn light of the growing awareness of investors of sustainability, it is extional structure of a German stock corporation. Whereas German corpopected that the Board of Directors (BoD) actively addresses the issue of Organizational profile rate law provides for a two-tier structure consisting of a Management sustainability and provides evidence that it has a solid understanding of Sustainability strategy and management Board and Supervisory Board, a Société Anonyme's management structure sustainability risks. The goal is to identify, measure and publish EnvironCorporate governance and compliance is based on the one-tier model of the Anglo-American board system. mental, Social and Governance (ESG) risks to provide stakeholders with the Supply chain information on how SAF-HOLLAND integrates sustainability in its business Climate strategy and CO2 management As a Luxembourg-based Société Anonyme (S.A.) listed solely in Germany, strategy, risk management and day-to-day operations. At the same time, SAF-HOLLAND is not subject to the corporate governance standards in eithe Board is faced with the challenge of assessing competitive threats and Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods ther Luxembourg or Germany. Nevertheless, the Board of Directors and the disruptive market trends, which include ecological and social concerns. In Memberships in associations and initiatives Group Management Board are committed to responsible and transparent this regard, the needs of a broad universe of stakeholders are considered corporate governance, business integrity, sustainability and ethical values. and their expectations are reflected in the strategic alignment. CorreIntegrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy SAF-HOLLAND has therefore chosen to follow the recommendations and spondingly, the BoD regularly considers issues related to governance, enEnvironmental efficiency of operational processes suggestions of the German Corporate Governance Codex on a voluntary vironment, occupational health and safety as well as social concerns. This basis, to the extent that this is compatible with the corporate laws in Luxrobust integration of ESG risks allows the Group Management Board and Employees embourg and the company’s one-tier structure. Our Declaration of ConBoD to assess all resource requirements and allocate capital more effecSocial commitment formity with the German Corporate Governance Codex can be viewed tively. Further information can be found in the report of the Board of DiGRI Content Index online at https://corporate.safholland.com/de/unternehmen/ueber-uns/ rectors in the 2019 Annual Report. UNGC Index corporate-governance/corporate-governance. SDG Index In the reporting year, preparations were made to reorganize the company TCFD Index as a European Company (Societas Europaea, SE) and to move its registered Non-financial statement offices to Germany thereafter. The company views the form of an SE as About this report being particularly suitable to underscore its international orientation. By Imprint relocating the headquarters to Germany, it is intended to combine corporate management with the operative functions of the SAF-HOLLAND Group. The relocation should reduce the complexity of the organizational structure of the Group and the associated costs. In addition, the system of corporate governance should be changed from a single-tier to a dualistic or two-tier system, consisting of the Management Board, which acts as the executive, and the Supervisory Board, which is charged with oversight. In the process, the governance structure will be adjusted to match the actual organizational structure of the SAF-HOLLAND Group. Further information on the corporate governance of SAF-HOLLAND can be found in the 2019 Annual Report. 3210 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance and compliance GOVERNANCE: SUSTAINABILITY IN THE DRIVING SEAT Contents chairMan baLance oF eXecUtiVe aVerage gender baLance board oF directors (bod) and non-eXecUtiVe Length oF bod Message from the CEO directors tenUre 50% 50% Magazine Male Female Organizational profile Sustainability strategy and management 100% 4.2 Non­executive Years Corporate governance and compliance aUdit noMination attendance 6% coMMittee coMMittee bod in Meetings Supply chain bod indePendence 94% Climate strategy and CO2 management — In 2019, the BoD has worked on increasing the Product innovations for the safe and efficient bod number of independent members in the BoD. transport of goods — With the resignation of the former CEO from the aVerage age Memberships in associations and initiatives reMUneration sPeciaL BoD, there is no more executive member on the bod 17% coMMittee coMMittee Board. 66–70 Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy north 50% aMerica1 — With Ms. Ingrid Jägering as a new member of the 45–55 Environmental efficiency of operational processes BoD and independent Head of the Audit Commit­ tee, another key role has been assigned with an Employees independent member. 33% 56–65 Social commitment GRI Content Index ceo groUP ManageMent board bod skiLLs and knowLedge areas2 reMUneration bod UNGC Index SDG Index ProdUct/technoLogy/ — The remuneration system has been reviewed indUstry eXPertise Markets and benchmarked with SAF­HOLLAND’s peer TCFD Index group in 2019. eXecUtiVe coMMittee Non-financial statement — The main element is a fixed remuneration. In strategy/LeadershiP/ About this report addition, individual meeting attendance gets c-LeVeL eXPerience transForMation rewarded with an attendance fee. Imprint corPorate sociaL resPonsibiLity coUnciL — The remuneration of the BoD is not linked risk/coMPLiance/LegaL/ to the economic results of the company. The MeMbers: FinanciaL, accoUnting corPorate goVernance/ members of the BoD do not take part in any Aftermarket, Compliance, Controlling, Finance, and aUdit board eXPerience incentive plans based on stock options or, HSEQ, HR, Investor Relations, Logistics, Marketing, generally, based on financial instruments. Procurement, R&D 1 Special Committees are set up on demand, depending on business requirements. 2 Number of experts in the BoD (expertise 75% or above based on self­assessment). 3311 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance and compliance COMPLIANCE ORGANIZATION AT SAF-HOLLAND GROUP coMPLiance & LegaL aFFairs coMPLiance coMMittee Contents Message from the CEO The Compliance & Legal Affairs department serves as the central point The Compliance Committee is responsible for clarifying any indications of contact for compliance issues. The objective of the Compliance of potential compliance infringements. The committee consists of per­ Magazine department is to establish and constantly improve prevention measures manent members, as well as internal guest members who are invited for Organizational profile within the business processes and to identify and clarify any potential specific cases. Representatives from the following departments are stan­ infringements of our Code of Conduct at an early stage. ding members on the committee: Compliance & Legal Affairs, Human Sustainability strategy and management Resources and Corporate Audit Services. Depending on the nature and Corporate governance and compliance extent of the matter, the Compliance Committee can involve additional Supply chain departments as guests if they think the circumstances require it. In the board oF directors event of serious and urgent cases, the CFO can also be drawn on. Climate strategy and CO2 management Product innovations for the safe and efficient The Board of Directors is responsible for compliance with the law and transport of goods the company’s policies and seeks the same level of compliance from the Memberships in associations and initiatives subsidiaries. For this reason, the Audit Committee of the BoD regularly corPorate aUdit serVices addresses the compliance organization as well as its effectiveness and Integrated management systems for ­occupational development. The committee is staffed by members of the BoD and is The Corporate Audit Services department conducts regular audits to health and safety, quality, environment and energy headed by a financial expert. The Compliance department and the CFO review the structure and effectiveness of compliance measures. Environmental efficiency of operational processes report to the Audit Committee at regular intervals on the progress and plans in the field of compliance. Employees Social commitment GRI Content Index UNGC Index SDG Index COMPLIANCE CULTURE AND OBJECTIVES CODE OF CONDUCT GRI 102-16 GRI 205-3, 206/103, 307/103, 405/103, 406/103, 408/103, 409/103, TCFD Index SAF-HOLLAND places great importance on all of its employees and 412/103, 416-2 Non-financial statement business partners aligning their behavior with the company’s values and The Code of Conduct provides all employees and business partners About this report that they comply with the Code of Conduct and applicable laws. Compliwith a guideline to ensure they remain within the law and behave in keepImprint ance is the task of each employee, all managers and the directors. The obing with our values. The Code of Conduct applies to all employees worldjective of SAF-HOLLAND is to have employees and processes in place that wide and to all regions and departments of the SAF-HOLLAND Group. If all identify compliance risks in good time and thus avoid any infringements. actors behave in line with the terms of the Code of Conduct, this will conApart from the mere implementation of rules and processes, it is more imtribute to avoiding a loss of reputation and the potential risk to the Group’s portant to have a living compliance culture instilled in the workforce to enability to continue as a going concern. Moreover, complying with our Code courage them to behave accordingly. To underscore these objectives, of Conduct fosters appreciation, acceptance and trust from our customers, SAF-HOLLAND has laid down its position on the legal requirements in its investors and suppliers. globally valid Code of Conduct, which expresses its expectations as an employer and the benchmark for the conduct expected in business. Together We performed the first extensive revision of our Code of Conduct since it with the values of SAF-HOLLAND, this constitutes a foundation for the busiwas established in 2013 and brought it up to date. The goal was to bring ness success of the Group as a whole. the Code of Conduct into line with amended laws and regulations and, in doing so, take due account of our global engagement. Our Code of Conduct 3412 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance and compliance extends to the obligation to comply with fair trade and cartel law, insider ANTI-CORRUPTION/-BRIBERY trading law, the protection of confidential information and intellectual GRI 102-12, 205/103, 205-2 property, product safety and quality, health, safety and environment, data In the final instance, our most compelling argument is the quality of Contents protection and other elements, such as observing human rights, equal opour products and services. This is the reason why our business partners Message from the CEO portunity, transparency and an unambiguous attitude towards discriminadecide to enter into a business relationship with us from day to day. GrantMagazine tion, bribery and corruption. ing any individual employees and representatives of other companies an inducement to choose us over the competition independently of the qualOrganizational profile The Code of Conduct is available to the public in eleven languages via the ity of our products and services would be a breach of fair trade principles Sustainability strategy and management following link: https://corporate.safholland.com/en/sustainability/corand damage the trust of our business partners in the SAF-HOLLAND Group. Corporate governance and compliance porate-governance-compliance/code-of-conduct. Supply chain We condemn any form of bribery, blackmail or corruption. Accepting, Climate strategy and CO2 management No breaches of the Code of Conduct were reported in the reporting year. granting or even offering any kind of illegal inducement is strictly prohibited. This applies towards companies in the private sector, private individProduct innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods TRAINING ON COMPLIANCE ISSUES uals, officials, auditors and other organizational units. The term induceMemberships in associations and initiatives SAF-HOLLAND conducts systematic training on compliance issues. ment includes gifts of any kind as well as invitations to events or business Comprehensive training modules were developed in the reporting year to dinners. Our internal guideline on dealing with such benefits is the authorIntegrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy make the workforce more aware of the contents of the Code of Conduct. itative policy for assessing the conformity of any inducements. Environmental efficiency of operational processes The training was provided to a wide section of the workforce via the learning management system. The training program was assigned to 1,256 emMoreover, SAF-HOLLAND is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and Employees ployees at the German locations. Of this total, 609 employees completed acknowledges the universal principles on the prevention of corruption. Social commitment the module “What does compliance mean?” and 604 employees the modGRI Content Index ule “Signing policy”. New employees are instructed extensively on compliFor reasons of transparency and as a preventive measure, inducements UNGC Index ance issues during the onboarding process and issued a written copy of the must be disclosed in certain cases. All of our managers are trained at regSDG Index Code of Conduct. In the following year, an expansion of the training activiular intervals and on an ad hoc basis on the “Guideline on Gifts and Invitaties at other international locations in additional languages is planned. tions” via our internal communication channels. This occurs at least once TCFD Index annually. In the reporting year, we thoroughly revised the guideline and Non-financial statement GRIEVANCE MECHANISM AND WHISTLEBLOWER SYSTEM the training modules to raise the awareness of the workforce. The training About this report GRI 102-17 program was assigned to 1,256 employees at the German locations. Of this Imprint In 2018, we installed an electronic whistleblower system that gives total, 608 employees successfully completed the “Corruption” module and every employee and external third parties the opportunity to anonymously 623 employees the “Gifts and inducements” module. report any violations of the law within the company, or by the company. The Compliance & Legal Affairs department immediately reviews all reports that are received. The Compliance Committee then examines the specifics of the case and processes it accordingly. The whistleblower system can be found on our website at https://corporate.safholland.com/en/sustainability/corporate-governance-compliance/ report-compliance-incidents in the languages of German, English and Chinese. 3513 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance and compliance DATA PROTECTION AND DATA SECURITY In terms of data security, the IT department conducted a data security auGRI 418/103, 418-1 dit of our internal network as well as a data security audit of the websites The highest standards for data protection and data security secure the and web shop. Contents long-term trust of our stakeholders. In all of the regions we operate, we Message from the CEO endeavor to meet the most stringent requirements to offer our customers In the 2019 financial year, SAF-HOLLAND was not aware of any cases of Magazine data security and protection. By integrating the “Compliance and Data Prodata leaks, data theft or loss of customer data nor were any complaints tection” management process and the IT guidelines on “General Data Sereceived in this regard. In the EMEA region, there were two cases, which Organizational profile curity” in our process management manual, we have created a foundation resulted in a threat to data security. However, in both cases, the correSustainability strategy and management for effective data protection at all German locations. sponding countermeasures avoided any loss of data. Corporate governance and compliance Supply chain The overall responsibility for data protection and data security, as well as Climate strategy and CO2 management compliance with the legal requirements arising from the European General Data Protection Regulation (EU GDPR), lies with the Group Management Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods Board. A Data Protection Officer supports the board on implementing any Memberships in associations and initiatives data protection requirements. This officer is assigned to the Internal Audit department and reports directly to the CFO on all relevant aspects. The Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy Data Protection Officer draws up a closing report each year that records Environmental efficiency of operational processes the nature and scope of the activities and any particular incidents. In future, we are planning to establish data protection reporting, initially in GerEmployees many, in order to structure data protection processes more effectively Social commitment across departmental borders. Furthermore, the Data Protection Officer GRI Content Index participates in the quality audits of the German locations in order to optiUNGC Index mize the related measures. SDG Index New employees and business partners are obliged to comply with the legal TCFD Index requirements arising from the EU GDPR by means of supplementary conNon-financial statement tractual agreements. In 2019, one focus of data protection activities was About this report placed on intensifying the training of employees at our European subsidiImprint aries and sales companies. The number of German employees who were trained in data protection via the Learning Management System was raised from 368 employees in the previous year to 632 in the reporting year. At the remaining European locations, we provide annual training specifically to those employees who are involved in the processing of personal data. 3614 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance and compliance HUMAN RIGHTS DUE DILIGENCE AT SAF-HOLLAND Contents Message from the CEO hUMan rights Magazine PoLicy Organizational profile continUoUs risk assessMent iMProVeMent Sustainability strategy and management Corporate governance and compliance Supply chain Climate strategy and CO2 management MeasUres Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods rePorting and reView oF eFFectiVeness Memberships in associations and initiatives grieVance MechanisMs Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy Environmental efficiency of operational processes Employees Social commitment GRI Content Index RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY UNGC Index GRI 102-12, 303-1, 412/103 GRI 102-16, 412/103 SDG Index The SAF-HOLLAND Group is committed to respecting human rights We pursue an integrated approach that extends to our own processes TCFD Index based on the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human and those of our supply chain, which we continually refine in order to align Rights (UNGPs). These principles demand that we systematically identify ourselves with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Non-financial statement the impact of our own business activity on human rights and avoid, mitiSAF-HOLLAND drew up and published its first “Human Rights Policy” in About this report gate or, if required, remediate any negative consequences of our business September 2019. This corporate policy supplements the principles laid out Imprint activity. We are committed to complying with the various national action in our Code of Conduct in terms of observing human rights and specifies plans and laws enshrining human rights, in particular the “National Action our existing obligations in more detail. It creates clarity about processes Plan (NAP) for Business and Human Rights”. Moreover, SAF-HOLLAND is a and procedures to ensure that human rights are respected and protected signatory to the UN Global Compact and acknowledges the universal prinwithin the Group. The concepts are considered in our business activities ciples on human rights. SAF-HOLLAND acknowledges the right to clean waand implemented along the entire value chain. The policy is available to ter as a human right and pays particular attention to protecting water as a the public in eleven languages via the following link: https://corporesource (see sections “Environmental efficiency of operational processes” rate.safholland.com/en/sustainability/corporate-governance-compliance/ page 50 and “Social commitment” page 61). human-rights-policy. 3715 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance and compliance STATEMENT ON MODERN SLAVERY MEASURES AND REVIEW OF EFFECTIVENESS AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING GRI 412-2 GRI 409/103 We would like to raise the awareness of all employees of the contents Contents Because SAF-HOLLAND also operates in the United Kingdom, we have of our Code of Conduct. For this reason, training to instill an actively lived Message from the CEO incorporated the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 within the sphere of our compliance culture within the organization is of critical significance. After Magazine human rights duties. At the beginning of 2020, SAF-HOLLAND published its the ratification of our first Human Rights Policy and the revised Code of first statement on modern slavery. This reflects our commitment to all efConduct in the reporting year, training sessions were developed that are Organizational profile forts to abolish all forms of modern slavery within our sphere of influence obligatory for all employees. We will continue the work we have begun to Sustainability strategy and management and lays down the measures to ensure that no slavery and no human traffoster respect of human rights throughout our entire organization and to Corporate governance and compliance ficking occurs in our business activities and along our supply chain. The further anchor this in the company. Supply chain statement is available via the following link: https://corporate.safholClimate strategy and CO2 management land.com/en/sustainability/corporate-governance-compliance/uk-modGRIEVANCE MECHANISMS ern-slavery-act-transparency-statement. GRI 406-1 Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods In order to uncover potential violations of the law and internal reguMemberships in associations and initiatives RISK ASSESSMENT lations, not only can employees lodge a report with their direct superviGRI 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 412-1 sor, but they can also contact the Compliance & Legal Affairs department Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy Our due diligence processes allow us to track the effectiveness and or communicate issues anonymously via the whistleblower system withEnvironmental efficiency of operational processes compliance with our human rights obligations and also to identify, prevent out revealing any information about the sender. We expressly encourage and mitigate any human rights-related risks, human rights impacts or vioemployees and business partners to communicate any suspicions or vioEmployees lations of human rights. Potential risks of child labor and forced labor at lations they notice. The various ways to make contact are summarized on Social commitment our locations are fundamental elements of our audits. We do not perceive our corporate website at the following link: https://corporate.safholGRI Content Index any elevated risks of child labor or forced labor and the threat of the right land.com/en/sustainability/corporate-governance-compliance/reportUNGC Index to freedom of association and collective bargaining at any of the locations compliance-incidents. We investigate all reports and initiate any counterSDG Index of SAF-HOLLAND. measures that are needed. TCFD Index SAF-HOLLAND endeavors to continuously improve its risk identification REPORTING Non-financial statement and management processes. In future, we will conduct an initial human GRI 102-52 About this report rights risks assessment and a gap analysis in order to identify any gaps in We are committed to regularly reporting on the progress made throughImprint our processes, prioritize measures at high-risk locations and work towards out our organization with regard to human rights and observe the basic prinreinforcing the internal processes. ciple of transparency. Each year we publish our Sustainability Report in which we communicate the measures taken to implement our commitment to human rights and the progress we have made. The Sustainability Report from SAF-HOLLAND can be found via the following link: https://corporate.safholland.com/en/investor-relations/publications/sustainability-report. During the reporting period, SAF-HOLLAND was not made aware of any violations of human rights due to its own business activities. 3816 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Supply chain SUPPLY CHAIN Contents MANAGEMENT APPROACH In the reporting year, the CSR Council comprehensively addressed the issue Message from the CEO GRI 102-9, 204/103, 308/103, 308-1, 403-7, 414/103, 414-1 of sustainability in the supply chain and reached a consensus to communiMagazine For SAF-HOLLAND, compliance with sustainability standards across cate the revised Code of Conduct to all of our suppliers. In addition, the the entire supply chain is a fundamental element of value-added and, at relevant CSR criteria will be incorporated in an extended sustainability Organizational profile the same time, an important lever in minimizing risks. With the goal of imchecklist for disclosures by suppliers. Buyers and auditors will also be made Sustainability strategy and management proving transparency and harmonizing current processes, SAF-HOLLAND more aware of the issues. Corporate governance and compliance centralized its purchasing function in the reporting year by establishing the Supply chain position of Senior Vice President Global Sourcing. PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Climate strategy and CO2 management OF SAF-HOLLAND As part of the qualification process for new suppliers, new suppliers must GRI 407/103, 408/103, 409/103, 412/103 Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods pass a review process, which consists primarily of a checklist. We added a In our Human Rights Policy, issued in September 2019, we expect our Memberships in associations and initiatives number of CSR-related questions to the checklist during the reporting year suppliers and business partners to also comply with our human rights and considered human rights impacts. In all regions, new suppliers are restandards. We endeavor to improve the identification of any risks to huIntegrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy viewed on the basis of these CSR criteria. This includes environmental isman rights in our supply chain management. In this context, we have Environmental efficiency of operational processes sues (CO2 emissions and energy consumption), social issues (occupational started work on restructuring our pool of suppliers. After selecting supplihealth and safety, employee development and a ban on child labor) as well ers of production material, they will then be categorized using a risk-based Employees as issues related to compliance and corporate governance. All new suppliapproach. At this stage, those future suppliers who operate in potentially Social commitment ers are audited on-site by our internal quality department. The CSR-related high-risk countries, supply a high volume of goods or services, products GRI Content Index criteria are integral components of the supplier audits in all the regions we that cannot be substituted or which have a potential for creating shared UNGC Index operate. added value for innovation and sustainability should be identified. We have SDG Index initially commenced with identifying risks to human rights based on the Clear rules and processes apply to our suppliers and business partners, also location of our suppliers, with the “Global Slavery Index” serving as our TCFD Index in terms of compliance. The same standards that apply to our own employpoint of reference. Non-financial statement ees also apply to the employees of subcontractors. We expect our business About this report partners to align themselves with the principles of our Code of Conduct We will continue to work on improving our processes to identify risks to Imprint and act within the law. human rights in our supply chain based on the purchasing category and purchasing market. To this end, we will conduct a gap analysis of our curIn the year 2019, 56 suppliers of production materials were audited. No rent processes in order to determine any potential for improvement for infringements of the principles anchored in our Code of Conduct were remanagement and to reduce risks to human rights emanating from vealed within the supply chain, also in terms of any negative impact for the SAF-HOLLAND. This includes all forms of modern slavery. In addition, we environment, the use of forced labor or child labor and the right to freeintend to develop a training module on human rights and modern slavery dom of association and collective bargaining. for the relevant employees in the Purchasing and Quality management departments. 3917 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Supply chain SOURCING GOODS AND SERVICES SAF-HOLLAND has a strong network of 4,014 suppliers in 44 countries. The total volume of purchased goods and services came to EUR 1.0 billion in Contents the reporting year. Of this total, 41 percent of the purchased goods and Message from the CEO services originated from suppliers domiciled in member states of the EU Magazine and 41 percent from suppliers domiciled in OECD countries outside the EU. The remaining 18 percent originated from suppliers domiciled in countries Organizational profile in non-OECD countries outside the EU. Sustainability strategy and management Corporate governance and compliance Overview of countries from which SAF-HOLLAND procures Supply chain Non-OECD countries Climate strategy and CO2 management outside the EU 18% Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods EU countries Memberships in associations and initiatives 41% Integrated management systems for ­occupational OECD countries health and safety, quality, environment and energy outside the EU 41% Environmental efficiency of operational processes Employees Social commitment GRI Content Index UNGC Index SDG Index Number of suppliers in the regions TCFD Index 2019 Non-financial statement About this report EMEA 1,556 Americas 1,660 Imprint APAC 400 China 398 4018 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Climate strategy and CO2 management CLIMATE STRATEGY AND CO 2 MANAGEMENT Contents In order to design a climate strategy, the relevant environmental impacts — The trailer is used for construction works with a mileage of 80,000 km Message from the CEO of entrepreneurial activity must first be understood in detail. The aim is to per year. In this scenario, it is assumed that fuel consumption is higher Magazine determine hotspots in the various levels of the product life cycle in order and wear and tear greater to derive technical measures for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In the Organizational profile following section, the environmental impact is analyzed and the250relevant Impact assessment was based on two methods: The ReCiPe method Sustainability strategy and management Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are considered. Measures to compensate (ReCiPe 2008, v 1.06) was chosen to ensure a holistic view of environmenCorporate governance and compliance for CO2 emissions as well information on climate-related risks are also tal aspects, as required in DIN EN ISO 14040 for life cycle assessment studSupply chain shown. ies. The carbon footprint, which is also considered, is modelled according Climate strategy and CO2 management to a methodology published in the 2007 Intergovernmental Panel on CliProduct innovations for the safe and efficient ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT/ mate Change (IPCC) report, which is particularly widespread in the autotransport of goods LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT motive and transport industries. The ratio between the environmental imMemberships in associations and initiatives GRI 305/103 pacts over the individual phases of the product’s life cycle is of central In a comprehensive life cycle assessment, SAF-HOLLAND examined all importance. These are presented in the chart below. Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy the environmental impacts of a three-axle unit using the “Intradrum S9Environmental efficiency of operational processes 4218” product as an example. This involves modelling all of the phases of Environmental Impact Assessment the product life cycle from the extraction of the raw materials through to in kg CO₂ equivalents Employees the manufacturing and use of the product in its operating phase and final Social commitment 0 60,000 120,000 180,000 scrapping using the SimaPro v7.3.3 accounting software. In the course of GRI Content Index the life cycle assessment, focus was placed on the following issues: 3,734 UNGC Index Manufacturing 3,734 SDG Index — Recognizing environmental impacts 3,734 TCFD Index 68,897 — Identifying the levers to make potential improvements Non-financial statement Use Phase 172,196 62,071 About this report — Creating a foundation for internal and external communication Imprint 2,570 Use Phase (Spare Parts) 3,464 When analyzing the operational performance of the product, three com2,573 plete axle assemblies and suspensions were modelled. As a result, a complete three-axle unit used in a typical trailer of a 40-ton semi-trailer was 1,523 analyzed. Because the axle unit is designed for a whole range of uses, three Disposal 1,715 1,523 different scenarios were considered: Long-distance traﬃc with a mileage of 120,000 kilometers per year (standard scenario) — The trailer is primarily used for long-distance freight haulage with a Long-distance traﬃc with a mileage of 300,000 kilometers per year mileage of 120,000 km per year (standard scenario) Construction site operations with a mileage of 80,000 kilometers per year — The trailer is primarily used for long-distance freight haulage with mileage of 300,000 km per year 4119 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Climate strategy and CO2 management The operations phase is therefore the dominant phase of the life cycle in our business during upstream or downstream processes, primarily in the all three scenarios. It has an environmental impact of up to eighteen times use of our products (see above). higher than the manufacturing phase in the standard scenario (IPCC 2007). Contents The calculation also showed that 52 percent of the environmental impact The direct emissions generated by our own facilities (Scope 1) are measMessage from the CEO in the operations phase is due to the production of diesel fuel. Together ured at all production locations. The calculation of emissions is based on Magazine with 43 percent of the total environmental impact generated due to the the material parameters of the fuels we use. In addition to CO2, the calcucombustion of diesel fuel, the environmental impact allocated to the prodlation also considers laughing gas (N2O), methane and fluorinated greenOrganizational profile uct system during truck operation results in sum of 95 percent. The remainhouse gases. Sustainability strategy and management ing 5 percent of the environmental impact in the operating phase is due to Corporate governance and compliance the process of providing and disposing of the required spare parts. We calculate our Scope 2 emissions with the help of the location-based Supply chain method. For this purpose, we draw on the country-specific emission facClimate strategy and CO2 management The determining factor for the environmental impact of the product systors from the ecoinvent 3.6 database. To further reduce Scope 2 emissions, tem is therefore the consumption of diesel in the operating phase. The sourcing power from renewable sources was thoroughly analyzed and asProduct innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods production processes of these fossil fuels and their combustion are the sessed at the Bessenbach plant during the reporting year. In future, we Memberships in associations and initiatives dominant factors in the environmental impact. plan to capture Scope 3 emissions in the categories that are relevant for SAF-HOLLAND. Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy Although the ratios of the environmental impacts shift minimally between Environmental efficiency of operational processes the various phases of the life cycle and the absolute figures of the environGRI 305-1, 305-2 mental impact rise with greater mileage – the most significant parameter Greenhouse gas emissions Employees across all operating scenarios remains the parameter of mass. Tons of CO2 equivalents Social commitment EMEA Americas APAC China Total GRI Content Index An optimization of the environmental impact can therefore be achieved by UNGC Index reducing the share of fuel consumption that is attributable to the axle unit. Direct greenhouse gas emissions 3,803 12,281 72 128 16,284 SDG Index This can be best achieved by weight reduction or, to a lesser extent, by Indirect greenhouse gas emissions reducing friction in the bearings. The following section provides a summary according to the location-based TCFD Index of the continuous efforts made within the SAF-HOLLAND product universe method (GHG Protocol) 9,594 17,916 1,348 1,837 30,695 Non-financial statement to realize weight savings. Total greenhouse gas emissions About this report (Scope 1 and 2; GHG Protocol) 13,397 30,197 1,420 1,965 46,980 Imprint GREENHOUSE GASES GRI 305/103 Group-wide we measure our emissions on the basis of the internaOFFSETTING CO 2 EMISSIONS tionally recognized Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and GRI 305-5 Reporting Standard. This standard makes a distinction between three emisIn order to contribute to the global reduction in greenhouse gases beyond sions categories (Scopes 1, 2 and 3). Direct airborne emissions (Scope 1) optimizing our own business activities, we offset CO2 emissions by planting are generated by our locations by burning fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. trees on the Yucatán peninsula in Mexico in cooperation with the “PlantIndirect emissions (Scope 2) are all the emissions associated with purfor-the-Planet” initiative. In total, SAF-HOLLAND has already planted chased energy (e.g., electricity). Section “Environmental efficiency of oper104,000 trees. ational processes” provides a detailed overview of energy consumption ( page 50). Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) arise in association with 4220 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Climate strategy and CO2 management Due to the long-term support given to this project, 1,040 tons of CO2 can PHYSICAL RISKS OF CLIMATE CHANGE IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN be drawn down from the atmosphere each year. This calculation is based OF SAF-HOLLAND on the assumption that a tree with a life of 20 years absorbs on average The physical risks of climate change are seen as general natural hazContents 10 kilograms of CO2 each year (source: doi:10.1038/nature16512). Based ards such as flood, storm, hail, heat damage or forest fires. The fact that Message from the CEO on the Group-wide greenhouse gas emissions of 46,980 tons (Scope 1 and 2), the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events will increase due Magazine this means that 2 percent of SAF-HOLLAND’s total greenhouse gas emisto global warming is substantiated by climate models and the correspondsions (Scope 1 and 2) can be offset in this way. ing data from the International Energy Agency (IEA) and risk-based studies Organizational profile from major reinsurers. Sustainability strategy and management ANALYSIS OF CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS FOR THE BUSINESS Corporate governance and compliance MODEL OF SAF-HOLLAND Suppliers of critical parts are already identified and subject to a risk assessSupply chain GRI 201/103 ment by the Strategic Purchasing department. However, in future it is also Climate strategy and CO2 management RISK MANAGEMENT AND STRATEGIC PLANNING planned to mitigate the increase in risk exposure due to (local) climate SAF-HOLLAND acknowledges the challenges posed by climate change changes by keeping higher stocks or specifying alternative supply channels Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods and takes a proactive approach in its response. In light of the growing sigin order to keep supplies stable. The risk of disruption to processes caused Memberships in associations and initiatives nificance of the impact of climate change, we will strive in the coming years by extreme weather incidents, such as business interruption or a delay in to systematically identify, analyze and assess the associated risks along the supplies as well as the chain reaction caused by supply bottlenecks, can be Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy entire value chain. This ensures that we make a comprehensive assesscountered by our multi-sourcing strategy. Environmental efficiency of operational processes ment of these risks and are able to initiate countermeasures to handle and control the corresponding risks. PHYSICAL RISKS OF CLIMATE CHANGE AT THE LEVEL Employees OF OUR OWN PRODUCTION LOCATIONS Social commitment Risks are identified by constant monitoring of the business processes and When assessing its own production facilities, SAF-HOLLAND perceives GRI Content Index the immediate business environment. During the analytical phase, the dithe main risks associated with the increasing frequency and intensity of UNGC Index rect implications for the company are systematically assessed to gain an extreme weather events to result in an interruption to production, a delay SDG Index understanding of the way the risks affect it. During the final assessment in supplies or a loss of suppliers. It can be expected that there will be a the exposure associated with the risk is identified and put into relation with greater frequency of damage done to the cladding of a building and inteTCFD Index the associated likelihood of occurrence. SAF-HOLLAND observes a time rior rooms during heat waves, which could also affect the working environNon-financial statement horizon that appears suitable for the respective risk. Any risks that have ment for our employees. About this report been identified are then subject to risk management and risk controlling. Imprint A decision is made as to whether the occurrence of the risk can be preIn response, SAF-HOLLAND will make a systematic assessment of climate vented by taking suitable action, or by transferring the risk to third parties, risks for each location in order to identify and suitably assess such risks. or whether the risk must be borne by the company. The corresponding The question of which strategic, technological or organizational strategies measures are then carried out and controlled accordingly. must be pursued by SAF-HOLLAND to mitigate such risks must be decided in advance and realized in operational measures to counter any such risk A quantitative assessment of risks at SAF-HOLLAND allows them to be condirectly affecting our plants as effectively as possible. The same applies to sidered in future business activities and in the strategic alignment. The all aspects of our logistics network. measures taken include passive, technical measures to adjust to climate change but also behavioral or structural changes and insuring against any remaining risks posed by climate change. 4321 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Climate strategy and CO2 management TRANSITIONAL RISKS OF CLIMATE CHANGE Transitional risks of climate change relate to the changes in the legislative environment such as changes to national or transnational legal Contents frameworks and more stringent environmental thresholds. This also inMessage from the CEO cludes higher prices for CO2 emissions. Relying on its membership of variMagazine ous industry associations, networks and working groups, SAF-HOLLAND attempts to obtain information at a very early sstage and to recognize any Organizational profile signs of change (see “Memberships in Associations and Initiatives” page Sustainability strategy and management 48). By deriving a tailored reaction from this information, SAF-HOLLAND is Corporate governance and compliance able to keep the cost and price-related transitional risks of climate change Supply chain low and provide the relevant institutional investors with important signals Climate strategy and CO2 management pertaining to the risks. Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods FROM TRANSITIONAL RISKS TO TRANSITIONAL OPPORTUNITIES Memberships in associations and initiatives Actually, SAF-HOLLAND anticipates not only an increase in certain risks, which need to be mitigated on the basis of the associated findings, Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy but rather new business opportunities. For SAF-HOLLAND the current disEnvironmental efficiency of operational processes cussion on climate-related risks creates an opportunity to further systematize its operative risk management, revise it accordingly and thus make it Employees more transparent for external third parties. Social commitment GRI Content Index Likewise, we endeavor to obtain more supplier-side information to ensure UNGC Index more reliability in the supply of our production materials. In addition, the SDG Index product-rating criteria propagated as a response to climate change, such as weight savings due to lightweight construction concepts and the ensuTCFD Index ing fuel efficiency during operation, as well as digitization and electrificaNon-financial statement tion, offer additional market opportunities from which we could heavily About this report profit in future. The following section on “Product innovations for the safe Imprint and efficient transport of goods” addresses this aspect in more detail. 4422 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods PRODUCT INNOVATIONS FOR THE SAFE AND EFFICIENT TRANSPORT OF GOODS Contents Message from the CEO Magazine The entire mobility sector is in the middle of a transformation. Public disTo ensure that we develop new products in line with market needs in fucussions and regulatory requirements play as much of a role in this transture, we are currently revising our innovation management. In this way, we Organizational profile formation as changes in attitudes to mobility, government subsidies and can guarantee that mega trends and the associated opportunities and risks Sustainability strategy and management the progress made with digitization. All of these changes are particularly to our business model are identified at an early stage and considered in Corporate governance and compliance evident in the passenger car sector. However, the transport sector is also our product strategy. In addition, innovation management will analyze Supply chain seeing similar developments. In particular, alternative drive and vehicle market requirements and customer needs more intensively. It has also Climate strategy and CO2 management concepts (e.g., long trucks) are gaining more attention in the public eye as, been assigned the task of identifying promising new fields of innovation in addition to their potential to reduce carbon emissions, they also offer for our group of companies based on its findings. Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods economic benefits for our customers and the entire transport sector. Memberships in associations and initiatives THE CONTRIBUTION OF THE PRODUCT UNIVERSE The transport sector is particularly reliant on functioning infrastructure for TO ENHANCED FUEL EFFICIENCY Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy alternative drives. It is still vital that investments in new technologies must GRI 302/103, 302-5, 305/103 Environmental efficiency of operational processes amortize themselves for logistics providers in the medium-term. As a longIn many countries, the industrial sector is confronted by the expectastanding partner of the truck and trailer industry, we are familiar with the tion placed upon it to make a contribution to reducing greenhouse gases. Employees conditions required for a product to be successfully launched on the marThis has led, for example, to the European Union issuing specific laws and Social commitment ket. This knowledge allows us to support our customers during the transiregulations, such as the pricing of CO2 emission allowances. Moreover, in GRI Content Index tion to new drive concepts (e.g., regenerative braking for trailers, convertsome sectors, and this includes the transport sector, additional limits have UNGC Index ing the kinetic energy into electrical energy that can be stored in batteries) been set in the interests of climate protection. Such measures put pressure SDG Index and digital product families. on the entire economy to come up with new innovations. TCFD Index We have established a “Digital Team” for precisely this purpose. Its remit In the interests of its stakeholders, SAF-HOLLAND is committed to making Non-financial statement is to bring forward databased product innovations and applications. In a contribution to reducing CO2 emissions. Individual solutions for the variAbout this report close dialog with customers, sales and development centers, the team enous applications enable our customers to operate their fleets as efficiently Imprint sures that the market potential of digital applications is perceived correctly as possible. Although we cannot have any direct impact on the efficiency and that the products are adequately tailored to the needs of users. Anof the internal combustion engines used, as a supplier for chassis-related other step in this direction is being taken at headquarters in Bessenbach: assemblies and truck and bus components, we can offer support in four In order to extend our lead over the market in the field of combining mespecific areas: chanical and digital components, there are plans to establish a competence center for trailer axle technologies there. We generate the greatest effect with our lightweight constructions that optimize the load that can be carried by the vehicle. We constantly refine our In 2019, we invested 2.0 percent (previous year: 1.8 percent) of our revenue products with a view to weight reduction and longevity. For example, since in research and development. In absolute figures expenditure came to 2019 we have offered our premium axle, SAF INTRADISC plus INTEGRAL in EUR 25.7 million, in other words 7.7 percent higher than in the previous year a lighter version. Offering the same performance and longevity, we have (EUR 23.9 million in 2018). At the end of the financial year, the Group employed managed to save eight kilograms in weight. Also in the segment of fifth 177 people (previous year: 199) in the areas of R&D, design and testing. 4523 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods wheels, we have been able to engineer lighter solutions using the right maThe “TrailerMaster” system from our subsidiary Axscend Ltd. provides terials and designs. For instance, we have realized weight-savings of 90 kilcomprehensive transparency of the data depicting the condition of the ograms in our FWAL-E model in combination with the “Weightsaver trailer. This gives fleet operators real-time operating data such as the GPS Contents mounting system”. position, tour history, condition of the brakes, tire pressure, light functions Message from the CEO and load. With this data, the operating hours, loads and maintenance inMagazine We also contribute to a reduction in CO2 emissions using technical solutervals of the trailer can be optimized, which contributes to efficient use of tions. This begins with, for example, our “SAF TIRE PILOT” tire inflation sysresources at fleet level. Organizational profile tem. This system keeps the tire pressure constantly within its optimal Sustainability strategy and management range, which reduces roll resistance and consequently fuel consumption. In addition, we would like to accompany the buyers of our SMART STEEL Corporate governance and compliance As the system maintains tire pressure even in cases of puncture damage, it products continuously over the entire lifetime, to ensure that our products Supply chain is not necessary to carry a spare tire anymore. This can lead to additional are used as efficiently as possible. In this way, the digitization of our prodClimate strategy and CO2 management weight savings of up to 160 kilograms. ucts makes an important contribution to greater sustainability in the transport sector. Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods One step further in this direction is our electric trailer axle in the TRAK Memberships in associations and initiatives product family. SAF TRAKr and SAF TRAKe function as generators during Finally, we also contribute to the conservation of resources by striving to vehicle braking to recover the kinetic energy. The power generated in this optimize our products over their entire life cycle. A focus is already placed Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy way can be used to charge batteries and electrical devices, such as cooling on longevity and ease of repair during the development phase. The less Environmental efficiency of operational processes units. In May 2019, SAF-HOLLAND signed a strategic partnership with LOHR frequently a product or a component needs to be replaced, the lower its Industrie S.A., the global leader in the car-transporter market, for electric corresponding carbon footprint. Employees trailer axles. The jointly developed electric trailer axle AXle Electric Assist Social commitment Lohr (AXEAL) works completely independently of the tractor’s main drive, GRI Content Index supporting it during acceleration and braking by means of energy recuperUNGC Index ation. By providing additional traction assistance, the tractor runs in a more SDG Index optimal operating range, thereby consuming up to 15 percent less fuel while improving ride comfort. TCFD Index Non-financial statement With digital solutions, we make a contribution to fuel efficiency while on About this report the road, which further reduces CO2 emissions at fleet level. Our approach Imprint consists of intelligently combining mechanical and digital components. At SAF-HOLLAND, such activities are combined under the “SMART STEEL – ENGINEER, BUILT, CONNECT” initiative. For example, we combine tire pressure systems with intelligent air pressure sensors to adjust tire pressures to match the load on the axle. In addition, the driver is given a warning via Bluetooth if the maximum load is exceeded. The SMAR-te Tire Pilot will become available on the American market in the course of 2020. This significantly improves vehicle safety and provides fleet operators with efficiency gains in terms of longer lifetimes, fuel efficiency and time in operation. 4624 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods GUARANTEEING PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY The safety and quality of our products are controlled during the manufacGRI 416/103, 416-1, 416-2 turing process through our proven quality management system based on MANAGEMENT APPROACH internationally recognized norms and standards. As part of our quality Contents SAF-HOLLAND products promise maximum safety on the road. We management system, we apply specially designed monitoring mechaMessage from the CEO have clearly stated this ambition, and it applies to all our products. In order nisms, carry out tests and implement individually adapted measures at Magazine to ensure and further increase our high level of product safety, we set oureach stage of production. selves strict guidelines and ensure these are met, for example, through Organizational profile product conformity tests at external testing institutes to make sure our Sustainability strategy and management products fulfill the regulatory and safety-relevant approval requirements. Corporate governance and compliance Our high standards and strong commitment go beyond the regulatory Supply chain standards. Climate strategy and CO2 management None of our products violated the legal safety standards during the year. Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods We were not issued any warnings or fines and there were no product reMemberships in associations and initiatives calls initiated during the year. Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy QUALITY TESTING ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN Environmental efficiency of operational processes We follow a holistic approach to quality management, and we do this along the entire value chain – from the design, testing and production Employees phases through to the final delivery to the customer. In this way, all product Social commitment categories are continuously monitored for any potential improvements to GRI Content Index our product safety. We also require our suppliers to comply with strict UNGC Index standards and audit them regularly. SDG Index Multi-stage quality checks ensure the safety of products even as they go TCFD Index through the development phase. Typical quality checks range from failure Non-financial statement mode and effects analyses (FMEA design), virtual FEM (finite element About this report method) simulations and calculations, through to testing applications in Imprint the vehicle on test tracks and field trials under real-world conditions. We are also working on finding a correlation between the calculations in computer-aided engineering (CAE) and experimental testing with real-time continuous load simulations. This involves a global comparison of the field trials to CAE test results. After the start of production, new products are tested in the field over a 12-month monitoring phase. 4725 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Memberships in associations and initiatives MEMBERSHIPS IN ASSOCIATIONS AND INITIATIVES Contents GRI 102-13 Message from the CEO SAF-HOLLAND is actively involved in various networks, associations and initiatives in the regions. Together we discuss key topics and develop Magazine practical approaches. Organizational profile Sustainability strategy and management Corporate governance and compliance ABNT Brazilian Association of BVL International – Bundesvereinigung NBTA National Bulk Tanker Association Supply chain Technical Standardization Logistik (BVL) e. V. Climate strategy and CO2 management NTDA National Trailer Dealers Association Product innovations for the safe and efficient ACT American Commercial Trucking CLEPA European Association of transport of goods Automotive Suppliers NTEA National Truck Equipment Association Memberships in associations and initiatives ANFIR Brazilian Association of Trailers Integrated management systems for ­occupational and Parts Builders Commercial Vehicle Safety Associates of Florida NTTC National Tank Truck Carriers Association health and safety, quality, environment and energy Environmental efficiency of operational processes ANP Platform of the German Committee DAI Deutsches Aktieninstitut e.V. TCA Truckload Carriers Association of Standards Users Employees DVM Deutscher Verband für TTMA Truck Trailer Manufacturer Association Social commitment ARAI The Automotive Research Materialforschung und -prüfung e. V. GRI Content Index Association of India Tysk-Svenska Handelskammaren/ UNGC Index FMCSA Federal Motor Carriers Deutsch-Schwedische Handelskammer SDG Index ARAI-HTC Homologation & Technology Safety Administration TCFD Index Centre Chakan VDA Verband der Automobilindustrie FTR Freight Transportation Research Associates Non-financial statement ARTSA Australian Road Transport FAT Forschungsvereinigung About this report Suppliers Association HDAD Heavy Duty Aftermarket Distributors Automobiltechnik Imprint ATA American Trucking Association HVIA Heavy Vehicle Industry Australia VDI The Association of German Engineers NTTA National Tank Trailer Association ITC Industry Technical Council VTA Victorian Transport Association TMC The Maintenance Council LTA Land Transport Authority – Singapore ZENTEC Zentrum für Technologie, Existenzgründung und Cooperation GmbH ATA/ITC Australian Trucking Association LTAT The Land Transport Association of Thailand McKay & Company 4826 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS FOR OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, QUALITY, ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY Contents Message from the CEO Magazine GRI 302/103, 303/103, 305/103, 306/103, 403/103, 416/103 Our binding rules and processes that aim to achieve the HSEQ goals Organizational profile are reviewed annually in internal audits and external certifications. Our Sustainability strategy and management business activities are covered by certified HSEQ management systems as Corporate governance and compliance follows: Supply chain Climate strategy and CO2 management GRI 403-1, 403-8 Product innovations for the safe and efficient Certifications according to external standards, in % 1 transport of goods Memberships in associations and initiatives 2019 Integrated management systems for ­occupational Certified according to quality management standards health and safety, quality, environment and energy (ISO 9001, IATF 16949) 84 Environmental efficiency of operational processes ISO 14001-certified (environment) 77 Employees OHSAS 18001-certified (occupational health and safety) 3 ISO 50001-certified (energy) 33 Social commitment 1 In % of business activity based on the number of employees. GRI Content Index UNGC Index SDG Index TCFD Index Non-financial statement About this report Imprint 4927 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental efficiency of operational processes ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY OF OPERATIONAL PROCESSES Contents MANAGEMENT APPROACH on a mobile end device. This allows individual analysis of production proMessage from the CEO GRI 102-11, 302/103, 303/103, 305/103, 306/103 cesses from which specific measures to improve efficiency can be derived. Magazine For SAF-HOLLAND, taking precautionary action to protect the environFinally, the environmental aspects of the German locations were reasment is a core element of its corporate social responsibility. This involves sessed and three core areas defined for SAF-HOLLAND. Organizational profile the efficient and environmentally friendly use of resources along the entire Sustainability strategy and management value chain. To this end, we strive to recycle supplies of operating materials ENERGY CONSUMPTION Corporate governance and compliance and auxiliaries and make the most ecological use of energy as possible. By GRI 302-1, 302-4 Supply chain means of systematic management using integrated and additive technoloOur energy consumption is primarily caused by production. Most Climate strategy and CO2 management gies, we minimize wastewater, exhaust air, waste heat and general waste power is consumed by the coating process and machinery, ventilation in our production processes. equipment and compressors. Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods Memberships in associations and initiatives The Chief Operating Officer (COO) is responsible for all precautionary SAF-HOLLAND voluntarily aligns itself with the agreement between the measures undertaken throughout the Group to protect the environment. German Federal Government and business associations and organizations Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy The Vice President Health, Safety, Environment and Quality is responsible on measures to improve energy efficiency. Our locations in Bessenbach, Environmental efficiency of operational processes for implementing these measures in operations. At regional level, the manAschaffenburg and Singen are certified under the energy management agers in charge of operations implement these standards in the day-to-day standard, DIN EN ISO 50001. A new energy policy came into force at these Employees organization and adapt them to regional circumstances. Local environmenlocations in the reporting year that sets the fixed goal of reducing power Social commitment tal management officers are appointed for each location. They inform the consumption relative to production volume by 4 percent by the year 2023 GRI Content Index employees about the defined standards and processes and ensure they are (indexed to 2018). This corresponds to a reduction of 984,532 kWh assumUNGC Index implemented locally to reach the targets. In addition, we use our Learning ing the same production volume of 222,826 units that were produced in SDG Index Management System to raise employee awareness of the relevant environ2018 (axles and internally manufactured parts). In order to counter potenmental aspects. In the reporting year, 816 employees were trained in envitial increases in the price of electricity, the possibility of sourcing power TCFD Index ronmental management. from renewable sources was analyzed in depth and assessed at the BesNon-financial statement senbach location. About this report In the year 2019, numerous measures were tested at the Bessenbach locaImprint tion to improve environmental efficiency in operations. For example, to reFull transparency of our materials and energy flows is a key prerequisite for duce the amount of power consumed in the electrophoretic dip painting optimizing them. The data on power and gas consumption are collected via plant a special surfactant is used, which is not only more biodegradable a cloud-based energy-monitoring application. This metering concept was exbut also allows the process to run at a lower temperature. An important panded in the reporting year to provide a greater depth of detail. Additional contribution to reducing the volume of plastic waste in canteen operations areas of focus were sourcing energy-efficient air compressors, installing venis to use disposable plates made of a regenerative raw material (sugar tilation equipment with integrated heat recovery and raising the awareness cane). Moreover, SAF-HOLLAND participates in the “Material Flow Cost Acof the workforce. The measures leading to the greatest savings were: counting (MFCA) mobile” project that is sponsored by the German Federal Environmental Foundation (Deutsche Bundesstiftung Umwelt, DBU). The — Installation of LED outdoor lighting: 72,000 kWh goal is to optimize the data entry and interpretation of production parameters. In this regard, an app is to be developed with which the operating met— Efficient air compressors: 46,000 kWh rics of machines, material concentrations and stock levels can be recorded 5028 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental efficiency of operational processes ENERGY CONSUMPTION 99,912 MWh Contents Message from the CEO Magazine Organizational profile Sustainability strategy and management EMEA AMERICAS APAC CHINA Corporate governance and compliance Supply chain energy consUMPtion energy consUMPtion energy consUMPtion energy consUMPtion Climate strategy and CO2 management Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods 27% 26,857 MWh 69% 68,598 MWh 1% 1,441 MWh 3% 3,016 MWh Memberships in associations and initiatives Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy Environmental efficiency of operational processes Employees We train our employees using our Learning Management System. The varIn the reporting year, other direct airborne emissions were calculated at Social commitment ious mandatory training modules are developed by our Energy Managecompany level (Scope 1) for the first time. The ecoinvent 3.6 database was GRI Content Index ment Officer. The modules must be passed at least once annually. In the used for the calculation. A total of 73 substances were included in the calUNGC Index reporting year, 609 employees were trained in energy management. culation of hazardous air pollutants (HAP). The impact on the environment SDG Index (emissions) will be assessed in future by environmental management. TCFD Index In the year 2019, the total energy consumption of SAF-HOLLAND came to 99,912 MWh. The most important form of energy for the Group as a whole GRI 305-7 Non-financial statement was natural gas, which accounted for a share of 57 percent. Electricity conOther important direct emissions to air [t/a] About this report sumption accounted for another 42 percent. Energy consumption was highImprint est in the Americas region. Energy consumption in this region was roughly EMEA Americas APAC China Total two-and-a-half times that of the EMEA region, which can be explained by CO 2.357 5.103 1.235 0.174 8.869 the thermal treatment processes used by a number of locations. NOX 4.618 7.466 2.979 0.719 15.782 SOX 3.639 5.345 2.381 0.051 11.416 OTHER SIGNIFICANT DIRECT AIRBORNE EMISSIONS PM 0.998 2.625 4.011 0.093 7.727 GRI 305/103 NMVOC 1.290 2.508 0.239 0.076 4.112 Apart from greenhouse gases, the business activities of SAF-HOLLAND ODS (CFC-11 eq) 0,000375 0,001774 0,000002 0,000011 0,002161 generate other direct airborne emissions. They result primarily from the HAP 0,327 0,475 0,270 0,003 1,075 combustion of fossil fuels to produce the heat needed for coating processes and to heat buildings. 5129 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental efficiency of operational processes WATER CONSUMPTION 135,905 CBM Contents Message from the CEO Magazine Organizational profile Sustainability strategy and management EMEA AMERICAS APAC CHINA Corporate governance and compliance Supply chain water consUMPtion water consUMPtion water consUMPtion water consUMPtion Climate strategy and CO2 management Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods 14% 19,286 CBM 44% 59,710 CBM 7% 9,364 CBM 35% 47,545 CBM Memberships in associations and initiatives Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy Environmental efficiency of operational processes Employees WATER USE AND WITHDRAWAL Social commitment GRI 303/103, 303-1, 303-2, 303-3 GRI Content Index The manufacturing operations of SAF-HOLLAND generally need little In the year 2019, SAF-HOLLAND drew 135,905 m3 from municipal water UNGC Index water. Especially the coating processes for our products are the primary supplies. The APAC and EMEA regions use proportionately the least water. SDG Index factor determining the amount of water consumed in production. At some More than a third of the total water was used in the China region. This was TCFD Index locations, coating is performed in-house. At other locations, it is outattributable to the number of locations that have now discontinued their sourced. In addition, water is used for cooling and washing processes. manufacturing operations. At the new factory in Yangzhou, water-saving Non-financial statement processes were considered already at the planning stage. For example, apAbout this report At all locations, water is drawn from the municipal water supply. Generally, proximately 70 percent of the process water needed in production is fed Imprint SAF-HOLLAND uses water as a resource conservatively. Where the infrainto water recovery systems. The remaining 30 percent and sewage from structure is possible and it is commercially feasible, processes to save and sanitary facilities is drained into the sewers of a public water-treatment reuse water are implemented. In terms of wastewater treatment, we oriplant. With these measures, SAF-HOLLAND will significantly reduce its waent ourselves on the applicable laws of the respective state. Nevertheless, ter consumption in the China region. we always treat industrial wastewater in a water treatment plant. We do not perceive any risks of water scarcity impacting our production at any of our locations. We assess the risk of water becoming scarce due to the volumes we draw as being insignificant. 5230 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental efficiency of operational processes GRI 306-2 Contents WASTE AND RECYCLING 11,468 TONS Message from the CEO Magazine Organizational profile Sustainability strategy and management Corporate governance and compliance Supply chain EMEA AMERICAS APAC CHINA Climate strategy and CO2 management Product innovations for the safe and efficient totaL waste totaL waste totaL waste totaL waste transport of goods 50% 40% 3% 7% Memberships in associations and initiatives Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy 5,702 TONS 4,628 TONS 395 TONS 743 TONS Environmental efficiency of operational processes Employees waste broken down waste broken down waste broken down waste broken down Social commitment by Method oF disPosaL by Method oF disPosaL by Method oF disPosaL by Method oF disPosaL GRI Content Index 6% 7% 33% 0% UNGC Index Landfill Landfill Landfill Landfill 4% 1% 12% SDG Index Incineration Incineration Incineration TCFD Index Non-financial statement 11% About this report Incineration 91% 92% 56% 88% Imprint Recycling Recycling Recycling Recycling share hazardoUs waste share hazardoUs waste share hazardoUs waste share hazardoUs waste 2.8% 3.7% 9.9% 12.3% 5331 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental efficiency of operational processes WASTE AND RECYCLING In addition to scaling back the volume of waste produced in manufacturGRI 306/103 ing, the volume of waste packaging in transport and logistics should also Most of our waste is generated in production. The most significant be reduced. We increasingly rely on reusable containers and optimized disContents fraction of waste is scrap metal in the form of shavings and cuttings. Waste posable packaging. The use of wire mesh boxes and plastic Euro container Message from the CEO packaging is also generated in the form of wood and plastic waste. boxes for transporting our products and components as well as using reusMagazine able straps to secure goods also contributes to reducing the volume of We constantly strive to reduce the landfill waste and hazardous waste genwaste (see Magazine page 12). Organizational profile erated by our production processes. Where it is not possible to avoid Sustainability strategy and management waste, a qualified waste management company removes this. We substitute hazardous substances with less dangerous substances wherCorporate governance and compliance ever possible and technically feasible. In addition, we ensure proper disSupply chain Most of the waste we generate is suitable for recycling. The highest recyposal of hazardous substances at all times and keep our employees conClimate strategy and CO2 management cling rates in the reporting year were recorded in the EMEA and Americas stantly up to date by means of a targeted information policy (see section regions. Over the entire Group, our recycling ratio comes to 90 percent. “Occupational health and safety” page 58). Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods The ratio of incinerated waste in the APAC and China regions was roughly Memberships in associations and initiatives on a par. In the Americas virtually no waste was incinerated. In China, no waste was landfilled. In the APAC region, roughly a third of all waste was Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy disposed of in this way. Environmental efficiency of operational processes The types of waste requiring specialist waste management channels and Employees methods include old paints, water-based slurries, solvents containing volSocial commitment atiles as well as acids and bases. The share of hazardous or toxic waste was GRI Content Index lowest in the EMEA region. Of the total waste, China recorded the highest UNGC Index share of hazardous or toxic waste, almost four times as much as in the SDG Index EMEA region. Over the full Group, hazardous or toxic waste accounted for 4 percent of total waste. TCFD Index Non-financial statement About this report Imprint 5432 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Employees EMPLOYEES Contents GRI 102-8 Message from the CEO Employees by employment status, region and gender Magazine EMEA Americas APAC China Total Organizational profile Sustainability strategy and management Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Corporate governance and compliance Permanent 199 1,238 266 1,586 30 164 0 5 495 2,993 Temporary 11 55 0 0 0 0 20 96 31 151 Supply chain Total 210 1,293 266 1,586 30 164 20 101 526 3,144 Climate strategy and CO2 management Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods Memberships in associations and initiatives MANAGEMENT APPROACH employment relationships and temporary workers, the number of employGRI 102-16, 401/103, 404/103, 405/103 ees was 3,924. The EMEA region accounted for 40.7 percent of the active Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy SAF-HOLLAND was formed by the merger of Otto Sauer Achsenfabrik employees, the Americas for 50.5 percent, the APAC region for 5.5 percent Environmental efficiency of operational processes GmbH (SAF), Germany, and The Holland Hitch Company, USA, in 2006 and and China for 3.4 percent. The share of employees with limited-term emhas since established itself as a global operation. Cultural diversity and flat ployment agreements in our company came to 5.0 percent. Some 1.9 perEmployees hierarchies define the corporate culture at SAF-HOLLAND. Our corporate cent of all employees were in part-time positions. Social commitment values reflect our commitment to social responsibility and encompass inGRI Content Index ventive spirit and cost awareness, as well as reliability, respect, teamwork, GRI 102-8 UNGC Index communication and honesty. Distribution of employees by type of employment and gender SDG Index TCFD Index Like many other companies, SAF-HOLLAND is confronted with challenges Female Male Total such as a shortage of skilled workers, demographic change and digitization. Non-financial statement Part time 48 21 69 Due to the global distribution of our locations, topics like internationalizaAbout this report Full time 478 3,123 3,601 tion and diversity also play an important role for us. This is also the reason Total 526 3,144 3,670 Imprint that our human resource activities focus on building a strong workforce and recruiting and retaining well-trained executives and specialists. In this context, our newly developed Employer Branding Strategy considers the Our employees are increasingly deployed in interdisciplinary project teams unique characteristics of our four – from 2020 onwards three – operating across all locations. To improve intercultural communication, we offer indireporting segments. vidually tailored language courses in our corporate language, English. As a way to encourage executives from all subsidiaries to personally communiOUR WORKFORCE cate and exchange information with one another, we periodically host a GRI 102-8 multi-day “International Meeting”. As of December 31, 2019, SAF-HOLLAND employed 3,670 people (previous year: 3,908), of whom 85.7 percent were male and 14.3 percent were female. In addition, 387 hired temporary workers were employed. A total of 133 employment relationships were inactive. Taking into account active 5533 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Employees The average age of our workforce was approx. 37 years with an average GRI 405-1 length of service of 7 years. Employees by employee category and gender Contents GRI 405-1 Female Male Total Message from the CEO Employees by age group in the regions, in % Middle/top management 8 104 112 Magazine Employees and industrial workers 518 3,040 3,558 < 30 Years 30–49 Years ≥ 50 Years Total Total 526 3,144 3,670 Organizational profile Sustainability strategy and management EMEA 15.1 55.4 29.5 40.7 Trainees 10 44 54 Americas 22.9 46.7 30.4 50.5 Students 8 13 21 Corporate governance and compliance APAC 13.9 66.5 19.6 5.5 Supply chain China 19.2 77.5 3.3 3.4 Climate strategy and CO2 management The composition of the Board of Directors changed as follows in 2019: With Total 19.1 52.4 28.5 100.0 Product innovations for the safe and efficient three female members of six Board members, we significantly exceeded transport of goods the female quota of 30 percent required by German law. For further inforMemberships in associations and initiatives DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES mation on diversity at SAF-HOLLAND, please refer to the Group ManageGRI 405/103, 405-1 ment Report. Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy At SAF-HOLLAND, we consider maintaining equal opportunities and Environmental efficiency of operational processes diversity as one of our core tasks. Our Code of Conduct formulates the TRAINING AND PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT commitment “to respect and protect each other’s personal dignity, rights GRI 404/103, 404-2 Employees and privacy.” In our view, this involves valuing our employees as individuTraining at SAF-HOLLAND includes imparting future-oriented methods Social commitment als, irrespective of characteristics such as age, gender, nationality, ethnic and tools, learning different project management techniques, conducting GRI Content Index origin, sexual identity, educational background, ideology, religion or ability. smaller projects independently and working in a team. In this context, we UNGC Index Competitive and fair remuneration regardless of gender that is based on place great store on digital learning offers. SAF-HOLLAND trainees are regSDG Index our employees’ performance and professional qualification is a matter of ularly recognized for their accomplishments by external associations such course for us. At our German location, remuneration is based on the colas the German Chamber of Industry and Commerce (Industrieund HanTCFD Index lective bargaining agreement; at the other locations, it is based on agreedelskammer IHK). We see this as evidence of the high quality of our trainNon-financial statement ments with the local trade unions. ing. Our training programs also receive awards on a regular basis. In the About this report reporting year, SAF-HOLLAND employed 54 trainees and 21 dual-track stuImprint At 14.3 percent, the representation of women in the workforce in 2019 was dents. low. At mid and top management level, the share of women came to 7.1 percent. We strive to continuously increase this share and plan specific programs to promote diversity from 2020 onwards. Apprenticeships • Industrial Engineering • Industrial Business Management • IT Specialist for System Integration • Electronics Technician for Industrial Engineering • Technical Product Designer 5634 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Employees The shortage of skilled workers also poses a challenge for SAF-HOLLAND as of association and collective bargaining, to the extent allowed by the corit tries to recruit competent employees, to train them on a needs-driven, responding provisions. In the reporting year, 59 percent of all employees forward-looking basis and to retain these employees within the Company worldwide were covered by collective bargaining agreements or laborContents for the long term. In working towards our goal of promoting as many spemanagement agreements. Message from the CEO cialists and managers from within the Company as possible, we have made Magazine the qualification and personal development of young employees through Moreover, we provide other special benefits via our HR department, such training programs, dual study courses and trainee programs a fundamental as cooperation agreements with retailers and a corporate benefits proOrganizational profile component of our human resources work. These efforts result in a highly gram for exclusive discounts in online shops. These also include internal Sustainability strategy and management trained workforce and systematically ensure our independence from the and external offers to promote employee health. Corporate governance and compliance external labor market. Supply chain In addition, our employees have the possibility to shape our social commitClimate strategy and CO2 management At our German locations, motivated junior employees are given the opporments during “Volunteer Days”. tunity to qualify for future jobs through their choice of 3-year or 3.5-year Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods vocational training programs offered in commercial, industrial and techWe offer parental leave to the extent granted by the law to both our female Memberships in associations and initiatives nical departments (see Magazine page 8). and male employees. Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy To leverage the potential of our workforce, SAF-HOLLAND encourages colWe place great store on a feedback culture and promote dialog and conEnvironmental efficiency of operational processes laboration and the sharing of information across all locations. Our internastructive exchange with our employees. A central component of this is the tional trainee program gives graduates the opportunity to gain valuable exglobal employee survey. At the same time, this regular survey generates Employees perience at our various international locations or at our headquarters as new approaches to making further improvements of working conditions Social commitment part of an 18-month training program. and employee satisfaction. In the reporting year, 65 percent of our employGRI Content Index ees participated in the survey. Compared to the previous survey in 2016, the UNGC Index A special 1-year employee development program offers our managers and measured employee satisfaction improved from 61 percent to 64 percent. SDG Index professionals an opportunity to receive individual support based on their own strengths and career goals. This program includes providing an underOur idea management program “My Idea” is also an important way of letTCFD Index standing of management tasks through practice-relevant projects taking an ting our employees contribute their creativity and commitment to the Non-financial statement individual's background and experience into account. Company’s success. Each employee can make suggestions, such as how to About this report improve processes or products or for more sustainability. The ideas are Imprint WORKING CONDITIONS AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY evaluated by an idea committee and if this evaluation turns out to be posGRI 102-41, 102-43, 401-2, 407/103 itive, the idea is implemented. For ideas with measurable monetary beneAt SAF-HOLLAND, fair and respectful working conditions are a matter fits, employees are eligible to receive a financial reward when an idea is of course. We have introduced fringe benefits that can be taken advantage successfully implemented. In the reporting year, 421 ideas were submitted of by all salaried employees. Pension plans, for example, are offered at all and 112 ideas were rewarded. Particular focus has been on the “Big Chalof our locations. At our German locations, we offer pension plans via the lenge” competition for new ideas. The initiative aimed at developing a new “Versorgungswerk MetallRente” welfare fund and also offer employment product or service in an individually composed team; 184 proposals were disability insurance. submitted. Trade unions and works councils represent the interests of our employees at all of our locations in Germany and in the United States. At all other locations, the employees of SAF-HOLLAND also have the right to freedom 5735 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Employees OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY This analysis constitutes the foundation upon which specific measures can GRI 403/103, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-6, 403-9 be developed and sets the focus for the ensuing audits. In addition, the MANAGEMENT APPROACH basic infrastructure requirements for health and safety at the locations of Contents With our high safety standards, we strive to reduce the likelihood of SAF-HOLLAND are monitored during regular audits and adjusted where Message from the CEO accidents in the workplace to the greatest extent possible. However, our necessary. The implementation of global standards supports our endeavor Magazine actual goal is “Vision Zero”, which stands for the complete avoidance of to make improvements and corrective measures at an integrated Groupoccupational accidents. The Chief Operating Officer (COO) is responsible wide level. From our view, the areas where action is needed to harmonize Organizational profile for all health and safety activities throughout the Group. The Vice Presiglobal standards within the Group are factory traffic, the instructions given Sustainability strategy and management dent Health, Safety, Environment & Quality (VP HSEQ) is responsible for to visitors and restricting access to sensitive areas. Corporate governance and compliance implementing the health and safety strategy. This officer has been assigned Supply chain the task of installing effective systems to avoid occupational accidents and a OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATORS Climate strategy and CO2 management globally uniform set of health and safety standards across all locations. At reThe effectiveness of our health and safety management is reviewed gional level, the health and safety officers and the managers in charge of opusing selected accident statistics. Across all regions, there were exactly 93 Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods erations implement these standards in the day-to-day organization and adapt LTIs (“Lost Time Incident”) – occupational accidents resulting in at least one Memberships in associations and initiatives them to regional circumstances and national legislation. Local safety officers day of lost time. At present, most of the accidents result in injuries to hands are appointed for each location. They inform the employees about the deand fingers. The vast majority of these accidents only resulted in a little lost Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy fined standards and occupational health and safety standards and ensure they time. We are working on reducing these incidents by concentrating on Environmental efficiency of operational processes are implemented locally. measures that promise a sustained change in behavioral patterns. Employees Regular internal audits are also designed to ensure that the guidelines and GRI 403-9 Social commitment processes related to occupational health and safety are observed at the Occupational Health and Safety Indicators GRI Content Index various locations. Any incidents and progress is documented in the UNGC Index monthly “Global Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Report”. The latest EMEA Americas APAC China SDG Index safety issues are discussed at quarterly meetings of the joint manageLost Time Injury (number of work accidents ment–worker “Occupational Health and Safety Committee”. This commitwith at least one day lost) 40 46 6 1 TCFD Index tee identifies risks and proposes risk-mitigating measures aimed at improvLost Time Injury Frequency Rate (number Non-financial statement ing the HSE performance indicators. We view occupational health and of work accidents with at least one day lost About this report safety as key to retaining our competitiveness and have identified these per 1 million working hours) 26.2 14.2 9.5 1.7 Imprint issues as a cornerstone of our “Operational Excellence Roadmap”. Fatalities (work-related deaths) 0 0 0 0 IDENTIFICATION AND MEASUREMENT OF RISKS The focus of our attention is placed on protecting our employees in our production, administration and logistics facilities where the use of manual tools, the operation of plant and machinery, and traffic flows on the premises pose particular risks. Health and safety risks are identified, assessed and assigned to risk categories on the basis of the accidents reported in the monthly “Global HSE Report”, which includes the relevant indicators along with the findings of the internal audits of the Quality and Corporate Audit Services departments. 5836 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Employees RAISING THE AWARENESS OF EMPLOYEES, COMMUNICATION initiated immediately. These basic requirements constitute a core element AND TRAINING of the “Operational Excellence Roadmap”. Health and safety risks that have already resulted in an accident are Contents countered by measures aimed at preventing accidents happening again The goal of “Kampagne Arbeitsschutz und Arbeitssicherheit Bessenbach” Message from the CEO due to the same cause. By means of more intensive communication and (a health and safety campaign at Bessenbach) is to raise the awareness of Magazine regular safety instructions, we intend to raise the awareness of all employthe workforce and prevent accidents that occur due to inattentiveness, ees of health and safety issues. It is mandatory to undertake the correhaste or negligence. The success of the campaign is tracked using the Lost Organizational profile sponding training once a year. We apply our Learning Management System Time Incident (LTI) indicator. A new element is that it is not the actual LTIs Sustainability strategy and management to this end. Safety officers are trained in face-to-face training sessions once that are focused upon but the number of days on which no LTIs occurred. Corporate governance and compliance a year. This should intrinsically motivate employees to actively reduce the number Supply chain of accidents themselves. If a certain number of accident-free workdays is Climate strategy and CO2 management A training module to train the top management was developed as an addireached, the employees receive a gratuity to reward and sharpen their tional element in the reporting year and put into practice accordingly. The awareness of health and safety issues. Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods underlying objective is to identify any deficits in health and safety during Memberships in associations and initiatives site visits to ensure that the local conditions constantly improve. The point At the Alvorada location in Brazil an “Internal Week for Prevention of Work is to establish health and safety as an element of the management culture, Accidents” is held once a year. The contents of the training on occupational Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy to integrate it in standard processes and communicate the findings gained health and safety are conveyed by linking them to entertainment eleEnvironmental efficiency of operational processes to our colleagues. ments. Five to ten-member teams compete against each other in guessing games answering questions on the issue of occupational health and safety. Employees Newsletters, talks and posters support this communication drive. Targeted They also compete in talent shows and fire extinguisher rallies and invent Social commitment on-the-job instruction from the respective managers ensures that health a motto for the coming year that is printed on T-shirts. The best team reGRI Content Index and safety becomes an established part of everyday work. One target ceives an award at the end of the week. UNGC Index group of particular relevance in this regard is made up of the heads of deSDG Index partments (particularly in operations) who can act as multipliers to dissemWithin the framework of the “Wandel Gestalten WaGe” (shaping change) inate the knowledge and actively promote the culture in practice. project, measures have been undertaken at the Bessenbach location to reTCFD Index duce the psychological burdens as well as to install working conditions that Non-financial statement CAMPAIGNS foster a learning-friendly environment. Another goal of the project is to About this report The focus of our activities lies on preventive measures to change the communicate the fundamental interconnection between work, health and Imprint safety culture in all regions. A number of campaigns were conducted for learning. this purpose. The infrastructure aspect of occupational health and safety is a central element. In particular, the workforce itself actively shapes a safer working environment by contributing its own ideas. During the “MyIdea” campaign, 27 The campaign titled “Basic Requirements for Occupational Safety Infraideas in the field of health and safety were realized at the German locations structure (BROSI)” defines the minimum requirements that all locations during the reporting year. must meet in future, beyond the respective local laws. Within the framework of a 15-point plan, criteria are set with regard to traffic routes and Together with our continuous risk identification process, all of the initiagates, traffic on the premises and incident management, as well as fire pretives that we have taken are important elements that serve to significantly vention. Compliance with all 15 points is mandatory for each location. Inraise the safety level and positively affect the incidence of accidents. fringements or deviations from any of the respective points result in the location failing the internal audit. In this case, corrective measures must be 5937 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Employees REDUCTION OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES In addition to avoiding occupational accidents, our HSE activities also concentrate on the reduction of hazardous substances – both in producContents tion as well as in our products. We take particular care to protect employMessage from the CEO ees who are exposed to potential risks from hazardous substances or emisMagazine sions on account of the nature of their work. For this purpose, an extensive catalog of hazardous substances has been created. We replace hazardous Organizational profile substances with less dangerous substances wherever possible and techniSustainability strategy and management cally feasible. In addition, specific measures are undertaken to assess the Corporate governance and compliance risk of jobs, workplaces and machines, as well as to issue job-specific inSupply chain structions and ensure the use of personal safety equipment. Climate strategy and CO2 management HEALTH Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods Health and fitness are prerequisites for the performance level and moMemberships in associations and initiatives tivation of our workforce and contribute to the competitiveness of SAF-HOLLAND. Beyond avoiding accidents, as a responsible employer, we Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy also foster health at work and offer various fringe benefits in this regard. Environmental efficiency of operational processes We subsidize reading glasses for employees who work on computer moniEmployees tors as well as personal hearing aids and annual membership fees for fitSocial commitment ness centers. Within the framework of our special medical offers, our emGRI Content Index ployees are also offered vaccinations or specific medical checks. A works UNGC Index doctor is regularly available. Sports clubs offer employees the opportunity SDG Index to improve their fitness. TCFD Index A focus is also placed on the ergonomics of the work environment. EmployNon-financial statement ees at headquarters, for example, have been provided with height-adjustAbout this report able tables to allow them to stand or sit at their desk to offset the ramifiImprint cations of sitting long hours on inflexible chairs. Within the production environment, suspended tools have been installed and rubber mats laid out at various workstations. Welding lines have been enclosed to improve air quality and drafts have been reduced by modifying the gate technology. 6038 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Social commitment SOCIAL COMMITMENT Contents In India, Sec. 135 of the Companies Act from 2013 requires all domestic or Message from the CEO foreign companies with equity of INR 5 billion (roughly EUR 64 million) or Magazine more, or a net profit of INR 50 million or more (roughly EUR 640,000) or annual sales of INR 10 billion or more (roughly EUR 128 million), to allocate Organizational profile at least 2 percent of their average net profit over the last three years to Sustainability strategy and management CSR activities. This is earmarked for measures to combat poverty, promote Corporate governance and compliance health and education, protect the environment, promote the equality of Supply chain the sexes or to provide vocational training. A separate “CSR Committee” Climate strategy and CO2 management set up at our plant in Pune and composed of representatives from the local management decides how much should be awarded to the respective Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods fields. The activities are concentrated in the region of Pune and consist of Memberships in associations and initiatives MANAGEMENT APPROACH sponsorship for projects aimed at primary schools, where children receive GRI 303-1, 413/103, 413-1 their first schooling. In our Code of Conduct, our Human Rights Policy and Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy From its origins as a family-owned enterprise, SAF-HOLLAND views itthe Statement on Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking, we reject all self as an active member of society. We have a long tradition of social reforms of forced labor or child labor. By weighting the various measures in Environmental efficiency of operational processes sponsibility, which is firmly anchored in our corporate culture. The “Think this field, a consistent sustainability strategy is created that provides chilEmployees Ahead” program is an expression of our social commitment. Under the dren with a long-term perspective via our social commitment in a high-risk Social commitment motto “It’s the WE that counts”, projects that are oriented specifically tocountry, such as India (see Magazine page 18). GRI Content Index wards local requirements are conducted at each location. These projects UNGC Index focus on promoting education and training for children and young adults SAF-HOLLAND places great store on protecting water as a resource and SDG Index as well as protecting water as a resource. In our apprenticeship program at acknowledges access to clean water as a human right. We engage in nuthe Bessenbach location, the social component is an integral component merous initiatives accordingly. In addition to the conservative use and reTCFD Index of the apprenticeship in the form of a cooperation with the national “Lecycling of process water in our own production facilities (see section “EnNon-financial statement benshilfe e.V.” association. vironmental efficiency of operational processes” page 50), we also About this report sponsor projects that range from access to clean and potable water as part Imprint The selection of projects and the nature and scope of the sponsorship of disaster relief work to restoring waterways and aquifers. The “Project given is decided by the local CSR Officers and the management of the plant. Clarity” in direct proximity to our location in Holland, Michigan (USA), is The prime movers are the employees, each of whom has the opportunity one such project. This is a community initiative to restore the water quality to propose projects for sponsorship. of Lake Macatawa and the ecological balance of the Macatawa watershed. A decision was passed in 1999 to reduce the amount of phosphorous in SAF-HOLLAND supports selected projects by making donations of money the watershed by 70 percent. The initiative was founded in 2013 to realize or goods and encouraging participation among the workforce. “Volunteer this goal. SAF-HOLLAND has sponsored this project since 2015 to the tune Days” are held in all regions. On these days, employees are given the opof USD 20,000 annually (link: http://www.macatawaclarity.org/). portunity to play an active role in community projects. 6139 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Social commitment REGIONAL INITIATIVES GRI 413-1 The following tables provide an overview of the CSR activities of Contents SAF-HOLLAND. In China, CSR activities are currently being developed Message from the CEO around our new facility in Yangzhou in order to set an exemplary standard Magazine of social commitment in this region as well. Organizational profile Overview of supported projects in the EMEA region Sustainability strategy and management Corporate governance and compliance Country/Initiative Project Supply chain Climate strategy and CO2 management Germany Product innovations for the safe and efficient Rounding down for charity Employees of SAF-HOLLAND GmbH round their salaries down to the nearest euro. This resulted in an amount of EUR 1,861.40 being transport of goods donated to the charity fund of the Aschaffenburg Children’s Clinic in 2019. Memberships in associations and initiatives “Together for Heike! Become a stem cell donor!” Due to her acute leukemia, one of our employees requires a stem cell transplant as soon as possible. A call was put out to the workforce and a registration campaign was promoted in conjunction with DKMS. Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy “Notinsel” – child refuges This project was supported by the establishment of a station in Bessenbach where children can find aid and support. Volunteer Day Employees at the location in Bessenbach were given the opportunity to contribute a day ’s labor for volunteer work in various projects, to Environmental efficiency of operational processes be performed during working hours. In total, 139 hours were invested in charity work. Employees “Alles im Eimer” drinking water donations The provision of safe drinking water was sponsored within the framework of the disaster relief and development aid programs o f Oxfam Social commitment Deutschland e.V. GRI Content Index Support for workshops for the disabled Apprentices assist adults, most of whom have intellectual disabilities, in the workshops of “Lebenshilfe Werkstätten e.V. Schmerlenbach”. UNGC Index SDG Index TCFD Index Non-financial statement About this report Imprint 6240 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Social commitment Overview of supported projects in the Americas region Country/Initiative Project Contents Message from the CEO Brazil Magazine Donations of food from the employees In the course of the “Internal Week for Prevention of Work Accidents” at KLL Equipamentos para Transporte Ltda, the employees donate food which is handed over to various local organizations. Organizational profile Sustainability strategy and management Canada Corporate governance and compliance Canadian Cancer Society 50/50 Draw The Social Committee donated the proceeds from a 50/50 raffle to the “Canadian Cancer Society” during the month, to be used in breast Supply chain cancer research. Food Drive for the Salvation Army Employees donated five cartons of assorted non-perishable groceries to the local food bank of the Salvation Army. Climate strategy and CO2 management Heart and Stroke Big Bike Ride Employees came together for a “Gigantic Bike” ride to raise money for life-saving heart and stroke research. Product innovations for the safe and efficient Ontario Student Nutrition Program SAF-HOLLAND Canada, Ltd. donated money to buy food and deliver it to three local schools for the entire 2019/2020 school year. In transport of goods addition to cash donations, some employees also volunteer to go to the schools to reduce the workload associated with the pro gram. Memberships in associations and initiatives United Way Campaign Employees and the Social Committee collected donations for the local United Way campaign. The United-Way pursues the goal of creating Integrated management systems for ­occupational opportunities for a better life for all the individuals within the communities. health and safety, quality, environment and energy Environmental efficiency of operational processes USA Employees Activity Bags for Kids SAF-HOLLAND USA, Inc. supported the “Mercy Health” initiative by donating 100 care packets to children. The organization offers medical services to those in need. Social commitment Back to School School stationery was provided to low-income families. GRI Content Index Day of Caring The “United Way of the Lakeshore” organization brings together hundreds of volunteers for a “Day of Welfare”. Employees participate in UNGC Index this campaign, also to support war veterans. SDG Index Feeding America West Michigan Assistance to a higher-level food bank that collects, sorts, packages, stores and distributes food for local organizatio ns. The initiative is also aimed at preventing food from perishing and being wasted. TCFD Index Harbor Humane Society Volunteer Work Event Support was given to the “Harbor Humane Society” initiative that takes care of animals under the motto “Giving animals a second chance Non-financial statement at life and love”. About this report Hospice Care Donations to families whose relatives are in a hospice. Imprint MUDGIRL Run Assistance given to the “MUDGIRL Run” event, the proceeds of which go to the “Breast Cancer Research Foundation”. Project Clarity Annual sponsorship of the community initiative to improve the water quality of Lake Macatawa and the Macatawa watershed since 2015 with an amount of USD 20,000 annually. Road to Success Scholarship Awarding four college scholarships of USD 2,500 each to relatives of employees. Student Nutrition Program Financial assistance for school meals in the vicinity of the US locations. 6341 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Social commitment Overview of supported projects in the APAC region Country/Initiative Project Contents Message from the CEO Australia Magazine ANZAC Day Appeal / Remembrance Day The employees of SAF-HOLLAND (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. collected AUD 390 for a donation campaign of the “Returned & Services League” to aid war veterans in retirement and their families. Organizational profile Christmas Hope Toys and gifts for children and disadvantaged homeless youth were provided to the “Hope Street” facility. Sustainability strategy and management Coimadai Country Fire Authority The Melton location was made available to the local fire brigade for a fire drill. Corporate governance and compliance Food Bank Victoria During a collection, employees donated 70 kilograms of food and donations in kind to the local food bank. Supply chain Footy Colours Day During a call for donations to the “Fight Cancer Foundation”, AUD 204 was collected to support childhood cancer assistance. Climate strategy and CO2 management Get that Job Assistance was given to a program to provide career counselling to young people. Product innovations for the safe and efficient Good Friday Appeal AUD 584.30 was collected during the call for donations to the “Royal Children’s Hospital”. transport of goods Memberships in associations and initiatives India Donation for Women Empowerment York Transport Equipment (India) Pvt Ltd. provides assistance to the “Babir Baug Institute”, which works to improve the position of women. Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy Garden Slider for School Kids A slide was donated to the Badhalwadi primary school. Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund PMNRF Participation in a fund established by the government to which any citizen or a ny organization can pay a contribution. The funds are used Environmental efficiency of operational processes for people who are acutely affected by natural disasters. Employees Protecting Shield of Women’s Health Assistance provided to the “Kabir Baug Math Sanstha” foundation, which offers Sanjeevan yoga treatments for various ailments. Social commitment School Children Support Laptops, school bags, drink bottles and stationery were provided to the Navlakh Umbre primary school and the Zila Parishad pr imary GRI Content Index school Koyatwasti. UNGC Index Thailand SDG Index Donations in kind by the staff The employees of SAF-HOLLAND (Thailand) Co., Ltd, regularly gather donations in kind and hand these over to those in need. TCFD Index Non-financial statement The wide range of projects can be primarily attributed to the high social About this report commitment of our employees. We would like to thank all involved for Imprint their great personal contribution towards the success of the “Think Ahead” projects! 6442 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Content Index GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 Contents Message from the CEO Principles of the GRI standard and disclosures Commentary Page UN Global Compact Magazine GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational profile 1. Organizational profile Sustainability strategy and management 102-1 Name of the organization 23 Corporate governance and compliance 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 23 et seq. Supply chain 102-3 Location of headquarters 23 Climate strategy and CO2 management 102-4 Location of operations 23 et seq. Product innovations for the safe and efficient 102-5 Ownership and legal form 23 transport of goods 102-6 Markets served 23 Memberships in associations and initiatives 102-7 Scale of the organization 23 Integrated management systems for ­occupational 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 55 health and safety, quality, environment and energy 102-9 Supply chain 39 et seq. Environmental efficiency of operational processes 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 23 Employees 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 50 Principle 7 102-12 External initiatives 35, 37 Social commitment 102-13 Membership of associations 48 GRI Content Index 2. Strategy UNGC Index 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6 et seq. SDG Index 3. Ethics and integrity TCFD Index 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 34 et seq., 37, 55 Non-financial statement 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 35 About this report 4. Governance Imprint 102-18 Governance structure 26, 32 et seq. 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 27 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 57 Principle 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 27 et seq. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 27 et seq., 57 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 27 6543 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Content Index Principles of the GRI standard and disclosures Commentary Page UN Global Compact Contents 6. Reporting practice Message from the CEO 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Management Magazine Report p. 46, Consolidated Organizational profile Financial Sustainability strategy and management Statements pp. 129 et seq. Corporate governance and compliance 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 28 Supply chain 102-47 List of material topics 31 Climate strategy and CO2 management 102-48 Restatements of information For the first time, Group-wide disclosures on the four regions, Product innovations for the safe and efficient EMEA, Americas, APAC and China have been entered into the transport of goods report. The APAC and China regions have been combined to create the APAC_I/China region starting 2020. Memberships in associations and initiatives 102-49 Changes in reporting Due to the revised materiality assessment, the GRI 419 Integrated management systems for ­occupational Standard (Socioeconomic Compliance) and GRI 307 Standard health and safety, quality, environment and energy (Environmental Compliance) are no longer reported. Environmental efficiency of operational processes 102-50 Reporting period 74 Employees 102-51 Date of most recent report The Sustainability Report 2018 was published on April 30, 2019. Social commitment 102-52 Reporting cycle 74 GRI Content Index 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 75 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI standards 74 UNGC Index 102-55 GRI Content Index 65-69 SDG Index 102-56 External assurance The published report is not audited by external auditors. TCFD Index Material topics Non-financial statement GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 About this report 103 Management approach disclosures* 23, 43 Imprint 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 3, 23 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 103 Management approach disclosures* 39 et seq. 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Information on expenses for local suppliers could be relevant to the competition and are therefore not reported. GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 103 Management approach disclosures* 35 Principle 10 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 35 procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 34 et seq. GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior 2016 103 Management approach disclosures* 34 et seq. 6644 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Content Index Principles of the GRI standard and disclosures Commentary Page UN Global Compact Contents 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and There was no such litigation in the reporting period. Message from the CEO monopoly practices Magazine GRI 302: Energy 2016 103 Management approach disclosures* 45 et seq., 49 et Principle 7, 8 Organizational profile seq. Sustainability strategy and management 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 50 et seq. Corporate governance and compliance 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 50 Supply chain 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 45 et seq. Principle 9 Climate strategy and CO2 management GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 103 Management approach disclosures* 41 et seq., 52 Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 37, 52, 61 Principle 7 Memberships in associations and initiatives 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 52 303-3 Water withdrawal 52 Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Environmental efficiency of operational processes 103 Management approach disclosures* 41 et seq., 45, Principle 7 49 -51 Employees 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 42 Social commitment 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 42 GRI Content Index 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 42 Principle 9 UNGC Index 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SO X), and other 51 significant air emissions SDG Index GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 TCFD Index 103 Management approach disclosures* 49 et seq., 54 Principle 7 Non-financial statement 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 53 About this report GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 Imprint 103 Management approach disclosures* 39 Principle 8 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 39 GRI 401: Employment 2016 103 Management approach disclosures* 55 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 57 to temporary or part-time employees GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 103 Management approach disclosures* 49, 58 et seq. 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system At locations with certified occupational safety management 49 systems, this applies to all employees, who are salaried employees. 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 58 et seq. 6745 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Content Index Principles of the GRI standard and disclosures Commentary Page UN Global Compact Contents 403-3 Occupational health services 58 et seq. Message from the CEO 403-4 Worker participation, consultation and communication on 58 et seq. Magazine occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 58 et seq. Organizational profile 403-6 Promotion of worker health 58 et seq. Sustainability strategy and management 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety Suppliers and business partners of SAF-HOLLAND, who enter 39 Corporate governance and compliance impacts directly linked by business relationships the premises obtain separate instruction on safety procedures. Supply chain 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 49 management system Climate strategy and CO2 management 403-9 Work-related injuries 58 Product innovations for the safe and efficient GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 transport of goods 103 Management approach disclosures* 55 et seq. Memberships in associations and initiatives 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 56 et seq. Integrated management systems for ­occupational programs health and safety, quality, environment and energy GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Environmental efficiency of operational processes 103 Management approach disclosures* More information on the diversity of SAF-HOLLAND can be 34 et seq., Employees found in the Group management report. 55 et seq. Social commitment 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 56 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 GRI Content Index 103 Management approach disclosures* 34 et seq. UNGC Index 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 38 Principle 6 SDG Index GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 TCFD Index 103 Management approach disclosures* 39, 57 Non-financial statement 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of A new process for identifying supply-side risks has been 38 et seq. About this report association and collective bargaining may be at risk established. No results were available for the reporting period. GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 Imprint 103 Management approach disclosures* 34 et seq., 38 et seq. 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents A new process for identifying supply-side risks has been 38 et seq. Principle 5 of child labor established. No results were available for the reporting period. GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 103 Management approach disclosures* 34 et seq., Principle 4 38 et seq. 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of A new process for identifying supply-side risks has been 38 et seq. forced or compulsory labor established. No results were available for the reporting period. GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 103 Management approach disclosures* 34 et seq., Principle 1 37-39 6846 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Content Index Principles of the GRI standard and disclosures Commentary Page UN Global Compact Contents 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 38 Principle 2 Message from the CEO impact assessments Magazine 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 38 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Organizational profile 103 Management approach disclosures* 61-64 Sustainability strategy and management 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 61-64 Corporate governance and compliance assessments and development programs Supply chain GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Climate strategy and CO2 management 103 Management approach disclosures* 39 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 39 Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 Memberships in associations and initiatives 103 Management approach disclosures* On principle, SAF-HOLLAND does not support any political party or politically motivated organizations, nor any individual Integrated management systems for ­occupational politicians. health and safety, quality, environment and energy 415-1 Political contributions On principle, SAF-HOLLAND does not support any political party Environmental efficiency of operational processes or politically motivated organizations, nor any individual Employees politicians. Social commitment GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 103 Management approach disclosures* 47, 49 GRI Content Index 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and 47 UNGC Index service categories SDG Index 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety 34 et seq., 47 TCFD Index impacts of products and services GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 Non-financial statement 103 Management approach disclosures* 36 About this report 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 36 Imprint privacy and losses of customer data * Based on GRI 103: Management Approach 2016, which includes GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 and GRI 103-3 (explanation of the key issue and its scope, elements and assessment of the management approach. 6947 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 UNGC Index UNGC INDEX Contents Message from the CEO THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Magazine Organizational profile Human rigHts Labour EnvironmEnt anti-Corruption Sustainability strategy and management Corporate governance and compliance Supply chain 1 Businesses should support 3 Businesses should uphold the 7 Businesses should support a 10 Businesses should work Climate strategy and CO2 management and respect the protection freedom of association and precautionary approach to against corruption in all its of internationally proclaimed the effective recognition of the environmental challenges; forms, including extortion Product innovations for the safe and efficient human rights and right to collective bargaining; See page 50 and bribery. transport of goods See page 37 et seqq. See pages 39, 57 See page 35 Memberships in associations and initiatives 8 undertake initiatives to pro­ Integrated management systems for ­occupational 2 make sure that they are not 4 the elimination of all forms of mote greater environmental health and safety, quality, environment and energy complicit in human rights forced and compulsory labour; responsibility and abuses. See pages 38 et seq., 61 See page 50 et seqq. Environmental efficiency of operational processes See page 37 et seqq. Employees 5 the effective abolition of child 9 encourage the development Social commitment labour and and diffusion of environmen­ See pages 18 et seqq., 38 et seq., 61 tally friendly technologies. GRI Content Index See pages 41 et seqq., 45 et seq. UNGC Index 6 the elimination of discrimi­ SDG Index nation in respect of employ­ ment and occupation. TCFD Index See page 56 Non-financial statement About this report Imprint 7048 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 SDG Index SDG INDEX Contents The following index shows the activities of SAF-HOLLAND in the context of Message from the CEO the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The “SDG AcMagazine tion Manager” was used to determine the SDGs relevant to the company (link: https://app.bimpactassessment.net/get-started/partner/ungc). Organizational profile Sustainability strategy and management Corporate governance and compliance section in the section in the Supply chain sdg saF-hoLLand sUstainabiLity rePort 2019 sdg saF-hoLLand sUstainabiLity rePort 2019 Climate strategy and CO2 management Product innovations for the safe and efficient Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods Employees/Occupational health and safety transport of goods Memberships in associations and initiatives Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy Environmental efficiency of operational processes Social commitment Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods Employees Social commitment GRI Content Index UNGC Index Key figures/ Climate strategy and CO2 management, The contribution Corporate governance of the product universe to enhanced fuel efficiency SDG Index TCFD Index Non-financial statement About this report Imprint 7149 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 TCFD Index TCFD INDEX Contents This sustainability report marks the first time that we have made a direct mendations serves to summarize the various issues related to this topic. Message from the CEO reference to the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related The index contains references to the relevant passages in the Annual ReMagazine Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We have done this to disclose to the public in port or the Sustainability Report that contain content related to the reca verifiable manner how SAF-HOLLAND addresses the risks and opportuniommendations of the TCFD on governance, strategy, risk management as Organizational profile ties arising from climate change. The following index of the TCFD recomwell as metrics and targets. Sustainability strategy and management Corporate governance and compliance Supply chain goVernance strategy risk ManageMent Metrics and targets Climate strategy and CO2 management tcFd Disclose the organization’s Disclose the actual and potential Disclose how the organization Disclose the metrics and targets Product innovations for the safe and efficient reqUireMents governance around climate­ impacts of climate­related identifies, assesses and manages used to assess and manage transport of goods related risks and opportunities risks and opportunities on the climate­related risks relevant climate­related risks organization’s businesses, and opportunities Memberships in associations and initiatives strategy and financial planning Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy section oF the Business model, strategy Environmental efficiency of operational processes saF-hoLLand and objectives, research annUaL rePort and development Employees 2019 Social commitment section oF the Corporate governance and Product innovations for the safe Analysis of climate­related risks Sustainability management, GRI Content Index saF-hoLLand compliance, sustainability and efficient transport of goods, for the business model of environmental efficiency of UNGC Index sUstainabiLity management environmental efficiency of SAF­HOLLAND operational processes rePort 2019 operational processes SDG Index TCFD Index Non-financial statement About this report Imprint 7250 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Non-financial statement NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT Contents The Non-Financial Statement (NFS) consists of the separate Non-Financial The relevant aspects are identified on the basis of the findings of the latest Message from the CEO Statement of the SAF-HOLLAND Group required by Secs. 315b and 315c in materiality assessment. A list of the aspects in the sense of the CSR DiMagazine conjunction with Secs. 289b to 289e HGB. We have oriented this report on rective Implementation Act (CSR-RUG) to disclose non-financial inforthe standards issued by the international Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). mation and information on diversity can be found in the following table Organizational profile along with the references to the corresponding sections of the SustainabilSustainability strategy and management Aspects relevant to the examination are marked with the symbol in ity Report. Corporate governance and compliance the document. Supply chain Climate strategy and CO2 management RelevAnt Aspect AccoRding significAnt to the non-finAnciAl section in the sAf-hollAnd Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods Aspect sustAinAbility issue (gRi) stAtement (hgb) sustAinAbility RepoRt 2019 Memberships in associations and initiatives goveRnAnce Economic performance Integrated management systems for ­occupational Business ethics and human rights Combating corruption and bribery, Corporate governance and compliance health and safety, quality, environment and energy respect for human rights Environmental efficiency of operational processes Protection of data and intellectual property Employees Product safety and product liability Other concerns Product innovations for the safe and efficient Social commitment transport of goods GRI Content Index Supply chain sustainability Respect for human rights Supply chain management UNGC Index SDG Index enviRonmentAl Environmental efficiency of Environmental concerns Environmental efficiency of operational processes operational processes TCFD Index Electrified vehicle concepts Non-financial statement About this report Smart trailer solutions Imprint sociAl Employer branding and attractiveness Employee concerns Employees Occupational health and safety Employee concerns Employees Corporate volunteering Social concerns Social commitment 7351 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 About this report ABOUT THIS REPORT Contents GRI 102-50, 102-52, 102-54 The annual Sustainability Report is published in German and English on the Message from the CEO We have oriented this report on the standards issued by the international SAF-HOLLAND website at the following link: https://corporate.safholMagazine Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This report has been prepared in accordland.com/en/investor-relations/publications/sustainability-report. Our ance with the GRI Standards: Core option. next Sustainability Report for the 2020 financial year will be published in Organizational profile the spring of 2020. Sustainability strategy and management This report pertains to the 2019 financial year, which corresponds to the Corporate governance and compliance 2019 calendar year. Since 2018, SAF-HOLLAND has been committed to the More information about the company can be found at https://safholSupply chain UN Global Compact (UNGC) corporate responsibility initiative and its prinland.com/en and in the Annual Report. Climate strategy and CO2 management ciples in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. This report also includes the Communication on Progress as part Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods of membership in the UNGC. A corresponding chapter reference to the Ten Memberships in associations and initiatives Principles can be found in the UNGC Index. Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy Rounding differences may arise from the addition of individual figures. Environmental efficiency of operational processes The regions of APAC and China were combined to create the APAC_I/China Employees region starting in 2020. The geographic segmentation of SAF-HOLLAND will Social commitment therefore consist of EMEA, the Americas and APAC_I/China. GRI Content Index UNGC Index The editorial deadline was March 25, 2020. SDG Index TCFD Index Non-financial statement About this report Imprint 7452 SAF-HOLLAND Group Sustainability Report2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Imprint IMPRINT CONTACT Contents PUBLISHER Message from the CEO SAF-HOLLAND SE SAF-HOLLAND GmbH Magazine 68-70, Boulevard de la Pétrusse Hauptstraße 26 2320 Luxembourg 63856 Bessenbach Organizational profile Luxembourg Germany Sustainability strategy and management Corporate governance and compliance www.safholland.com Supply chain Climate strategy and CO2 management EDITORIAL OFFICE Dr. Ferdinand Pohl GRI 102-53 CSR Officer Product innovations for the safe and efficient transport of goods Dr. Ferdinand Pohl, SAF-HOLLAND Group ferdinand.pohl@safholland.de Memberships in associations and initiatives Michael Schickling, SAF-HOLLAND Group Phone: + 49 6095 301-468 Alexander Pöschl, SAF-HOLLAND Group Integrated management systems for ­occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy Michael Schickling Environmental efficiency of operational processes DISCLAIMER Head of Investor Relations & Corporate Communications This report contains certain statements that are neither reported financial michael.schickling@safholland.de Employees results nor other historical information. This report contains certain forPhone: + 49 6095 301-617 Social commitment ward-looking statements, which as such are based on current assumptions, GRI Content Index expectations and forecasts of the management of SAF-HOLLAND SE made Alexander Pöschl UNGC Index at the time of publication of the report. Various known and unknown risks, Senior Manager Investor Relations & Corporate Communications SDG Index uncertainties and other factors may lead to the actual results, the financial alexander.poeschl@safholland.de position and the development in the performance of the company deviatPhone: + 49 6095 301-117 TCFD Index ing considerably from the estimates made here. Many of these risks and Non-financial statement uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond the ability of SAF-HOLLAND Klaus Breitenbach About this report SE to control or estimate precisely, such as future market conditions and Senior Manager Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Imprint economic developments, the behavior of other market participants, the klaus.breitenbach@safholland.de achievement of anticipated synergies, and legal and political decisions. Phone: + 49 6095 301-565 Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements only apply as of the date of this publication. The company does not undertake any obligation to update such forward-looking statements. Likewise, SAF-HOLLAND SE does not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of publication of these materials. 7553 www.safholland.com
