Communication on Progress STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER December 11, 2020 To our stakeholders; I am pleased to confirm that Biotage reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Tomas Blomquist, President & CEO Communication on Progress 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights We have taken the following actions in the area of human rights. • Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities and work with recurring followup and actions. • We have established policies and procedures on how to protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. • We take measures to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products. Labour We follow-up and make sure that the following actions are taken to • Ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour. • Comply with minimum wage standards. • That our employees have the freedom to associate. • Ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. Environment When it comes to environmental factors we make sure that we • Avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.) • Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health are in place and active. • Minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances. Anti-Corruption We take the following measures to fight corruption in relation to all stakeholders • Assess the risk of corruption when doing business • Mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in contracts with business partners • Ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment • Make sure our employees are aware of and trained in our Code of Conduct, Bribery & Corruption policy and Whistleblower policy. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We measure the outcomes of the above actions through • Follow-up of training and tests. • Demographics of management and employees broken down by diversity factors (e.g., gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) • Rate of occupational diseases, injuries, and absenteeism • Employee turnover. • Percentage of recycled materials
