UNIVERSO A nnual Repor t 2019 Table of Contents Introduction Financial Performance Positive Impact Message from the Management Scenario Sustainability strategy ------------------------------------------4 ----------------------------------------40 ----------------------------------------66 About the Report Results Social relevance ------------------------------------------7 ----------------------------------------41 ----------------------------------------70 Environmental Management Our Universe People ----------------------------------------83 About us Our Team Attachments ----------------------------------------10 ----------------------------------------49 Strategic Differentials Attraction GRI Content Table ----------------------------------------21 ----------------------------------------54 ----------------------------------------91 Focus on the Customer Development Capitals Map ----------------------------------------23 ----------------------------------------57 ----------------------------------------98 Fighting Covid-19 Communication and Engagement Assurance Letter ----------------------------------------26 ----------------------------------------59 ----------------------------------------99 Awards and Recognition Health and Safety Credits ----------------------------------------29 ----------------------------------------60 ---------------------------------------101 Corporate Governance Overview ----------------------------------------32 Best practices ----------------------------------------33 Guiding principles ----------------------------------------37 2 Introduction 3 Message from the Management GRI 102-14 The year of 2019 was special to Universo Americanas. “Making dreams come true and This year, we celebrated the “90th Anniversary meeting people’s consumption of Lojas Americanas”, the “20th Anniversary of Americanas and Submarino websites”, the “13th needs, saving time and money and Anniversary of the creation of B2W”, the “2nd exceeding their expectations”. Anniversary of the creation of LET’S” and, at last, the “18-month Anniversary of Ame”. The date also invites us to think in retrospect. In our 90 years of life, we take pride in actively taking part in All of these companies, with the firm inspiration and the country’s development and in society’s evolution. coordination of “IF Inovação e Futuro” and together with our customers, sellers, merchants and suppliers, We were pioneers in hiring women, we promoted make up the Universo Americanas. social inclusion by offering great brands at fair prices, we went public in the stock exchange in 1940, we We are currently present in over 700 cities, we are introduced the barcode in Brazil and much more. more than 37 thousand associates, we work with over Innovation is what brought us here. two thousand suppliers and with over 46.8 thousand sellers, in addition to offering over 29.5 million items to more than 38 million active customers. A Universo Americanas that works united for a greater purpose: 4 CHAPTER 1 | Introduction Still in this analysis, we realized growth exceeding R$ 2 billion in the GMV. It should the conclusion, on the physical platform, of the that our Universo Americanas is also be noted that the Universe, in the last 20 years, “85 anos em 5 – Somos mais Brasil” program, with has increased its product offer by more than 500 the inauguration of 806 stores in the last five years, unique, flexible and resilient. times, reaching more than 29.5 million items. reaching the mark of 1,700 stores in 739 cities, which grants us a unique capillarity. The second, pursued Unique for having been conceived from an original The resilience of Universo Americanas gets even in the last three years on the digital platform, was dream. When we created Americanas.com in 1999, more apparent, when we realize that the CAGR of the accomplishment of a positive cash generation we believed it was a one way road. An even in the the GMV in the last 20 years was of +16.6%, while of R$ 189.9 million in 2019, successfully concluding following year, when the so-called “internet bubble” the CAGR of the EBITDA in the same period was the transition plan of the business model to a hybrid burst and many gave up, we persevered in pursuing of 27.9%, reinforcing the commitment of growing platform with the increasingly relevant marketplace and our dreams. We have grown, learned, acquired with profitability. That is, there were various unique digital services. other companies and created Brazil’s largest digital moments in the history of our country, during which company B2W. our team was able to use the flexibility of our Universo Furthermore, in 2019, Universo Americanas reached Americanas to better harmonize the growth and the a R$ 32.6 billion GMV, a R$ 3.5 billion EBITDA, with In these 20 years, millions of Brazilians have had profitability necessary to our continuous growth. an 18.5% ebitda margin, which led us to a net profit their first digital experience through our websites. of R$ 704.1 million, the highest profit in our history. Nowadays, we take pride in offering millions of items The Universo Americanas is made up by a team of and delivering them all across Brazil through LET’S, over 37 thousand associates, in which the diversity Ame has been gaining relevance in Universo a shared management platform for Americanas and and the harmony prevail in the everyday life. Many of Americanas and in our customers’ day-to-day lives, B2W logistical assets, which now offers its services those who work here are in their first job, pursuing growing exponentially, having reached the mark of 6.5 to thousands of sellers active in our Universe. their dream of self-development and overcoming. million downloads, with over 35 active functionalities and an ambitious expansion program, both in Our Universe is also flexible, because it was In the last years, we have adopted the GPTW Universo, as well as in the off-us world. conceived and created from multiple and (Great Place to Work) climate survey to perfect our complementary businesses. Our physical and virtual relationship dynamic with the associates and, as a The physical and digital worlds continue changing, stores have always been complementary, allowing the result, our companies were honored with the Great and in this context, we end 2019 with over 327 million customer to choose his preferred channel option. Place to Work seal. Our leader formation dynamics transactions and over 38 million active customers, continues to improve, making our leadership 99% with 26 million on the physical platform, 16 million Currently, it has gotten even easier with the O2O internally formed. of the digital and only four million customers in (online to offline) initiatives, for there are various common. Still, the growth has been accompanied by possible combinations of service, being up to the In the year of 2019, we also celebrated the conclusion progressive improvement of the customer satisfaction customer to decide on the most convenient option at of two important development cycles. The first was rates, which reached an NPS (Net Promoter Score) of the moment. In 2019, the O2O initiatives had a 153% 5 CHAPTER 1 | Introduction 80, in some months. for a drink with Ame at a Carnival parade, when We believe that all of these initiatives will lead us to a he drops by at Americanas and buys a toy as a new level of operational excellence and profitability, In 2019, we strengthened our commitment to the present for his son’s friend’s birthday party, when he reflected in the increase of profit by share. We are UN’s 2030 agenda of the Sustainable Development finds and buys at the Americanas app that car part very proud of what we have already accomplished Goals (SDGs). Following our sustainability that he couldn’t find or when the Ame Flash delivery and understand that the best is yet to come. strategy, we expanded our activities by promoting man arrives with his cellphone, that he purchased quality education, creating projects to expand an hour earlier. Finally, we thank the more than 37 thousand the connectivity in the Amazon, as well as the associates, whose determination and engagement development of people with school education, For that, we established the motto: “Everything. made us get here, the customers, suppliers, sellers, the correct disposal of waste and the incentive to Anytime. Anywhere.” which will guide the business partners and shareholders, who are part of entrepreneurship in the riverside communities. decisions of our entire team to maintain our current these achievements. For each one of you, our Thank customers, increasing the frequency of their You. We rely on you for building our story together. In addition to this, we made public commitments relationship to us, and we will attract new customers, regarding the reduction of inequalities with the seeking to exceed their expectations. Coalition of Racial and Gender Equity and the Regards, Women’s Empowerment Principles by UN. It is a long In order to get there, we intend to: continue journey, but we believe in the strength of our business searching for the best talent, increase the offer of to transform the way of thinking and alter realities. products and services, intensify the use of data Miguel Gutierrez analytics, increase the customer recurrence, expand CEO, Universo Americanas As a vision of the future, we believe that we have the O2O initiatives, expand the Supply Chain built a powerful model, that we are even more platform, further improve the innovation environment, qualified and, above all, excited to be more and continue generating value and reinvesting. more relevant in people’s daily lives. Being relevant means being increasingly present in our customers’ journeys, whether be it when he wishes to have a coffee in one of our Local stores, when he makes a transfer to a friend’s Ame account, when he pays “Everything. Anytime. Anywhere.” 6 CHAPTER 1 | Introduction About the Report GRI 102-50 | 102-54 The goal of the Universo Americanas Annual Report is to share the solidity of our operation between January 1st and December 31st 2019, by bringing our strategic vision and value generation. This publication reinforces the Company’s commitment to a transparent governance model. Still, in the improvement line to communicate its performance to stakeholders, the Company has adopted, for the sixth consecutive year, the guidelines outlined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), in the global disclosures model for preparing sustainability reports. The GRI Standards, Core option, was the set of standards chosen. The Report also shows actions aligned with the Global Compact universal Principles and with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), an initiative of the Global Agenda, of the United Nations (UN) in Brazil and in the world. Stay Tuned! • Throughout the reading, whenever we use the term “Universo Americanas”, we will be referring to all of the companies of the group. • On the other hand, when we mention “Company”, we will be talking about our parent company, Americanas. • When dealing exclusively with the other companies of the group, we will use their names: B2W Digital, AME, LET’s and IF. 7 CHAPTER 1 | Introduction How to read this report? The construction of this publication is guided by the Integrated Report Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) best international practices of corporate sustainability Throughout the content, we address the different As signatories of the Global Compact principles, monitoring and reporting: capitals that make up and support the Company’s we support the UN 2030 Agenda and we inserted, businesses in an integrated manner and use icons to throughout the chapters, icons that show which are Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards show you which capital is addressed in that chapter. the main SDGs related to the practices addressed We refer to the GRI indicators reported along the in that content. content with the GRI XXX-X symbol. In order to On page 98, the capitals map indicates on which facilitate the location of these data, the table of the pages you can find information on each capital. GRI content is on page 91, which explains every indicator and shows the page where it is in. Natural Financial Learn more on: www.globalreporting.org Manufactured Human Institutional Content Throughout the report, we will use this symbol to B2W Americanas show that the content of this page is the same as that presented in B2W Digital’s Annual Report. Social and Intellectual Learn more on: 01 Relationship INSTITUTIONAL CONTENT nacoesunidas.org/pos2015/ Americanas 01 01 Learn more on: relatointegradobrasil.com.br 01 01 8 CHAPTER 1 | Introduction Our Universe 9 About us GRI 102-1 | 102-2 | 102-4 | 102-6 | 102-7 | 102-9 | 102-10 | 102-15 | 102-16 Universo Americanas is made up by a powerful 1,700 stores combination of multiple business platforms, conceived with the ambitious purpose of offering our customer “Everything. Anytime. Anywhere”. 18 S SE +29.5 MM Distribution ER LL items Centers M Our Universo Americanas relies on a wide physical O ST ER platform, serving customers through more than 1,700 CU S stores distributed across the Brazilian territory, a robust digital platform, through B2W Digital, and an innovation engine, through IF Inovação e Futuro, LET’s and Ame. +38 MM +327 transactions MM active customers We bring 90 years of relevance from Universo Americanas which, since 1929 has expanded its presence across Brazil by means of physical stores; the pioneering spirit of B2W Digital, which wrote TS the e-commerce history in the country since 1999; SU the robustness of LET’S; and the connection to the 30 MM PP LI ER H AN C 1.7 MM ER followers on merchants future with Ame and IF. social media S M (Ame PLUS) Get to know below each one of the business platforms that, combined, make up Universo Americanas. +46.8 thousand sellers 10 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe Our Purpose Our Values “Fulfill consumers dreams and meet the consumption needs of the people, sparing their time and money and exceeding their • Having the best people expectations.” • Being a good “Business Owner” • Seeking excellence in operation • Focusing on the customer Our Vision • Delta Doing more and better every day “To be the best retail company in Brazil.” • Being obsessed with results To learn more, visit: https://ri.lasa.com.br/a-empresa/perfil 11 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe Physical platform “Americanas is one of the largest and most Performance Model Stores with complementary formats and purposes traditional retailers in Brazil.” It relies on five distinct store models, which allow it to address the different occasion for customer consumption and the strategic presence in the most diverse digital locations. • average sales area of 1,000 m ;2 • average sales area of 400 m ;2 • average sales • automatic; replacement of inventories; • just-in-time logistics; area of 70 m2; Our stores offer a mix of over 60 thousand items, • assortment of up to 60,000 items. • assortment of up to 15,000 items. • 70% of electronic from the most diverse categories, in addition to products; offering insurance and services, which ensure a • focus on service offering and O2O. unique purchasing experience to our customers. Such diversity in the assortment and store • average sales area of 50 m2; • average sales area of 100 m2; formats ensure a flexible, resilient and increasingly • assortment oriented to convenience; • daily inventory replacement; • exclusive 100% autonomous purchase • assortment of up to 3,000 items (80% relevant business model in the day-to-day lives of technology (learn more on page 17). of convenience food products). our customers. Services offering Own brands We offer our customers 15 own brands, designed for those who want quality and fair prices in the various day-to-day items. Platform responsible for the management and promotion of Americanas services, such as: There are more than seven thousand products in clothing, hygiene and personal content cards insurance care, wellbeing-related foods, cookies, chocolate, school and office supplies, credit services and assisted sales electronics, toys, household appliances and decoration products. 12 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe 85 years in 5 1,700 stores In 2019, we concluded the greatest expansion cycle in 739 cities in Brazil of our history, the “85 anos em 5 – SOMOS MAIS BRASIL”, started in 2015. North Northeast In 2019, we broke the record of inaugurations in a single year, with 230 new stores and, throughout 129 stores 381 22% stores the entire cycle, we inaugurated 806 stores, 8% reaching the total of 1,700 stores distributed in 739 different municipalities, a unique capillarity in the country. In the last twenty years, we have expanded our store chain almost Mid-west 20 times, and we went from 39 cities 154 stores Southeast served (26% of the population) to 739 cities (65% of the population), 9% 859 51% stores which attests to the solidity of our South strategy and the resilience of our business model. 177 10% stores With reach enhanced by the Digital Platform of the Universe. 13 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe Digital platform Hybrid model In 2019, we concluded B2W’s strategic plan, B2W is a Digital Company, pioneer in the Brazilian e-commerce and leader in Latin America. The purpose of Initiated in 2017, the project developed a digital B2W is to connect people, businesses, products and services in the same complete digital platform, offering platform hybrid model. excellence in the entire experience cycle of the digital retail customer, by means of technology, logistics, distribution, customer service and consumer finance services. In 2019, our base of sellers more ome rs than doubled, connecting 24.9 cust ve thousand new partners and acti on illi S 2b i reaching 46.8 thousand sellers. m ER M ar TO +t B2W ha n1 S r ye 6 U pe C TR its To continue expanding the marketplace vis PLATFORM on FIC operation and allowing customers to buy lli AF products from all over the world, we started E-COMMERCE (1P) our Americanas Mundo operation in March. In rapid expansion, there are already over 13.4 MARKETPLACE (3P) million items added through this operation. PAYMENTS In the year, we also acquired Supermercado BIT SERVICES (TI) Now, an innovative e-commerce platform, with a business model that is a proven success, B2W FULLFILLMENT which allows us to expand our presence in the ms ite supermarket category, opening a new growth th B2W on em lli RT front and offering the customers an increasingly mi SSO NT ar ke 20 ME A complete assortment. PLATFORM RS tpl LE ace L SE n +t n ha ingo ell erss Find out in detail the entire B2W l sel thousand Digital offer in its Annual Report: 46.8 https://ri.b2w.digital/informacoesaos-investidores/relatorios-anuais 14 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe Innovation Engine We live in a context with intense and accelerated transformation in physical and digital worlds and an increasingly intense connection between the two media, discovering new ways to apply technology to people’s routine, bringing convenience, access, efficiency and sustainability. IF’s mission is to have a 100% focus on innovation, through an independent operation, to create disruptive businesses and boost our ability to capture opportunities. To this end, it operates incubating new businesses, accelerating already existing initiatives, investing in startups (venture capital), prospecting new opportunities, including M&A operations and leading the O2O (online to offline) fronts. Ame Digital, a fintech and mobile business platform, part of the Ame family and is the first IF initiative, Universo Americanas innovation engine. 15 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe INSTITUTIONAL CONTENT Ame is the complete digital account of Universo In 2019, there were several advances to accelerate its Americanas, which may be used in any sales presence in the physical and online worlds: channel of the group and is already present in over 1.7 million establishments, generating cashback, • Important partnerships with acquirers, credit card which wins over the customer and generates brands and retail technology platforms, such greater retention. as: Cielo, Stone, Mastercard, Linx, Vtex and partnership with Banco do Brasil to offer co-branded credit cards through the app; With little over 18 months, Ame proceeds in accelerated development. • Continuous feature development: exclusive items for the physical and the digital world, becoming, +15 MM +6.5 MM more and more, a powerful one-stop-app with transactions downloads over 35 features, with the goal of simplifying the lives of the customers; 1.7 MM +35 merchants • Launch of Ame Pro, in December, a complete features (Ame PLUS) solution for managing storekeepers in the Fintech and Mobile Business Platform physical world (payments, inventory and treasury management for selling points) and native integration with Ame and B2W Marketplace; and • Ame was the official payment method of “Carnaval de Rua 2020 do Rio de Janeiro”, an event during which more than ten thousand street vendors were accredited to sell with Ame, impacting millions of people. 16 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe New store format “pegou, levou”, launched in 2019, which offers an innovative experience with exclusive technology in Brazil, allowing customers to buy products 100% autonomously, with no lines and no checkout. With artificial intelligence, machine learning and computer vision, refrigerators and shelves are integrated with sensors that detect when products are picked up or returned, and when the customer leaves the store, their purchases are automatically paid at Ame. There were three pilot stores in Rio de Janeiro and in São Paulo, one being a mobile store. 17 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe INSTITUTIONAL CONTENT Logistics In addition to promoting the continuous logistical efficiency, we are seeking new, increasingly sustainable delivery models. In 2018, we started the delivery model by bicycles, which, in addition to providing more agility and minimizing costs, mitigates greenhouse gas emissions and contributes to the urban mobility by decreasing the amount of vehicles circulating in large Created in 2019, Ame Flash streamlines O2O Delivery with Drones urban centers. initiatives (connection between online and offline) We are the first Brazilian retail company to conduct and expands our delivery possibilities in large urban experimental flights for drone deliveries. Our goal is, In the end of 2019, LET’S, a shared management centers with different modes. in the future, to deliver with this innovative modality, platform of Americanas and B2W logistical assets, making transportation between the Distribution intensified the investment in this delivery modality after Ame Flash connects independent couriers Centers and Americanas physical stores. the acquisition of the startups Pedala and Courri. (motorbikes, bicycles and other modes) on B2W Digital’s logistics platform, enabling the delivery Americanas Lockers There were over 370 thousand orders delivered by of products from Americanas physical stores and We offer customers this 100% autonomous option, bicycle in the cities of São Paulo, Brasília and Rio de physical stores from B2W Marketplace sellers to our which does not depend on personal interaction, Janeiro, avoiding the emission of over 47 tons of CO2. customers within two hours. for product pick up. When buying at Americanas, consumers choose which locker they want to receive The intention to 2020 is multiplying this sort of The app already has 800 registered deliverers and their product in and have access to a QR Code for sustainable delivery with the expansion of the operation serves about 300 Americanas physical stores in Rio automatic opening. in other capitals of Brazil. de Janeiro and São Paulo. Americanas Lockers will be located in stores with a large flow of people, subway / bus stations and To boost Ame Flash, in December Bike Delivery residential condominiums. In 2019, there were five 2019 Ame acquired startups Pedala pilot lockers operating in Rio de Janeiro and São and Courri, specializing in fast and Paulo, one of which was the first with the capacity to 370 47 operate 36 drawers simultaneously. thousand tons of CO2 sustainable bicycle deliveries. orders are no longer delivered in São emitted. Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Brasília. 18 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe INSTITUTIONAL CONTENT Robust Operation Expanding Network +200 + Closer to the customer: from 343 to 928 cities +41 MM of deliveries thousand within 150 km from the DCs. LET’S is a shared management platform for the store supplies per year Universo Americanas logistical and distribution per year + Faster: from 38% to 63% of the GDP covered by assets, optimizing the integration of our operations deliveries within 24 hours. +5 thousand 200 hubs in the physical and digital platform, by means of a delivery to assist flexible model from the receipt of the customer’s vehicles/day distribution + customization of the assortment in each region. order until the final delivery, which brings us important captures of synergy and the excellence in the customer’s experience. With innovative and complete solutions, LET’S seeks to be the best and most complete logistics and distribution platform for the physical and digital retail. Our O2O (online to offline) initiatives, in which the customer can purchase at any platform and receive the product as it is most convenient, also proceed in continuous development and innovation for an increasingly differentiated purchase experience. 2019 2022 18 Distribution 22 Distribution Centers Centers 19 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe INSTITUTIONAL CONTENT Everything. Anytime. Anywhere. This is the concept that guides our O2O initiatives (online to offline) in which customers may buy on any platform and receive the product where is more convenient to them, increasing their shopping experience. In 2019, the use of O2O solutions grew 153%, exceeding the R$ 2 billion mark in GMV. Below are the main O2O possibilities.: LASA Seller Pegue na Loja Americanas physical stores are sellers in (Click and Collect) our marketplace, adding new items to the Option in which the customer purchases online and assortment, focusing on recurrence categories. collects at one of the eight thousand pick-up points In the year, the assortment grew three times (Universo Americanas, sellers stores and partner and sales 2.5 times. points) in over five thousand municipalities in Brazil, serving 99% of the Brazilian population. Pegue na Loja Hoje (Click and Collect Now) Prateleira Infinita Available at all the 1,700 Americanas Full omnichannel experience in which the Americanas physical units, it enables customers to physical store customer is assisted in purchasing collect products in stock at the store within products offered in e-commerce, combining the one hour after the online purchase, with free convenience and assortment of the digital world with shipping. With rapid growth, in December it the services and experience of the physical world. In reached the mark of 100 thousand orders. the last quarter of 2019, sales showed 57% growth at the end of 2018, with an average ticket 15 times LASA Entrega higher than that of physical stores. (Ship from Store) Online purchase option of products from the O2O for B2W Marketplace sellers nearest Americanas unit, with delivery within With this option, sellers’ physical stores can be two hours to the desired address, available product pick-up points, which allows them to in 300 stores in 110 cities in 13 states. expand the Click and Collect, Click and Collect Now (one hour) and Ship From Store (two hours) initiatives to more than 15,000 physical stores in B2W Marketplace sellers. Americanas Lockers exhibition at Investor Day, 2019. 20 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe Strategic Differentials Our Universo is unique, flexible and resilient. Unique Flexible Resilient Unique dream Multiple store formats Success in different scenarios Everything. Anytime. Anywhere. For various consumption occasions. In the last decade, we have grown continuously and consistently, believing in our model and in Brazil, even when 90 years of history 20 years of our pioneering faced with government changes, regulatory changes and of our physical platform digital platform, which macroeconomic crises. with great capillarity and provided millions of in all Brazilian states. Brazilians with their first + 21.7x digital experience. digital R$ 1.5 bi R$ 32.6 bi GMV Unique relationship with the customers 1999 2019 Multiple brands We are focused on the customer and we are always For various customer profiles. innovating so he can have a unique, innovative, convenient and complete experience. + 21.7x R$ 1.5 bi R$ 3.5 bi Unique technological platform EBITDA More than 90% of our processes are digitalized with 1999 2019 sophisticated records and algorithms that allow us an intensive and differentiated use of data to better know the customer and ensure excellence in the operation. Conquering opportunities in different Multiple purchase options consumption occasions Unique team Wide range of products to meet the various needs in the The flexibility of our model enables us to adapt to the Over 37 thousand associates* make up and support our day-to-day life. diverse consumption scenarios, capturing the opportunities universe, with a set of skills essential to the business and in every moment. + 40x 99% of the leadership are formed internally. Learn more about our actions to attract, retain and develop the best 360 thousand 29.5 million Currently, 54% of tickets are less than R$ 25 in the talents on page 54. items items consolidated, which represents an opportunity to explore new segments, such as convenience. * Throughout the report, whenever we mention “associates”, we are referring to Universo Americanas employees. 1999 2019 21 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe s de clientes ativo milhõe s Growth Projections We have a strategic investment cycle for growth and business support aimed at e 38 capturing the opportunities in three different projections, presented below: +d Projection 3 happening since 2018 Future Explore optionalities and betting on disruptive innovation. + PHYSICAL DIGITAL E-COMMERCE Growth Projection 2 happening since 1999 Secular Growth = Focused on expanding the digital growth with incremental innovation. + O2O SERVICES SERVICES Projection 1 happening since 1997 Cash Generation Focused on optimizing the existing businesses in the physical platform, responsible for 65% of the business net revenue generation, with continuous improvement. Time 22 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe Focus on the Customer Our strategic focus for the next three years is to be In 2019, Universo Americanas even more relevant in the customers’ lives, integrating innovation to serve the people with a single goal: reached the mark of 38 million improving the consumer experience. active customers, considering those who purchased at least To that end, following our values of focus on the customer and constant pursuit of excellence in once in the last 12 months. the operations, we continuously work to improve In the previous chapters (page 10), you got to the experience of the more than 38 million active know the initiatives to expand our offer and provide customers of the Universo. “Everything. Anytime. Anywhere”. Next, we present the main advances in order to RYTHING EVE simplify and automate the services, make new channels available and increase the proximity to the customers, so that our relationship provides a journey with the Universo Americanas excellence. ovation People CUSTOMER HERE ANY T Inn W IME NY A 23 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe Knowing the customer Data intelligence We have advanced in our analytical capacity of understanding the customer, In 2019, there were over 700 thousand surveys, in all the mainly in the behavior segmentations. With this further customized vision, we stores and with more than 80% of promoter customers, can direct customized marketing actions to each type of customer, at each moment of their relationship to the stores, websites and products. who granted a satisfaction score higher than 90 points, and NPS of 80 points at the end of the period. In this regard, in 2019, we created a discount area in the Americanas app, the “Aqui tem Desconto”, where the customer can activate exclusive offers at the stores. Over 1.4 million customers activated the offers in the app, reaching In relation to Americanas, we answered 100% of the complaints approximately 17 million activations of products with discounts. on Reclame Aqui and got a 8.1 score. Dialogue and proximity We triggered over four million satisfaction surveys and intensified the presence The digital platform brands were once again a reference in of the Universo Americanas brands in social media, closing the year with customer service and reached the highest levels of evaluation of over 27 million likes on Facebook and over 11 million followers on Instagram, Reclame Aqui, with an average score of 7.6, above the average generating an impact superior to ten billion views. of 6.7 of competitors. On the physical platform, we also measure the customer satisfaction by means of the Net Promoter Score (NPS) methodology, using survey data via In the year of 2019, we answered 100% of the complaints on e-mail, in person and by store totems. Reclame Aqui platform and got 8.1 as score. Our efforts are also acknowledged by our customers, who voted and honored us for the seventh consecutive time with the “Época/Reclame Aqui Melhores Empresas para o Consumidor” award. 24 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe New possibilities Progress in service We launched the new relationship channel During the year, we have also worked closely to improve our customer service. We created via WhatsApp, promoting an innovative UniverSAC (University of Customer Service) to train our service team in the desired behavioral and friendly communication at the main skills for this new model. purchase stages. With that, we have already achieved important results. We started to serve 27% more contacts Currently, ten million customers chose to with the same workforce, registered a 15% improvement in customer satisfaction after the receive a communication through the app, service and reduced our time to solve protocols by 31%. 60% of the orders already have tracking via WhatsApp and seven million messages are Regarding Americanas’ after-sales service, over the year we solved more than 57 thousand sent monthly with the order follow up. cases in partnership with our suppliers and more than 138 thousand solutions through our customer service channels, with an average time of two days. Another action to expand our service channels was the improvement of the social media (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Youtube) monitoring, positively impacting 27% 15% 31% over 400 thousand users. more improvement reduction services with the in customer satisfaction in time to resolve same workforce; after service; protocols. Information security We have an irrevocable commitment to information security, protection of of our customers’ data privacy and transparency regarding good practices for storing and using this information. In 2019, there was a change in this scenario and we are prepared to fully adapt to the General Data Protection Law that should come into force in Brazil in 2020. 25 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe INSTITUTIONAL CONTENT Fighting Covid-19 We are going through a challenging moment in • HELPING PEOPLE • SOLID CASH MANAGEMENT history, which will demand from all of us a great We are taking measures to prioritize the We have implemented a plan to ensure that capacity to reinvent ourselves. The moment is one protection of our associates and customers, the Company maintains a strong cash position of union and solidarity. And that is why we are such as adopting home office, making flu to continue helping our customers and small together, working on new ways to be even more vaccine (Tetravalent Influenza) available to all partners. relevant to society. associates, as well as intensifying the hygiene in environments, creating communication channels, • COMMUNICATION AND COLLABORATION With the onset of the pandemic, in March 2020, measuring body temperature in areas with We entered into partnerships with governments Universo Americanas created the Crisis Committee greater concentration and corporate travel freeze. and other institutions and created the voluntary to promote quick actions and prioritize the participation network “Juntos somos mais necessary measures to preserve the health of In addition, we distribute masks and gel alcohol solidários” to meet the specific needs of each associates, customers and society. to all associates in all our work units and adopt region. new social distance protocols. The Committee also monitors all decisions made by the Federal Government, State and Municipal • OPERATIONS OPTIMIZATION Authorities, the World Health Organization (WHO) We kept our platforms (physical and digital) and the Ministry of Health and structures the actions up and running, to help distribute essential in four main pillars: products and services to the population, always in compliance with the legislation established in each region. On the digital platform, we launched the #OQueVocePrecisaAgora (#WhatYouNeedNow) campaign, increasing the visibility of essential items while structuring the websites and apps’ browsing to improve the customer’s shopping experience. 26 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe INSTITUTIONAL CONTENT To date, Americanas has already donated more than R$ 45 million to assist in the health and logistics of several states in the country. Some social impact partnerships with public and private entities that are being carried out are listed below: R$ 20 million in delivery and R$ 195 thousand in 300 high 1 million water bottles for NGOs logistics services to the State of performance thermometers for the Ação da Cidadania (Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo; Government of the State of Espírito São Paulo) and Visão Mundical (Recife Santo and to the City Hall of Salvador; and Manaus); R$ 5.7 million etransporting personal protective equipment 10 million facemasks to protect 50 thousand basic-needs grocery (facemasks, gloves, etc.) to the Federal associates and customers; packages for the NGO Ação da Government on two flights from China; Cidadania (Rio de Janeiro); and 3 million chocolate Easter eggs for R$ 5 million for the construction of children in orphanages, communities 1,800 diaper packs for UNICEF (United the field hospital in Rio de Janeiro; and hospitals in all states of the Nations Children’s Fund) and Artists’ country; Retreat. 27 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe INSTITUTIONAL CONTENT We have also created the voluntary participation network that gave rise to Juntos Somos Mais Solidários Institute, a non-profit association, through which associates, suppliers, and partners in Universo Americanas may contribute Support for small businesses to generate a positive impact on society. We have also created the #Apoieocomerciolocal campaign, suggesting that people buy from small entrepreneurs, bringing In this large solidarity network, through the the opportunity for these new storeowners to sell in one of the Care with the Elderly program, 1,100 homes largest e-commerces in Brazil. On the website, the most sought were mapped across the country, serving more after and sold products are separated by category to facilitate than 640 cities and 90,000 elderly people, consumer search. who are receiving the donation of hygiene and personal care kits, in the amount of R$ 75.00 We remain firm in the belief that together we will overcome this per person, per month, during three months. moment and increasingly intensify our way of contributing to millions of people, whether through donations, services, or the supply of essential products. 28 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe Awards and Recognition • Best retail network at Prêmio Época Reclame Aqui. • 1st place in the Department Stores, Household Goods and General Goods category of the • 11th most valuable Brazilian brand in 2019, 300 Maiores Empresas do Varejo Brasileiro da according to Interbrand. Sociedade Brasileira de Varejo e Consumo (SBVC) award. • Highlighted in the Innovation and Quality category of the Melhores da Dinheiro award, by IstoÉ • 1st place in the Retail category in the Reputation Dinheiro. Pulse ranking. • 1st place in the Department Store category at • One of the most sustainable companies in the O Melhor de São Paulo da Folha award. country by Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade. • Best ranked Brazilian retailer in the General • Americanas was included in the TOP 3 in all ranking of the Poderoso do Varejo list, by Deloitte. the evaluation categories of the “2020 Latin America Executive Team Mid Cap” ranking • Green Seal of the Chico Mendes Socioby Institutional Investor. The publication, a Environmental Award, for the 6th consecutive year, global reference in the evaluation of financial for supporting Projeto Grael. market institutions and professionals, took 2019 into account. 29 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe • Green Seal of the Chico Mendes Socio• 1st place in the E-Commerce Environmental Award for supporting Projeto • Most Beloved Diamond Store by E-Bit Medium Operations category at Grafitarte. the Época Reclame Aqui Award. • 1st place in the E-Commerce Major Operations category at • One of the most sustainable companies the Época Reclame Aqui Award. in the country by Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade. • 1st place in the Shopping Sites category of the Marcas dos • 1st place in the Largest of the E-commerce Cariocas ranking of the newspaper O Globo. category in the ranking of the 300 Maiores Empresas do Varejo Brasileiro da • 1st place in the Online Sales category in the Marcas Mais do Sociedade Brasileira de Varejo e Consumo Estadão ranking. (SBVC) award. • 1st place in the Omnichannel category of • 1st place in the Traditional Online Retail category of the Melhores Serviços do Estadão ranking. • 1st place in the Logistics and the LIDE de Varejo, Consumo e Shopping Transportation category at the Center Award. • 1st place in the categories Telephony, Electronics and Época Reclame Aqui Award. • PROCON-RJ Award quality seal. Informatics, Appliances and UD, and Store that makes the best Black Friday in Brazil for the Black Friday de Verdade award from Proxy Media and E-commerce Brazil. • 1st place in the E-commerce category in the Most Beloved Brands ranking of Grupo Padrão. • 1st place in the Credit Cards Co-branded category to Cartão Americanas at the Época Reclame Aqui Award. 30 CHAPTER 2 | Our Universe Corporate Governance 31 Overview GRI 103-1 | 103-2 The Company’s corporate structure reflects the composition of Universo Americanas, with the parent company, Americanas, representing the physical retail, and the respective controlled ones, from which we point out B2W Companhia Digital, our digital platform, from which Americanas owns 61.42%* of the share capital. In this chapter, we will present details on the governance of the parent company, Americanas. From 1940, when it was only 11 years old, Americanas started being listed on the stock exchange, currently B3 Brasil, Bolsa, To learn more about B2W’s solid governance structure, visit the sustainability report: Balcão. https://ri.b2w.digital/informacoes-aos-investidores/relatorios-anuais At the end of 2019, the share capital was composed of a total of 1,065,434,334 shares, with two classes of shares: common (LAME3) and preferred (LAME4), both with 100% tag along. At the end of 2019, the preferred and common shares were To know all of the company’s shareholdings in other companies, access section 15 quoted at R$ 25.91 (+ 32.0%) and R$ 19.70 (+ 31.8%), of our Reference Form: respectively, reaching a market value of R$ 38.2 billion. https://static.lasa.com.br/upload/arquivosparadownload/00009499.pdf *Information according to RF 2020. 32 CHAPTER 3 | Corporate Governance Best practices GRI 102-5 Aiming to be acknowledged in the market as an 100% tag along organization of operational excellence and focus on Since 2006, Americanas has maintained in its Bylaws the customer, by offering a service of excellence at the commitment to grant Full Tag Along (100%) to fair prices, Americanas constantly works on delivering the Company’s common and preferred shares. This its values of ethics, reliability and transparency to mechanism ensures that all of its shareholders will all of its stakeholders, striving to be the best retail receive equal treatment in case the Company undergoes company in Brazil. a change of stockholding control, with the right of selling their shares under the same conditions negotiated by the With almost eight decades of public trading, we controllers being guaranteed. have a robust governance model, guided by solid institutional commitments, practices that align strategy and operation to the interest of shareholders, an experienced and well-structured leadership, with Dividend distribution the ethics imbuing all of our relations. The Company’s Bylaws, aligned with the principles of the current legislation, establishes the minimum value Also, since August 2017, the Company is part of Level for dividends at 25% of the annual net income, after the 1, a special Corporate Governance segment at B3. constitution of legal reserve of 5%. Find out below the main best governance practices adopted. In the year of 2019, ensuring our commitment to the Company’s shareholders, we suggested the dividend distribution above the mandatory minimum. In this line, it was proposed to the shareholders the distribution of profits of R$ 292.9 million in interest on own capital. 33 CHAPTER 3 | Corporate Governance Experienced leadership GRI 102-18 Board of Directors Executive Board According to Company Bylaws, the Board of Directors shall be composed by The Executive Board is elected by the Board of Directors for the term of office of a minimum of three and a maximum of ten members, elected by the General one year, with the right to reelection. In 2019, it was made by 12 members, one Assembly, with a unified two-year term, and reelection being allowed. The President designated by the Superintendent Director. of the body is chosen by the elected directors. Executive Board Composition in 2020* The Company has a Board of Directors made up of seven members, three of whom are independent. Miguel Gomes Pereira Sarmiento José Timótheo de Barros Gutierrez Director Superintendent Director Board Composition in 2020* Marcelo Pinto Andrea Silva Barra Director Carlos Alberto da Veiga Sicupira Paulo Veiga Ferraz Pereira Director President Independent Director (Effective) Marcio Cruz Meirelles Anna Christina Ramos Saicali Director Director Claudio Moniz Barreto Garcia Sidney Victor da Costa Breyer Director (Effective) Independent Director (Effective) Maria Christina Ferreira Carlos Eduardo Rosalba Padilha Nascimento Investor Relations Officer Director Eduardo Saggioro Garcia Vanessa Claro Lopes Director (Deputy) Independent Director (Effective) Celso Alves Ferreira Louro Milena de Andrade Sacramento Director Director Paulo Alberto Lemann Director (Effective) João Guerra Duarte Neto Welington de Almeida Souza Director Director * Updated April 30, 2020. * Updated on May 7, 2020. 34 CHAPTER 3 | Corporate Governance Committees* GRI 102-18 | 102-19 | 102-29 | 102-30 The Committees, composed of members of the Board associates to have incentives to achieve exceptional In addition to promoting associates’ engagement, the of Directors and external contracted specialists, support results, to be adequately rewarded; and (ii) that Committee also encourages the participation of different the Board of Directors in the management of relevant the Company is able to attract, retain and develop areas through a delegation of authority process in themes for the business strategy and operation, the best professionals and leaders, ensuring the which the Sustainability Board participates and takes analyzing good practices and offering recommendations succession of its main executives. the initiatives to the Board of Directors. According to the to the Board. projects of interest, associates and areas are involved The Digital Committee main objective is to assist the so that, in an integrated manner, we can develop They operate as workgroups with defined goals to Board of Directors in fulfilling its responsibilities of digital increasingly sustainable solutions and practices. report themes and/or situations examined by them, as supervision in the areas of technology and technology well as to present their recommendation to the highest involved in commerce through the internet, television, The Audit Committee is included in the Company’s body of governance at Americanas. mobile telephony, directly to the consumer as well as Bylaws since 2019 General Shareholders’ Meeting. emerging channels. The purpose of the committee is to assist the The Committees meet at least once a quarter, or Board of Directors to monitor and control the extraordinarily, whenever called by their Chairman, Sustainability Committee formalized by the Board quality of financial statements, internal controls, risk with the exception of the Sustainability Committee, of Directors in 2010 and made up by representatives management and compliance. which meets weekly. Find out more about the Universo of diverse areas of the Company, it contributes to Americanas’ Committees, according to the 2020 defining the strategy for the business sustainability Ame Committee Its main objective is to assist composition: in order to boost our value generation to all of our the Board of Directors in fulfilling its supervisory relationship publics. responsibilities related to the Ame Digital business a The Finance Committee’s main objective is to mobile platform for financial products and services from inform and advise the Board of Directors regarding all Universo Americanas. decisions related to the Company’s financial policies, * Updated on May 5, 2020. ensuring that the Company always complies with its financial obligations, policies and responsibilities. In addition to the Committee, we rely on the Sustainability Board, responsible for The People and Compensation Committee main conducting the Companhia Verde Committee and for promoting our sustainability objective is to inform the Board of Directors regarding strategy and governance, other than coordinating the environmental management and social all decisions related to the Company’s personnel and responsibility initiatives. compensation policies, aiming (i) that the members Learn more about our sustainability strategy on page 66. of the Board of Directors, the Executive Board and all 35 CHAPTER 3 | Corporate Governance Fiscal Board The Company’s Fiscal Board is a non-permanent, composed of a maximum of five effective members and their respective alternates. Currently, the Company has a Fiscal Board formed by three effective members and their respective alternates, one nominated by the controllers and two nominated by the minority shareholders, elected at the General Meeting, with a one-year term and permitted reelection. Composition of the Fiscal Board in 2020* Márcio Luciano Mancini Effective Director (Appointed by Common Shareholders) Ricardo Scalzo Effective Director (Appointed by Preferred Shareholders)) Vicente Antonio de Castro Ferreira Effective Director (Appointed by the Controller) Pedro Carvalho de Mello Deputy Director Carlos Alberto de Souza Deputy Director André Amaral de Castro Leal Deputy Director * Updated April 30, 2020. 36 CHAPTER 3 | Corporate Governance Guiding principles GRI 102-17 Universo always acts guided by ethical and Code of Ethics and Conduct behavioral principles, aiming to respect individual GRI 102-16 | 205-1 | 205-2 | 205-3 | 206-1 differences and promote an increasingly responsible and value-generating business. It establishes the behaviors, values and principles to be observed by our associates regarding: To ensure the alignment of all of our associates to this ethical and responsible culture, we rely on a series • Safety and health; of policies that guide the expected conducts in the • Appreciation of diversity; relationships to our publics and to the environment, • Fighting harassment; which are presented below. • Fulfillment of financial commitments; • Fighting fraud and corruption; We also rely on relevant commitments that • Conflicting interests; corroborate an ethical and value-generating business • Use of the Company’s resources; and a sustainable business development, presented • Information security and data manipulation; and in the Sustainability Strategy chapter, on page 69. • Relationship to customers, suppliers and service providers, shareholders, government and society. The Code is publicly available on our website: https://ri.lasa.com.br/governanca-corporativa/codigo-de-etica-e-conduta 37 CHAPTER 3 | Corporate Governance As a result of the good internal structure, no cases of As a reflection of everyone’s commitment to ethics in corruption were identified in 2019. operations, in 2019 there were no lawsuits for unfair competition and no recorded cases of corruption. In order to keep itself increasingly aligned with the best Corporate Governance practices, the Company also has Dialogue channels several policies and regulations that promote the fight against GRI 102-17 corruption, transparency and equity in access to information, ethics in donations and sponsorships, conflicts of interest We provide an independent Reporting Channel, the mitigation, the independence of auditors, among other topics. Disk Alerta, managed by a specialized third party Other policies company, available 24 hours a day, seven days a and guidelines week, online or by phone, so that any citizen who has a relationship with us can report cases that GRI 102-11 | 102-15 | 102-25 | 205-1 | 205-3 Find out more about our policies and contradict our ethical principles. regulations at: Risk Management Policy https://ri.lasa.com.br/governancaThe Channel guarantees the right to confidentiality In order to establish principles, corporativa/estatutos-e-politicas and the preservation of the parties involved, guidelines and responsibilities to not requiring any identification and allowing the be observed internally, we have communication with the investigator by means of a a robust risk management policy, covering issues such as: corruption, Engagement protocol number related to the report on the website. environment and social. GRI 205-2 | 205-3 | 206-1 The cases are investigated and have their dealings All of our associates, upon joining our team, receive training on defined by an impartial and independent area. This policy applies to the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as to all the Code. In addition, throughout the year, communications are associates, managers, statutory and made to them through the communication platform reinforcing non-statutory directors, members of themes related to ethics. the Board of Directors, members of In 2019, there were more than 30 thousand communications Disk Alerta committees, members of the Fiscal Board, when installed, representatives on the theme and various campaigns and 20 members of the Contacts: and third parties, directly or indirectly Board of Directors and Executive Board. Webite: related to the Company and its http://canaldedenuncias.com.br/lasaeb2w/ subsidiaries. We also have a Corporate Risk area within the structure of Audit and Risk, focused on establishing rules for mitigating Phone number: 0800 282 2550 corruption risks and promoting continuous monitoring. 38 CHAPTER 3 | Corporate Governance Financial Performance 39 Scenario The year of 2019 was marked by a gradual improvement in the economic environment, with the recovery of GDP, control of inflation and reduction in the basic interest rate (Selic), which reached the historic low of 4.5% p.a. in December. In addition, inflation measured by the IPCA ended the year at 4.31%, 0.56 p.p. above that recorded in 2018, remaining within the target. Throughout the year, the unemployment rate showed a downward trend, registering an average rate of 11.9% compared to 12.3% in 2018, reflecting the gradual improvement in the economy. In line with this positive trend, the year was also marked by a recovery in retail trade, with sales volume, as measured by IBGE’s Monthly Survey of Trade (PMC), rising 1.8%, which represented the third consecutive increase since 2017. 40 CHAPTER 4 | Financial Performance Results GRI 102-7 Overview CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 VAR. (%) FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (R$ MM) 2019 2018 VAR. (%) 32,599.8 27,804.0 17.2% GMV/Gross Revenue 14,006.5 12,959.5 8.1% 18,662.7 17,689.8 5.5% Net Revenue¹ 12,169.0 11,350.0 7.2% 6,601.1 6,059.6 8.9% Gross Profit¹ 4,736.3 4,403.9 7.5% 35.4% 34.3% +1.1 p.p. Gross Margin (%RL) 38.9% 38.8% +0.1 p.p. 3,456.1 3,115.2 10.9% Adjusted EBITDA¹ 2,859.0 2,622.0 9.0% 18.5% 17.6% +0.9 p.p. Adjusted EBITDA Margin (%RL) 23.5% 23.1% +0.4 p.p. 505.5 305.6 65.4% Net Result¹ 505.5 305.6 65.4% 2.7% 1.7% +1.0 p.p. Net Result² 2.7% 1.7% +1.0 p.p. 704.1 305.6 130.4% Net Margin (%RL) 704.1 305.6 130.4% 3.8% 1.7% +2.1 p.p. Margem Líquida (%RL) 3.8% 1.7% +2.1 p.p. ¹ Disregarding tax credits effects. ² Considering tax credits effects. Note: According to material fact communicated to the market on 12/20/2019, Americanas and B2W were successful before the Federal Supreme Court, in actions related to the unconstitutionality to including the Tax on Circulation of Goods and Services (ICMS) in the PIS and COFINS calculation base. As a result, the 2019 result was positively impacted by tax credits, generating a non-recurring gain. In order to maintain comparability between periods, the result was presented with and without tax credits. 41 CHAPTER 4 | Financial Performance Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV) The GMV (Gross Merchandise Volume), which depicts the consolidated sales and services revenue added to the sales volume carried out at the marketplace platforms of B2W Digital, totalled R$ 32.6 billion in 2019, a 17.2% growth compared to 2018. Physical platform In 2019, sales of the physical platform showed an accelerating trend throughout Consolidated GMV continues to grow rapidly, combining an the year. The good performance in the Easter, Children’s Day, Red Friday and acceleration of the B2W Marketplace (GMV + 49.7%) and solid Christmas events ensured solid growth, despite the strong basis of comparison sales growth on the physical platform (Gross Revenue + 8.1%), of 2018. reflecting the successful execution of the end of the year events. Digital platform In 2019, total GMV on the digital platform reached R$ 18.8 billion, an increase of 25.1% compared to R$ 15.0 billion in 2018. B2W’s marketplace continues to Consolidated GMV develop rapidly, representing 62% of Total GMV. R$ millions Furthermore, B2W Digital registered record sales on Black Friday. The 32,599.8 investments made in the digital platform in recent years reflected, once again, 27,804.0 in the traffic and sales leadership during the event. On Black Friday, we were the largest marketplace platform in Brazil and Sellers were able to scale their + 17.2% businesses, selling the equivalent of 53 days. 2018 2019 42 CHAPTER 4 | Financial Performance Gross Profit and Gross Margin In the consolidated vision, the gross profit reached R$ 6.6 billion in Physical platform 2019, a 8.9% evolution, with a gross margin of 35.4%, a 1.1 p.p growth In 2019, gross profit registered growth of 7.5%, with a gross margin of in relation to 2018. 38.9%. Despite a series of margin pressures, such as the end of the “Lei do Bem” and the gain in the representativeness of promotional events, such as Red Friday, the Company presented an increase of 0.1 pp. in Gross Profit and Gross Margin margin due to a good calibration in the mix and categories, in addition to R$ millions the advancement of strategic initiatives, such as pricing and own brands. Digital platform 34.3% 35.4% The marketplace continued to gain relevance and improving the profitability levels of the digital platform. With B2W Marketplace setting 6,601.1 a new record, more than doubling the Sellers base throughout the year, gross profit grew 11.1%, with a gross margin of 32.2%, an expansion of 6,059.6 2.5 pp. compared to the previous year. 2018 2019 Margin Gross Profit 43 CHAPTER 4 | Financial Performance Adjusted EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Adjusted EBITDA grew by 10.9% with an increase of 0.9 p.p. in the EBITDA margin. Recurring EBITDA increased due to the margin expansion on the physical platform and the progressive increase in profitability on the digital platform due to marketplace growth. Consolidated EBITDA and EBITDA Margin R$ millions and % Sales, General and 18.5% 17.6% Administrative Expenses 3,456.1 3,115.2 In 2019, in the consolidated view, the selling expenses line grew by 5.0% compared to 2018, reflecting the expenses associated with opening stores. General and administrative expenses advanced, reflecting the hiring of personnel necessary to support the new businesses developed by the Company. At the parent company, selling expenses expanded 5.6%, reflecting the workforce increase needed to support store expansion. General and administrative expenses advanced below inflation, reflecting efforts to control costs. 2018 2019 Margin EBITDA 44 CHAPTER 4 | Financial Performance Cash Generation In the last three years, Universo Americanas showed a significant evolution in Cash Generation, allowing us to continue investing in the expansion of stores and B2W. In doing so, we speed up the growth in the physical and digital platforms. Universo Americanas Physical platform Digital platform 587 363 190 + 3.0 Bi + 1.1 Bi + 1.8 Bi 136 (96) (239) Physical platform (432) Physical platform’s cash generation (1,327) (743) (955) reached R$ 363.4 million compared to a cash consumption of R$ 743 million in (1,625) 2016, an increase of R$ 1.1 billion. (2,454) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 Digital platform In the Digital Platform, the evolution was Universo Americanas’ Cash Generation increased by R$ 3 billion in three years, from a consumption of R$ R$ 1.8 billion, from a cash consumption 2.5 billion in 2016, to a cash generation of R$ 586.8 million. of R$ 1.6 billion to a cash generation of R$ 189.9 million in just three years. As a way of capturing all the effects, cash generation is measured by the variation in net debt, disregarding any capital increase operations. 45 CHAPTER 4 | Financial Performance Working Capital Variation Net Financial Result In 2019, in the consolidated vision, the 2.5% In 2019, the parent company’s net Working Parent Company Consolidated decrease of the net financial result reflects the Capital was of ten days, representing (in days) (in days) decrease, throughout the year, of the Interbank a significant improvement of 20 days, Deposit Certificate (CDI) rate, the average rate compared to 2018. The gain was motivated -20 -33 of funding through the interbank market, in by improvements in all working capital addition to the capital increase effects in B2W 30 36 3 components, with emphasis on the ten (learn more in the B2W report). 10 days reduction in the inventory level, generated by a reduction in supply lead 109 In the parent company vision, the 4.2% 106 times and a continuous work by LET’S for 136 126 reduction of the net financial result is mainly greater efficiency in the distribution and related to the drop of the CDI rate. assertiveness of inventories. 81 77 48 43 In the same period, the consolidated net working capital was of three days, showing a reduction of 33 days in relation to the Net Result same period in the previous year. This -154 -159 -154 -180 In 2019, recurring net income advanced 65.4% result reflected the process of reviewing with a net margin of +1.0 p.p.. This growth was the 1P assortment, the optimization in driven by the increase in operating income, as the purchase of merchandise planning, in well as the decrease in net financial income. addition to the increase in the participation 2018 2019 2018 2019 of 3P in the total sales of the digital platform. Considering the tax credits, Net Income increased 130.4% in the year. Inventories Suppliers Accounts Receivable 46 CHAPTER 4 | Financial Performance Debt Accounts Receivable At the end of 2019, consolidated Net Debt decreased Accounts receivable considers credit and debit card R$ 1,544.2 million compared to the previous year, a 0.6x receivables, net of the discounted amount, which have improvement of the EBITDA. immediate liquidity and can be considered as cash. The reduction of the net debt in the consolidated vision At the end of 2019, accounts receivable totaled reflects the impacts of B2W Digital capital increase, with R$ 1.6 billion in the parent company and R$ 2.3 billion the adhesion of 100% of its shareholders, besides the in the consolidated vision. cash flow generated by the physical and digital platforms. In the parent company, the net debt increased in R$ 1,201.0 million, a 0.4x EBITDA variation. Excluding the To know our Income Statement and Balance Sheets in detail, access the participation of Americanas in B2W’s capital increase, the income release: parent company’s net debt would have a R$ 363.4 million https://static.lasa.com.br/upload/arquivosparadownload/00009479.pdf reduction, a 0.2x improvement in relation to the net debt / EBITDA (0.6x vs. 0.8x in 4Q18). Or the complete Financial Statements : https://ri.lasa.com.br/informacoes-financeiras/relatorios-anuaisFurthermore, in 2019, the average term of the trimestrais/4t19-divulgacao-de-resultados consolidated debt went from 33 to 40 months and at the parent company it went from 36 to 42 months, according to the Company’s strategy of focusing on long-term opportunities. 47 CHAPTER 4 | Financial Performance People 48 Our Team GRI 102-7 | 102-8 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 401-1 | 401-2 | 405-1 People first. We believe that our success in almost a century of history is the result With that in mind, we want to encourage everyone to fully reach the potential of of the work and trust of our associates. their personal skills and competencies, supporting the constantly growing success of the Universo Americanas, by creating more than 37 thousand jobs in 2019. In line with the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations (UN) to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we are committed to socio-environmental practices In 2019, for the second consecutive year, Americanas and maintain the commitment to generate jobs and promote the development in the areas where we operate. won the Great Place to Work Certification (GPTW), with a high participation rate of associates in answering For this reason, we have a management devoted to attracting and retaining the surveys. Also this year, B2W Digital, LET’S and Ame talent, prioritizing local labor and offering everyone opportunities for personal and professional development, recognition and a good work environment that values achieved the GPTW certification for the first time. their health, safety and well-being. 49 CHAPTER 5 | People Diversity GRI 102-8 | 102-12 | 102-13 | 405-1 Following the Company’s principles and values, Business Coalition of Racial we provide a welcoming environment for and Gender Equity associates and non-associates. Promoted by Instituto Ethos, the compact has the reduction of Brazilian Due to this, we do not condone any type social inequalities as its premise, focused on racial and gender issues in the of gender or race distinction when offering corporate world. opportunities and defining remunerations, because we believe that diversity is an opportunity to positively impact Universo Business Charter for Human Rights and Americanas and the Brazilian society. the Promotion of Decent Work In June 2019, we signed three voluntary This charter by Instituto Ethos has the promotion of decent work as its premise, compacts of great importance for the promotion strengthening the equity and the inclusion of people with disabilities (PWDs). As of diversity and equity within the companies and signatories, we commit to fight the prejudices and myths related to this public. their value chains. As a result of the expansion project of Universo Women’s Empowerment Principles, by UN Women Americanas operation, we have also increased our workforce in 2019. Compared to 2018, Developed by UN Women, it presents seven principles to establish corporate we generated 3,103 additional jobs, always leadership and gender equity in the companies. The goal is to treat everybody respecting diversity, as will be shown below. fairly at work, train and develop women professionally, in addition to following up the results obtained with the actions. 50 CHAPTER 5 | People over 37 thousand associates Diversity by gender Diversity at Universo Americanas 2019 Level Men Women 50.5% Board of Directors 14 5 18,758 Management 867 1,143 Head/Coord 354 292 Technical/Supervision 3,286 4,139 49.5% 18,400 Administrative 565 1,101 Operational 13,584 11,534 Apprentice* 44 148 Universo Americanas Promotions Intern* 44 38 Total by gender 18,758 18,400 51.5% * Apprentices and Interns referring to B2W Digital. The total number of Americanas separated by gender is not disclosed. 5,091 48.5% 4,788 51 CHAPTER 5 | People Associates by region Female Male Southeast Northeast South Mid-West North 6.56% 61.51% 19.77% 5.99% 6.17% 2,439 22,856 7,347 2,224 2,292 1,083 1,118 1,009 1,260 1,134 1,139 3,764 3,273 7,061 7,141 52 CHAPTER 5 | People Gender Programa Somar We hold various events on gender equity with The program aims at identifying and qualifying the goal of supporting an equal distribution of people with disabilities (PWDs) to operate in our opportunities, more and more. business units. Nowadays, we take pride in saying that this is We work to include these talents with actions such already a reality in our personnel and we aim to as: manager training program, libras courses and bringing a 50/50 equal participation of gender in inclusive action calendars. our selection processes to maintain this balance. Internally, we are constantly adapting processes and facilities to increase the inclusion of PWDs. In 2019, 9,879 associates were In 2019, together with the five-year anniversary of promoted at Universo and took on new Programa Somar, we also expanded the diffusion positions. Of these, 48.5% are women. of existing vacancies through the institutional channels, through the partnerships with municipal offices and specialized consulting companies, in Inclusion of PWDs addition to the participation in job fairs dedicated GRI 401-1 to the PWDs. Throughout 2019, initiatives to include people with disabilities (PWDs) into our personnel have also been carried out. This took place not only by hiring PWDs 242 1,239 hired since professionals, but also by means of training, hired in 2019 2014 awareness-raising and engagement of their co-workers for an effective inclusion. Learn more about the main initiatives: 1,784 hours of training (sign language workshop and awareness lectures). 53 CHAPTER 5 | People Attraction GRI 401-1 Throughout the past few years, we have lived an Programa Jovem Aprendiz intense cycle of expansion, which has as one of The program, exclusive to Americanas, aims to the main pillars the attraction of new talents with support the integration of youngsters into job the competencies and skills aligned to the different market by means of new experiences that develop 1,104 activity segments of Universo Americanas. their technical and human competencies. 1,508 hours of hired training With a strong development culture (learn more on The apprentices work in administrative, sales and page 57), we rely on several programs to attract logistics activities in several states of the country. talents, which open door to numerous possibilities to young people who wish to start a successful career. Começando Juntos Program In 2019, by means of these programs, we hired over Specific to attract associates at B2W Digital, Internship Program 560 talents. Get to know each of them below: the program offers first job opportunity for The programs, that in 2019 had over 70,500 young people. subscriptions and 250 employed, the Internship in Store Program has national reach and is aimed Talents hired in 2019: During the period, participants perform job at undergraduates who have and entrepreneurial rotation and have the opportunity to experience spirit. The B2W Tech Internship Program, on the various areas of the Company, in addition to skills other hand, is aimed at undergraduates who have 567 250 development training. ability in technology. new talents interns Also through the program, we offer Libras 34 19 (Brazilian sign language) workshops and During the maximum period of two years, the participants learn about Universo Americanas, Summer Job trainees dialogues on diversity to ensure integration with in addition to experiencing the retail in practice, participants all the Company’s associates. To attract talent, equipped with essential management methods and we participated in fairs, such as Senac’s Open tools for their professional development. House. 54 CHAPTER 5 | People Trainee Program The process is carried out across the country and it MBA Program The program is well recognized and well-attended is seen as an opportunity to leverage the career by Since 2012, the program recruits talents from the in the corporate area, with more than 26 thousand means of qualifying the associates. best business schools in the world to work as subscribers in 2019. development managers in Universo Americanas In addition to spending some time at the store, the projects. The actions have the follow-up of the During the year, the 34 participants had the chance trainees and the new talents are sent to the DC, so Company’s directors. to know the Company’s operation in detail and they can know all of the business models participated in various method and management trainings, including the Green Belt qualification, New Talent Master Program whose goal is the development of improvement The program, initiated in 2018, supports the projects for Universo Americanas. attraction of exceptional talents to tackle the Company’s growth challenges. New Talent Program The program promotes the attraction of recently The selection process is aimed at professionals with Our Gateways can be found on the graduated talents and an intensive and accelerated a completed master’s degree, who must present talent pages of Universo Americanas: training to transform them into future leaders in the simple solutions to complex problems. • https://talentos.lasa.com.br Company. • http://somos.b2wdigital.com The chosen ones start their trajectory at the • https://boards.greenhouse.io/ The more than 560 approved ones in 2019 were Company as project coordinators, in addition to amedigital?gh_src=27927b6d2 sent to various areas of the business already on partaking in an intensive training and monitoring, their first day of work and throughout the year, they being qualified to become future executives. have participated in continuous trainings held by executives, so they could have a global overview of Universo Americanas. Summer Job In 2019, we received 19 students from the best B2W Digital has several programs Currently, the program to create store leaders is national and international colleges to work together aimed at creating the best tech also underway, taking into account their specific with our associates during their summer vacations. team in Brazil. Find out more in its challenges. This is an opportunity both for new Annual Report: talents and as a way of stimulating those who are at In addition to developing projects, they participated https://ri.b2w.digital/informacoesheadquarters to venture into stores. in meetings with the Board and technical and aos-investidores/relatorios-anuais behavioral trainings with the People & Management team. 55 CHAPTER 5 | People Partnerships with education institutions A close and present relationship in the education institutions is an important channel to attract new talent. Accordingly, in 2019, our participation in university events grew by more than 300% and we were present in several academic weeks, recruitment fairs, lectures and workshops in Brazil and abroad. As a result, we had the opportunity of exchanging knowledge and getting closer to students, strengthening our employer mark and showing all the Universo of opportunities to start a career, which goes way beyond our stores. Americanas People & Management teams participating in a recruitment fair. We were present at more than 135 MIT Industrial Liaison Program Digital LAB We participated in the event of the MIT Industrial Since 2014, Universo Americanas rely on the Digital events, such as fairs, conferences and Liaison Program, which has the participation Labs, collaborative spaces created in partnership academic weeks, lectures and working of 200 of the main companies in the world and with renowned education institutions, whose goal is days, in addition to more than 55 encourages partnerships to create productive to develop disruptive projects, getting closer to the interactions together with the industry, greatest centers of excellence in digital technology of meetups, totaling more than 10,000 strengthening mutually beneficial relationships the world. Some partner institutions of Digital Labs young people directly impacted. between MIT and corporations around the world. are the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Harvard University. Learn more on B2W’s Annual Report: https://ri.b2w.digital/informacoes-aosinvestidores/relatorios-anuais 56 CHAPTER 5 | People Development GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 404-1 | 404-2 | 404-3 As a Company in continuous growth, we believe in the training and development of our associates as the right path for the future of our business. We have a solid culture that supports us on the service quality and on the standard excellence experience for the customer. The almost absolute majority of our store leaders, for example, was formed internally. Therefore, our associates rely on various development programs to take advantage of our Universe of opportunities of career development. 57 CHAPTER 5 | People DNA Leadership Program A highlight in this regard is the Lean Six Sigma Program, The DNA Leadership program has the challenge of training through which we offer 17.9 thousand hours of training, store managers more quickly, so that we can reach a new qualifying 654 associates (516 yellow belts, 107 green level in our training and development method. belts, 21 black belts and 10 master black belts). The creation of the Program involved a complex work Retail College of people analytics, developed together with research The Program encourages the professional development professors from Harvard and West Point, which identified by offering scholarships to associates who stand out and statistically proved the attributes that differentiate an in their positions and have been in the Company for exceptional manager and that make him an outstanding more than two years. With that, they can advance their professional. academic education and expand their chances of career development. Based on the 20 attributes identified in the exceptional managers, we have created a training program in Americanas Development Center (CDA) five modules for our store associates, seeking to The Americanas Development Center, created in 2005, is perpetuate these characteristics and promote everyone’s our corporate university and offers digital qualification and development. face-to-face trainings, in centers spread throughout Brazil, to keep our associates always up to date and trained. Programa LBA (Leadership and Business Academy) In 2019, the trainings provided by the Training in partnership with HBS (Harvard Business School) to improve our leadership, given by Professor at CDA added up to 431 thousand hours. Harvard University, Boris Groysberg. The program, which has been running at the Company since 2013, had new Performance evaluation editions in 2019. Periodically, we promote the performance evaluation of all of our associates, in order to identify their development Continuous Improvement Program opportunities and guide their participation in training and We carry out several projects aimed at promoting development initiatives. continuous business improvement, focusing mainly on process management, project development and problem solving. 58 CHAPTER 5 | People Communication and Engagement Our approximately 37 thousand associates, operating throughout the country and in different segments of the retail chain, are the greatest disseminators of the values of Universo. Due to that, we have important dialogue, exchange and engagement channels together with all of them, so that the decisions are more effective and so that our culture and excellence are disseminated within the team. National Executive Meeting RENAEX With the growth of Universo, in 2019 we promoted five regional meeting events for leaders in the following states: Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, Salvador, Brasília and Curitiba which allowed for an even more intense immersion and a greater approximation of the top leadership with the reality of each region. Tribute to 25 years Annually, we honor the associates who complete 25 years in the Company. For the event, we gathered, in Rio de Janeiro, people from all over Brazil; we take a tour of the city and, shortly after, we present the tribute moment made by our CEOs and Directors at the Headquarters. Associates. In 2019, we had 180 associates honored. Celebration for associates who have completed 25 years in the Company. 59 CHAPTER 5 | People Health and Safety GRI 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 403-1 Universo Americanas has health and safety management that covers all areas, with a team that serves administrative offices, Distribution Centers and stores, presenting the procedures and instructions that regulate and preserve safety and health at work, in addition to strict compliance with the laws and regulations related to Occupational Safety and Medicine. In addition, it has a Health, Safety and Environment Policy, in order to ensure that all its operations are carried out with the least environmental impact, to prevent accidents and ensure the associates’ occupational health. To learn more about the Health, Safety and Environment Policy, visit: http://www.companhiaverde.com.br/americanas/ politica-ambiental 60 CHAPTER 5 | People Juntos Somos Mais Saúde Juntos Somos Mais Saúde was created to manage the health of our associates and seek initiatives to ensure their quality of life and well-being. The Committee works on fixed fronts and specific campaigns during the year. Initiatives: • World Health Day campaign (April / 2019); • Pregnant Women Program (fixed); • Hospitalization Monitoring Program (fixed); and • World Blood Donor Day campaign (June / 2019). Pregnant Women Program The program aims to ensure that our pregnant women have access to the information Hospitalization Monitoring Program necessary for an adequate and safe pregnancy. With the initiative, we provide The program aims to provide assistance to our associates and dependents of assistance to our associates and dependents of associates, ensuring that they associates who have a Company health plan. With the initiative, a specialized are adequately monitored to avoid complications in childbirth or premature births. medical team contacts the associate or dependent, performs the welcoming, and provides the necessary guidelines for each health case. With this closer care, we are able to better understand the situation of our associates and their families, avoiding unnecessary trauma related to hospitalizations. 61 CHAPTER 5 | People We are committed in providing an increasingly safe and healthy work environment to our associates, since we consider this to be Game de Segurança a fundamental pillar of a culture that puts people in the first place. The program’s goal is to evaluate the conditions of the work environment, taking into consideration the risk minimization of To that end, it is important to engage them regarding these incidents/accidents in our operations. The periodical audits in the issues, making them aware and participative in the establishment units are executed by the CIPA (Internal Commission of Accident of a culture capable of multiplying positive attitudes in the work Prevention) representatives and the Brigades. environment. Sempre Alerta In all of the Distribution Centers, where the possible impacts are The program seeks to evaluate the behavior of our associates greater, we have programs and campaigns oriented towards in relation to Labor Safety. Another initiative in this regard is these themes, get to know some of them and the bodies the organization of DDSs (Safety Dialogues), which are largely responsible: disseminated in our operations by the managers. Black Seguro The campaign was launched during the organization of Black Friday 2019 and consists in a corporate challenge focused in the awareness-raising of the associates regarding the development of safe practices in the work environment. We also carry out various training campaigns and awareness-raising of all of our associates to encourage them to take care of their health and wellbeing and we rely on a solid prevention structure. 62 CHAPTER 5 | People Awareness Green April Internal Occupational Accident Prevention Trainings Aimed at engaging in the adoption of safe Week (SIPAT). behavior. Training for all associates who are World Health Day voluntary members of the Fire Brigades for Yellow May With activities of guided meditation, labor Emergency Action. More than 60 associates deals with the awareness in preventing traffic gymnastics and communications on subjects on had the opportunity to learn details about fire accidents. the likes of anxiety, wellbeing at work, oral health, prevention and fighting; obesity and heart diseases. Pink October Training for safety technicians throughout seeks to alert women on the importance of Workplace Exercise Brazil on environmental aspects, such as Solid prevention and early diagnosis of breast and During the World Health Day week, we carried out Waste and Recycling, Environmental Auditing, cervical cancer. some initiatives with the objective of stimulating Environmental Preservation and Sustainability; a better quality of life for our associates, such as Blue November workplace exercises and guided meditation. The NR 35 course, for working at a height, Oriented towards the awareness-raising regarding result was so positive that we adopted workplace clarifying the standard requirements and male diseases, with emphasis on the prevention exercise to our routine. guiding the correct use of personal protective and early diagnosis of prostate cancer. equipment and collective protection measures On the other hand, our associates in stores and at work and vertival rescue; and Campaign of Prevention and Combat offices exercise every week. Seeking a lighter to Dengue and more pleasant work environment, exercises Various training courses on subjects makes us more proactive and prepared for the relevant to the health and safety culture, Women’s Health Campaign week’s activities. such as Ergonomics, Building Inspection, Civil and Criminal Liability related to Work Prevention to STIs Incentive campaign to World Blood Accidents and the OBSEG Program (Sexually Transmitted Infections) Campaign. Donor Day (Behavioral Program for Observing Unsafe Practices). Mental Health Campaign 63 CHAPTER 5 | People Prevention In all of our units with more than 50 associates, we maintain a CIPA (Internal Commission for Accident Prevention), which assists the Occupational Safety team in occupational health and safety matters, and Fire Brigades. In 2019, we also started to promote Workplace Exercises and improve work furniture for better ergonomics and prevention of occupational diseases. Another breakthrough in the year was the implementation of the SOC System, a Occupational Health and Safety (OSH) management software that complies with government rules, in accordance with ordinance No. 3,214/78 on the topic and unites the PPRAs (Environmental Risk Prevention Program) carried out annually in all units. In order to generate the documentation, we comply with regulatory standards, such as the existence of the Internal Accident Prevention Commission (CIPA), the use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and medical examinations. 64 CHAPTER 5 | People Positive Impact 65 Sustainability strategy GRI 103-1 We are committed to the sustainable development of For the 6th consecutive year, we our business, enhancing our generation of value. were selected for the ISE portfolio, With this in mind, in 2007, we created our B3’s Corporate Sustainability Sustainability Committee (Comitê Companhia Verde), Index, which assesses companies’ supporting senior leadership in the management of strategic aspects for sustainable development and commitments to sustainable promoting the engagement of our stakeholders in development, recognizing those adopting sustainable practices. that promote best practices. For conducting Companhia Verde, assisting in the sustainability strategy and governance and coordinating the environmental management and social responsibility initiatives, we also rely on the Sustainability Board of Universo Americanas. 66 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Dialogue with Stakeholders GRI 102-40 | 102-42 | 102-43 | 102-44 | 102-46 | 102-47 Based on these researches, material topics for the business were defined, which are the base We believe that promoting sustainability is a purpose of our sustainability strategy and are addressed throughout this Report: to be realized in a collaborative and collective manner. Due to that, we maintain a constant dialogue with our stakeholders and associations oriented towards the 1th Relationship and Customer promotion of sustainability in the Company. 9 th Innovation and Automation; Experience; In order to understand the interests of our stakeholders in relation to sustainability, we maintain 2 th Privacy of Customer 10 th Diversity and Inclusion in a continuous process of survey and definition of the Information; the Work Environment; topics that have the greatest potential to generate risks or opportunities for the achievement of the Company’s strategy, the material topics. 3 th Customer Health and Safety; 11th Corporate Governance; This Report is based on the most relevant themes for the support of Universo Americanas’ value chain, 4 th Associates’ Training 12 th Economic-Financial and Development; Performance; identified in the materiality study conducted in 2019. These consultations held with customers, suppliers, associates, investors, among other stakeholders every 5 th Job Creation; 13 th Affordable Prices; two years, have also been carried out through detailed interviews with executives and specialists from Instituto 6 th Associates’ Wages Akatu, Associação Paulista de Supermercados (Apas) 14 th Responsible Chain; and and Benefits; and Centro de Excelência em Varejo da FGV (GVcev). Internal documents and national and international sectoral studies, as well as benchmarking, prioritization 7 th Management Transparency and 15 th Presence in the Market. and analysis have also been taken into consideration. Communication; 8º Health and Safety At Work; 67 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Generation of value Present in 739 cities in every state of the We create around 37 thousand direct jobs and an estimate country (77% of the GDP), we provide We are committed of more than 110 thousand indirect jobs, taking career millions of Brazilians with the diverse to excellence when opportunities to hundreds of municipalities across Brazil. assortment and fair price of the physical serving our customers, stores. generating a When opening new stores, we prioritize the admission in the differentiated purchase local communities of leaderships to be trained, generating and relationship development and access, not only to jobs, but also to the experience. possibility of career development. With 100% of the Brazilian municipalities covered by our digital channels, customers located in any place have access to over 29 million products, including international By means of the B2W Digital marketplace, more than 46 We support several ones, with excellence in the purchase thousand sellers, from which over 40% small entrepreneurs, social projects, cultural experience and fair price. can develop their businesses relying in the reputation of our sponsorships and a brands, a highly qualified customer traffic to boost their sales, volunteer program that an experienced commercial team and various services of the support the development B2W platform (learn more on page 14). of groups in situations of vulnerability. 68 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Compacts and commitments GRI 102-12 | 102-13 We reinforce our commitment by means of a dialogue Since 2018, we have been associated to Instituto In the following subchapters, you can get and collaboration process together with our stakeholders Ethos de Empresas e Responsabilidade Social, to know more about the main initiatives and associations oriented towards the promotion of OSCIP (Civil Society Organization of Public Interest) developed together with our diverse sustainability. which works to mobilize, raise the awareness and publics, which are aimed at expanding help companies manage their businesses in a socially our generation of positive impact. responsible manner. Since 2013, we have been signatories of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, which proposes to In 2019, we joined the Business Coalition of Racial companies the alignment of their strategies and and Gender Equity, promoted by Instituto Ethos, that operations to universal principles in the areas of Human has the reduction of Brazilian social inequalities as its Rights, Work, Environment and Anti-corruption. goal, with emphasis on racial and gender issues in the corporate world. In 2019, once again, we reaffirmed our commitment to the Global Compact and presented, throughout this entire report, the initiatives to move the In 2019, we also adhered to the Women’s commitments made forward. Empowerment Principles by UN Women, which aid the business community in incorporating values and practices in their businesses which are aimed at As signatories of the Global Compact, we support gender equity and women’s empowerment. UN’s 2030 Agenda, which proposes 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to be pursued by countries and organizations to face the main Also in 2019, we signed the Business Charter for challenges to sustainability in the next few years. Human Rights and the Promotion of Decent Work, by Instituto Ethos, which reinforces the equity and the inclusion of people with disabilities (PWDs) and the combat of prejudices and myths related to this public. 69 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Social relevance Associates engagement GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Suppliers GRI 102-9 | 102-15 | 103-2 |103-3 | 408-1 | 409-1 | 414-1 | 417-1 In order to meet our customers’ needs with a All of our suppliers must adopt strict quality and In 2019, we conducted the training diverse assortment, Universo relies on more than labeling standards in accordance with the Code of in “Certification of Textile Suppliers” two thousand national and international suppliers. Ethics and Conduct (learn more on page 37). For with the support of ABVTEX our private label brands, we require the adoption of (Brazilian Textile Retail Association), The Company promotes the dissemination of norms and regulations that are good practices in a partner of the Universo principles of protection and appreciation of the the different segments presented below. Americanas. Human Rights among its partners, highlighting these terms in commercial contracts with the Every year, suppliers of own brands and textiles are Two editions were held, one in purpose of collaborating with the eradication of audited on-site, they are classified in a specific group Rio de Janeiro and the other in forced labor and in the combat to any practice that where they are monitored for the risks of possible São Paulo, with the purpose of does not respect the Principle of Human Dignity in social, environmental or reputational impacts. transmitting the guidelines of the productive value chain. Universo Americanas for good In addition, all of them also go through a document practices in supply chains, in All of our contracts impose specific punitive analysis process before signing the contract, when defense of a more sustainable clauses, such as the prevision of fines and issues related to the regularity of the CNPJ, taxation, environment and with decent immediate loss of accreditation, in case of permits, tax and labor debts, as well as civil and working conditions.. irregularities. criminal actions of the company and its partners are evaluated at the state and federal levels. 70 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact The main criteria assessed in the audits are: compliance to current legislation, compliance with processes in the face of Textile Suppliers Suppliers of Food Products Suppliers of Non-Food working conditions and human rights, social Products responsibility and quality of the final product. Supplier Policy All suppliers must comply with the requirements set out in our Supplier Policy, in order to build a healthy and long-lasting relationship, based on ethics and transparency. ABVTEX Certification (Brazilian Textile Retail • Consolidation of Labor Laws (CLT); Among the requirements in the document, Association) • International Labor Organization Convention; there are certifications from competent bodies, • Apprenticeship Law; such as the National Health Surveillance All suppliers must have • National Solid Waste Policy; Agency (Anvisa) and the National Metrology, ABCTEX certification which • National Environment Council Resolutions (Conama) 357 Quality and Technology Institute (Inmetro), guarantees adherence and 430 on water and effluents; and compliance with the laws in force in Brazil; and to good ethical and • Regulatory Standards (NRs) 04, 05, 06, 07, 09, 10, 17, respect for data and information confidentiality, socio-environmental 23 and 24. for example. responsibility practices, especially with regard to good labor practices. +ISO 22000 +ISO 9001:2015 (quality management) +IFS Flobal Markets Food (food safety) To learn more about the Supplier Policy, visit: http://www. companhiaverde.com.br/ americanas/fornecedores 71 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Sellers Through our marketplace, we generate positive impact This solution brings important advantages to the by allowing that, many times, small entrepreneurs business and its partners: can develop their businesses relying on our brands’ reputation. • Since we know the sales history of the sellers at our marketplace, we are able to provide more precision In addition to this, the marketplace offers them a to our credit risk analysis and offer a new source of highly qualified customer traffic to boost their sales, financing more profitable than the traditional options an experienced commercial team, the convenience of in the market; B2W Entrega, which controls and operates deliveries and all the additional services of B2W Marketplace. • With access to resources, the Sellers can invest more in inventory, competitiveness and advertising, We also offer loans to our 46.8 thousand sellers in a expanding their sales in our marketplace; and rapid, safe, simple and 100% online way, with the option of payment in up to 24 installments, or full payment in up • In 2019, we held the B2W Marketplace to 60 days and extended payment of the first installment Summit 2019, a two-day event with lectures on in 30 or 45 days beyond the due date. innovation, management, e-commerce, retail and marketplaces, bringing sellers relevant content, The Seller Credit can also be used as a means of learning and networking to boost the results in payment when hiring our advertising services on their businesses. B2WAds platform. 72 Associates engagement GRI 103-1 | 103-2 We believe that engaging our associates in Learn more about the projects supported sustainable development causes helps enhancing below: the business’ positive impact. Donations Throughout the year, our associates united in various initiatives to raise donations, which resulted in the donation of 230 books for the moving library of Projeto Livros Nas Praças, more than 324 boxes of chocolate during the Easter campaign for partner NGOS, more than 600 pieces of winter clothing for Campanha do Agasalho, more For this reason, we have a corporate than 200 Christmas presents for children of the NGO volunteering program, Vivenciar – Conexões Sonhar Acordado in Rio de Janeiro and in São Paulo, Transformadoras, which contributes to the and 121 blood bags for Hemorio, where we were development of a more just and egalitarian society honored, by Americanas and B2W Digital, as two of while raising awareness among members through the companies that contributed the most to replenish the various social and cultural experiences lived in the supplies. the program. In 2019, there were over 600 hours of volunteer Garbage Collection on the Beach work of more than 200 associates, who benefited In honor of the International Coastal Cleaning around 3,000 people served by the seven Volunteer associates participating in the garbage collection action on Day, in partnership with the NGO Esmeralda, supported projects. Copacabana beach. volunteers collected more than 15 kg of garbage from Copacabana Beach. 73 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Sonhar Acordado Support to the Natal Over 30 associates volunteered at the Dia Sem Fome campaign do Sonho of Sonhar Acordado, a Universo Since 2017, Universo Americanas takes Americanas partner NGO that works with institutions, part in the Natal Sem Fome campaign, of the NGO orphanages, group homes and hospitals and seeks to Ação da Cidadania through the donation of 20 tons transform the lives of needy children through a friendly of food. relationship with the young volunteer. The parties took place in Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo and In 2019, to increase our support, 30 tons of food accumulated almost 400 hours of volunteer work. were donated by means of the physical and digital platforms. One part of this amount was the result of donations made by customers, who contributed with Grafitarte a plate of food (equivalent to R$ 2), in the Christmas Through Grafitarte, a project sponsored action “Prato de Comida Virtual”. by Submarino which organizes graffiti workshops for public school students Further reinforcing the partnership with the NGO in the State of Rio de Janeiro, voluntary Ação da Cidadania, Ame Digital made the “donation” associates, together with students, painted the wall feature available, allowing customers to donate any of General Euclydes de Figueiredo Municipal School, value through the app. Last year alone, the tool in Tijuca (RJ). accounted for the donation of tens of tons of food. 74 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Social projects GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Alinhados aos Princípios Universais do Pacto Global e Another initiative was to make the “Donations” Aligned with the Universal Principles of the Global Compact function available in the Ame app, allowing and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United customers to make donations directly to registered Nations’ (UN) 2030 Agenda, Universo Americanas has made, NGOs, such as the AACD, Ação da Cidadania, Cão throughout the year of 2019, a new cycle of investments in Sem Dono, Fundação Amazonas Sustentável (FAS) social projects, donations and cultural sponsorships aimed at and Fundação Laço Rosa. Throughout the year, collaborating and developing a sustainable society, balancing Ame held several cashback campaigns as a way to the environmental, social and economic pillars. encourage the initiative. Livros nas Praças project bus. Donations Livros nas Praças As of the main retailers in the country, we enhanced For six years, Universo Americanas has our positive impact in society by means of donations supported the Livros nas Praças project, Also, the bus is equipped with a transfer to institutions that support the social development. which aims to make literature increasingly chair, suitable for wheelchair users and Learn more about the main donations in 2019 below: accessible to residents of different regions of elderly people with mobility difficulties. It the cities of Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. also has a bathroom and mineral water for We donated food on commemorative dates to the visitors.This year, the project circulated for NGOs Ação Cidadania, Riso and Sonhar Acordado Contributing to SDG 4, Quality Education, and SDG 28 weeks and participated in the country’s Rio, in addition to actions for the National Museum. 10, Reduction of Inequalities, the library-bus project largest literary event, the XIX Book Biennial As for the Campanha de Inverno, we donated coats provides free loans from a collection of around two in Rio de Janeiro. for the Brazilian Red Cross, in addition to spreading the word thousand copies, including children’s, youth and about the collection points of the initiative on TV Shoptime. adult books. In relation to 2018, the The goal was to encourage, in addition to our associates, also the donation by the viewers. To make it an increasingly inclusive project, books in projected presented an increase Braille are also available for children and adults, as of almost 65% in visits, totaling We also serve other audiences with the donation of hygiene well as publications with an expanded font for people 100 thousand visitors to Livros and beauty items to the NGO Rio Solidário, which helps with low vision and audiobooks for the visually women in socially vulnerable situations, and the donation impaired. nas Praças throughout the years. of infant and geriatric diapers at Instituto da Criança and Retiro dos Artistas, respectively. 75 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Todo Mundo Vai Circuit For the sixth consecutive year, we sponsored the running and walking circuit “Todo Mundo Vai”, whose focus is to encourage life quality and wellbeing through physical exercises. The initiative reinforces the Company’s commitment to the 2030 Agenda, contemplating SDG 3, Health and Wellbeing. As a novelty, in 2019 the project reached five new locations Niteroi, Brasília, Petrópolis, Porto Alegre and Búzios, in addition to the traditional stage in Rio de Janeiro. The project also relies on volunteer associates. The circuit, which occurred in celebration to the 90th anniversary of Americanas and the 20th anniversary of Americanas.com had approximately 15 thousand participants in all stages. Contributing to an even more inclusive race, the Leven own brand promoted a volunteer action through Time Leven, in which more than 30 volunteer members participated in the stages of Rio de Janeiro, Niterói, Porto Alegre and Brasília accompanying people with disabilities that are part of the projects: Correndo por Eles, Empresto Minhas Pernas, AEEP-DF and Rosto ao Vento. O Dia Seguinte exhibition at Cidade das Artes. O Dia Seguinte Exhibition In line with our commitment to SDG 13, we sponsored the O Dia Seguinte exhibition which, in a single month, gathered over 30 thousand visitors in Cidade das Artes, in Rio de Janeiro. Through an immersive experience of the climate impacts on cities and on the dayto-day life, the visitors were encouraged to reflect on the opportunities of having a fairer and more balanced life, with sustainable and inclusive cities for all of its inhabitants. Universo Americanas had an exclusive space with the distribution of seedlings for planting and a panel in which the visitors were able to interact and color, building their ideal city for the future. Associates volunteers from Time Leven and athletes from the Empresto Minhas Pernas project during the Niterói stage of the Todo Mundo Vai Circuit. 76 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Socio-Environmental Stock Exchange Universo Americanas also maintained its support for social projects sponsored by B3 Investimento Social’s Social and Environmental Exchange (BVSA). The initiatives focused on themes such as education, professional training, income generation and gender equality. In 2019, 11 projects were accelerated. Projeto Grael Working in conjunction with Instituto Rumo Náutico Projeto Grael, Universo Americanas has been striving, since 2016, to democratize the access to sports practice, such as sailing, for youngsters in socially vulnerable situations. The initiative also developed the “Retail Operations” course, with the support of Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Social (BNDES) and Senac, to increase the employment rates among youngsters between 17 and 29 years old in socially vulnerable situations. Over six months, the students are provided with technical qualification in retail combined with the sailing practice, valuing socio-environmental aspects inherent to the sport, such as respect to the environment, leadership, human relations and sense of civility. Volunteers also partake in the project organizing workshops. 77 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Galpão Aplauso Since 2015, the partnership between Universo Americanas and Galpão Aplauso, with the support of Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Social (BNDES), has developed the employment In 2019, 65 students of youngsters between 17 and 29 years old in socially vulnerable situations in the port region of Rio de Janeiro. In 2019, the initiative were trained by trained over 95 students. the project. Over six months of course, the youngsters have the opportunity to experience the practice of activities in a mini Distribution Center, in addition to having access to contents that allow the social development by means of the humanistic formation, non-violent communication, values and virtues. 70% of the more than 520 youngsters trained since 2015 entered the job market. Projeto Grael students during training activity at Senac's retail laboratory. Students of the Galpão Aplauso project in a hands on forklift operator class at the Mini Distribution Center. 78 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Fundação Amazonas Sustentável (FAS) Honoring our commitment to the SDGs, we conducted various initiatives in conjunction with Fundação Amazonas Sustentável for promoting the continuous improvement in the life quality of the riverside and indigenous communities in the Amazon. Environmental Education and Waste Management We are supporting the environmental education and solid waste management of FAS, in partnership with Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social (BNDES). Through these educational activities and reverse logistical structuring, we execute the collection, transportation and proper disposal of waste to cooperatives in Manaus. Residents of the Riverside and Indigenous Communities of the Amazon accessing the internet for the first time through the computer lab. Two complementary workshops were conducted with 115 Promotion of Entrepreneurship Literacy Improvement people having been sensitized and over one ton of waste We have qualified over 70 people in In partnership with FAS and the municipal was collected over the year. professional qualification programs on offices of Education, we promoted the literacy topics oriented towards the interests of residents of the local communities by means Digital Inclusion and Technological of the local production chains, which of the continuous education of elementary Qualification encourage the entrepreneurship school teachers and school managers. Overall, We are investing in the adaptation of nine among youngsters and adults, such as there are more than 50 trained teachers with Conservation and Sustainability Centers of FAS to Touristic Service Design, Regional Cuisine and two applied training. bring access to connectivity, digital inclusion and Entrepreneurial Leadership. technological qualification, shortening the physical Diagnostics are also carried out with more than 610 distances between these communities and the large centers. The lectures have been held together with students, aged between four and 12 years old, for a institutions aimed at entrepreneurship and the continuous improvement of learning, social development We have already concluded the implementation of Center of Technological Education in the State and protection of their rights, enabling new perspectives five computer labs, taking the first internet access to the of Amazonas (CETAM). and opportunities. Thus, based on the Statute of the residents, impacting over 650 people with content and Child and Adolescent, an Interdisciplinary Intervention information and developing the local entrepreneurship. Our Plan has been created, an instrument utilized by teachers goal for 2020 is to connect people even more with the project. contemplating students, parents and the communities. 79 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Jirau da Amazônia We created the “Jirau da Amazônia” marketplace in partnership with the Amazonas Sustainable Foundation (FAS), on the Americanas.com website, where artisans and entrepreneurs from traditional and indigenous populations in the countryside of Amazon may sell their products throughout Brazil having 100% of sales revenue reverted for the development of the project. The handicrafts for sale at “Jirau” are composed of products that respect the sustainability concept through natural materials that value the standing forest. The project contributes to leveraging community entrepreneurship, generating income for populations whose livelihood depends on handicrafts in communities located in Conservation Units (UC) in Amazonas. This business model practices fair and solidary trade, which respects the communities’ production capacity and the daily life of the region, promoting positive socio-environmental impacts. Since the beginning of the project, in June 2019, there has been an exponential growth in sales and the assortment of the Jirau hotsite has doubled. Currently, there are more than 150 Amazon products available Manual work by the Surisawa handicraft group from the Nova Esperança indigenous community, for purchase on the Americanas.com website. located in the Puranga Conquista Sustainable Development Reserve in the Amazon. 80 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact During the year, the project had our participation in two events: B2W Marketplace Summit 2019 At B2W Marketplace Summit 2019 (learn more on page 72), entrepreneurs of the Jirau da Amazônia project, such as an artisan of the Nova Esperança indigenous community, told their stories at the “Transformative businesses: the marketplace as a tool of positive social impact” panel. Brazilian Conference on Climate Change The Jirau da Amazônia project has also been presented at Brazilian Conference on Climate Change. At the panel, B2W Digital and the artisan Joarlison spoke about how the private initiative can contribute to the conservation of the forest by means of positive social impact. Jirau da Amazônia Exhibition With the end of the project’s expedition, very rich materials were collected and turned into a photographic exhibition and a documentary, both made available to the Company’s associates. The materials show details about the communities’ history, their culture and work with crafts that generates income and transmits the values that sustain the legacy. Exhibition about the Jirau da Amazônia project, so that the Company’s associates could get to know the reality of the region more closely and how the project has made a difference for the productive groups in the region. 81 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact DICARA project Americanas, in partnership with FAS (Fundação Amazonas Sustentável), sponsors the DICARA project, which is aimed at providing participation and prominence in the defense of children’s and adolescents’ rights in the state of Amazonas. In 2019, the project took place in the municipality of Eirunepé, where several activities were developed with the following focuses: educommunication, youth leadership, information technology, sports, music, theater and environmental education. Children between the ages of seven and 12 were contemplated with complementary education by local educators, who were also benefited with qualification courses. In addition, socio-educational activities were carried out with pertinent and little addressed themes in these communities, with the aim of providing guidance on issues such as sexual abuse, pregnancy, alcohol and drug use. All the children and teenagers served by the project are also monitored by the socioassistance service, in which house visits in the urban and rural area are made. Overall, around 167 children and adolescents were covered by the project in 2019, in addition to 22 educators from public schools of the 16 riverside communities, who partook in the qualification program promoted this year. 82 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Environmental Management GRI 102-15 Our environmental management follows the commitment Sustainability Policy to sustainable development, seeking to reduce impacts In order to formalize our commitment to sustainability, on the environment and the balance between social we also have a Policy in which we present the guidelines responsibility and economic development, focusing on to be observed within the scope of the Company, as well efficiency in the consumption of natural resources, waste as in the relationship with other stakeholders, whether management and reduction, adaptation and mitigation of customers, shareholders/investors, associates, suppliers climate changes. and society. The Sustainability area manages and monitors the main environmental indicators, seeking to reduce consumption and use resources more and more efficiently, in accordance with our Sustainability Policy. To learn more about our Sustainability Policy, visit: Learn more about the main initiatives and performance in http://www.companhiaverde. managing the environmental aspects of our operation: com.br/americanas/politicasustentabilidade 83 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Climate change GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Emissions GRI 305-1 | 305-3 | 305-4 | 305-5 The sustainability board is responsible for measuring Next, we present the emission data for 2019 For the fourth consecutive year, our data, reporting indicators and raising awareness compared to the previous year. inventory went through external among associates, acting in a multidisciplinary manner, in order to minimize the intensity of Total Emissions (tCO2e) verification, which attest to the greenhouse gas emissions in the business. veracity and accuracy of the data, 61,997 in line with our commitment to In line with our commitment to fight the climate change, for the tenth consecutive year, we carried out information transparency and quality. 50,837 an greenhouse gas emissions inventory, following the guidelines of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program. For emissions evaluation, we monitor the indicators compiled by the Sustainability team, trained for this purpose on a monthly basis. We annually compare emissions, assessing whether the actions 24,172 22,083 implemented over the period were efficient, in addition 19,031 18,794 to the elaboration of an improvement action plan for 15,126 13,628 the following year. In order to reduce emissions, everyone in the Company shares the same commitment through the optimization of logistical processes and energy Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total efficiency. 2018 2019 84 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact In our direct emissions (Scope 1), whose main source is the consumption of gasoline and diesel referring to the Fleet Direct, responsible for deliveries, we had an increase of 40%, due to the 141% increase in the base of sellers served at B2W Delivery, representing our commitment to the efficiency and logistics processes optimization. In 2019, 230 new stores were opened, representing an increase of 16% over the last year. Even so, we had an increase of only 9% in energy consumption and indirect emissions (Scope 2), which demonstrates our progress with energy efficiency projects. Regarding Scope 3, from our outsourced logistics fleet, responsible for supplying stores and business trips, in which we calculate our associates’ trips by plane and car, we had an increase of 24%, mainly in line with the opening of new stores. Energy efficiency: In addition to the absolute values for Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3, we also monitor the total emission value of tCO2e per net revenue, which in 2019 totaled 3.32 tCO2e/million revenue. 85 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Compensation GRI 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-3 | 305-5 As a way to contribute to SDG 13 and fight With these actions, the sustainability strategy of climate change, Universo Americanas offset Universo Americanas aligns with the Paris Agreement, its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, in whose measures and goals become effective in 2020. relation to Scope 1 and 2 of the year of 2018, making its operations “carbon neutral”. Overall, Universo Americanas contributed to avoid 1.4 To learn more about Universo million tCO2eq of emission per year and it will support Americanas offset, visit: the conservation of 1.1 million hectares in the Amazon Forest. https://bit.ly/3e13hJV https://bit.ly/2AF1yeK The offset of greenhouse gas was carried out in https://bit.ly/2Zn9CuU partnership with Biofílica, a company specialized in the conservation of forests, through the acquisition of carbon credits from REDD+ (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation) Jari-Pará projects located in the Amazon Rainforest. In addition to including the conservation of forest carbon stocks, the projects also provide for sustainable forest management. To learn more about the initiative, visit: https://www.biofilica.com. br/creditos-de-carbono/ Amazonian Forest Region served by the REDD+ Jari-Pará Project. 86 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Fórum Clima Renewable energies Universo Americanas partakes in Fórum Clima, an In 2019, we continued with the project to expand Instituto Ethos initiative, made up by companies free market and distributed generation operations, that believe that the business sector can increasing the use of renewable energy in the physical contribute for the world to make the necessary stores that are part of the project, reducing greenhouse transition to a low carbon economy, taking gas emissions. advantage of new business opportunities and significantly reducing the negative impacts of To this end, since 2016 we have been operating in climate change. the free energy market as special customers, which means that our energy is exclusively generated by In this movement, the Company adhered to the sources arising from natural resources of low socio2015 Open Letter to Brazil on Climate Change. environmental impact, such as wind, solar, biomass thermal, small hydroelectric plants (PCHs). Additionally, since 2017 we have been using distributed Logistics generation in which we are responsible for the energy With the development of the Ame Flash initiative to generation that will be compensated at physical stores, deliver by bicycle in the cities of São Paulo and Rio de that are part of the project. Janeiro, we reinforced our commitment to mitigating greenhouse gases and avoided the emission of more We currently lease five Hydroelectric Generating Plants than 47 tons of CO2. (CGHs) that supply stores in Rio de Janeiro, Niterói and Minas Gerais. Learn more about the initiative on page 18. As a result, we have 220 stores supplied with renewable and low impact energies, which corresponds to 25% of the total consumption. We have 100 stores operating in the free market and 120 stores operating in the distributed generation modality. 87 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Ecoefficiency GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Universo Americanas environmental management Constructions follows the commitment to sustainable development, B2W Digital was the first Brazilian e-commerce seeking to reduce impacts on the environment, with Company to receive the LEED Leadership in Energy a focus on efficiency in the consumption of natural and Environmental Design seal, granted by the United resources, waste management and the reduction, States Green Building Council (GBC). adaptation and mitigation of climate change. Our B2W Innovation and Technology (BIT) building We carry out the control and monitoring of energy, received the seal, which is the main certification of water and waste indicators internally, seeking to sustainable construction, for having been built with mitigate impacts on the environment while using sustainable premises, such as the use of recycled natural resources in an increasingly efficient manner, materials, efficient water and electrical energy following the guidelines of our Sustainability and systems and a bicycle stand, which encourages Health, Safety and Environment policy. the sustainable transportation, mitigating the consumption of fuels and greenhouse gas emissions and the practice of physical activities by the associates. Find out more about our policies at: http://www.companhiaverde. With the ecoefficiency learnings in constructions, com.br/americanas/home our headquarters in São Paulo also went through upgrades, such as the installation of CO2 sensors to control the air quality in the interior of the building and the use of economic bulbs, which collaborates with the reduction of the environmental impact. 88 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Waste In accordance with the social and environmental roles These containers are resistant, durable, facilitate the and responsibilities of the sustainability board, present movement of goods and each unit substitutes around on the Sustainability Policy, we have a duty to evolve 1.8 kg of cardboard boxes. in the Company’s waste management, promoting the proper destination, such as recycling. The first step of the project closed the year covering all the stores served by the Rio de Janeiro DC. In 2019, Our Distribution Centers (DCs), the operation stage over 55 thousand containers have been delivered, which concentrating the greatest generation of waste, represents a replacement of 100 tons of cardboard. and our administrative headquarters, promote the environmentally appropriate final destination of its waste, This initiative will continue to be developed during 2020, especially cardboard; the main recyclable material which will allow for an extension to more stores. We discarded and destined for recycling. also continually raise awareness among our associates to promote the correct disposal of waste, allowing for In June, we promoted a Campaign for selective collection and greater disposal for recycling. the Environment Week, addressing Water themes such as the conscious use of The nature of our business does not promote direct expendable plastics and the incentive to impact on this natural resource. Even so, we have adopted technology to rationalize consumption, such the use of sustainable alternatives. as flushing with lower flow activation options and taps with flow reducers and automatic closing, both at the The physical stores participated by offering customers a headquarters and at the DCs. returnable bag as an alternative to the plastic bag. We also raise our associates’ awareness, by means of Aware of our responsibility in relation to the reduction of actions and campaigns, to adopt simple practices to waste production and aligned with the operation benefits, avoid waste. we developed the “Zero Cardboard” project. Instead of using the cardboard box which takes the items from the Distribution Centers to the stores, we started to use polypropylene containers, a polymer free of BPA, a chemical that has harmful effects on health. 89 CHAPTER 6 | Positive Impact Attachments 90 GRI Content Table GRI 102-55 General Content Reference (page) / Direct Answer GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Universal Standards Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Page 10 102-2 Main activities, brands, products and/or services Page 10 102, Sacadura Cabral Street Saúde. ZIPCODE: 102-3 Headquarters location 20081-902. Rio de Janeiro RJ. 102-4 Number of countries in which the organization operates Page 10 102-5 Type and legal nature of ownership Page 33 102-6 Markets served Page 10 102-7 Size of the organization Page 10, 41 and 49 102-8 Profile of employees and other workers Page 49 and 50 102-9 Description of the Company's supply chain Page 10 and 70 Main changes in the company's structure and in the supply chain during the covered 102-10 Page 10 period It does not adopt it formally, but it relies on a robust risk 102-11 Explanation of if and how the organization applies the precautionary principle management system. 91 CHAPTER 7 | Attachments General Content Reference (page) / Direct Answer Letters, principles or other initiatives developed externally of an economic, 102-12 Pages 50 and 69 environmental and social nature, which the organization subscribes to or endorses 102-13 Main memberships in national/international defense associations and/or organizations Page 69 Strategy and analysis Statement by the most senior decision maker on the relevance of sustainability to the 102-14 Page 4 organization 102-15 Description of the main impacts, risks and opportunities Pages 10, 38, 60, 70 and 83 Ethics and Integrity Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior of the organization, such as 102-16 Pages 10 and 37 codes of conduct and ethics Internal and external mechanisms adopted by the organization to request guidance 102-17 on ethical behavior and in accordance with the law, such as relationship channels (e.g. Pages 37 and 38 ombudsman) Governance 102-18 Governance structure, including committees Page 34 Process of delegating authority over economic, environmental and social topics by the 102-19 Page 35 highest governance body for executives and employees Processes utilized by the highest governance body to prevent and manage conflicting 102-25 Page 38 interests Role played by the highest governance body in identifying and managing topics and 102-29 their impacts, risks and opportunities arising from economic, environmental and social Page 35 issues Role played by the highest governance body in analyzing the efficiency of the risk 102-30 management process of the organization on economic, environmental and social Page 35 topics 92 CHAPTER 7 | Attachments General Content Reference (page) / Direct Answer Stakeholder Engagement Customers, associates, investors, suppliers, sellers, 102-40 List of stakeholders engaged by the organization governments, civil society, community and NGOs (interactions with Sustainability). 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 100% 102-42 Base used to identify and select stakeholders for engagement Page 67 Approach adopted by the Company to engage stakeholders and engagement 102-43 Page 67 frequency Main topics raised during the engagement of stakeholders and measures adopted by 102-44 Page 67 the Company to address them GRI Standards Foundation 2016: Reporting Practices https://static.lasa.com.br/upload/ 102-45 List of entities included in the financial statements arquivosparadownload/00009488.pdf 102-46 Process for defining the content and limit of the report Page 67 102-47 List of material aspects identified in the process of defining the content Page 67 Restatements of information given in previous reports, and the reasons 102-48 There were no restatements. for such restatements Significant changes compared to previous years with regard to the list of material 102-49 None. topics, limit of topics covered 102-50 Period covered by the report Page 7 102-51 Date of most recent previous report 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact details for questions regarding the report sustentabilidade@lasa.com.br 102-54 Reporting premises according to the GRI Standards Page 7 93 CHAPTER 7 | Attachments General Content Reference (page) / Direct Answer 102-55 Summary of GRI Content Page 91 This reporting cycle, based on the Integrated Reporting and GRI models, relies on an external audit of SGS ICS Certificadora S.A. The financial information is 102-56 External verification audited by KPMG Auditores Independentes and PricewaterhouseCoopers and information on Atmospheric Emissions is verified by SGS ICS Certificadora S.A. Management approach 103-1 Explanation of material themes and their limits Pages 32, 49, 57, 60, 66, 70, 73, 75, 84 and 88 103-2 Management on the material theme Pages 32, 49, 57, 60, 70, 73, 75, 84 and 88 103-3 Management evolution Pages 49, 57, 60, 70, 75, 84 and 88 Specific Content Reference (page) / Direct Answer GRI Standards 2016: Economic Disclosures Anti-corruption Percentage and total number of operations submitted to risk assessments related to 205-1 Pages 37 and 38 corruption and the significant risks identified 205-2 Communication and training in policies and procedures to fight corruption Pages 37 and 38 205-3 Confirmed cases of corruption and measures taken Pages 37 and 38 Anti-competitive Behavior Total number of lawsuits for unfair competition, anti-trust and monopoly practices and 206-1 Pages 37 and 38 their results 94 CHAPTER 7 | Attachments Specific Content Reference (page) / Direct Answer GRI Standards 2016: Environmental Disclosures Emissions 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) More information about our emissions can be found 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) in the Public Emissions Registry: https://www. registropublicodeemissoes.com.br/participants/2023 305-3 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Page 84 More information about our emissions can be found 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the Public Emissions Registry: https://www. registropublicodeemissoes.com.br/participantes/2023 Environmental Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for There were no significant fines or sanctions during the 307-1 non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations period. Social Disclosures GRI Standards 2016: Employment The Companies discloses the turnover rate annually in its Reference Form: https://ri.lasa.com.br/informacoesTotal and rates of new employee admissions and turnover by age group, gender and 401-1 financeiras/relatorios-cvm?ano=2020 region The turnover rate segmented by gender and by job is measured and treated internally. All of our associates are governed by the CLT, being entitled to practices provided by law, in addition to a wide range of benefits, whatever the positions they occupy in the Company, except for temporary ones. Among the benefits we mention: Benefits offered to full-time employees that are not offered to temporary or part-time 401-2 transportation ticket, life insurance, health insurance, dental employees, discriminated by major operations assistance, meal or food vouchers in cafeterias, discounts on product purchases at Americanas and on Americanas.com, Submarino and Shoptime websites and discounts at gyms, language schools and universities. 95 CHAPTER 7 | Attachments Specific Content Reference (page) / Direct Answer All associates are governed by the country’s consolidated Return to work and retention rates after maternity/paternity leave, discriminated by labor laws (CLT), having the right to maternity / paternity 401-3 gender leave. Return to work and retention rates are not publicly available. GRI Standards 2016: Labor/Management Relations Minimum notice period for operational changes and whether they are specified in The company is in agreement with the CLT and follows the 402-1 collective bargaining agreements guidelines of the unions. GRI Standards 2018: Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system implemented Page 60 GRI Standards 2016: Training and Education The companies only disclose the total number of hours of training and the average number of hours of training Average hours of training per year, per employee, discriminated by gender and job 404-1 carried out by associates. The average number of hours of category training carried out by associates separated by gender and functional category is treated internally. 404-2 Knowledge management and continuous learning program Page 57 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development The percentage was not calculated in 2019, due to the 404-3 assessments restructuring of the model. GRI Standards 2016: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Diversity of employees and governance bodies, with percentages by gender, age 405-1 Pages 49 and 50 group, minority groups and other indicators Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and 407-1 collective bargaining may be at significant risk and the measures taken to support There were none. this right. GRI Standards 2016: Child Labor Own and supplier operations where significant risk of child labor was identified and 408-1 None. measures taken to contribute to the abolition of child labor 96 CHAPTER 7 | Attachments Specific Content Reference (page) / Direct Answer GRI Standards 2016: Forced or Compulsory Labor Own and supplier operations where a significant risk of occurrence of forced or slaveThere were no significant fines or sanctions during the 409-1 like labor was identified and the measures taken to contribute to the elimination of period. forced or slave-like labor GRI Standards 2016: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers selected based on human rights criteria Page 70 GRI Standards 2016: Public Policy Total value of financial contributions to political parties and politicians discriminated by 415-1 No political donations were made. country and recipient/beneficiary. GRI Standards 2016: Marketing and Labeling Type of information about products and services required by labeling procedures, and 417-1 Page 70 the percentage of products and services subject to such requirements Total number of cases of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes 417-2 related to information and labeling of products and services, discriminated by type of There were no cases of non-compliance. result Total number of cases of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes 417-3 related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and There were no cases of non-compliance. sponsorship, discriminated by type of result GRI Standards 2016: Customer Privacy Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of 418-1 There was no record of complaints. customer data. GRI Standards 2016: Socioeconomic Compliance Nothing significant was identified and eventual cases were 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area. identified and resolved in accordance with the Company’s legal requirements and values. 97 CHAPTER 7 | Attachments Capitals Map Natural Financial Manufactured Page 65 Page 31 Page 9 Page 39 Human Social and Relationship Intellectual Page 48 Page 9 Page 9 Page 31 Page 31 Page 48 Page 48 Page 65 98 CHAPTER 7 | Attachments Assurance Letter STATEMENT BY SGS ICS CERTIFICADORA LTDA. (SGS) REGARDING THE The team of SGS and LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A., following the recommendations of the World Health SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES PROVIDED IN “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Organization (WHO) and respecting the quarantine period due to the Covid-19 pandemic, conducted 2019” GIVEN TO LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A. the assurance process remotely NATURE AND SCOPE OF ASSURANCE IMPARTIALITY AND COMPETENCE STATEMENT The SGS was hired by LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A. to carry out the third-party assurance of their SustainThe SGS Group is global lead in inspection, analysis and verifications services, operating in more than ability Report 2019. The assurance scope, based on assurance methodology of sustainability reports of 140 countries and rendering services that includes management system certification, audits and trainSGS, comprises the disclosure verification under GRI standards in 2019. ings on quality, environmental, social and ethic segments, sustainability assurance reports and greenhouse gases verification. The SGS attests your independence against LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A., statThe information provided in “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019” and its presentation is a sole responsibility ing that is exempt from interest conflict with the organization, their subsidiary and stakeholders. of LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A. management structure. The SGS is not involved in the preparation of any material, including the in the said report, such as risk analysis, materiality tests and other critical issues that The assurance team was composed according to members’ expertise, experience and competence for may affect severally the LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A. business. We are liable for giving our opinion of the GRI this activity, the team is composed of: disclosures and their texting, data, charts and statement within the assurance scope in order to keep the • An Audit Lead on Assurance of Sustainability Report, a Lead auditor on Socioenvironmental programs LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A. stakeholders informed. and Environmental Management, a Lead Assessor of Greenhouse Gases (GHG), Lead auditor on RenovaBio Program. The SGS Group has developed a set of assurance protocols for Sustainability Communication based • An Audit Lead on Assurance of Sustainability Report, a Lead auditor on Socioenvironmental proon the best practices provided in GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and the assurance standard grams, a Lead Assessor of Greenhouse Gases (GHG), Lead auditor on RenovaBio Program. ISAE3000. Such protocols offer different assurance levels depending on context and capacity of organization, in this case LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A. ASSURANCE OPINION This report was assured considering our protocols to assess the content authenticity and its alignment A broad assurance was ordered, and the work performed was sufficient and adequate for a solid aswith the requirements of GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, (Universal Standards 101, 102 and 103) surance. Regarding the verification performed on methodology, process and data provided by LOJAS and the requirements of Topic-specific Standards (GRI 200, GRI 300 and GRI 400) according to the maAMERICANAS S.A., we attest the information and data provided on disclosures of “SUSTAINABILITY terial issues identified by LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A. through our process detailed herein. Based on this REPORT 2019” are reliable and a true and accurate representation of the sustainability activities percontext, the “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019” is considered as “Core option”. formed by LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A.in reference year 2019. The assurance team thinks the report can be used by company’s stakeholders as part of their processes of company evaluation. The organization The assurance process comprised (i) the disclosure review, information and data provided in sustainability has opted for the assurance level based on the requirements of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standraft; (ii) interviews with strategic employees, both to understand the report data and to understand the dards, Essential option, according to its needs. management process connected with the material issues and; (iii) desktop review of the documents forwarded by LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A. to SGS. The accounting information and Greenhouse gases invenIn our opinion, based on what was found in company units and on documents provided by LOJAS tory GHG (audited by SGS in another process) concerning to “The 2018 Sustainability Report” of LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A., the report content meets the GRI standard requirements. AMERICANAS S.A. was not assessed as part of this assurance process. So, both pieces of information were assessed in different audit process. The “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019” index was not assessed as part of this assurance process. 99 CHAPTER 7 | Attachments RECOMMENDATIONS, FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS OF ASSURANCE The disclosures of LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A. Report, “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019”, is aligned with GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, (Universal Standards 101, 102 and 103) and with the requirements of Topic-specific Standards (GRI 200, GRI 300 and GRI 400), however, not all mandatory disclosures for the Core option are fully reported. It is important to highlight the subject matters and its limits were dully set in accordance with the Reporting Principles and indicated over the report and/or reference list. We recognized LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A.’s commitment and efforts in releasing the Sustainability Report in based with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, (Universal Standards 101, 102 and 103) and with the requirements of the Topic-specific Standards (GRI 200, GRI 300 and GRI 400), and has the opportunity to improve in more detail the management of each material topic in the next sustainability report (Universal Standards 103). For disclosures 401-1, 401-3, 404-1, 405-1 the organization has also opted for partial reporting, as justified in the reference list. It is important to mention that for the following disclosures 307-1, 417-2, 417-3 and 419-1 it was not possible to verify the evidence of the statements made in the “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019” with the heads of the areas in view of the fact that the audit was carried out remotely due to the COVID-19 pandemic, therefore, some areas and processes were not able to meet the assurance process. As for the contribution to the improvement in the preparation of future sustainability report and greater efficiency in the assurance process, we recommend LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A. to 1. Disclose the objectives and goals of all material topics. The report may become a major source of sustainability information for all stakeholders and support them in making decisions and raising new concerns. 2. Develop better internal dissemination and use of lessons learned from the new materiality process to mature points of contact with areas responding to the disclosures. This practice May 29th, 2020 will allow an increasingly complete, accurate and transparent reporting. 3. For the reporting context, continue searching for a summarized report, without poor content. Executed by and on behalf of SGS Try to highlight the important gains of the sustainability area that consolidate itself against the management and strategy every year. 4. Consider the disclosure of other disclosures not reported, but which organization has management (Health and Safety, Eco-efficiency, among others). Finally, SGS congratulates LOJAS AMERICANAS S.A. for the initiative of carrying out the assurance of their report, for the historical commitment to sustainability and hopes that the significant advances in the Fabian Peres Gonçalves Caio César Ferreira de Faria issue that the company has been achieving in recent years will continue. Business Manager Sustainability Lead Auditor for Sustaianbility Report 100 CHAPTER 7 | Attachments Credits Coordination Communication and Sustainability Board Investor Relations Board Writing, Gri Consulting, Graphic Design and Diagramation Ricca Sustentabilidade Contact sustentabilidade@lasa.com.br 101 CHAPTER 7 | Attachments UNIVERSO
