GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2020 “TBSP Public Company Limited (TBSP) has been in the security printing business for more than forty years. The Company has strongly supported CSR programs and joined the UN Global Compact since year 2002. The Company has realized the importance of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and will continue to support and ensure all the staffs and related third parties will understand and always follow all the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact”. Vision “Being a world class of innovation products, Security Solutions Provider in terms of Qualities, Services and Productivities” With High Technology and sustainable.To be the regional trusted leader in information security solutions with technology integration. Mission 1. To impel business development and new products by applying innovations and technology to support and develop for becoming the major businesses. 2. To enhance efficiency of cost management and add value to products and services of current Your sincerely, business group. Mr. Natapong Pinitpongskul 3. To emphasize on core value of the company by striving to develop personnel to have skills on Managing Director innovations and technologies and operational TBSP Public Company Limited, excellence to become the company with Thailand, COP for 2020 faithfulness, profession, and ultimate efficiency. 4. To upgrade confidence and sustainability of stakeholders as the important parts of business operation. Human Rights Principle 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. As a public company TBSP must respect the laws of Thailand which encompass the majority of the 30 Articles in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Apart from these regulations prescribed by law, the company tries to ensure the well-being of staff in areas such as Health, Safety, Compensation, Development and Retirement. Medical facilities onsite. Periodic X Ray and Screening plus health education. ISO45001:2018 Health and Safety Free bus service Uniforms and protective clothing are provided Annual appraisal and review Profit sharing bonus Provident Scheme with matching contribution Emergency loans Air-conditioned working environment Annual leave in addition to 14 days national holidays Seminars and courses with overseas visitors TBSP has received National Safety Awards for the year 2018 from Minister of Labour for seven consecutive years since 2011. 2. Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Apart from ensuring TBSP respects Human Rights and operates on a basis of fair treatment to its entire staff and others, Furthermore, the Company tries to ensure that they do not indirectly enable or allow others to abuse Human Rights. In this respect TBSP will not knowingly deal with companies who abuse Human Rights especially in the area of child or forced labour. Employees recruitment and selection The Company recruits and selects employees with the board system to be considered by the unanimous decision to emphasize the principles of fair selection without discrimination and to provide employees with knowledge, competence, and appropriateness to participate in the work. Wage and compensation management Wage and compensation management are managed with regard to fairness to all parties. The Company realizes that wages and compensation are important factors in creating motivation and affect maintenance of employees with the Company. The Company therefore determines the wages and compensation management policy with adherence to the principle of fairness which considers duty responsibilities and the abilities of individual employees. The Company provides welfare for employees under the laws and the benefits and needs of most employees by taking into account the capabilities of the Company and improving it in accordance with changes in social, economic, and business needs. In addition, the Company provides opportunities for employees to share opinions through the welfare committee in the workplace. Provident Fund The Company registered the Provident Fund on 27 June 1990 according to the Provident Fund Act B.E. 2530 by Kasikorn Asset Management Company, which has been registered, in order to save money and create security for employees and their families and employees will also receive tax benefits. Employees can choose to pay accumulated funds to the fund, depending on the voluntary and employee’s duration of employment. Physically-Challenged persons employed 2012-2019 LABOUR 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. With our effort and determination to become the security printing manufacturer in ASEAN level, the company has improved and developed innovations on products and services continuously in order to respond to demands of customers as many as possible. The company promoted creative organizational culture through Innovation Day 2019 in order to provide knowledge and develop potential of employees to access new innovations increasingly. Moreover, the company also supports and drives all units to participate in developing products, improving operational procedures, and controlling production process to be efficient through Project Small Group activities, for example: For increase of frequency of the use of stamp die-cut plates, since the company manufactures stamps over than 825 units per year with demand on expensive die-cut plates, our employees develop instructional method of printers in order to increase frequency of the use of die-cut plates in order to reduce time and expenses efficiently. This development can help to increase frequency of the use of die-cut plates by 50.73% and reduce the use of die-cut plates by 53.13% per year. To reduce problems on error operations by checking account books for controlling product quality and building confidence of customers, our employees have tried to correct errors found in work inspection process by developing barcode reading program and making new Instruction Manual in order to reduce errors found in checking efficiently 4. Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Staff is selected based on their suitability for the work and education. In the same way, staff can resign when they like subject to notice period. All staff has a written contract of employment. Overtime is voluntary and extra payments are made for overtime and holiday working. And staff keeps their ID documents. Termination of staff is in accordance with Thai labour laws. The company provides scholarships to the children of employees. The company will not use suppliers who use compulsory or child labour. 5. Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. There are no staff employed at TBSP below the age of 18 years and contractors are not permitted to bring under-aged children for employment on the site. Our Human Resources Department will check applicant’s ID prior to employment. Sponsorship on Saving Accounts for Promoting Saving Behavior The company gave 1,500 saving accounts to 6 schools in surrounding acommunities on Chilldren’s Day including Wat Suan Som (Suk Prachanukul School), Wat Sukkhorn School, Wat Bang Fai School, Bang Hua Suea School, Nilrat Anusorn School, and Wat Bang Prong School. Those saving accounts were the company’s products developed and improved from wasted paper to support School’ s Bank Project for fostering saving behavior in Thai youth. Sponsorship on Scholarships for Students in Surrounding Communities The company has held the projects to give scholarships to students in surrounding communities since 2010 continuously for 10 years by considering on students from 6 schools around the factories with moderate to good school record, good behavior, and volunteering spirit but lack of educational fund. The total number of scholarships was 36 with the amount of 4,000 baht per scholarship therefore the total amount was 144,000 baht. Throughout this project, the company has provided scholarships to 276 students for building their educational opportunities in the total amount of 984,000 baht. Sponsorship on Scholarships for Employees’ Children The company has supported scholarships for employees’ children since 2013 continuously for 7 years in order to reduce educational expenses of children of employees with good behavior and performance. The scholarships are divided into 3 levels including primary education, secondary education, and higher education (Vocational Education and Bachelor Degree). The total number of the scholarships is 26 with the total amount of 229,000 baht. In addition, Thai British Saving Cooperative Limited also sponsors 5 scholarships in the total amount of 10,000 baht. Throughout the project, the company has provided scholarships for building educational opportunities to 146 children of employees in the total amount of 1,183,000 baht. 6. Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The company employed staffs based on their suitability for that position. No discrimination is allowed regarding gender, religion or ethnic group. Women occupied positions at the board and at senior management level. Miss Sutida Mongkolsuthree Mrs. Pratana Mongkolkul Director and Chairman of the Member of the Audit Committee Executive Committee (Independent Director) Mrs. Boosakorn Radomsuttigul Miss Nasarun Salinchan Chief of Financial Officer Werehouse & Logistic Division Manager ENVIRONMENT 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Shred2Share Project has been operated since 2008 and supported by services on Systematic Secure Documents Storage and Destruction under International Security Standards. In 2019, Shred2Share has been operated as the 11th year with the aim to campaign all organizations to emphasize on Secure Information Destruction and recycle such destructed secure information correctly. This project is mutually established with over 65 leading organizations for supporting instructional equipment, sports equipment, student uniforms, and useful books to underprivileged schools that is consistent with Development Plan for Children and Youth in Rural Areas under the Royal Initiative of Her Royal Highness Princess Maha Chakri Sirinthorn. The budget is allocated into 3 parts as follows: 1. To support instruction; 2. To support buildings renovation; 3. To hold activities for promoting learning of students in border patrol schools. From 2008-present, the Company has collected documents destroyed safely of 30,619.61 tons By reducing the impact on the environment and using resources as follows: • Reduce carbon dioxide emission of 7,961.10 tons • Reduce coal consumption of 3,368.16 tons • Reduce water consumption of 1,53,980.72 cubic meters • Reduce tree cutting 918,588 tons Note: (1 ton destruction = 30 trees) TBSP has conducted the Share2Share Project for ten consecutive years (20082018). Over the past year, in addition to the support of learning and teaching mediums for students of the Border Patrol Police Schools, the Company brought a total of 45 student representatives and teachers from the Border Patrol Police School in Sakon Nakhon Province to attend the camp activity, it was called “Marine nature Education with Shred2Share 11” at Natural History Museum Sattahip District, Chonburi Province in 2019. 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. The company participates in Mangrove Forest Growing and Conservation Activity with Bangpoo Industrial Estate Office held by Bangpoo Industrial Estate with cooperation from a group of juveniles, students, general people, private and government sectors to grow mangrove forest and collect garbage along dam’s shoreline in Bangpu Nature Education Center at Bangpu Nature Education Center, Bangpu Recreational Retreat, Bang Pu Mai Sub-District, Mueang District, Samut Prakan Province. The company regularly participates in such activity every year and this activity is considered as the physical and spiritual cooperation of all sectors in restoring eco system of mangrove forests and canals while building consciousness on environmental conservation. 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The Company focuses on carrying out work in parallel with environmental care, resulting in the Company being certified in the green industrial project level 4 , creation of a green culture. In 2017, the Company focused on cultivating employees to pay attention to the environment in every activity, such as creation of a culture of safety, energy conservation, reduction of paper consumption and paper recycling including the use of recycled materials. In addition, the Company managed the pollution that affects the outside as follows: Waste and non-used material management The company manages waste caused by production process without Zero Waste to Landfill by separating waste as hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste. Non-hazardous waste will be managed based on 3R Principles whereas hazardous waste will be disposed with legally permitted Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF) Company through correct and safe methods without any environmental impact (from the former method of cement kiln). Waste Process Volume (2019) Non Hazardous Waste 3R 81 Hazardous Waste RDF 60 Wastewater treatment The Company focuses on managing operations to prevent chemical spill and waste disposal. Systematic waste emissions that cause water and air pollution are carried out under the law with installation of a high-quality wastewater treatment system which is monitored for treated water every month. Air pollution management from ventilation chimneys The Company closely monitors and control chemicals and dust drained from the plant’ s ventilation chimneys by installing the activated carbon air treatment system to reduce the amount of chemicals and eliminate the smell of chemicals in the production process, providing a measure of the dust released into the environment, and comparing the dust value with the measurement and the standard values as announced by the Ministry of Industry. In 2 0 1 9, the Company had the dust released into its environment of not higher the standard value set with the results of air quality monitoring from the ventilation chimneys as follows: Measurement results Air quality from the vent chimney Standard (ppm) (ppm) Total Suspended Particulate 4.63 mg/m3. 400 mg/m3. Sulfur Dioxide < 1.02 500 Carbon Monoxide < 1.01 870 Xylene 0.57 200 Sustainable energy management guidelines The Company realizes the importance of continuous energy conservation. In addition to the establishment of the Energy Conservation Committee with the objective to control energy use within the plant, it disseminated knowledge and understanding of energy for employees to be aware of its value in the work area and at home. In 2019, the Company reduced energy consumption in all 3 plants as follows: Summary of electricity usage Target Base 2018 Target 2019 Actual plant Reduce (wH/unit) (wH/unit) (wH/unit) energy 3% Poochao 47.28 45.86 54.17 (+18.11%) Reduce Bangpoo 41.32 energy 40.08 53.82 (+34.26%) per unit 3% Sale Office 3.26 3.16 3.60 (+13.82%) Use of solar energy Reduce Greenhouse gas Solar Energy Amount of electricity Saving emissions(CO2) produced from Solar (Baht/year) GHG = unit x EF energy (Kwh/year) Average: 4 Baht (EF : 0.5610 kg CO2) Poochao 47.28 16,932.00 2,374.71 Bangpoo 41.32 94,513.50 13,255.52 Total 3.26 111,445.50 15,630.23 Overview on Electricity Consumption Poochao Plant changes its products and its Bill of Quantities is reduced but the quantity of power consumption is still the same because its air conditioning system is Chiller. The quantity of electricity consumption of Bangpu Plant is higher because the production volume of some products is reduced. In addition, there are only short-term projects in some sites. The quantity of electricity consumption of sale office is higher due to overtime working of some units and air-conditioners are turned on in every area. The company has the project to generate electric power from alternative energy for consuming in the factory and promoting sustainable energy consumption while helping to reduce air pollution by 15,630.23 kg CO2e./year. Remarks: CO2e or Carbon Dioxide Equivalents is a kind of tool that is used for comparing emission of various types of greenhouse gases vased on capacity to cause global warming of each kind of gas. Overview of water usage Plant 2018 2019 Result Actual(Unit/Person) Actual(Unit/Person) (Unit/Person) Poochao 26.98 30.74 13.93% Bangpoo 26.99 77.40 -6.67% Sale Office 27.00 19.55 -7.37% For Pu Chao Plant, quantity of water consumption is in normal level but quantity of water consumption may be larger due to larger quantity of projects and employees. For Bangpu Plant, quantity of water consumption is in normal level compared to that of the last year. For Sale Office, quantity of water consumption of the second half of the year was reduced because Document Storage and Destruction Unit was sold but the overall picture of quantity of water consumption throughout the year of Sale Office was still high. Energy Activities The company drives and promotes energy conservation through operations of Energy Conservation Committee with the aim to reinforce and support the company to realize on energy saving and publicize energy saving and environmental conservation through activities throughout the year such as 1) Let’s help reduce PM 2.5 2) 3Rs How to not be out of date 3) How to cool off to save energy Pride Awards From our performance based on the Policy on Social Responsibility, in 2019, the company received the following awards: 2019 HonorShieldfor Supporting Space for Installing “Chuen Chai Vending Machines” for Disabled Persons The company participated in the ceremony for receiving certificates and honor shields as the entrepreneurs and organizations supporting social disabled people employment of 2019 and the company received an honor shield for making social benefit in supporting Chuen Chai Vending Machines” for Disabled Persons Project. Excellent Award on Occupational Safety, Health, and Work Environment of 2019 The company was one of 421 places of business that passed the criteria and admired as the good model on safety by receiving the following awards:  TBSP Sale Office, has received the Gold Medal of the National Award for 2 consecutive years.  TBSP Pu Chao Saming Prai Plant, has received Diamond Medal of National Homor Award for 8 consecutive years.  TBSP Bangpu Plant, has received Diamond Medal of National Homor Award for 7 consecutive years.  Thai British DPost, has received Diamond Medal of National Homor Award for 7 consecutive years SET Award 2019 – The company received this award because of our distinctiveness on business operation under SDGs Guidelines covering ESG (Environment, Economy, and Governance) issue as the model of the organization that operates business by considering on stakeholders in all dimensions with responsibility and participation in generating value for society and environment with good, transparent, and auditable Corporate Governance. With operations as mentioned above plus with responding to Sustainability Assessment and consideration on qualifications, the company has been selected to be listed in the list of Thailand Sustainability Investment (THSI) for 3 consecutive years that was another alternative for investors who wanted to invest under the concept of sustainable investment. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Operations on Anti-Corruption The company emphasizes on anti-corruption by establishing anti-corruption policy that is approved by the Board of Directors as the explicit guidelines on business operation and fostering such policy as organizational culture that is consistent with the company’s ideology on “Attachment to Fairness”, i.e., the company is responsible for giving fairness to related persons in all sectors. 1. The company establishes and declares Anti-Corruption Policy that must be complied throughout the company by communicating with all employees for acknowledgement and consecutive compliance. The company fosters all employees to realize on all actions that may cause any risk on corruption. Risk indicators are analyzed and risk on corruption is regularly assessed. The company generates preventive work system with Risk Mitigation and Control methods for defining responsible persons, measures on monitoring, reviewing, and assessment on risk management as the guidelines for employees to prevent corruption. 2. Suppliers Code of Conduct Handbook is made in order to make suppliers and trading partners of the company to have correct understanding for applying as cobusiness operation standard. 3. The company declares the intention to engage Private Sector Collective Action Coalition Against Corruption. The company reviewed our measures on anticorruption through self-assessment and submits the application for certification to Thailand’s Private Sector Collective Action Coalition Against Corruption in Quarter 4/2019 that is under consideration. 4. The company expands our intention on anti-corruption to our suppliers /trading partners in order to make them acknowledge on Suppliers Code of Conduct and adjust this Code of Conduct as the guidelines on business operation for building sustainable society and environment. Currently, Suppliers Code of Conduct has been increasingly signed by suppliers. 5. The company provides communication channels and whistleblowing system for informing all incorrect or illegal actions and the company also establishes measures to protect whistleblowers under anti-corruption policy for building realization, understanding, and compliance of directors, executives, and employees as well as reducing risks on corruption. The company communicated, publicized, and performed additional activities in 2019 in order to reinforce awareness and “Proactive Preventive System” as follows: 1) “Ethics Testing” on morality, ideology, Code of Conduct, and anti-corruption is conducted with employees whereas they are required to pass this test by 100% and the test results were applied to establish communication plan for gaining correct understanding. 2) The company fosters Responsibility & Accountability Awareness in risk management and good control according to Three Lines of Defense Guidelines. 3) The company holds seminars to provide knowledge and workshops on contents in Code of Conduct Handbook and important case studies on corruption. In 2019, the company held “TBSP and Company’s Ethics Towards Sustainable Development” training with cooperation of Thai and foreign specialists on Corporate Governance for providing an opportunity to employees to exchange their experiences and opinions as well as to ask all questions in all issues. 4) Units with high risks (e.g., [procurement and sales) must conduct selfassessment based on Anti-Corruption Compliance Assessment Form (that was additionally reviewed by the company in 2019) for assessing the company’s corruption besides Self Assessment on Anti-Corruption of CAC). This Assessment Form specifies indicators/signs of corruption and Risk Mitigation and Control on work system and compliance of employees in order to enable operators and supervisors to analyze on risks and comply with control methods correctly. The results of self-assessment are applied to improve operations to be more efficient. 5) The company conducted 2019 Internal Control System Assessment on Corruption based on COSO 2013 Principles. 6) The company publishes and communicates to make understanding on Code of Conduct Handbook and Anti-Corruption Policy to all employees for acknowledgement and compliance with those handbook and policy. The company publishes these policy and handbook via a VDO Clip and Intranet with content on correct compliance with Code of Conduct Handbook and Policy on Anti-Corruption. 7) Managing Directors regularly meets employees to clarify information of the company and anti-corruption policy and gives them some opportunities to ask some questions for understanding. 8) The company holds some activities to provide knowledge to employees in all levels. The company replied to questions on organizational ethics and anticorruption held in Innovation Day 2019 Monitoring on Compliance with Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy The company defines duties and responsibilities of directors to establish policies and provide efficient systems for supporting anti-corruption. Managing Director and Management are responsible for providing systems, promoting and supporting anti-corruption policy for communicating with employees and related persons of all sectors in order to gain understanding and correct compliance as well as to review appropriateness of systems and measures to be consistent with changes of business, rules, regulations, and terms of laws regularly. Employees who commit any offence on corruption or violation against anti-corruption policy and Code of Conduct must be punished by disciplinary disciplines as defined by the company and legal punishment in case of illegal offences. Internal Audit Unit always evaluates and monitors Corporate Governance, compliance with Code of Conduct, and anti-corruption policy in every audit before reporting to the Audit Committee in every meeting. Whistleblowers Protection and Fairness The company has provided the guidelines on the use of Whistleblowing System and Whistleblowing Instruction Manual for the company and subsidiaries since 2014 and they were amended in 2019 in order to give some opportunities to employees and stakeholders to report or provide information on abnormality of business operation, violation against rules and regulations as defined by laws, offences on Corporate Governance, corruption, or any default against Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy of the company whereas the reporter is able to monitor the result reports. To build confidence of employees and stakeholders that such whistleblowing will not cause any trouble against the whistleblower and the whistleblower will be protected under the criteria on Whistle Blower Protection and Fairness as defined by the company (details are shown in “Whistleblowing System Instruction Manual and Measures on Whistleblower Protection and Mitigation). Therefore, the company defines mechanism on whistleblower protection and mitigation for any person reporting or providing information on unfair treatment. For the company’s employees, they are able to complain via Intranet and their complaints will be considered as the top secret. The complainer is not required to show himself/herself but if he/she shows herself, the company will be able to inform the result of such complaint or additional information. Persons that are damaged will be mitigated through appropriate and fair process. The company defines that false complaint that damages other persons is considered as disciplinary offence. The company clearly defines operational procedures after receiving whistleblowing started from secretly gathering facts, establishing the working group to inspect facts, establishing investigation committee, considering and approving punishment, and reporting results of whistleblowing. In 2019, the company had no complaint given by any outsider and internal personnel via whistleblowing system. However, in the event of any whistleblowing via such channel in the future, the company will apply such complaint to improve operations in order to define preventive guidelines further. Internal Audit Unit will be responsible for monitoring, proposing, and reporting the progress Audit Committee. In February 2020, TBSP was certified as a member Thailand’s Private Sector Collective Action Coalition Against Corruption: CAC
