HOW ARE WE MAKING A DIFFERENCE? OUR BUSINESS SUSTAINS LIFE THROUGH WATER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019-2020 “We are all so immersed in our daily lives that we hardly stop to think about how our work, our attitudes and actions affect our surrounding environment. It is therefore necessary to remind ourselves that we are ‘enablers’ and not just ‘victims’ when it comes to climate change or any other natural calamity. In this annual sustainability report, Metito shares with its stakeholders the company’s latest achievements, best practices and initiatives. This includes our efforts with regards to the community, the environment and education, as well as our latest business wins, in an attempt to lead our industry by example and inspire others to follow suit.” Mutaz Ghandour Metito Chairman and CEO Table Of Content Table Of Content Local Presence... Global Know-How 09 Our Commitment 11 Message From The CEO 04 Leading By Example 14 Our People -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------31 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------36 Message from the CEO It's fine to celebrate success but it is more important to heed the lessons of failure. Bill Gates T An Exceptional Time in History he world is passing through an extraordinary time in history. COVID-19 developments have taken the world by storm. We have seen leaders from across the world taking drastic measures to safeguard nations and navigate through many unknowns. At such time, we must highlight and express our deepest gratitude to everyone who continued to report to dutysometimes risking their lives, to support or provide critical services to their community. This includes but not limited to first responders, medical professionals and utility operators. With Metito being one of the leading global providers driving the water and wastewater industry, the critical role we play has only been further reinstated with the COVID-19 pandemic. Regardless of the situation, whether it be climate change, pollution or pandemics, water continues to prove its position as the first line of defense and a lifeline to humanity. We acknowledge the full weight of this responsibility and I am extremely proud and grateful to our different teams who worked effortlessly, from home, office, factory and sites every day ensuring our business continuity and delivering on our M commitments. A Resilient Business Model We are proudly looking forward to continuing preserving, etito’s strength across the full spectrum managing and developing new water resources and alternative of its industry, experienced leadership and energy sources to make water more accessible and the world management teams, digital automation more sustainable. capabilities, access to advanced technology and alternative energy solutions, fully functional We have worked tirelessly over the teams managing local projects with remote support in areas of design and engineering have all played a key role in creating last six decades to create a diversified a resilient business model able to insulate our operations business from both a vertical and against specific-market downturns. geographical perspective with a modus To manage the evolving COVID-19 pandemic, oversee the implementation of all the required preventative measures operandi of ‘local presence, global stipulated by the World Health Organization and the distinct local Governments across the countries where we operate and know-how’which has never felt more to define plausible scenarios that may interrupt the business, relevant. I decided to launch the Business Continuity Leadership Team (BCLT) as early as January 2020. 4 METITO.COM The BCLT is a cross-organizational task force with an active (Google Meet, WebEx and Microsoft Teams). Enhancements Message From The CEO response team to enact and action a comprehensive Business to cloud computing also enabled us to achieve 30% faster Continuity Plan to proactively manage the developing application performance throughout and to globally upgrade COVID-19 situation with two core mandates: 1) To safeguard the user experience to a completely new level of efficiency. The the health and safety of our employees and clients; and 2) To result of such diligent efforts was captured in a company-wide manage business implications resulting from unconventional survey where most respondents (89.3%) agreed that adjusting or disruptive scenarios. to remote working was relatively easy, with 84.8% highlighting they were satisfied with the resources which were provided to Metito left no stone unturned and will continue to do so as them during and post-transition. we safely navigate this pandemic. During the past months, we launched several awareness campaigns across markets Moreover, in several markets where it was logistically possible, through a mix of tools; emails, face to face meetings, trainings Metito conducted mass screening drives in cooperation with and information sessions. The objective of such campaigns top tier local medical providers. This enabled us to detect was primarily to share credible information on how to ’Protect asymptomatic positive cases and support those affected Yourself and Others’ and not to fall prey to the media frenzy according to the emergency response plan in each area, and the amount of unsubstantiated, sometimes dangerous, implementing local guidelines related to isolation, treatment information that was being shared online. and return to work. Metito put into effect a global blanket travel-ban on all personal We also reassessed the occupancy of our project residences and business overseas trips with exceptional approvals granted were necessary and rented additional accommodation for staff only on a case-by-case basis. We introduced mandatory to decrease the risk of any possible infections among those temperature checks on entering all sites, mandated more residing in the facilities. We also secured and equipped rooms regular sanitization of premises and augmented the supplies to be used for isolation in case of any identified positive cases, of hand sanitizers across offices. in line with best practice in the distinct local markets. For the first time in Metito’s history, we have also put into effect several policies to continue putting the health and safety We have always cast our sustainable of our people, clients and the wider community at the heart of our operations. Metito introduced the COVID-19 Emergency business model as resilient. To Response and Recovery Plan (EPRP), the ‘No Handshake’ succeed and limit our vulnerability policy and later the ‘Work-From-Home’ policy. to disruptions, Metito has always The latter policy was implemented in a phased approach across our key markets, starting with the UAE in March 2020. committed to being long-sighted and The support the move to remote working, Metito invested sufficiently diversified. in new tools and technologies to enhance remote working capabilities. This included sourcing additional laptops; increasing bandwidth and introducing more options for optimum online communication and virtual meeting tools 5 5 METITO.COM T Success is not an Objective, it is in our DNA In Egypt, Metito-Hassan Allam Joint Venture, inaugurated the award-winning project Al Mahsamma agricultural drainage he year 2019 was a record year for Metito in terms of treatment, recycling and reuse plant, the largest plant of its both revenue and operational profitability. kind in the world, with a capacity of 1 million m³/day. The project worth USD100 million was developed under the supervision In Asia, we have experienced great success. In the of the Armed Forces Engineering Authority, in record time. Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Metito continued to win The project is built over an area of 42,000 square meters and large prestigious projects for our end client Saline the treated water will be utilized to irrigate 70,000 acres of Water Conversion Corporation (SWCC) with the latest project agriculture land in Sinai, contributing to the development of a being Jubail ll project Comprehensive Engineering and sustainable ecosystem. Procurement Contract awarded to us by SEPCOIII International. This project is the biggest Seawater Reverse Osmosis (SWRO) Earlier in the year Metito was also awarded the 90,000m³/day Metito has engineered to date with a capacity of 400,000m³/ sewage treatment plant along with forced mains and pumping day. Metito has been awarded a 12 months project by Bahri to stations for the new coastal city of Alamein in Egypt. Elsewhere engineer, procure and construct three floating barge mounted in Africa, Metito established operations in South Africa and recently we have completed the supply of 6 packaged STPs SWRO plants with a total capacity of 150,000m³/day. for the countries of Lesotho and Seychelles. We have also In Qatar, Metito has further consolidated its reputation established a Metito office in Morocco to look after local as the premier delivery partner to Public Works Authority operations and we are executing Laayoune City 6,000m³/day (PWA) Ashghal awarded 5-year Qatar South Catchment Zone SWRO and Boukhalef City 32,000m³/day STP. Framework. This is the largest ever O&M Framework awarded In the Republic of Turkey, Metito has acquired a 75% stake in to Metito and comprises the management of the collective Info Group, a Turkish company which provides consultancy sewer infrastructure comprising Foul Sewer (FS), Treated services and technical support for specialized chemical water (TW) and Surface and Groundwater infrastructure solutions, automation, control and treatment systems. New (SGW). The scope of works for O&M includes preventative, resources have also been brought into the business with a view predictive and corrective maintenance; inspection, survey and to expand water treatment solutions to heavy industries and cleaning; repair, replacement, rehabilitation and upgrading develop opportunities around Geothermal solutions. Turkey works; customer service response; and emergency incident is seen not only as an important source of future work but management, resolution and recovery. also as an operational base for further expansion into the CIS Countries. We have also formed Metito Water Solutions Turkey We are also proud to have led a consortium to be awarded to capitalize on opportunities in EPC, O&M and Customers Bangladesh’s largest and first international competitively bid services in Turkey, the Levant and CIS Countries. the utility-scale solar project in Rangunia. The price achieved is a record for the country and sets the path for much more cost-effective energy supply, in a renewable format, for the The challenges posed by the people of the country. COVID-19 pandemic tested our In Africa, the marketplace has been very busy. In Egypt; we have successfully commissioned several large turnkey operational resilience and allowed us projects, a few to mention. to garner invaluable experience. 6 METITO.COM W Emerging Stronger to successfully reach financial close on the Dammam Message From The CEO Independent Sewage Treatment Plant project during the e consolidated our business development COVID-19 pandemic. Being the first independent sewage strategy and ensured the required flexibility treatment plant in the Saudi Arabian privatization programme being part of a wider ecosystem, experiencing was in itself a huge achievement but reaching such a historic varied impacts. Today are building on this milestone whilst there was a material force majeure event strategy and the success achieved so far. taking place is a testament to Metito and its partners’ perseverance and the importance of such projects. This sets Metito is geared towards achieving another record year in 2020 the ground for many future projects of the same nature where for revenue and profitability backed by strong order intake and the private sector is investing for the long-term environmental major contracts awards in various geographies. benefit of the region. The project is worth US$245M. Most of our key markets consider water a vital industry and have therefore been granting Metito and other utility providers W special permits for uninterrupted operations, allowing us to Leading the ‘New Normal’ remain fully operational throughout the peak of the movement restrictions imposed as a result of the pandemic. This allowed hile the worry list is long, we have so far Metito, to continue launching iconic, global award-winning managed to get through it successfully. We projects in the year 2020. have been working with the BCLT in navigating through these unchartered waters while In the United Arab Emirates, Dubai, UAE Metito has secured keeping our employees, our most valued an important 3-year project for two large pumping stations resources, safe. (Sewage & Storm Water) from M.A. Kharafi & Sons for the end client Dubai Municipality (DM). Metito scope of work comprises Experience has shown that companies with a resilient business engineering, procurement, installation and commissioning, model, a strong growth outlook and investment in technology testing and training for DM staff. This is a strategic award have increased chances of emerging from downturns stronger as it signifies the first project delivered on behalf of DM and and more competitive. We strongly believe this to be our case. presents further future opportunities with this prestigious client. The coronavirus pandemic is not over, and we continue to closely monitor the situation, however, Metito is on a sound In Angola, our teams are across four separate cities footing. Strong leadership, experienced and new talent and the performing capacity building contracts to set up public water right combination of capabilities are all key to ensuring that utilities and in Senegal and Morocco, we are operating and we continue to navigate through such times while remaining maintaining over 200 rural water facilities, thus better serving focused on our strategic priorities. the local populations with their basic water needs. In Saudi, the Saudi Water Partnership Company (SWPC) and the consortium led by Metito Utilities has led a consortium 7 METITO.COM The pandemic accelerated the It reinforced the fact that we are all interlinked, connected and empaths… in more ways than we ever thought possible. demise of ecosystems acting in We look forward to further collaborating with our growing ecosystem to develop, maintain and secure critical water and silos causing a paradigm shift and alternative energy infrastructure, sustainable sources and transformation that transcended pioneering technologies and projects. borders and industries of focus. We are witnessing new priorities take precedence, water amongst them. Metito has so far adapted with grace and Due to our resolute financial discipline and ingenuity we have delivered on its commitments. I do not have a doubt that when built strong financial capabilities; a strong balance sheet, the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, Metito will emerge stronger great liquidity as well as access to credit, when and if needed. in an even better leadership positionas the world continues This allows us to continually invest in potential acquisitions to unite around a common objective; to make access to and new technologies despite macroeconomic challenges. intelligent, sustainable water, and alternative energy solutions more accessible and more prevalent. Discussion with our people and our clients is always energizing, positive, enlightening, and affirming. A central theme that As we look back to this past year, I want to thank all of you for emerged from these discussions is that one of the few positive your trust, support and collaboration and as we look forward outcomes of the pandemic is that it provided a remarkable to the years to come, I want to reaffirm that you can always learning opportunity. We learned new mission critical skills rely on Metito. from navigating such a challenging experience and this is now Sincerely, essential for Metito to curate these learning opportunities and revive our common ambitions. We have built a resilient business and we will continue building on that through empowering our teams further, speeding up the adaptation of new technologies and fast Mutaz Ghandour tracking our digital transformation strategy to ensure we have agile working formats and systems that can be quickly adapted under plausible scenarios such as climate change or a pandemic. 8 METITO.COM Local Presence Global Know-How About Metito Chemicals Metito continuously developing through research and development to address changing industry requirements and Metito develops state-of-the-art chemical solutions, services, benchmark global best practices to best serve clients. and automation systems that help clients optimize operational performance and derive maximum value. This is done We apply Metito’s Customer Excellence Standards to deliver through utilizing effective chemicals to improve productivity measurable and sustainable benefits which guarantees and reduce the total cost of operations while minimizing the shared value across all levels. overall environmental footprint. Our Chemicals business line offers a wide range of water treatment chemical solutions for various sectors, The Outlook including power, primary-metals, fertilizers, oil and gas, refining, petrochemical, food and mining, hotels, hospitals, In this section, Fady Juez, Metito Managing Director, shares municipalities, airports, district cooling and universities. the Chemicals division latest achievements, his insights and Metito also offers customized solutions for other more growth outlook. specialized requirements – these include cooling systems treatment, boiler steam and generation chemical treatment, What makes Metito Chemicals different and what’s the water clarification and wastewater treatment, desalination, industry outlook? flushing and passivation, automation and feeding equipment, and water treatment programs. We cover a wide range Since its launch in 1982, Metito's chemicals business has of industries and we significantly grown in terms of offerings and manpower. This understand their individual/ was made possible through the supervision of highly qualified distinct requirements and experts with solid industry experience and a successful track customize our solutions record of providing sustainable solutions that are safe and accordingly. effective. Generally, each region has a few priority/key industries Metito manufactures its products at multiple production sites so in many locations we and in-house laboratories. Products cover water treatment focus our outreach on these applications and process additives thereby offering solutions key requirements while in for vast applications and industries, across different regions. some others, we provide our full-fledged range of services and products. For example, in the GCC, oil and gas and the related industries, as well as district cooling, are key priorities while in other regions industries such as powerplants, steel, fertilizer and mining are prioritized. There is a great opportunity for both organic and inorganic growth, especially for resilient global companies such as Metito. We see good potentials for mergers with focus on partners who share similar values and a progressive sustainable vision. Metito Chemicals is steadily increasing its client base in existing markets and rapidly growing in new territories. This has been made possible by continuously improving our products to enhance their performance and developing our applications to make them more efficient. Developing our people will remain a key pillar to maintain this growth trajectory and we remain committed to creating strong, informed and competitive teams who dare to dream and ready to mark many firsts as they grow with Metito. 9 METITO.COM Last year alone, Metito Chemicals achieved significant With sustainability a clear priority for Metito, how is the milestones. Please highlight a few. Chemicals business line contributing to this mandate? Despite the challenges and the global volatility in many In every application we develop and execute, we focus on markets, Metito, specifically Metito Chemicals, has achieved reducing energy consumption and water and chemicals many milestones. In 2019, Metito acquired the majority share requirements, thus reducing pollution and CO2 emission. We in a Turkey-based chemical company called Info Group. continuously assess the possibility of reusing water from different streams to reduce the pressure on freshwater Operating in more than 46 countries worldwide, this move supplies and reduce water disposal. marks Metito’s entry to the Turkish market, enabling the company to provide its quality offering to the local market and the region beyond. Turkey is an attractive market for international investors, with immense growth potential and we are excited to mark our first step to serve the Turkish community and to establish our presence there. Elsewhere, Metito is developing its Chemicals business hub for Southeast Asia markets in Thailand, where we established a central manufacturing facility to serve the region, with a competitive and robust supply chain. This year, Metito Thailand was awarded the project to develop a comprehensive water program for ten biomass power plants in Thailand with ACE – a key industrial player in the market. The market continues to show tremendous potential and we are expecting annual growth of up to 25% for the next three to five years. In terms of product lines, this year Metito launched its Metito4 control and automation system. A smart water monitoring unit, Metito4 combines chemistry, equipment, software, and communications with technology. It detects corrosion rate, chemical concentration in addition to pH, conductivity, and ORP. Ensuring reliability while improving efficiency is a big win-win for the facility and the environment. 10 METITO.COM 11 METITO.COM Local Presence Global Know-How Our Commitment 12 METITO.COM Our Commitment The Vision Metito strives to become the global provider of choice for sustainable, intelligent water and alternative energy management solutions and systems. The Group pledges to lead by example and to influence others to do likewise. Leadership The Mission We lead with integrity, refined expertise and creativity, both as individuals within an organization and as an organization Metito commits to a sustainable environment through operating in local and global markets. Our proven leadership providing effective water management solutions and approach demands leading by example and influencing treatment systems, environmentally friendly technologies others to do likewise and with this, accountability becomes and alternative energy solutions to reconcile the a guaranteed by-product. ever-growing demand for water and its dwindling natural resources. Collaboration, Teamwork and Passion Customer Focus We believe in, and encourage teamwork, as it creates a sustainable flow of information and knowledge sharing Every employee is customer satisfaction driven. We commit that helps benchmark our work, enables us to better to provide our clients with value-added products and our performance and leverage our collective know-how services and to achieve high returns on investments for our and refined skills. Our passion and belief in what we do, shareholders; we further strive to exceed their expectations complement this spirit and take us that extra mile that and keep them continuously informed through personable, helps Metito stand-out further from its competitors. honest and open communications. People Focus Our employees are our most valuable asset; we recognize their needs and professional aspirations and make every effort to provide them with relevant training and opportunities to empower them to achieve their goals, and in turn, support our mission by their high-quality performance and refined service. The health and safety of our employees are also paramount to our organization and we commit to continually improve their standards. Quality We commit to deliver quality services and products that are in line with our customers’ needs and to maintain worldclass performance in all our business undertakings. This is founded on the highest standards of customer service, uncompromised ethics and environmental consciousness. Our quality systems ensure that we do this right the first time, every time. Sustainability Metito is a responsible corporate citizen that aims to implement sustainable practices throughout its businesses. Our commitment to sustain the environment is achieved fundamentally through being an integral player in an industry with a mission to meet the world’s water demands and to preserve its resources. Stemming from our People Focus, we also aim to invest in and develop human elements to help provide a sustainable pool of talents to the communities we work with. 13 METITO.COM Leading By Example 14 METITO.COM A Case Study Agricultural Drainage Treatment, Recycling and Reuse Plant, Al Mahsamma Egypt The USD100 million project has been developed by the JV Metito-Hassan Allam, under the supervision of the Armed Forces Engineering Authority. The JV scope of work for this flagship project includes the engineering, construction, operations (EC&O), commissioning and O&M for a period of five years. Drainage water is transferred to the plant from Ismailia irrigation drainage canal, located west of Suez Canal, through two individual pump stations crossing underneath the Suez Canal (the old and new branches of the canal) into srabuim siphon, from which the water is further pumped through the plant’s pump station using 8 vertical turbine type pumps six working pumps and two on standby with each pumping at a speed of 7,000m³/hr. Al Mahsamma was completed in a record twelve months, INTRODUCTION amounting to 2.5 million safe man-hours with no injuries or time lost. Latest technologies were utilized for the treatment The Egyptian Government introduced a progressive, multiof drainage water to produce suitable water for irrigation pronged strategy to safeguard and preserve the nation’s and land reclamation as per the highest quality standards natural resources through a comprehensive water security and specs set by the Egyptian Government. Advanced digital agenda that focuses on wastewater treatment, recycling and information technology are also being used to monitor and reuse and seawater desalination in coastal areas. This the effectiveness of operations and to ensure the quality of plan is inline with Egypt’s Sustainable Development Plan water remains compliant with standards and specifications. Egypt Vision 2030, which focuses on economic, social, and The project site is equipped with an advanced laboratory for environmental development. on-site water analysis and quality testing round the clock by dedicated experts. Al Mahsamma project, located in the Ismailia Governorate, is the world’s biggest plant of its type, built over an area of 42,000 square meters with a of 1,000,000m³/day. The plant will contribute to the irrigation of 70,000 acres of land in the Sinai, as part of the government’s efforts to develop the region by SCOPE OF WORK creating sustainable urban communities and job opportunities The main scope of the JV project included: in the area. The plant will also help preserve the natural • Engineering and civil design ecology of the Al Temsah Lake, located west of the Suez Canal, • Civil material supply which has been impacted by wastewater disposal throughout • Civil construction the years. • Installation of electromechanical equipment 15 METITO.COM • Testing and start-up • The project will play a role in developing a sustainable • Commissioning on turnkey basis community in line with the UN SDGs, creating more job • Operation and maintenance for 5 years opportunities and encouraging more investment in the area Metito scope covers: • Process and electromechanical design • Procurement, supply of electromechanical equipment Challenges • Coordination and supervision of civil works design • Intake pump station with 8x7,000m³/hr of vertical turbine • Al Mahsamma plant was completed in a record 12 months, pump compared to the 24-36 months period industry-standard • 8 Flocculation tanks, dimensions of each 48.5m length and for projects of such scale 8.5 w  idth with 5 gate mixers of each tank • Due to the strategic location of the plant and proximity • 8 Tube settler clarifiers, 1.6m height lamella tubes to the Suez Canal there were many restrictions and • 28 Disc filters with maximum flow rate 1,600m³/hr and limitations on communication and transportation to and 25µ m esh size from the site during the development of the project. • 3 Gravity sludge thickeners, 19m diameter, and 5m depth Moreover, work had to be halted at times, to ensure • Mechanical dewatering stage with 5 belt press, 32.5m  uninterrupted navigation in the Canal. horizontal belt conveyor and 7m inclined belt conveyor for sludge • Minimal land was required to be utilized for this project due to the strategic location with required efficient fitting of huge equipment into limited areas KEY BENEFITS Environmental Benefits • A sustainable project turning wasted drainage the capacity of 1,000,000m³/day into a valuable source of water for the irrigation of 70,000 acres in dryland area of Sinai Peninsula • Making available 1,000,000m³/day for irrigation purposes only by using energy equivalent to 0.1kWh/m3 result of optimized and efficient design • Minimal environmental footprint with effective use of land and making available 1,000,000m³/day for irrigation purposes only by using energy equivalent to 0.1kWh/m3 result of optimized and efficient design 16 METITO.COM Leading by Example Industry Engagement And Recognition INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT Metito sponsored the International Desalination Association World Congress 2019: “Crossroads to Sustainability” The International Desalination Associations (IDA) 2019 World Congress with the theme “Crossroads to Sustainability” brought together leading global experts in desalination and water reuse to share their knowledge, expertise and latest technologies in the field. Metito was the Gold sponsor for the event that took place at the Dubai World Trade Center. 17 METITO.COM 18 METITO.COM 19 METITO.COM Leading by Example Chairman and CEO of Metito Group, Mutaz Metito was named one of the founding members of the Water Ghandour featured in Al Idari Action Platform, a new forum dedicated to collaboration and knowledge-sharing in the water sector. Launched by Isle Utilities, a technology consultancy company, in March 2020, the Water Action Platform was originally established in response to COVID-19 but has evolved to encompass a wider range of topics, pooling experience and expertise from utilities providers around the world. Membership grew rapidly and now the Platform hosts over 1100+ people from 608 organizations across 88 countries. The Platform has become an incredibly vibrant forum for organizations to share their experiences and learnings as well as a brilliant example of true collaboration and the sharing of best practice. One of the notable initiatives, the Platform introduced us the Crisis Response Register which was created following the Beirut Port disaster on 4th August 2020. It is a list of water sector professionalsfrom around the worldwho are prepared to be contacted (by aid and disaster relief agencies) in the event of a disaster to see if they can apply their professional knowledge to assist. White Paper published: The Challenges of Funding Power and Water Projects in Africa Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chairman and CEO, shares insights on how Metito is leading fundamental changes in the water scene around the world through its pioneering water management and project structuring solutions in an interview with Al Idari. In his interview, he stated: “We must collectively stand for a moment to reflect and conceptualize the extreme importance of water in our lives, especially in light of evolving pandemics such as the COVID-19 situation. There is a critical necessity for all stakeholders to join efforts to conserve water resources for humanity to secure a lifeline.” In this candid interview, Mutaz Ghandour gives the readers a Walid Madwar, Metito VP Business Development brief look back at Metito’s history and how it all started and highlighted some of the most recent projects Metito has been Metito sponsored Open Africa's roundtable event in Kigali, leading across different regions. Rwanda. During the event, public-private partnerships were discussed and in more details the challenges and effective/ experience-based solutions to overcome critical hurdles especially in markets where the model is newly introduced. Metito named a founding member of the 'Water Walid Madwar, Metito VP Business Development, spoke at Action Platform' the event as part of a notable panel sharing the company's successful experience developing the Kigali Bulk Surface Water Supply PPP project, the 1st of its kind in Sub-Saharan Africa. On the back of this even, Metito, in partnership with Open Africa, developed a white paper which outlined the key responses to the challenges of funding power and water projects in Africa. The paper also highlighted the successful 27-year partnership between Metito’s Rwandan subsidiary – Kigali Water Limited (KWL) and the Government. 20 METITO.COM Leading by Example H.E Rania A. Al-Mashat, Minister of International partnerships with major international companies, including Cooperation – Egypt, visits the Eastern Port Said their projects across the globe. He also tackles how Egypt became one of the main countries investing in water treatment Desalination Plant and desalination projects, highlighting Metito’s success in H.E Rania A. Al-Mashat, Minister of International Cooperation becoming a vital partner in these projects. Arab Republic of Egypt Former Minister of Tourism International Economist YGL, visited the Eastern Port Said, Madwar then shares insights on some of the latest projects seawater reverse osmosis desalination plant which was Metito was involved with such as Port Said, Al Arish, and developed by the JV; Metito-Orascom. Alamein plants and emphasized the growing appetite of the Egyptian Government to work with the private sectors. The project was developed in cooperation between Egypt and the Kuwait Fund for Economic Development, and in partnership with the Egyptian Ministry of Housing, Utilities & Urban Communities as well as the Egyptian Ministry of Water Resource & Irrigation, with execution by the JV Metito-Orascom Construction Ltd. The project has a capacity of 250,000 m3/day and will address the demand for drinking water in the city and its neighboring areas. “Contribution to transformative projects not only provide immediate benefits to our society but also prepare our people for a sustainable future”, stated H.E Rania A. AlMashat. “Cultivating emerging technologies, impacting jobs, and preserving our environment, with inclusivity in mind are cornerstones of our development projects which play a key role in achieving a circular economy”, added H.E Rania A. AlMashat. Egyptian media interviews Karim Madwar, Metito Africa Managing Director Karim Madwar, Metito Africa Managing Director, discusses the shifts in global and national water policies in Egypt, linking these to sustainable development processes. He addresses the Egyptian Cabinet’s expansion plans through water desalination and purification projects, highlighting these as crucial to the development of the country’s water sector. In another separate interview, Madwar speaks about Metito’s Karim Madwar, Metito Africa Managing Director journey as a company for over 60 years, its fields of work and 21 METITO.COM Global award-winning Al Mahsamma Plant , 1,000,000m3/d capacity Al Mahsamma Project inaugurated by Egypt This project resonates with a few of the UN’s Sustainable President, H.E Abdel Fattah El Sisi Development Goals including ‘Clean Water and Sanitation’ (SDG 6) and ‘Sustainable Cities and Communities’ (SDG 11). This was yet another testament to the global importance of this project and why it has been named the winner of some notable global awards including; CFI 2020 award for Best Recycling and Reuse Water Project (Global); the Best Water/Wastewater Project 2020 by Engineering News-Record (ENR) 8th annual Global Best Projects competition; Construction Innovation Awards “Infrastructure Project of the Year for 2019; and Shortlisted for the Global Water Awards 2020-Wastewater Project of the Year award. Thomson Reuters and Flair Magazine Interview with Karim Madwar Karim Madwar, Metito Africa Managing Director, explains H.E President Abdel Fattah El Sisi officially inaugurated Al the measures taken by Metito Mahsamma agricultural drainage treatment, recycling and in the face of the COVID-19 reuse plant in Ismailia Governorate. The USD100 million pandemic considering the project has been developed under the supervision of the directives of the World Armed Forces Engineering Authority by the JV Metito, Hassan Health Organization and Allam. the Egyptian Government in The JV scope of work for this flagship project includes the his interview with Thomson engineering, construction, operations (EC&O), commissioning Reuters. In another interview and O&M for five years. Al Mahsamma plant has a capacity with Flair Magazine, he of 1,000,000m³/day and is built over an area of 42,000sqm discusses the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the business making it the largest plant of-its-kind in the world. and the measures that Metito implemented as a multinational company. Al Mahsamma forms part of Egypt’s progressive and multipronged approach to ensuring the country’s water Madwar then mentions how Metito created specialized security through wastewater treatment, desalination, and teams that ensure the health and safety of its employees and the preservation of natural water resources. The plant’s daily guarantee business continuity to meet the needs of clients. capacity will contribute to the preservation of the natural The Group also placed special communication channels for ecology of the Al Temsah Lake, located west of the Suez Canal, field workers for seamless operations. which has been impacted by wastewater disposal in previous years. 22 METITO.COM Leading by Example Despite the global COVID-19 pandemic, Metito Utilities ME features Dammam West ISTP and led consortium reaches financial close for Saudi interviews Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Arabia's first-of-its-kind Independent Sewage Director Treatment Plant Utilities ME featured the Dammam West and interviewed Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, to understand why Metito considers this project milestone is a strategic achievement for the water and wastewater industry in the MENASA region as the world navigates through the COVID-19 pandemic. Rami also highlights how the financial structure for the project is a testament to its importance, scale, and impact, and the confidence of all stakeholders in its sustainable success. Gulf Construction – Metito builds on record performance In an exclusive interview with Gulf Construction, Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, speaks about the Saudi Water Partnership Company (SWPC) and the Consortium achievements of Metito in the Middle East. He discusses how led by the Metito Group, including companies Mowah and Metito has recently made giant inroads into the wastewater Orascom Construction, reached a successful financial closing sector in the region. He highlights the work in Saudi Arabia, for the Kingdom’s first independent sewage treatment plant having won key water projects such as the Dammam West (ISTP) in February 2020. The project located in Dammam West Independent Sewage Treatment Plant (ISTP) Project, and two is under the Build-Own-Operate-Transfer (BOOT) concession other projects in UAE – the upgrade of the Sharjah Sewage model with a tenor of 25 years. The project is worth US$245M Treatment Works (phase four and five) and the rehabilitation with the investment made up of a combination of equity and of the Al Falaya sewage treatment plant in Ras Al Khaimah. debt. He also comments on Metito’s plans to further invest in The financial close of this first-of-its-kind project comes new technologies, access new markets and structure despite the global COVID-19 pandemic, which froze many new partnerships as it continues to lead mega fast-track large-scale projects around the world. The Dammam ISTP desalination and wastewater recycling and reuse projects has a designed capacity of 350,000 m3/day and an initial across the world. capacity of 200,000 m3/day and will serve the western region of Dammam. 23 METITO.COM Metito led Consortium awarded 55 MWe ac gridMEED: Low oil price to drive water projects tied solar power plant in Bangladesh In Bangladesh, natural gas and oil are used as the fuels Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director mostly used in generating electricity (appx. 70% of the country’s electricity needs). With such dependency, there is a lot of pressure on the natural resources and they are Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, shared his insights rapidly depleting. In response to this evolving scenario, the on how low oil prices can be used to incentivize large-scale Bangladesh Government is adapting a progressive approach desalination projects across the GCC in an interview with to sustainability, giving greater attention and support to MEED. He comments on the GCC’s water solution industry integrating renewable energy for power generation as a and how COVID-19 could challenge clients to commit to mega strategic objective. infrastructure water projects. He highlights the increased demand for water, both regionally and globally as a result of This year, a Metito led consortium comprising Metito, Al the global pandemic. Jomaih and Jinko Power (the Consortium), was awarded by the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) the project to implement 55-megawatts electric (MWe) grid-tied solar power project at Rangunia, Chattogram. The Project will be Wafic Ghanem, Metito Group CFO, featured in developed on a Build Own Operate (BOO) basis under a 20 Forbes ME years concession agreement. The news followed an earlier announcement confirming the Consortium as the ‘lowest bidder’ with the competitive tariff of $0.0749/kWh — the lowest ever reported in Bangladesh at the time of the award. The land on which the project will be developed is provided by BPDB and located near to Chandraghona 132/33 kV grid substation of Power Grid Corporation of Bangladesh (PGCB). The electric power which will be generated by the Project will be evacuated through 132/33 kV Chandraghona Grid Substation, Chattogram, Bangladesh and the project will be connected to the 132/33 kV Chandraghona Grid substation by a single ckt 132 kV (O/H or U/G, as required) line (“interconnection line”). Commenting on the award, Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, said “Bangladesh has a very progressive leadership and such projects, which harness the power of alternative/ renewable energy, are a true testament to such visionary Wafic Ghanem , Metito Chief Financial Officer approach to sustainability. We are honored to be part of this truly synergistic and formidable consortium, where all partners Wafic Ghanem, Metito Chief Financial Officer, was featured bring unique expertise to the mix, maximizing shared value to in Forbes Middle East. The leadership piece demonstrated our client and the community. We now look forward to working Wafic’s insights on the banking environment and appetite closely with BPDB to move to the next stages of the project changes in the past years, particularly on debt financing of and we are confident it will be a huge success.” long-term projects. 24 METITO.COM Leading by Example Big Project ME – Sustainable Traction Climate Control – WFES 2020: Developing an ecosystem for innovation Rami Ghandour, Managing Director, participation as a panelist and moderator at the World Future Energy Summit (WFES) in January 2020; he discussed the growing impact of new technologies on the water sector. He talked about how the industry can implement new technologies in practice and touched on the two slightly contrasting themes of decoupling of the water from the power and the move towards multiutilities evident in some projects. The Peninsula – Metito Qatar expands vehicle fleet to further strengthen its growing operations and network management capabilities Fady Juez, Metito Managing Director, was interviewed by Big Project ME, where he talked about the positive impact of water preservation and wastewater recycling and reuse on the region and how sustainable projects are gaining traction due to economic diversification. MEED – Iraq water crisis threatens to deepen Fady Juez, Metito Managing Director, was interviewed by Walid Oraby, Metito General Manager, Qatar MEED to talk about the evolving water crisis in Iraq. In his statements, Fady speaks of how the practice of upstream damming and decreased rainfall have contributed to Iraq’s With a growing portfolio of iconic projects, expanding water challenges. He also touches on a plan drawn by the services and a sustainable business in Qatar, Metito Qatar is Iraqi Government aiming at overcoming the water shortage continuously adding to its resources to better serve its clients crisis in the long term and suggests how the government and the wider community. Most recently, the company has and the authorities at the governorate level must invest more acquired a significant number of all-new KIA Seltos SUV’s efficiently in water infrastructure and sanitation projects to from its trusted partner, Al-Attiya Motors and Trading Co. avoid slow project delivery and a negative impact on the overall (AMTC). The new vehicles complement Metito Qatar’s already wellbeing of the local communities and developmental efforts. impressive fleet of company vehicles. Walid Oraby, Metito Qatar General Manager, said, “...we are adamant to continue providing our services in Qatar in the Celebrating “OurWaterWorkers” most professional, efficient and timely manner. To ensure No matter where Metito operates and what the situation is, this high level of responsiveness, we continuously invest in everyone can always rely on our People. our operational capabilities and the resources needed for the mobility of our operations team. As part of such efforts, we are Everyone plays a critical role in making the world a better happy to be one of the first few companies in Qatar to acquire and more sustainable place in their own way. Every day, the KIA Seltos – whose motto of 'No Matter What Comes Next' we celebrate #OurWaterWorkers and those who remain syncs well with our corporate philosophy. We are confident committed to making a difference, adding value and delivering this will be a valuable addition to our resources and servicing their best, despite challenges and without any prejudice. capabilities.'' 25 METITO.COM INDUSTRY RECOGNITION • Best Water/Wastewater Project at the 8th annual Global Best Projects 2020 competition by Engineering NewsRecord (ENR) SWPC and a Metito-led Consortium win the Finance & Partnerships WEX Global Award • Best Recycling and Reuse Water Project 2020 by Capital Finance International (CFI.co) Saudi Water Partnership Company (SWPC) and the Consortium led by the Metito Group and comprising Mowah and Orascom • Wastewater Project of the Year award at Global Water Construction won the Finance / Partnerships WEX Global Awards 2020 by Global Water Intelligence (GWI). Award for the Dammam Independent Sewage Treatment Al Mahsamma project was recognized for its engineering Plant (ISTP) Project. The Dammam ISTP is the first municipal advancements, contribution to the conservation of the natural wastewater public-private partnership (PPP) deal in the ecology of the Al Temsah Lake, located west of the Suez Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Canal, which has been impacted by wastewater disposal, and ties in with the Egyptian Government’s efforts to strengthen Sinai’s economic activities by creating sustainable urban Al Mahsamma Project wins global accolades communities and job opportunities in the area. AME Info – Exclusive: Smart, sustainable solutions and technological intervention can avert the depletion Al Mahsamma agricultural drainage treatment, recycling, and reuse plant, world’s largest project of its kind, has been awarded global and regional awards: Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director had an exclusive interview with AME Info to discuss the current state of • Infrastructure Project of the Year at Construction the region’s industry, water use and reuse challenges and Innovation Awards 2019 solutions that can help support it. 26 METITO.COM Leading by Example Most Progressive Disruptive Policy in Water Reuse IDA Award Metito received the ‘Progressive Disruptive Policy in Water Reuse’ award at the International Desalination Award (IDA) 2019 World Congress. The prestigious accolade was awarded to Metito for its relentless contribution to water policies in the region. Metito was commended for being active in moving the needle in the public sector to support and grow water reuseimplementation through ground-breaking projects and partnerships. Al Masry Al Youm Karim Madwar, Metito Africa Managing Director, spoke to the esteemed Al Masry Al Youm newspaper about Al Mahsamma project which is in line with the Cabinet’s plan to develop the Sinai Peninsula as one of the sustainable urban communities in the country. He also talks about the costs and the recordbreaking execution time which a project milestone. Karim highlights the record-breaking execution time during which the project was executed and the remarkable 2million safe man-hours. 27 METITO.COM Certificate of Environmental Accomplishment Metito wins prestigious CIO Award with its Business Application, IT & Digital Transformation Metito was recognized for its innovative Information Technology (IT) management system by the coveted CIO Awards. Celebrating the innovation, intelligence and intuition demonstrated by organizations, this prestigious award was presented to Metito in recognition of its business digital transformation through new systems: chemical plant controller auto reporting, factory tagging with barcode & drawing automation and other projects. Metito’s Chemical Division created the chemical plant controller auto reporting with a dashboard portal to address the need to rely on vendor-supplied raw data. The system supports the management of multiple clients, accommodates client’s logos, periodic data and produces a summary of the report. The system also allows comments to be added for each chart of each controller based on a chart priority. As part of process optimization on the shop floor, factory tagging was rolled out to enable users to efficiently track parts and drawing, manage manufacturing process including stage Metito participated in an environmentally friendly solution capturing which improves the internal information flow. provider Shred-It, Shredding and Recycling program. Through its participation, the company saved 151.96 trees Other aspects of Metito commended by CIO Awards include from destruction in September 2019 and received a certificate improvement in transparency and efficiency achieved in nonto commemorate this achievement. confirmation report (NCR) enhancement, unpriced purchase order (PO) digitalization, centralized document repository This certificate exemplifies Metito's commitment to a cleaner (CDR), estimate of completion (EAC), self-help forecasting environment and another step towards addressing challenges approval rule automation among other projects. related to climate change and the preservation of natural resources. 28 METITO.COM Team Building Metito basketball team remains unbeatable at in 2020. The sports event not only kept everyone physically active the 14th DIP Corporate Sports Competition but also promoted camaraderie, motivation and teamwork. Metito Pune keeps the team active with indoor workouts Teamwork always works: For the fifth consecutive year, Metito UAE’s basketball team won the championship at the 14th Dubai Investment Park (DIP) Corporate Sports Competition. The winning team consisted of Naoll Mary-VP MUL Operations; Hiem Hedhiri-Metito MOL Asia QHSE Manager and Siegfred Panilagao-Metito Asia QHSE Team Leader. Metito Pune team introduced new indoor activities like Zumba, kickboxing and meditation to promote a culture of healthy wellbeing in the office. The activities are done weekly with its Metito took part in Dubai Standard Chartered fitness partner, PNX Fitness Consultancy. Marathon 2020 As part of the Metito’s ongoing team building activities, Metito UAE participated in the Dubai’s Standard Chartered Marathon 29 METITO.COM 30 METITO.COM Our People 31 METITO.COM Our People Aligning with the UN Sustainable Development Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Goals (SDGs) Metito supports the development of resilient infrastructure, inclusive and sustainable industrialization and innovation. We The UN SDGs provide the global community with a roadmap on do this by systematically exploring ways to increase the use how to combat global challenges related to economic, social of eco-friendly technologies, optimizing operations, product and environmental sustainability. As global water solutions and process innovation. Metito was the first to introduce the leader, Metito’s sustainability work is aligned with the reverse osmosis technology for drinking water in the 1970s objectives of the SDGs – with a focus on five goals in particular. and continues to pioneer new technologies and solutions in Clean Water and Sanitation the industry. Metito is committed to fulfilling this goal fundamentally Sustainable Cities and Communities through working in an industry aimed at closing the gap Metito is developing sustainable projects that trigger cycles between increased water demand and the dwindling natural of prosperity for the communities being served. Resources, resources. We work towards meeting this goal directly through cities and human settlements can become more resilient and sustainable projects to treat wastewater, recycle and reuse it more productive with access to clean, safe water. across some of the most arid regions in the world. Climate Action Example project: Al Mahsamma agricultural drainage treatment, recycling and reuse in Egypt, the award-winningContinuous efficiency improvements in production and world largest plant of its type. processes, as well as the integration of alternative energy solutions in larger projects and operational office, are all Decent Work and Economic Growth helping Metito to contribute to this goal. Metito promotes inclusive and sustainable economic growth by providing water and alternative management solutions to make mega-lifeline projects more viable. Metito also prioritizes labor rights and maintains a decent work environment with equal pay, advanced health and safety measures and gender balance. 32 32 METITO.COM Our People Sustainable Human Capital Management impacts while adding shared value to the ecosystems we work within. We aim to exceed Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) The Metito Human Capital function strives for sustainable requirements in every project we lead and are continuously and effective approaches to protect the overall interests of improving our standards to international benchmarks and our employees, customers and the broader community. Our corporate standards. values are future-oriented and focused on recruiting, training and refresher course for employees – our most valuable asset. We convey our commitment, as we engage closely with our employees, business partners, public authorities and our In our mission to harmonize our work-life balance, we communities to address concerns, manage expectations, continuously emphasize individual responsibility and provide sustainable and actionable solutions and communicate accountability as well as embed the concepts of social results. responsibility and giving back to the communities we serve. This completes the full cycle of enrichment for our employees Sustainable development is a long-term goal for our Group. Adopting new environmentally and socially conscious At Metito Group, we apply a model of sustainable human operations is fundamental to our progressive agenda. We are capital management that is linked to specific goals that taking up projects to provide safe access to clean water and include individual responsibility, the enhanced scope of more sustainable water resources especially from previously decision-making, as well as working through challenges with wasted wastewater and community projects. This supports clear objectives. With this in focus, we have recently realigned education, health and basic amenities in areas where there is our business functions to have Quality, Health, Safety, Security a dire need and access to clean water. and the Environment (QHSSE) ethos fall under the Human Capital department at a corporate level. This change will allow Overall, our current sustainability program is making good us to streamline our focus on health and safety and overall progress and we are working hard to end our 2020 program sustainability with our human capital strategies and future. on a positive note. We are committed to reducing our environmental footprint to help mitigate our impact on climate Metito’s QHSSE mission will continue to be implemented change by increasing our usage of renewable energy. We do across all levels in line with our commitment to responsible this by integrating it in the projects we develop or for general operations and a cleaner environment. We execute this by consumption in our global operational offices. minimizing any possible adverse environmental and social · Culture Attitudes Values · Companies Individual Strategies ● Instruments ● Methods ● Objectives Processes ● Structures 33 33 METITO.COM Managing People in Unprecedented Times The COVID-19 pandemic has taken the world by storm, causing global disruptions across sectors and unpredictable fluctuations. Well-established and agile companies, such as Metito, are navigating through the evolving situation with solidity and confidence with support from its proactive management team. As early as March 2020, Metito Chairman and CEO, Mutaz Ghandour, launched the Business Continuity Leadership Team (BCLT) to execute Metito’s business continuity plan and the related Emergency Response and Recovery plan. The BCLT is a cross-organizational task force who worked on scenario planning and business impact analysis about the critical functions/areas which they oversee. The team has two core mandates: 1) To safeguard the health and safety of employees; and 2) To plan and manage any business implications from any disruptive scenarios that may interrupt business operations The team agreed on response strategies and assigns on-ground response teams to maintain active crisis management capabilities in the event of emergencies. Metito is committed to leaving no stone unturned and remaining vigilant while navigating the evolving situation, together with our people, safely and successfully. 34 METITO.COM Employees by Employees by Our People Length of Service Nationality 4% 2% 61% 53.28% 60% 45.83% 15% < 5 years 50% 5-10 years 40% 30% 10-15 years 20% 15-20 years 10% 0.08% 0.81% 18% 0% > 20 years A n n M fric A ea ia id an C me ro As dl p e an Ea d Au ana ric Eu ster st dia an/ ra n n lia / n Training Statistics 22% Training Type Technical Non-Technical 78% QHSE Statistics 7,095,244 0.42 No. of Safe Man-Hours since LTI Frequency Rate since June 2019 May 2020 June 2019 May 2020 35 METITO.COM The “ ” In Humanity 36 METITO.COM Community Initiatives Metito Thailand pays it forward Children’s Cancer Center of Lebanon (CCCL) During the early days of the evolving global pandemic, Metito Metito provides ongoing support to the Thailand reached out to local communities to donate essential Children’s Cancer Center of Lebanon food supplies and face masks. The team also provided the (CCCL) by sponsoring a charity event residents with training on basic hygiene to avoid the spread organized by its center in Dubai. CCCL’s of COVID-19. mission is to provide access to free treatment and care to all children with cancer in Lebanon and the wider region, without any discrimination and prejudice. Celebrating International Women’s Day Metito Indonesia supports Red Cross Becasi City in its 13th-year blood drive Metito Indonesia participated in the community blood donation program organized by Red Cross Becasi City. In 2019, 78 Metito employees were qualified to be donors and took part in the quarterly blood drive. An equal world is an enabled world – Metito marked International Women’s day in its offices across the globe. Team members gathered to challenge stereotypes, fight bias, broaden perception and improve situations while celebrating women’s achievements. 37 METITO.COM Al Noor – Supporting Children with special needs Address Sky View Hotel in Downtown Dubai. Various sports and social activities took place to showcase the rich culture of A small donation for a unique cause – Sri Lanka to other nationalities in the UAE. Metito provided free water treatment services for the swimming pool at Al Noor Training Centre for Persons with Disabilities. Benefiting from the initiative, Metito India partners up with the Government of the children have been enjoying the clean India to launch a campaign on clean air water pool for their motor skills activities and development exercises. Metito: Gold Sponsor at Dubai’s Lanka Lions Sports Club Supporting the Government of India’s National Clean Air Program, Metito India launched a company initiative to raise awareness on clean air. Metito employees volunteered to get their vehicles tested for smoke emission, ensuring their automobiles comply with the program to improve air quality. The national program also included authorized agencies that aim sustainable solutions on health, safety and environment Metito was one of the main sponsors of The Lanka Lions protection. Sports Club’s 40th anniversary. Established in 1977 in Dubai, the association was created to bring the Sri Lankan community together in the UAE. The anniversary party was hosted at The 38 METITO.COM Community Initiatives Planet Water Foundation provides community water system installations in seven countries with Metito as one of the global donors In celebration of World Water Day, Planet Water Foundation, a leading non-profit organization that addresses global water poverty by providing clean water access and hygiene education programs provided water system installations through a programme called Project 24. The program, with the support of global brands, will provide 31 drinking water systems in schools across seven Asian countries: Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Mexico, the Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam. Committed to a cleaner environment, Metito, along with other donor partners, builds an AquaTower to serve the daily water needs of up to 1,800 people in the impoverished community of Dong Than, Vietnam. 39 METITO.COM Knowledge Sharing Continuous learning... Our strategy of staying Addressing global water challenges at the IDA competitive World Congress Metito commits to providing world-class engineering solutions Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, took part in the by conducting periodical training to ensure the team remains panel discussing public-private-partnership models for new updated, informed, equipped and ahead in the competitive and existing markets in the MENA region and worldwide. In water industry. a separate discussion, Fady Juez, Metito Managing Director, IDA Board Member and Co-Chairman of the IDA World In line with this, Metito India launched multidisciplinary Congress Technical Committee shared his perspectives about training for the local team covering time management, the growing trends and opportunities in the engineering integrated management systems awareness, technical procurement and construction markets. Both panels were training on valves, quality control basics, welding and materials attended by valued thought leaders, who shared in-depth and testing basics. Informative sessions were also organized knowledge and strategic insights on the broader industry. to discuss how each team member can contribute to creating a lower carbon footprint. Metito also led different technical presentations which covered the following topics: ‘Sewage to high purity treated effluent with no liquid waste attached growth pipe and low-temperature distillation’, ‘Latest technologies for desalination, wastewater Paying it forward: Summer internships recycling and reuse; untapped opportunities’ and ‘Pioneering fast track mega desalination plants and best practices’. Metito India launched a summer training and an internship program which includes theoretical and technical training, as well as knowledge sharing between peers. This provides budding local talent with the opportunity to explore a career in the water industry with one of the world’s leading intelligent water solutions provider. 40 METITO.COM METITO.COM 41 METITO.COM Knowledge Sharing metito.com Design and Build l Utilities l Chemicals Intelligent Water Management
