Index CEO Statement 01 Our Identity 03 Our Approach to the SDGs 05 ALFA Sustainability Strategy 09 Acting for our Business 10 Acting for our People 13 Acting for our Planet 23 The Road Ahead 25 CEO Statement To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that ALFA reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. 01 The Twenty-Fifth Anniversary of ALFA: After a quarter of a century of Milestones and success worthy of a silver Jubilee, Alfa was able to solidify its position as a leader and play a major role in providing happiness through our technology and innovations. 2018 was a significant year in the course of Alfa’s development, a turning point moment for the telecommunications sector in Lebanon. We moved into a new digital revolution from the launch of GSM to the first trial of 5G experience in Lebanon. Since we made the very bold promise to become a Happiness Provider and not just a mere Digital Provider, all of our current activities are geared towards fulfilling this promise. As we gear towards IoT, the possibilities are immense. We have launched 5G in September 2019 and our teams were fully focused on accomplishing this goal. We have also successfully pioneered technology induction by covering 99% of the Lebanese territory and Lebanese population with speed up to 250mbps. Thus, serving as an important growth engine that drives economic development and improves people’s livelihood with the digital innovation it initiates. Spearheading Sustainable Development As an active community partner, and as our commitment to 2030 agenda, one of our main focuses remain the cause of “People with Iron Will”, which is deeply rooted in our DNA as part of our CSR program, Alfa 4-Life. I am very proud to say that we have championed this cause on an international level and from the United Nations precisely where I took part in the UN Global Compact Leaders’ Summit 2018. From this platform, I reiterated the call for the use of People with Iron Will designation instead of People with Special Needs. This was welcomed by global leaders and peers who endorsed this initiative and congratulated Alfa for it. Closer to our Customers “We are one of the few organizations We will continue to empower our societies and our customers through ongoing network modernization and bringing latest that are capable of delivering the technologies as well as creating the needed infrastructure country’s digital transformation for digital innovation and enabling the e-government. Alfa’s focus is to promote a culture that embraces technology goals” innovation where everyone is aware of the massive change and opportunities new technologies can and will bring to the country. We look forward to continue to change destinies and be a source of happiness to our customers and community. 02 Our Identity Alfa is Lebanon’s first mobile network, managed by Orascom Telecom, Media and Technology (OTMT) since 2009. Alfa capitalizes on the vast know-how and international expertise of OTMT in order to deliver quality and professional solutions for the mobile sector in Lebanon. Alfa currently serves close to 2 million subscribers and its state of the art network covers 99% of the populated areas in Lebanon with 2G, 3G+ and LTE-A technologies. The mobile telecommunications sector has been one of the 03 greatest contributors to financial development for Lebanon’s economy which has been undergoing constant stagnation due to the local vulnerability and neighborhood political turmoil. Since inception, Alfa has been a continuous pioneer operator and innovator in providing network and access to data, especially with the current rapid changes in the sector. The broadcast communications division is an opportunity to kick the monetary recession and report strong development regarding market infiltration and benefits. Alfa has taken several measures in developing innovative solutions to complex requirements and demands through investing in technology advancement. Examples of major technological achievement are Alfa’s efforts in being the first to complete a nationwide deployment of the 4G LTE-A (4G+) network in addition to being the first to launch, in partnership with Ericsson, the integrated 5G live experience in Lebanon with live demos highlighting Virtual Reality and the huge 5G speeds in Lebanon. As highlighted in this report, our commitment to Sustainability guides us in everything we do. This has helped us to be proud of our achievements in the domain of CSR and establish a leading telecommunication position in our own country. We are the citizens of our community, proud of our belonging, We provide competitive telecommunications services while Who We Are maintaining the highest quality of service by upholding our sustainable commitments year after year. We aspire to lead the change in the Telecommunications Industry by employing advanced technologies and adaptable Alfa’s Inspirations mobile solutions to the Lebanese Market, creating an innovative model of social responsibility and fostering our stakeholder engagement through an agile value creation system. We believe in the potential of our PEOPLE by building on talents through the development of the right knowledge and skills, enabling our Talented and Engaged PEOPLE to lead the way and secure sustainable growth. We believe in building a Sustainable Business Model by investing our talents and engaging our stakeholders for the benefit of our Society, our People and our Environment Alfa’s Beliefs through pioneering Responsible operations and initiatives. We believe in the Power of AGILITY by constantly enhancing our Business Processes, Talent Management and Technologies, stimulating thus, Competitive Advantage and Strategic Differentiation. We believe in delivering an Outstanding Customer Experience by striving for Excellence and anticipating our customers’ needs, thus, turning them into our Brand Ambassadors. 04 Our Approach to the SDGs The 17 Sustainable Development goals that were adopted by the UN, in 2015, constitute for ALFA a business map and model. Our energy and drive are mobilized to improve the quality of life of the Lebanese community. We have the tool (Technology), the will and the vision to achieve the 17 Sustainable Development Agenda for the benefit of the country. The new government has officially adopted the 2030 UN SDGs agenda in the Ministerial statement and called for full integration of the SDGs in national programs and strategies which adds more responsibility to the role of ALFA 05 in Lebanon. We have engineered our sustainability journey around a vision to transform all of our social beliefs into tangible actions, and to fully integrate sustainable development principles in all of our operations. Thus we’ve been championing our three primary SDGs, #3: Good Health and Well Being, #9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure and #10 Reduced Inequalities. In addition, ALFA has committed to a number of secondary SDGs as showcased in the picture: #4, #5, #6, #8, #11, #13, #14, #15 and 17. A Call to Adopt “People with Iron Will” In the spirit of working towards the 2030 agenda, Mr. Marwan Hayek participated in the roundtable hosted by the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit 2018, which brought together the world’s top corporate leaders. Held at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, this summit is part of the annual United Nations meetings that coincide with the General Assembly. The dialogue focused on efforts made to promote equality and human rights as an engine and a guarantee for the success of all companies, in addition to the steps taken by companies in the context of achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. In his intervention, Mr. Hayek stressed that Alfa’s commitment to the SDGs is part of the continuous commitment of contribution to the society, and most importantly to achieve sustainability for humanity, society and the company. He called upon everyone for changing the common designation of ‘People with special needs/ disability’ and for replacing it with “People With Iron Will”, which is the designation Alfa launched and which reflects the willpower and determination of this dear segment of society which serves as an example for the whole Lebanese society. He stressed that the cause of People with Iron Will is the cause of Alfa. Awards and Recognitions 2018 In 2018, Alfa became the first mobile operator in the Middle East that was awarded two ISO certifications: ISO 14001 for Environmental Management and ISO 45001 for Occupational Health and Safety, by the certification body “Groupe AFNOR” accredited by COFRAC. 06 1st CEO of a Lebanese Operator on the Board of Directors of Samena Telecom Council: Alfa Chairman & CEO, Marwan Hayek, was elected as a member of the Board of Directors of SAMENA Telecommunications Council, a tri-regional (South Asia, Middle East and North Africa) telecoms industry association (around 90 telecom operators’ members) and a sector development partner to regulatory authorities. Hayek receives the “Alfa Super Cup” from Al-Riyadi Club Alfa CEO and Chairman Mr. Marwan Hayek, received at the company’s headquarters in Parallel Towers, Dekwaneh a delegation from Al-Riyadi Club headed by the President of the Club Mazen Tabbara with Secretary Tammam Jaroudi in addition to the technical staff and men’s team players. Al-Riyadi offered the Alfa Cup to Hayek, as a tribute to Alfa for its continuous support for the team. 07 ALFA Sustainability Strategy To remain a leader in corporate sustainability, we toiled to foster a culture that transforms our business from our mindsets to our corporate structure, to our products and services. As an industry leader, we advocate strongly on how Information and Communications Technology along with partnerships between the public and private sector can help shape a sustainable world. Throughout this report, we illustrate how our business performance spills over on all core competencies namely our 09 People and the Planet. In fact, digital transformation requires smart thinking and planning as well as people, consumers and communities who think in a smart way and who are equipped with the needed digital tools and a reliable network, hence they need an operator like Alfa. BUSINESS PEOPLE PLANET Acting for our Business With the rapidly changing telecommunications industry, we decided to focus on innovation to assist us in translating our commitments to sustainability into practical programs. We have the know-how when it comes to digital infrastructure and we are at the forefront of innovation and technology. Our high speeds are accessible by every user in Lebanon and through our nationwide 4G LTE-A network, customers can enjoy speeds of 200-250 mbits/sec. This proudly puts Lebanon among the countries having the latest technological infrastructure and being listed again among the top 30 countries worldwide and 3rd in MENA region in terms of 4G speeds. In 2019, we will witness the launch of 5G which will be a major milestone for us and the cornerstone to the digital transformation of Lebanon. This will enable us to be a provider of all kinds of digital technologies including IoT that will be massively deployed within the next couple of years. This will also enable us to be directly involved with the government and local authorities to enable optimization of the public infrastructure and resources through smart planning, and actively participate in finding solutions for challenges faced by Lebanese citizens and governmental institutions on the levels of lifestyle, security, mobility, manufacturing, utilities and health among others. THE ROAD TO 5G Since 2017, Alfa established official partnerships with Ericsson and Nokia to prepare for the rollout of 5G network. Since then, Alfa engaged in a substantial modernization plan that aimed at replacing its legacy systems with cloud based and virtualized platforms. The First VoLTE Call in Lebanon As part of its network modernization, Alfa was the first Lebanese operator to test VoLTE in Lebanon and among the first in the MENA region to deploy it. The test involved a direct VoLTE call made between Minister of Telecommunications and Alfa CEO Marwan Hayek demonstrating a call setup time of less than one second. The VoLTE service provides its users with 2 main advantages: First, a staggering call setup time of 1 to 2 seconds compared to a 7-10 second span on regular 2G or 3G calls. Second, a high definition sound quality. 10 The First 5G Experience in Lebanon Following its successful completion of the first 5G trial in Lebanon, Alfa in cooperation with Ericsson, held the first integrated 5G Live experience in Lebanon. The two-day event introduced the public and university students at Alfa headquarters to never-before-seen techniques in Lebanon, demonstrating the 5G network potential and wide range as well as huge speeds that exceed current speeds by 100 times to reach 25 gigabits per second (Gbps). As we enter the new digital revolution, where 5G is an essential element, we will be able to develop virtual intelligence, M2M and the IOT applications. “We have accompanied this new revolution from its beginning, and it represents the continuity of our journey, from the pioneer launch of GSM to 5G. We were also the first to launch 3G, 4G, and 4G+ technologies, making us a “happiness provider” to the Lebanese through the quality of service and Internet speeds that are reflected on their lives and their work” 5G will have a huge impact on the economy for the next 15 years, with global GDP expected to grow by 2.9 percent, and 5G contributing to 0.2 percent of this GDP. It will also create 22 million new jobs globally, most of which are new jobs, hence the primary role of the educational sector and educational institutions is to educate the young generation on the specialties in demand. Enabling a broad set of industries Supporting a thriving value chain Driving global GDP growth We believe that 5G is a game changer on which depends our sustainability. It will enable us to achieve high speeds and latency as low as 5 milliseconds. In addition, 5G will drive IoT adoption in Lebanon as well as abroad. 11 SUPER HIGH SPEED INTERNET ALL OVER LEBANON: DATA SPEED NETWORK UPLOAD DOWNLOAD GSM 9.6 Kbit/s 9.6 Kbit/s GPRS 20 Kbit/s 40 Kbit/s EDGE 70 135 kbps typical and Peak at 236.8 Kbps 70 135 kbps typical and Peak at 236.8 Kbps HSDPA 500 kbps to 1.2 Mbps Typical and Peak at 2 Mbps 700 kbps to 1.7 Mbps typical and Peak at 7.2 Mbps 4G LTE * 50 Mbps 150 Mbps 4GPlus / LTE-A * 50 Mbps 250 Mbps In 2018 7.1% increase in 3G+ 8.6% increase in LTE Sites 11.7% increase in LTE-A Sites Mobile Internet Speed ranked 28 worldwide, 3rd in MENA, 42% increase in data Traffic MORE INITIATIVES DONE IN 2018 Alfa launches IPv6 Alfa launched IPv6, which makes trillions of IP addresses available to its subscribers. This release comes within the framework of Alfa’s future vision and strategy for the development of the mobile sector in Lebanon. It addresses the challenge faced by Internet users with the IPv4 release and namely the scarcity and depletion of IPv4 addresses. Huge Demand on Alfa’s 4G/LTE Roaming Service Alfa announced that its 4G /LTE Roaming service, launched exclusively to its subscribers and visitors to Lebanon, has witnessed tremendous growth since its launch in October 2017. It indicated that there was a 500 percent record growth in Internet consumption by visitors to Lebanon recently since the service became available on the 4G network after it had been previously available on the 3G network only. Internet consumption by Alfa subscribers, who used the service in the countries they visited, has increased by 100 percent. Since the launch of the service, Alfa has concluded agreements with 16 operators in the United States, Canada, Australia, Belgium, Italy, Greece and a number of Arab countries such as Bahrain, Egypt, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Oman, United Arab Emirates (full list available on our website http://alfamob.co/2hPoUBr). As part of Alfa’s constant quest to further extend the reach of this service, negotiations are underway with an additional number of operators to allow subscribers and visitors to benefit the most from it. The Roaming service on our 4G /LTE network, which is available exclusively from Alfa, is witnessing a huge demand because subscribers are heavily dependent on the Internet in their travels, and this is clearly reflected in the record increase of consumption by visitors to Lebanon. 12 Acting for our People Customer Centricity & Experience Innovation is at the core of our business and we aim to be always ahead of the curve so that we can best serve our customers and markets. We also aim to deliver outstanding customer experience by striving for excellence and anticipating our customers’ needs, thus turning them into brand ambassadors. IMPROVING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE: During 2018, several enhancements were applied on existing questionnaires to get more insights from our customers using the below different channels: 1. USSD 2. Mobile application 3. Website 4. Email 5. SMS 6. Alfa tablets in stores 7. Phone (Internal) Good answering ratio was noticed in 2018 (5.91%) comparing to 2017 (5.80%) USSD, Mobile application, website, Email have been continuously implemented on the related channels to get customers’ feedback. In addition, “New user”, “Churn” and “Post Complaints” surveys are always running to measure new joiners, churners and complainers customers respectively. “Post-complaint” survey is also launched to measure Products and Services performance and satisfaction. After each survey, the loop is closed within 15 days: Customer experience analyze all open-ended questions available in the filled surveys and raise related complaints and requests to concerned entities. Customers are contacted by concerned teams to get more information and solve raised issues/requests directly. Moreover, more than 100 recommendations, initiatives and actions triggered following survey analysis were raised in 2018 to enhance customer experience and meet customer’s need and expectation. Some of them were implemented as new project or added to operational activities , some of them rejected by concerned entities or added to the roadmap and others are still under feasibility/assessment. 13 Below are few examples: 1. Campaign to increase the Online Registration 2. Survey via SMS to customers complaining to check their feedback 3. Awareness about how to monitor data usage 4. New queuing system in all branches 5. Welcome call to be performed to all clients, not only the ones who purchase their lines from distributors 6. Reactivate line faster following payment 7. Data renewal and Freeze 8. Bill Reshuffling project 9. Dynamic data FAQ on the website with some general tips 10. Arabic SMS and Preferred language “Seeing the world through the eyes of our customers”/ Postpaid Customer Journey project was enhanced in 2018 by mapping internal KPIs, survey questionnaire, survey results and analysis to each stage. The map and recommendations were confirmed by an external market research company using a CAPI methodology. Postpaid personas were also created following all internal and external surveys to better understand homogenous groups, and develop a deeper understanding of our customers. In addition, mystery shopping and benchmark activities are daily done to improve customers’ experience and amend what impacts most the client. Based on their findings, we validate our assumptions, clearly identify specific areas of opportunity and prioritize improvements. EMPLOYEES SATISFACTION AND ENGAGEMENT AS CUSTOMERS IS ALSO PART OF CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE ROADMAP Continuous communications with Alfa employees to enhance the Customer Centric Culture were also part of 2018 activities: • CEMO messages covering survey results, benchmark and mystery reports, customer experience trends shared on weekly basis • Alfapedia messages dealing directly with customer service agents communicated on monthly basis • Induction sessions to introduce the customer experience and its importance to new joiners. It is done on adhoc basis “All customer experience related tasks in 2018 were mapped around the customer journey to ensure a holistic view in order to offer the best for the customer in terms of services, network and products” 14 Closer to our customers: Expanding ALFA Stores It goes back again to the happiness provider concept and strategy that we have adopted recently. We cannot claim that we are a happiness provider to our customers if they cannot reach us and interact with us. We have started expanding our Alfa stores and distribution channels. We are uplifting our stores’ concept making them customer-friendly in order for people – the youth in particular – to come and enjoy a unique experience of end-to-end interaction with the operator. We are planning as well to double this number again in the next couple of years because we want to be very close to our customers – proximity is highly important for them to interact with us and enjoy the level of service. Alfa opened 6 new stores as part of the expansion plan it launched in 2018 to strengthen its presence in all regions and keep pace with technological progress within the flagship concept. The opening of this store is part of our new strategy to stay abreast of technological developments in the way we deliver our services to subscribers in line with the services standards offered by operators around the world. New Alfa Stores in 2018: Tripoli, Minyara, Bikfaiya, Unesco, Chtoura and Joub Janine. Today, our network (2G, 3G+ and 4G+) covers 99% of the Lebanese territory and Lebanese population – MBB everywhere with speeds up to 250mpbs 15 Impactful Awareness Campaign: More than 90% of the Lebanese data users are using Facebook, WhatsApp, YouTube while 75% of them are using Instagram. These social media channels account for 70% of the total data traffic within Alfa network. Consequently, ALFA launched #NOTEVERYTHINGISFORSHARING campaign. Alfa launched an interactive and thought-provoking awareness campaign aimed at raising awareness about the need to share content (pictures and news) responsibly on social media. Entitled Window Watchers, the campaign consisted of installing large phone frames on the windows of several buildings in Beirut, turning them into innovative interactive screens carrying the slogan of the campaign #NotEverythingIsForSharing. As part of the campaign, several awareness videos were produced that presented different scenarios, some of them shocking, to highlight the importance of privacy and to remind people to keep somethings private and not share them on social media. The campaign witnessed great interaction by passers-by and caused a stir on social media. It aimed to point out that the content to be published on social media must be carefully selected and that personal moments, stances, or even political and social beliefs must be kept private because irresponsible publishing leads to devastating personal and professional repercussions. 16 EMPLOYEE NURTURING Our Alfa’s commitment towards our employees is to remain the employer of choice, starting with recruiting the right talents, recognizing our outstanding performers, creating a health and safety environment that ensures the wellbeing of Alfa employees, commitment to diversity, talent development plan, compensation and benefits and the diligent management of grievances and concerns. 1. Talent Development Process at Alfa New Employee Learning & Development Continuous Learning Culture Orientation Individual Development Plan Orientation Informal Learning Material Management Development Plan Individual & Organizational Employee Development Webinars Handbook Internal Training Design & Delivery Succession Planning & Development Internal Knowledge Sharing Safety & Security External Knowledge Sharing for Students/Academics Organizational Awareness Quality International Best Practices Feedback Collection and Reporting Assessment of Learning Efficiency Continuous Improvement 2. Overall Learning Efficiency: Learning opportunities are successfully implemented in line with internal Learning & Development Policy, and efficiency is regularly monitored and measured through specific tools and KPIs. 2016 2017 2018 Training Satisfaction Rate 82% 84% 85% Training Efficiency Rate 78% 78% 77% 3. Specific Development / Awareness: A. Safety and Security Trainings ● Information & Physical Security awareness sessions for all Alfa employees (yearly program). ● First Aid & Fire Control Trainings was imparted to 45 Alfa employees in collaboration with the Lebanese Red Cross & PROSEC. ● Road Safety awarenesssessions for all Alfa employees; moreover, targeted trainings were organized for specific groups for capability development and/or knowlegde enhancement (yearly, since 2016). ● General Safety awareness Safe practices are referred to in the “Code of Conduct” and are summarized in the Induction Presentation Physical Safety and IT Security trainings are extended to colleagues who needed improvement; assessment of employee knowledge level; reminders and communication about related policies and procedures. ● Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) awareness a. Specific HSE Awareness (5, 6, Dec 2018): 27 delegates b. Awareness of HSE-related ISO Standards for Alfa’s Top & Senior Management. 17 B. Expansion of Alfa’s Internal Pool of QMS Auditors With the aim of sustaining Alfa’s culture of quality and continuous improvement, a pool of Quality Management System Auditors was created in 2017, encompassing members from all departments who are responsible of auditing specific processes/activities within Alfa, including Road Safety practices, subsequently to Alfa’s achievement of ISO 39001 Certification for Road Safety Traffic Management. Accordingly, selected members attended a QMS Audit Training Program and were subject to assessment to become Alfa’s future internal QMS Auditors and/or Quality Ambassadors. In 2018, 7 colleagues were selected to attend RTS Intenal Auditor Program C. International Programs for Colleagues’ Individual Development In 2018, Alfa partnered with the International Institute for Management Development (IMD) to implement a management development program on “Leading Digital Business Transformation”, tackling best practices in leadership to navigate global trends challenging the Telco industry, while sustaining the agility of our people and our organization. 4. ISO 45001 for Occupational Health and Safety: Another major milestone in the course of Alfa’s development is to be the first telecom operator in the MENA to be awarded ISO 45001 for Occupational Health and Safety. In line with SDG 3 and our commitment to the 2030 agenda, this certification will provide our employees with safe and healthy workplaces by preventing work-related injury and ill health, as well improving the OH&S performance. 1Enterprise Risk Management and Continuous Improvement are being systematically implemented to identify and treat all emerging OHS issues. 2Road traffic safety is being re-enforced by the ISO39001 3The offices management is optimized in terms of emergency readiness and building management best practices 4The company doctor is an occupational medicine specialist ensuring the introduction of the latest trends in office health and safety, be it physical or mental. 5The workers that work on sites are equipped with state of the art PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) and offered adequate trainings. 6Alfa’s sites are designed as per the international relevant standards, codes, and best practices. 7Internal and external communication campaigns constantly stress of health and safety issues and conveys relevant tips. 18 COMMUNITY ALFA 4-Life CSR Program: Alfa 4-life showcases “the human side of Alfa” through which we strive to give back to our community and respond to its needs. It is the flagship of our Sustainability journey and a pledge 4-life. Through this 13 year program and ongoing, we continue to actively support the cause of People with Iron Will as part of our commitment to the 2030 UN Sustainable Agenda and SDG #10: Reduced Inequalities. At Alfa, we firmly believe that those people have an iron will to overcome the problems and difficulties they face on a daily basis, in order to be productive in the society. This is one of the means by which we’re contributing to the happiness of a very dear segment of our society by supporting their cause and helping them to become fully integrated. In 2018, we have implemented several initiatives in line with Alfa 4-Life CSR program: “Fleurs et Demeures” exhibition through the autism lens of the artist with Iron Will Ali Tlais at the Beirut Art Fair in collaboration with the Lebanese Autism Society. Opening of “Les Délices d’Alice” by Sesobel, the newly renovated boutique with the new brand conceived by Alfa. Christmas Choir by the SOS Children’s Villages Lebanon at AUB assembly hall. 19 Fashion show designed by the students of the Father Andeweg Institute for the Deaf. A total of 17 dresses were presented by eight students who were trained on fashion design in specialized workshops. Alfa held a dialogue on mental illness in partnership with the Association Fracophone Pour les Malades Mentaux (AFMM) during which 6 renowned artists signed their illustrated books about mental health and illnesses. Hairdressing workshop for ACSAUVEL students who attended a training workshop as “hair dressing assistant and shampoineur”. The students of ACSAUVEL, after a year of training, showed their determination, coordination, enthusiasm and team spirit through various sports games and activities such as basketball and gymnastics. A Friendly Basketball game for the People with Iron Will in collaboration with Joe Rahal Foundation. 20 Youth Programs In Parallel, and as part of Alfa’s commitment to the United Nations Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030, namely Goal 9, which promotes innovation in technology, Alfa has initiated in 2018 several partnerships to support youth and instill the entrepreneurial spirit amongst school and university students. For the sixth year in a row, it has organized the Girls in ICT Day, a day set by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) in order to encourage young girls to actively engage in studies in the ICT domain and enhance their knowledge about the sector, welcoming 42 young female students from 13 Lebanese schools across Lebanon. Girls in ICT In another initiative addressing senior Lebanese university students in computer and electrical engineering, Alfa has organized with Ericsson the 2nd edition of the “Alfa and Ericsson IoT Award”, in collaboration with the IEEE Young Professionals Lebanon, with the participation of 47 students forming 17 teams from 12 Lebanese universities. Alfa and Ericsson IoT Award 21 Through several strategic partnerships, Alfa has succeeded in positioning itself as the friendly startup operator, supporting “the Summer of Innovation 2018” launched by the Office of the Prime Minister with programs geared towards the youth focusing on innovation, technology, entrepreneurship and creativity. With Pitchworthy, through the Startup Scouts program, Alfa has reached 240 teams applying from all over Lebanon, 20 of them pitched in the semi-finals and 13 teams benefited from the four-month fall accelerator with equal gender distribution Alfa’s Support to the Students’ Career Orientation, Learning Projects and Academic Research ● Alfa experts invited to take part in academic events/conferences to share internal expertise and industry updates through talks or panel discussions. ● Supporting academic students and researchers with data, guidance and internal expertise. ● Contributing to the career orientation programs/initiatives of local academic Institutions (schools and universities) addressing students aiming to pursue studies in telecommunications, IT or other relevant fields. 2016 2017 2018 # of Students visiting Alfa premises 53 125 107 # of Students/Reseachers provided with data/in-house expertise 7 11 7 Alfa’s Support for Engineering Students and Young Professionals MoU with IEEE Creating More Resilient Communities through Partnerships In 2017, Alfa signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Lebanon Chapter’s of IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers), thus granting access to the organizational perspective for students, academics and professionals from 17 Universities and even a broader network, by the means of internship opportunities, field visits, informative sessions and joint events. Benefits of extending Alfa’s continuous learning culture beyond the company’s premises: • Providing a professional framework for networking, knowledge exchange and collaboration • Sharing our expertise with tomorrow’s talents and leaders so that they are better prepared to overcome academic and professional challenges • Empowering the new generation to instill a more hopeful outlook on our country’s situation so they still strive to make a difference • Creating an opportunity for both corporate and academic organizations to align their strategies and practices for future talents to reap the multiple benefits, namely: 1. Keeping up with global technological evolution and trends 2. Complementing academic learning with practical experience 3. Capitalizing on emerging talents to help them contribute to progress and innovation 4. Improving students career choices 5. Addressing the youth’s aspirations and concerns, where possible 22 Acting for our Planet Alfa 4-Nature Our environment today is going through an unprecedented transformation. From loss of green spaces, to climate change, it has become imperative more than ever to work together towards preserving the future of our country, of our planet and, ultimately, of our children. Through the Alfa 4-Nature program, we are working on internal and external measures for a more sustainable environment. We are working on reducing our environmental footprint, by optimizing waste management, reducing energy consumption, and cutting down on carbon emissions. ISO 14001 for Environmental Management: Alfa was awarded ISO 14001 for Environmental Management, by the certification body “Groupe AFNOR” accredited by COFRAC. Putting the Environment at the heart of Alfa’s business will be part of our relentless pursuit of Excellence. Alfa is committed to fostering the environment and making it a second nature, in line with its commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda. As part of Alfa 4-Nature program and its commitment to the 2030 United Nations Sustainable Development Plan, Alfa facilitated finding a solution to the waste crisis through responsible e-waste management. Alfa and Ericsson launched the first of its kind e-waste recycling initiative in Lebanon. It involved the packing of 460 tons of expired electronic waste such as transmitters and antennas that were stored in Alfa warehouses. This e-waste material was placed in 35 containers and they were exported to Sweden, where they were recycled according to international standards. We are proud to say that this was one of the largest e-Waste projects globally. 23 Drive for life: The health and wellbeing of the community lie at the heart of what we do across our CSR programs. Alfa walks the talk and leads the way by taking actions and embedding best practice norms as per the international quality systems, towards ISO 39001:2012. Since road crashes are the first killer among our youth (aged between 0-35 years) and knowing that they cost the country yearly between 1% & 3% of the GDP of Lebanon, Alfa took the initiative to develop its Alfa Drive 4-Life program which complements Alfa’s CSR commitment and complies with ISO 39001, ISO 26000 and the UNGC principles. In fact, the structure of our program is adapted from ISO Management system standards and illustrates Alfa’s management commitment to provide Alfa’s car fleet with safe journeys and increasing the awareness of our community on this important topic through targeted external initiatives. In alignment with the strategy for Road Safety, Alfa in partnership with the National Road Safety Council (NRSC) has launched on 2018 the Alfa Academy for Road Safety in NRSC premises. This academy will be accessible for free to all schools, NGOs and companies in Lebanon to train them on road safety. The aim is to spread awareness about the road safety culture amongst drivers, passengers, pedestrians, driving schools, traffic experts and investigators in the Internal Security Forces as well as all concerned entities. Alfa Sports: The launch of the Alfa Sports app was a major milestone in our journey by transforming our business and moving it into content. This is a first of its kind initiative and we are the exclusive broadcaster for Alfa Lebanese Basketball Championships, enabling customers in Lebanon and worldwide to watch the games through the app from their mobiles and smart TVs. Through such milestones, we are introducing a new innovative business model influenced by 5G and IoT. We are catering to the new emerging consumer culture which is becoming increasingly dependent on paid videos knowing that streaming now constitutes 50 percent of the overall mobile consumption on our network. This pioneering project was a rescue venture for Lebanese sports that was achieved via the Alfa network, thanks to its full readiness and speeds that rank third in the region. “We are back stronger than ever to support the men’s national basketball team especially that Alfa has placed at the heart of its strategy the transition from a traditional operator to a provider of happiness through the integration of the technological aspect with the human side so that the Alfa brand becomes the title of Happiness in all fields.” 24 The Road Ahead In 2018 and as outlined in this report, ALFA continued to leverage its expertise in connectivity by fulfilling our corporate responsibilities with excellent progress in various aspects. 2019 will be a turning point for all telecommunications sectors in the world in terms of 5G deployment. We are doing everything it takes to be ready to embrace 5G technology the moment it is available for commercial deployment. In 2016, when we announced our 4G+ deployment plan, we signed at the same time MoUs with 25 our telco suppliers to make our infrastructure and network ready to embrace 5G whenever it happens. This year, we proved with our 5G demos undertaken at the Telecom Review Summit and subsequently at our head office, that the MoUs we signed were the right thing to do. This is because we made the first session on our network and proved our readiness to be the first to embrace the next technology and what’s after it. However, we won’t stop here. We are making the infrastructure ready so in 2019, we will see the first few 5G sites deployed in Lebanon by Alfa. Let’s mark our silver Jubilee, celebrate our 25 year journey and pave the way for limitless years of excellence. ALFA has been a participant of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2014 and has been sharing its Communication on Progress (COP) on annual basis. Once again, we reaffirm our support to the ten principles of the UNGC with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. The table below shows the correlation of UNGC 10 principles and ALFA’s Commitment. Human Rights Our Commitment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Respecting Human Rights at ALFA is a core value. the protection of internationally proclaimed We support the Universal declaration of Human human rights; and Rights by considering and promoting ethical conduct amongst our employees, customers, Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit stakeholders and business partners. in human rights abuses. We ensure to work with suppliers that take into consideration social responsibility and who adopt policies related to human rights. Labour Our Commitment Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom Progressive employment practices pertaining to of association and the effective recognition of the diversity, equal opportunity, training and talent right to collective bargaining; development, occupational health and safety Compliance with Lebanese Labor Law. Alfa advocates the Convention on the Rights of Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced the Child. and compulsory labour; Progressive working conditions for staff as shown in the Report where we aim to include and support employees of different genders, religions, and age groups. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Alfa believes in eliminating gender discrimination and advocates the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We ensure a supportive workplace that reflects equality, diversity, and inclusionthe cornerstones to our sustainability efforts and our company success. 27 Environment Our Commitment Principle 7: Businesses should support a «Alfa 4-Nature” initiative: precautionary approach to environmental Adopting new ways to reduce our energy challenges; consumption and cut down on our carbon emissions such as installing electronic type ballasts energy efficient in our premises. Assessing Suppliers based on Environmental issues and offering environmental friendly Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote products such as E-bill, E-recharge service and greater environmental responsibility; and Energy Efficiency: • Adopting energy efficient technologies • Using energy efficient components in our buildings • Renewable energy sourcing: powering our base stations with SOLAR ENERGY • Energy efficient company fleet “Exhaust Principle 9: encourage the development and Oxygen Sensor” Waste Management diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Office waste is being recycled (Paper, Plastic, Glass and Metal) • Conducting awareness to all Alfa employees • Alfa’s headquarters has optimized lighting (LED, sensors, etc.) and HVAC systems to reduce energy consumption • Ewaste recycling Anti-Corruption Our Commitment Principle 10: Businesses should work against Alfa applies a zero tolerance policy to fight all corruption in all its forms, including extortion and forms of corruption both internally and externally. bribery. Bribery and extortion are strictly forbidden and not tolerated within the company. Internally, we train all our employees and offer continuous support to eliminate all sorts of bribery and corruption. Externally, we deliver top-notch value and balance between quality and price for business longevity, our procurement department follows a rigorous “Request for Proposal” procedure for suppliers. 28 -
