Sustainability Report 2019 Contents Powering a brighter future Introduction..................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 UN Sustainable Development Goals................................................................................................................................... 2 Governing sustainability............................................................................................................................................................ 4 Principles of UN Global Compact.......................................................................................................................................... 6 Sustainability framework........................................................................................................................................................... 8 KK Wind Solutions is a dedicated wind company Ongoing commitment to sustainability in the renewable energy industry – and as such, To further reduce the environmental impact of sustainability is the core of our company. our operations and support the wind industry, Code of Conduct.........................................................................................................................................................................10 we are continuously ensuring that our global This report provides an overview of our efforts, electricity consumption is covered by wind Human rights................................................................................................................................................................................12 including overall focus areas and concrete power or other renewable energy sources. activities as well as our results for the past year and goals for the coming period. It’s in our DNA that we continuously assess Employees......................................................................................................................................................................................14 and improve the environmental impact of our operations. We do this through a product lifetime Wind Power Impact approach to development, continuous waste Environment..................................................................................................................................................................................16 With a strong company vision of ‘Enable a Wind reduction in our supply chain and innovative Powered Future’, sustainability and dedication logistics solutions that are both better for the Anti-corruption.............................................................................................................................................................................18 towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals environment and our customers. are fundamental in the way we operate and govern our company. We remain committed to and focused on our corporate social responsibility – both when it Developing and manufacturing solutions for the comes to human rights, employees, environment, wind industry, the most positive impact we have anti-corruption and society in general. on sustainability is obtained through our own and our customers’ solutions. Our core competencies, technology and solutions contribute to sustainable energy production, and together with the rest of the wind industry, we are continuously innovating to lower the cost of wind energy making it even more competitive compared to fossil fuels. Part of this work involves close cooperation with universities and industry partners. Kind regards, Chlinton A. Nielsen Chief Executive Officer Sustainable development powered by wind In KK Wind Solutions, we support and recognise that all the UN Sustainable Development Goals are essential. However, we focus our efforts on those that are within our sphere of influence and where we can make the greatest impact and most positive effect. Based on principled prioritisation of all SDG’s we We leverage our customers’ strengths to committed ourselves to fully contribute to the achieve the greatest possible impacts: a more targets in SDG 7 and 13. competitive and profitable wind industry and a meaningful contribution to global sustainability. We defined a unique purpose for our company, explaining the core reason for us going to work New objectives every day and why we do what we do. We want to Going forward, we will continue to improve by make Wind Power Impact which directly supports setting ambitious targets and implementing the realisation of SDG 7 and 13. processes that sup­port sustainability and by influencing our stakehold­ers and suppliers. Being a responsible and sustainable company in all matters is part of our DNA. We constantly In 2020, we will re-access our impact on the challenge and break the boundaries of wind remaining development goals, by conducting a system solutions to make wind energy the self-assessment based on the SDG Lens most cost-effective energy source, providing created by DNV GL. affordable and clean energy to the world. 2 UN SDG Governing sustainability while growing the grassroots To take sustainability at KK Wind Solutions to the next level, a Sustainability Committee with cross-functional participation has been established. This section describes how sustainability is managed and governed. During the past years, sustainability matters The role of the Sustainability Committee is to have been passionately communicated by the develop, prioritise, oversee, and coordinate executive management to mobilise a grassroots cross-functional sustainability initiatives in movement, uniting people to undertake actions KK Wind Solutions and ensure sustained and promote change inside our company. conformity according to UN Global Compact. We want to sustain and grow this movement, The committee reports to the Executive but realise that to take our sustainability actions Management with a planned meeting frequency to the next level, we need to apply a focused of four times a year, bringing proposals for management system and governance. new programmes for approval as and when relevant. The Executive Management receives In 2019, a Sustainability Committee with sustainability strategy updates, and also reviews cross-functional participation was established and approves the annual Sustainability Report. and will continue to evolve, as our business transformation progresses further. Responsibility for sustainability performance and responsible business practices resides with the functional departments. Excecutive Management CxO Communication Safety & Environment Marketing & Communication QHSE Human & Labour Sustainability Committee Procurement Human Ressources Head of Committee Strategic Sourcing Manufacturing Technology Global Operations Technology & Innovation Local Ambassadors Poland / India / Denmark 4 GOVERNANCE Principles of the UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact (UNGC) outlines ten principles that companies should embrace, support and enact. A set of core values and fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Human rights 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 6 UNGC Sustainability framework Our ambition is to continuously develop our sustainability actions as we remain committed to ensuring that our business practices are safe, responsible and transparent. Hence, we have concentrated our communication around the following four themes. Human rights Employees Environment Anti-corruption We are committed to the protection of It is our goal to remain a company that As part of the renewable energy industry, we We are committed never to engage in any form human rights and support the United Nations encourages and supports the development aim at maximising our positive impact on the of bribery, corruption, extortion, embezzlement universal declaration of human rights and the of our employees and creates attractive jobs. environment, not only through the products we or any illegal method to influence public officials, International Labour Organization’s declaration Furthermore, we are dedicated to ensuring a develop but also through our actions aimed at the judiciary or any other private parties. on fundamental principles and rights at work. safe and healthy working environment that managing the business in an ever more meet the highest standards. sustainable manner. Focus areas Focus areas We direct our attention to securing that all By regularly conducting risk assessments of Focus areas Focus areas employees fully understand the importance our suppliers in compliance with our Code of We aim to keep developing our highly skilled We direct our attention to improving our of following company ethical guidelines Conduct, we have ensured an active workforce whose contribution is meaningful and products and operations across the entire despite local culture and practices. To ensure integration with our CSR policies. recognised. Our approach includes structured product lifecycle and the supply chain. This commitment from our employees, we require introduction schemes, extensive training and includes taking appropriate actions to reduce that all new employees sign our Also, we have integrated appropriate consistent follow-up on safety and performance. energy consumption, minimise waste, and Code of Conduct. sustainability measures and our Code of increase the share of waste that is recycled. Conduct in screening and assessing new Moreover, we have established a unique New contracts with agents, intermediaries and suppliers and in finding accessible areas global leadership programme educating our During 2019, we succeeded in increasing our consultants include a section on anti-corruption. of improvement. people within leadership and cross-cultural recycled share of waste to 87% and reducing The contract holder must comply with all collaboration. The programme encourages our heating consumption by 9.6%. However, applicable laws and regulations along with As we continue and expect future growth and personal development while empowering our electricity consumption increased by 3.9% our Code of Conduct. globalisation, we persistently focus on safety people to lead transformation and execute due to an increase in activity levels across and human rights, both in regards to our own our strategy effectively. our facilities. Entering new markets and regions, we will seek and collaboration partners’ employees. to create an organisational setup that ensures We remain convinced that by focusing even Going forward, we aim at keeping this high level CSR compliance. more on leadership, we will be able to tap of recycled waste along with maintaining a low into a significant pool of so far unutilised and level of energy consumption. We continuously hidden resources, recently documented by our ensure that our electricity consumption across Employee Engagement Survey. our facilities is covered by wind energy or other renewable energy sources. 8 FRAMEWORK Reinforcing our Code of Conduct We continuously work to reinforce our Code Of Conduct to secure responsible business practices in our operation and towards our suppliers. High risk Medium risk Low risk Status Very low risk We continuously work to ensure that we have the right measures and assessments in place when Our Code of Conduct includes: Out of current scope Signature of Signature of Signature of it comes to ensuring responsible business KK Wind Solutions KK Wind Solutions KK Wind Solutions • Human and labour rights practices in our operation and supply chain. No action this year Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct We realise that it requires continuous training • Health and safety and integration of our processes to achieve this • Environment Further investigation Self-assessment implementation. For that reason, we focus first of • Business ethics all on our employees and our suppliers. Supplier visit • Legal compliance We expect our suppliers to respect and comply with our Code of Conduct and require that they Figure illustrating four different supplier categories that require different actions and levels of attention. sign our Code of Conduct as a part of our supplier contracts. To ensure our standards are met, we have made a risk assessment of our suppliers in regards to compliance with the Code of Conduct and standards as we put forward. Consequently, all During 2019, we have ensured that all suppliers New objectives integrated CSR-measures. expectations towards suppliers within this area in the medium or high-risk categories sign our In 2020, we will increase focus on sustainability are covered by our Code of Conduct, which is Code of Conduct or prove that they live up to the and continue to focus on labour rights, health, included in all contracts with new suppliers. same high standards. safety and environmental impact at suppliers Progress and their sub-suppliers. If we discover or suspect In 2019, we initiated a process for all employees We will continue to secure commitment from Furthermore, we have assessed suppliers in the any non-compliances with our Code of Conduct to sign our Code of Conduct to ensure strong suppliers to our Code of Conduct in which we high and medium risk category. New suppliers or insufficient focus on health and safety, we will internal understanding and commitment. recognise the importance of clear communication delivering components in the low to high-risk block the approval and use of that supplier. Signing the Code of Conduct, is now a part of expectations and cooperation with suppliers. category have also signed our Code of Conduct of the standard onboarding process. or proven similar standards during own programs, In order to ensure the commitment from our All existing suppliers are continuously being audits or self-assessments. suppliers, we will initiate a new procedure for We continued our efforts emphasising the rated through several risk parameters. These signing the Code of Conduct. In 2020, all importance of safe working conditions and sound parameters have helped to prioritise the efforts All medium to high-risk suppliers will suppliers will sign the Code of Conduct during processes in our operations. We also expect our in screening our supplier base. The parameters automatically be assessed and prioritised on our supplier introduction process, ensuring that suppliers and their sub-suppliers to follow and are based on the 10 principles from ethical matters in the same way as quality is all suppliers have understood and accepted ensure the standards. UN Global Compact. assessed and prioritised. the requirements. A significant part of our CSR footprint comes Finally, we will ensure that all remaining from our supply chain, and we are committed employees will sign our Code of Conduct to ensure that our suppliers uphold the same by the end of 2020. 10 CODE OF CONDUCT Creating impact through collaboration We are committed to the protection of human rights and rights at work. In addition, we support local communities and regions in which we operate. Status Corporate citizenship Our Code of Conduct ensures our In 2019, we decided to contribute and support commitment towards employee rights at local communities on a number of areas: work and responsible business conduct. Progress • Universities By regularly conducting risk assessments In 2019, we partnered with many new interns as of our suppliers in compliance with our part of our global cooperation with universities. Code of Conduct, we continuously ensure human rights are protected and decent We supported the ‘Energy Sponsor Programme’ work conditions are provided throughout at Aalborg University which enables us to our supply chain. strengthen technology cooperation while encouraging the next generation of New objectives Wind Power Wizards. As we continue expand our global footprint and supplier base, we persistently direct our Furthermore, we sponsored the annual event attention towards human rights and ‘Innovation Days’ and graduation price ‘Best work environment. Engineering Thesis’ at Aarhus University. • Partnerships We are proud to support local sport activities in the vicinity of our headquarter by sponsoring the FC Midtjylland soccer team and Herning BlueFox ice hockey team, both clubs playing in the top Danish leagues. In addition, we partnered up with Project Wild to help protect some of the last wild places in the world. We also joined CO2 Neutral Website, to provide visitors with a sustainable online experience. • Charity We have provided financial support for the We are proud to support the local communities and regions national Danish fundraiser “Knæk Cancer” to in which we operate through various good causes and help beat cancer. strong partnerships. Among others, we continuous support SOS Children’s Villages. Chlinton A. Nielsen, CEO, KK Wind Solutions 12 HUMAN RIGHTS Continued focus on health & safety It is our goal to maintain a culture that encourages and supports the development of our employees. Furthermore, we are dedicated to ensuring a safe and healthy working environment that meets high ethical standards. Status New objectives In the past year, we have sustained the In the coming year, we will implement Vision Zero OHSAS18001 certification and will adapt to to improve the health, safety and well-being of our the new ISO 45001 standard. This certification employees. This assessment tool will furthermore ensures our commitment to continuous enhance our knowledge-sharing capabilities implementation and improvement of the way across our different sites. we manage our health and safety systems. In addition, we will continuously improve our health and safety culture and launch new Progress initiatives to stimulate stronger preventative Our target was to have a maximum absence of safety awareness in all employees. 4.5% for blue collars and 2.5% for white collars. Aiming at achieving zero working accidents, our Our vision is to achieve zero accidents short term target was to have less than throughout the company and a 2020 target of 3 accidents per 1 million work hours. less than 3 accidents per 1 million work hours. In 2019, employee absence was reported at 6.2% for blue collars and 3.1% for white collars, while unfortunately 7.2 working accidents per 1 million work hours were registered. We continuously use risk analysis to prevent accidents, and during 2019 many corrective actions were performed and safety awareness further intensified. As a result, we achieved 100 consecutive days without accidents in October. Safety principles Building team resilience was an integrated part of • All accidents can be avoided the leadership programme we launched in 2019. • All dangerous situations can We see leadership focus on building resilience be controlled as a natural part of being a responsible employer and increase employee well-being. • Management is accountable for safety During 2019, we continued our internal ‘Safety First’ campaign for all employees, to further • People are the determining increase safety awareness and behaviour. factor when it comes to safety • Working safely is a pre-requisite for employment 14 EMPLOYEES Renewable electricity and increased recycling 100% of our global electricity consumption will be covered by wind power or other renewable energy sources in 2020. As part of the renewable energy industry, we aim at maximising our positive impact on the environment, not only through the products we develop but also through our actions aimed at managing the business in an ever more responsible manner. Status To further raise the awareness of environmental Our production facilities are certified according issues, more information about environmental to the international environmental standard practices and behaviours has been added to the ISO14001, which ensures a systematic introduction process for new employees. organisation and documentation of internal environmental procedures. New objectives For wind to be a viable alternative to traditional At KK Wind Solutions, we remain committed fossil fuels, it has to be competitive. At KK Wind to further reduce the environmental impact of Solutions, we contribute to advancing the wind our operations. We will continuously work industry by continuously improving our products towards reducing our energy consumption and developing new innovative solutions that and ensuring that our electricity consumption contributes to the optimisation of wind energy. is fully sustainable. Our target for recyclable Furthermore, we are working in partnership to waste remains at the current high level. extend lifetime and reduce cost of wind turbines. New products within energy storage have been added to the portfolio and will be further Progress developed, to remove the need for offshore In the past year, our focus has been reducing diesel generators and reduce short term the environmental impact of our operations and fluctuations in wind power output. By offering increasing the share of recycled waste to 87%. repowering and control system retrofit solutions, Moreover, we have recycled and partially recycled we strive to increase wind turbines lifetime and 97.8% of our waste. performance, providing a strong and sustainable business case for asset owners. In 2019, we restructured our power supply to ensure that our global electricity consumption Furthermore, we are currently developing was covered by renewables. We entered into localised supply chain solutions to support our renewable electricity purchase agreements customers locally in a more sustainable manner. directly with local utilities. In countries where local utilities could not provide these contracts, we purchased certificates to ensure that our electricity consumption was covered by sustainable sources. 16 ENVIRONMENT Business ethics and anti-corruption We are committed never to engage in any form of bribery, corruption, extortion or embezzlement, or any illegal method to influence public officials, the judiciary or private parties. Status Progress Our Code of Conduct ensures our commitment to In the past year, our target was to have zero continuously focus on running our business in an corruption incidents. We have not registered ethical and responsible manner. any form of breach on our Code of Conduct in connection with corruption, extortion or bribery. However, we see a need for increasing our focus on keeping a very high ethical level as we To ensure that all employees fully understand the become an increasingly globalised company. importance of following our Code of Conduct this has special attention when onboarding Excellent standards and responsible business new employees. practices is an essential part of our corporate culture and behaviour. New objectives KK Wind Solutions remains committed never to engage in any form of corruption, extortion or bribery. In 2020, we will implement a gift policy detailing when and what type of gifts are appropriate to give or receive as part of a business relation. We will continue to investigate the best possible ways of keeping a culture with very high ethical standards and zero tolerance towards corruption. 18 ANTI-CORRUPTION About KK Wind Solutions Building on more than 35 years of experience in electro-mechanical systems for wind, KK Wind Solutions’ capabilities span development of state-of-the-art technologies, high quality lean manufacturing, cost-efficient supply chain solutions and flexible service of turbines. 02/2020-EN ©2020 KK WIND SOLUTIONS A/S. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. CONTENT MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED WITHOUT WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM KK WIND SOLUTIONS A/S.
