Annual Repor t 20 2 0 （Integrated Report） SCREEN Group Year ended March 31, 2020 Contents About This Report 01 Contents Editorial Policy 02 About This Report Since 2010 our Annual Reports have integrated financial and non-financial information for the purpose of more comprehensive reporting of our corporate activities from a mediumto long-term perspective. In compiling this report, we referred to the IIRC*1 Long Term “International Integrated Reporting Framework” and the “Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Dialogues for Collaborative Value Value Creation: Past, Present, Future Creation” (Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation) of the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI). In addition, GRI Standard 2016 of the GRI*2 is 03 History of the SCREEN Group referred to in non-financial reports. 05 Value Creation by the SCREEN Group In addition to the Annual Report 2020 Financial Section and the Fact Book for detailed financial information and the Sustainability Data Book for non-financial information, the GRI Content Index*3 is also available on the website as an index of Middle Term disclosure items. Business Strategy and ESG *1 International Integrated Reporting Council *2 Global Reporting Initiative 07 Message from the President *3 See the GRI Content Index (www.screen.co.jp/en/sustainability/gri) 12 Message from the CFO 13 ESG Dialogue 2020 Publication 15 New Medium-term Management Plan Value Up 2023 / October 2020 (previously published September 2019, issued once a year) Message from the CTO 21 At a Glance Reporting Period Fiscal year ended March 2020 (April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) 23 Interviews with Business Operating Company Presidents Note: Some of the information in the report is for the fiscal year ending March 2021. 29 Sustainable Management G: Governance Scope of Coverage 31 Corporate Governance This report covers SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. (holding company) and its consolidated companies (as of March 31, 2020). Data that does not relate to these 38 Compliance Website companies is presented in the form of footnotes. 39 Risk Management SCREEN Holdings S: Social Disclaimer official website 41 Human Resource Management ･ The plans, strategies, and statements related to the outlook for future results in www.screen.co.jp/en this document are in accordance with assumptions and beliefs determined by 43 Safety and Wellbeing management based on currently available information. However, it should be noted 44 Working Together with Our Stakeholders that there is a possibility that actual results could differ significantly due to such factors as social and economic conditions. E: Environment ・ All amounts shown in billions of yen are truncated to the nearest billion. Amounts 45 Environment shown in millions of yen are rounded to the nearest million yen. Short Term External Assessments Investor Relations Achievements of Value Creation SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. is a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series, the www.screen.co.jp/en/ir FTSE Blossom Japan Index, the SNAM Sustainability Index, and the JPX-Nikkei 47 Performance Highlights Index 400. In addition, SCREEN was recognized under the 2020 Certified Health ・ Annual Report and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program of Japan’s METI, ・ Fact Book 49 Eleven-Year Trends in Key Financial and Non-financial Indicators our third consecutive year of recognition under this program. ・ Sustainability Data Book 51 Consolidated financial statements ・ GRI Content Index ・ IR Library (Financial Reports, 56 Basic Information Presentations, etc.) ・ IR News ・ IR Calendar 丸 The following abbreviations are sometimes used for business segments / company names when they are mentioned in this report: Since 2004 Since 2017 Since 2018 HD = SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. SPE = Semiconductor production equipment business / SCREEN Semiconductor Sustainability Solutions Co., Ltd. www.screen.co.jp/en/sustainability GA = Graphic arts equipment business / SCREEN Graphic Solutions Co., Ltd. FT = Display production equipment and coater business / SCREEN Finetech ・Annual Report Solutions Co., Ltd. PE = PCB-related equipment business / SCREEN PE Solutions Co., Ltd. ・Sustainability Data Book ● The names or abbreviations of the business segments are those used as of March 31, ・GRI Content Index 2020. Since 2016 Since 2018 ・ISO Certification Status ● All years shown are for the accounting year ending March 31 of the year shown. For example, “fiscal year ended March 31, 2020” or FY2020 means the period from April ・Approach to Sustainability / Materiality 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020. ・Environment / Society / Governance 01 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 02 Value Creation: Past, Present, Future History of the SCREEN Group Based on the founder’s motto of “Shi Kou Ten Kai,” the SCREEN Group began manufacturing glass screens for photoengraving, and subsequently applied its core Semiconductor production technologies in the areas of surface processing, direct imaging, and image processing equipment (from 1975) to develop numerous technologies and products that were the first of their kind in the world. Over time, we have contributed to the development of today’s digitized, highly 1988 1997 2010 sophisticated society with products ranging from printing equipment to semiconductors, WSW-625 wet station FC-3000 batch-type cleaning equipment SU-3200 single wafer cleaning equipment 1975 displays, and other electronics industry devices. Today, we continue to expand our EMW-322 wafer business domain into energy, inspection & measurement, and the life sciences. etching machine Going forward, we will continue to provide new value to the world as we combine Energy the technological capabilities we’ve developed since our founding with the Group’s (from 2014) collective resources to meet customers’ and society’s needs and solve problems. 1978 2014 SCW-421 spin coater RT Series coater / dryer for ceramic substrates Founder’s Motto (coating equipment) “Shi Kou Ten Kai” (meaning to expand awareness” in Japanese) Display production 思 考 展 開 equipment (from 1976) 1977 1987 2003 2017 The Founder’s Motto guides the SCREEN Group’s thinking about how our Panel Spin 360 spinner for large glass SK Series coater / developer SK-E Series coater / RCP351 roll-to-roll coater technologies can help to address the issues facing society and how we can continue substrates developer for OLED to create and develop products and businesses to resolve these challenges Printed circuit boards (from 1978) 1966 1978 2002 2011 2017 Ambassador C-59 Solder coater for PI-8000 automatic Ledia 5 direct imaging system MIYABI 7 automatic overhead ultra-precision printed circuit boards optical inspection system for printed circuit boards optical inspection system camera 1960 Electronic components Shadow masks for color TVs (1963 to 2005) Printing screen (graphic arts) equipment (from 1943) 1973 1998 2006 Scanagraph SG-701 direct PlateRite 8000 Truepress Jet520 inkjet Inspection and scanner CTP recorder printing system measurement (from 2015) 2015 IM-3100 automated visual inspection system 1943 1962 1996 Dainippon Screen Mfg. Co., Ltd., established in Dainippon Screen is listed on the Kyoto Stock Information Equipment Division and Hikone Manufacturing Life sciences Kamigyo-ku (now Kita-ku), Kyoto city Exchange and the Second Section of the Osaka Department received the first certification of International (from 2013) Securities Exchange Standards ISO 9001 standard on quality management systems 2013 1963 1997 Cell3iMager The Hikone Plant in Shiga Prefecture Head Office received the first certification 3D cell scanner begins operation of International Standards ISO14001 on 2011 environmental management systems The company is added to the Nikkei Stock Average (Nikkei 225) 1999 2006 2014 1868 1937 1970 The company adopts a The company establishes the The company transitions to a holding company structure Ishida Kyokuzan Printing Dainippon Screen Mfg. Works established. Becomes The company is listed on the First corporate officer system White Canvas Rakusai R&D and changes its name to SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd Works founded by Saijiro independent from the Glass Screen Research Sections of the Tokyo, Osaka, and base in Fushimi-ku, Kyoto city 2016 Ishida (copperplate artist) Division for the photographic reproduction Nagoya stock exchanges 2002 The company is added to the The company adopts an Meiji, Taisho, and Showa Showa period JPX Nikkei Index 400 periods (prior to World War II) (after World War II) Heisei internal company system Reiwa 1860 1940 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 ▲Restoration of ▲Great Depression ▲World War II ends ▲Tokyo Olympics ▲Bursting of Japan's ▲Great Hanshin-Awaji ▲Global ▲Great East Japan Earthquake Imperial Rule economic bubble Earthquake financial declared in 1943 1947 1989 2005 crisis 2014 2019 Japan Keizo Ishida Tokujiro Ishida is Akira Ishida is Masahiro Hashimoto is Eiji Kakiuchi is Toshio Hiroe is is named first named second named third named fourth president named fifth president named sixth president president president president (2005 to 2014) (2014 to 2019) President, Member of the (1943 to 1947) (1947 to 1989) (1989 to 2005) (Now Chairman, Board, CEO Member of the Board) (from 2019) 03 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 04 Value Creation: Past, Present, Future Value Creation by the SCREEN Group Based on the founder’s motto of “Shi Kou Ten Kai” and a corporate philosophy of “Sharing the Future,” “Human Resource Development,” and “The Pursuit of Technology,” the SCREEN Group carries out marketing-driven business activities that leverage core competencies. In this way, we raise “SCREEN Value (corporate value)” by providing customers with solutions in the form of technologies, products, and services that meet society’s needs and contribute to solving its problems. We strive to continue raising SCREEN Value by investing our outputs such as profits into future solution creation, thus further advancing our core competencies and contributing to society. Reinvest in SCREEN Value I np ut B u si n e sse s Output Core Marketing Provide competencies solutions Core businesses SPE Social issues Financial Semiconductor production capital equipment business p. 21,23 Contribute to solving we tackle Surface p. 49 social issues processing Rewarding work FT for employees Display production equipment Technologies Climate change Human and coater business p. 22,26 capital Environment reaching p. 41,48 breaking point GA SCREEN Manufactured Graphic arts equipment business p. 22,27 Value Aging population Direct Customer Shareholder and intellectual satisfaction returns imaging capital PE Sustainable Value Decreasing workforce (Social Value) population p. 48,56 PCB-related Products + Higher nursing care and equipment business p. 22,28 Economic Value healthcare burden p. 15 Social and relationship How to build capital New business establishment Image p. 44 Relationships of Social rewarding workplaces processing Energy (FT) trust with suppliers responsibility p. 19,29 Diversity Services Natural Inspection & measurement How to provide challenging workplaces capital Life sciences p. 45,48 p. 18 Founder’s motto Corporate philosophy “Shi Kou Ten Kai” Sharing the Future Human Resource Development The Pursuit of Technology 05 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 06 Business Strategy and ESG Message from the President Q1. Please provide a summary of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. During the past fiscal year, we did our utmost to ensure this last fiscal year (the year ended March 31, 2020), which we achieved our Challenge 2019 three-year medium-term had their origins in our transition to a holding company (HD) management plan targets. Unfortunately, due to diminished structure in 2014. profitability caused by SPE supply chain disruption in the With the start of our new medium-term management plan, plan’s second year (the year ended March 31, 2019), among Value Up 2023, we are working to address these issues in a other factors, we were unable to achieve our targets apart way that maintains the benefit of the HD structure (i.e., the from net sales. autonomy of business operating companies) while getting us Even without the impact of COVID-19, we twice had to adjust back on a growth track. Toshio Hiroe our targets downward due to, I believe, issues materializing Representative Director, President, Member of the Board, Consolidated Performance Summary (Year ended March 31, 2020) Chief Executive Officer (%) ■ Net sales ● Ratio of operating income to net sales SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. 15 12.6 8.1 10 5.7 (Billions of 3.9 5 yen) 400 364.2 316.0 339.3 323.2 ( Forecast ) 0 200 0 Challenge 2019 Value Up 2023 2018 2019 2020 2021 (Years ended March 31) Q2. COVID-19 has had a major impact on the global economy. What sort of impact do you think it will have on the future of the market and on the SCREEN Group? Although business slowdown and other impacts are being taking place, which is driving expansion in 5G, AI, IoT, data felt in the short term, there will be new opportunities for centers, and so on. This is expected to create even greater growth in the medium term as we adjust accordingly to demand for semiconductors. the new normal of life “with the coronavirus” and “after the Thinking about what this will mean for SCREEN Group coronavirus.” business, I feel that not only SPE but also GA, FT, and PE Contributing to a Sustainable Future through Technological The post-COVID-19 world will likely be even more dependent upon telecommunications and IT. Within the SCREEN Group are well positioned to capitalize on this growing demand. While this is more obvious for FT (display) and PE (PCBInnovation Guided by a New Medium-term Management Plan as well, the telecommuting, phone and video conferencing, related) businesses, which are similar to SPE in that they are and other work-from-home measures that we implemented electronics-related, it is also true for GA business, which, The SCREEN Group is currently in the midst of an extremely severe market environment impacted by U.S.–China trade friction to combat the spread of infection have provided even greater despite recent negative macroeconomic impacts, is steadily and by the COVID-19 pandemic. As we forge ahead with our new medium-term management plan, Value Up 2023, our aim is to impetus for work-style reform efforts, which began before shifting away from traditional, high-volume printing to highimprove corporate value along with management efficiency by treating current market difficulties as growth opportunities to address COVID-19. In the past, globalization was considered primarily mix, small-lot inkjet technology-driven POD (print-on-demand) the new challenges facing society and provide solutions tailored to society’s needs. In line with our founder’s motto, “Shi Kou to be the movement of people, but we are increasingly coming printing. Ink recurring business is expected to grow as a result Ten Kai” (思考展開: meaning to “expand awareness” in Japanese), and with the goal of being a company that grows together with to value exchange of information more than movement of of this shift. society, the entire SCREEN Group is doing its utmost to realize the technological innovations that will lead to a sustainable future. people. Within this context a digital transformation (DX) is 07 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 08 Business Strategy and ESG Q3. Please describe the thinking that went into the new medium-term Q5. What are your thoughts on the economic value-related challenges management plan*1. facing SCREEN? First and foremost, the new medium-term management the pursuit of sales and profits (PL aspects). Our focus now With regard to increasing economic value, the challenges we where to focus our reinvestment. Towards that end we plan needed to focus on increasing corporate value. This is not only on PL, but also on increasing capital efficiency and face are the low profitability and cash flow creation capacity have undertaken organizational restructuring within HD. The is reflected in it being named “Value Up 2023.” I want us generating cash flow that can be reinvested into building an of our current business. Our operating income ratio, as well, HD marketing structure has begun active, cross-functional to work on improving SCREEN Value (corporate value: ecosystem of ongoing technological, product, and service is by no means satisfactory when compared with that of discussions with the marketing departments in our business Sustainable Value [social value] + economic value)*2 along creation, which will help in addressing the issues facing our competitors, and we are not in a position to generate operating companies. with management efficiency. To do this, we need to devote society. Our aim is to ensure that the solutions we offer sufficient cash flow, which can be applied to essential Additionally, we have now included ROIC (return on ourselves to ensuring efficient turnover of capital costs for the improve corporate value for the SCREEN Group by improving investments for future growth. At one point during the invested capital) as one of our internal management creation of cash flow. the corporate value of our customers. implementation of the previous medium-term management indicators. In order to help facilitate familiarity within Before, our approach to increasing economic value emphasized plan, we were generating the highest level of operating SCREEN about handling ROIC as an indicator, it is essential income in our history. This was, however, followed by a rapid that we break it down into numbers and facts all employees *1 Refer to “New Medium-term Management Plan, Value Up 2023” on p.15. deterioration in profitability. Further, our cash flows were not can understand and accept. To do this we have established *2 Refer to “ESG Dialogue 2020” on p.13. at operating income levels, and we were unable to allocate a cross-functional team, which is currently pursuing capital for reinvestment in growth. For the next management discussions. By instituting reasonable “business site-specific phase, we are focused on ensuring that there is enough KPIs,” we also foster a mindset focused on improvement cash flow generated by each of our businesses to allow for which, in turn, leads to improvement in ROIC. I imagine it allocation and reinvestment in anticipated growth areas. It will take a few years to bear fruit; however, there is no doubt is extremely important, therefore, that we have sufficient that it will take hold and contribute to the formation of a Q4. What do the terms “Solution Creator” and “Sustainable Value (social marketing strength, as this is a key factor in determining robust corporate entity. value)” mean to you? The SCREEN Group’s raison d’être is to be a proposal-based To be a solution creator, it is extremely important that you solution provider that works along customers to build windeliver, on an ongoing basis, innovation that is tied to new Q6. What is your thinking with regard to ESG and SDG-related initiatives? win relationships with them. We have a responsibility to help value. Being an organization, it is essential to have structures customers with their environmental footprint, productivity, in place for continuously generating innovation, and we and other needs by providing comprehensive solutions that recognize that this has traditionally been a weak point for us. Chairman Eiji Kakiuchi (former president and CEO) anticipated risks on a business operating companyand incorporate not only products but services and technologies Hence, we are working to develop new structures. With a initiated ESG management, and since then we have put department-specific basis. as well. I use the term Solution Creator to describe this image robust base of organizational strength that we can capitalize in place a variety of ESG-related systems and undertaken G involves a variety of different aspects, from the diversity of the SCREEN Group as a provider of original solutions that upon to provide solutions to customers, we will establish a collaboration with a variety of outside organizations. of directors to the remuneration process, but one of its most promote customer innovation. It is the core keyword of the virtuous cycle that increases corporate value along with social These efforts have garnered a notable degree of positive pressing concerns is Group governance. Similar to what new medium-term management plan. value. recognition from the outside. The next challenge for us I said earlier about ensuring a strict focus on investment is to strengthen G (governance)-related collaboration in innovation management, I want to see sustainable between HD and business operating companies, such as growth achieved through the implementation of thorough with regard to risk management. So far, risk management governance on the part of HD. has been carried out using risk analysis lists drawn up With regard to E (environmental) and S (social), as well, we by each business operating company. However, this has are moving away from business operating company-and prevented integrated management of risk on the HD side. department-specific implementation of activities to a system So, a Group Risk Committee was established, which helps linked with the activities of HD*3. each HD department to definitively identify and manage the *3 Refer to “Sustainable Value 2023: ESG Initiatives for a Sustainable Company” on p.19 and “Sustainable Management” on p. 29. Sustainable Management Focused on SDGs—Eight Material Issues 09 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 10 Business Strategy and ESG Message from the CFO Q7. You have made a point of emphasizing the founder’s motto: “Shi Kou Ten Kai”. What, to you, does “Shi Kou Ten Kai” entail? Pursuing Profitability and Efficiency to Generate Cash Flows I think “Shi Kou Ten Kai” is the most apt descriptor for the Future,” “Human Resource Development”, and “The Pursuit of SCREEN Group. Our thought process is continually focused on Technology.” Among these, “Human Resource Development” Commensurate with Profits the origin and direction of business, from which we seek to find is of tremendous importance. It seems that companies often and develop new ideas. think in terms of the tasks that they will make employees New and innovative ideas are, of course, important to the perform in order to achieve profit objectives, thus making the Yoichi Kondo HD Managing Director creation of technologies, products and services—in other words, performance of said tasks feel compelled and killing employees’ Member of the Board solutions—but transformative thinking is also important to daily motivation. Giving employees a sense of personal challenge Chief Financial Officer business operations by identifying elements that can be changed and achievement in the business activities that they perform will to increase efficiency. We use every opportunity available to us to contribute to the growth of the company as well. Ideally, we want ensure that “Shi Kou Ten Kai” thinking remains front and center employees to embrace challenges without fear of failure so that Q1. Reflecting on the final year of the previous three-year institutions for use as a safety net. Our funding remains on track, and we in employees’ minds. they will derive a sense of personal growth from the successes medium-term management plan, Challenge 2019, what have ample liquidity on hand. We also work to ensure that our business activities express that they accumulate over time. I want SCREEN to focus on tying was achieved and what were the challenges faced? the essential elements of our corporate philosophy: “Sharing the our corporate growth to the growth of our employees. I believe we successfully achieved the following two objectives. Q3. What are your thoughts on the mediumto long-term 1) Significant improvement in cash flow challenges to be tackled as part of the new mediumAs a result of rapidly expanding sales beginning in the fiscal year ended term management plan, Value Up 2023? March 31, 2018, our supply chain management was unable to keep Q8. What are your thoughts on human resource utilization and pace (for core SPE business) and cost reduction activities were also The basic strategy of the new medium-term management plan is to development? delayed, resulting in significant deterioration in cash flow and earnings in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. pursue profitability and efficiency to generate cash flows commensurate with profits. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, we have sought to ensure During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, we rebuilt our value liquidity and soundness (i.e., a capital buffer). As part of our evolving chain and performed inventory optimization (products, in-process implementation of the Cash Flow Improvement Project, we will apply ROIC I feel that, on the one hand, in the six years since adopting that welcomes the free exchange of ideas and opinions inventory, components) at each business site to eliminate congestion. indicators, introduced during the new medium-term management plan’s an HD structure, each business operating company has developed. I believe that the efforts of our cross-functional Under the leadership of President Hiroe, we launched the Cash Flow term, into KPIs tailored to each business site to facilitate improvement in worked to optimize its operations and foster its own, team to improve economic value, the implementation of Improvement Project, which operated beyond organizational boundaries cash flow creation capacity and the capital efficiency of each business. In distinctive growth in order to achieve maximum sales Sustainable Value 2023 to improve social value, and all across the entire SCREEN Group, including HD, business operating conjunction with this, we are working to capitalize on the creation of stable companies, and sales, design, procurement and manufacturing operating cash flows in order to bolster investment in growth areas. and profits, but on the other hand, inter-business human the other cross-functional initiatives we are undertaking departments. This project was not unilaterally imposed upon business Furthermore, we are using IT tools to strengthen the cross-functional resource exchange and interaction has stagnated. Since will facilitate free and fluid discussion within the SCREEN sites but, rather, in a manner that ensured their full approval. I believe efficiency of HD and support business operating companies’ initiatives. my time as president of a business operating company Group which will, in turn, contribute to the individual the project was able to be implemented smoothly, despite it being a I have felt this to be the case. Therefore I want to see growth of Group members and, ultimately, to the creation period of peak activity, thanks to making sure the business sites were Operating Cash Flow / Investing Cash Flow the barriers between business operating companies of new challenges for us to tackle. on board with the project. ■ Operating cash flow ■ Investing cash flow and other organizations lowered and an environment (Billions of yen) 50 2) Balance sheet streamlining (equity ratio of 50%) As a result of the Cash Flow Improvement Project, we were able to reduce accounts receivables and inventories and compress total 25 11.8 assets down to 347.9 billion yen. At the end of the fiscal year ended Q9. What is your message for SCREEN investors? March 31, 2020, we met our Challenge 2019 numerical target to have 0 -19.0 an equity ratio of 50%, and we maintained a rating of “BBB+ (Stable)” issued by the Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCR). -25 -11.2 In terms of challenges for the future, we continue to work on -37.5 -50 I believe that SCREEN Group businesses are well positioned has emerged as a result of U.S.–China trade friction and the bolstering our capacity to generate cash flow and on maintaining and 2019 2020 (Years ended March 31) in their respective industries and are adapting to changing spread of COVID-19, I believe we have an opportunity to improving our equity ratio as a buffer against risk. times in ways that will allow them to exceed the growth of recultivate our organizational strength and undertake reforms Equity Ratio ■ Equity Ratio those industries. I understand the concern that investors felt that will make us more robust, resilient, and on track to (%) 50.0 at the internal issues, which arose within the SCREEN Group new growth. I hope that you will look forward to seeing the Q2. How has SCREEN been responding to COVID-19 since 50 47.0 during the fiscal year before last. However, I believe it served SCREEN Group achieve new levels of success as a solution the end of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020? as a good wake-up call, drawing our attention to those areas creator and will continue to provide us with your support and 40 where we were lacking. encouragement towards that end. We are looking ahead to the long-term impact of the virus and have Despite the extremely severe market environment, which ensured that we have double our normal available credit line in order to 30 2019 2020 ensure liquidity. Specifically, in addition to our existing unused commitment (Years ended March 31) line (30.0 billion yen), we have secured an equivalent amount with financial 11 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 12 Business Strategy and ESG Risk Management a High Priority Mr. Hasegawa: The CSR Promotional Department was Research has shown that in most launched seven years ago to concentrate on boosting cases companies with high ESG compliance and corporate ethics but our tasks have recently ratings tend to avoid loss of corporate been expanded to include aggressive CSR action; for example, value in the face of economic crises participation in the UN Global Compact and the achievement like the 2008 global financial crisis. of SDGs through SCREEN’s business. However, I’m afraid Such companies’ stocks are held by that we haven’t communicated these activities very well investors who take a long-term view, From left to stakeholders, nor have we incorporated these into our so when a crisis does arise, the stock Shunichi Hasegawa Toshio Hiroe Yasuyuki Kato, Ph.D. management plan as concrete targets. sell-off is small compared to that of Department Head Representative Director Adjunct Professor, Graduate School Under our new medium-term management plan, in response to other companies. I can confidently say CSR Promotional Department President, Member of the of Management, Kyoto University SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. Board Chair, Kyoto University ESG Study President Hiroe’s policy of being a solution creator for society that ESG investment will be a major Chief Executive Officer Group and tying those successes to changing society for the better, focus of attention once the current SCREEN Holdings Co., Professor, Tokyo Metropolitan Ltd. University Graduate School we are focusing on ESG and planning concrete CSR measures COVID-19 crisis is over. that will lead to higher social value for the SCREEN Group. Mr. Hiroe: Risk management is also one of the important tasks As for strengthening governance, which President Hiroe just of the new medium-term management plan. As for COVID-19 mentioned, it’s important to have cross-organizationally linked countermeasures, although we have for some time had a ESG Dialogue 2020 risk management. We are focusing on major risk factors BCP (business continuity plan) in place, which assumes things for the entire SCREEN Group from the viewpoint of ESG, like pandemics, now that such a crisis has occurred, it has ESG in the SCREEN Group and SCREEN Holdings is monitoring these. By including environmental problems, social issues, and supply chain tasks in those risk factors, we are turning risks into opportunities. revealed problems that we never foresaw. This has reinforced the importance of narrowing the gap between risk management methods and actual business activities. Solving this issue is a Towards Raising “SCREEN Value”—Sustainable Value (Social Value) and Economic Value Dr. Kato: The original concept behind ESG investment was risk high priority. management. The idea was to reduce risk and raise sustainability. ESG (environment, social, governance) has become a key assessment criteria for corporate value. What does ESG mean to the SCREEN Group? How should we pursue it in our business? To answer these questions, Toshio Hiroe, President and CEO of SCREEN Holdings and Shunichi Hasegawa, Head of the CSR Promotional Department of SCREEN Holdings spoke with Dr. Yasuyuki Kato, an adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Management at Kyoto University and chair of the Kyoto University ESG Study Group. This dialogue was held on March 25, 2020 at the SCREEN Holdings Head Office in Kyoto. For the sake of social distancing, Dr. Kato took part via videoconference. Raising Corporate Value on a Foundation of ESG and SDGs Dr. Kato: It is my understanding that investors consider a with both ESG and SDGs through these various angles. company’s ESG rating an indicator of risk and SDGs an Dr. Kato: Exactly. ESG is akin to the way of doing things; indicator of a company’s growth potential. ESG and SDGs its focal points include improving governance, creating Linking ESG to Business Raises Corporate Value have become the lingua franca in the communication better hiring systems and work environments, and reducing between investors and companies, and between investors industrial waste. On the other hand, I think SDGs represent Mr. Hiroe: Amidst the changing a lot of recent research showing that environment (“E”) and social and their investor clients. a company’s direction; what it should do as a business, for business environment created by the (“S”) are inextricably woven into corporate value. I believe that Mr. Hasegawa: While SDGs represent one clue to example. COVID-19 outbreak, we have defined these two will continue to draw increasing attention and be even boosting corporate value, ESG is an important angle from Mr. Hiroe: What we define as SCREEN Value—achieving the SCREEN Group’s corporate value more integral components of stock prices. the investor’s standpoint. Companies must deal thoroughly growth in both social and economic value—is the reason as “Sustainable Value (social value) Mr. Hiroe: We are committed to SBTs* in the area of the with both of these. Although both have the same purpose, for our existence. We want to conduct business by and economic value” under our Value environment, and we have set CO2 reduction targets to achieve they must be perceived in their proper context. It’s about developing and innovating in order to provide customers Up 2023 medium-term management by the fiscal year ending March 31, 2030. In addition, we are more than just changing society through one’s business; with solutions through technologies, products, and services plan. Although our past mediumhelping our customers lower their environmental impact through it’s also about, for example, a while imagining what kinds of social value we can create. term management plans included our ongoing development and manufacturing activities as we company making manufacturing Through the cycle of business activities, we are building ESG and the SDGs, I felt that there carry out in-house assessment of the solutions that the SCREEN more eco-friendly, changing the the mechanisms of our new medium-term management was not enough emphasis on linking Group provides to customers. We are also reducing the amount way employees work, or using plan so that all employees can fully comprehend the these to our business activities. A of waste in product manufacturing processes. the profits and knowledge it has model for giving back to society and our stakeholders. sense of awareness of ESG is currently being fostered in Group Looking at governance, after adopting a holding company gained through business to give I believe that ESG numerical targets and the philosophy of companies. Under Value Up 2023, we aim to link this awareness structure in 2014, the SCREEN Group achieved growth by back to society in the form of tieSDGs naturally link with this cycle of activities and in turn to business activities in order to boost both Sustainable Value having each of the business operating companies strive for ups with government and / or boost value for SCREEN Holdings. As the foundation for (social value) and economic value. optimal allocation of management resources and maximum academia. All of these contribute improving corporate value, we are refining our fundamental Dr. Kato: There has been a lot of research showing that the profitability. However, this pursuit of optimization by the business to various stakeholders in society management philosophies. most important thing in ESG investment is the relation between operating companies led to too much centrifugal force—you and all lead to greater social value a company’s ESG rating and its corporate value. In other words, could also call it autonomy—resulting in what I felt was a lack for a company. We hope to deal companies with a high ESG rating also have a high corporate of cohesiveness inside the SCREEN Group. Our new mediumvalue. Governance, the “G” in ESG, is especially important, term management plan has measures for strengthening Group *Science Based Targets (SBT) represent an international initiative to prevent global warming by setting CO2 reduction targets that are based on scientifically sound principles. something that my research has backed up. There has also been governance and improving Group cohesiveness. 13 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 14 Business Strategy and ESG New Medium-term Management Plan Value Up 2023 Under the new medium-term management plan beginning in FY2021, Value Up 2023, we will further enhance our earnings structure and financial base by strengthening internal management of capital efficiency. While enhancing SCREEN Value (corporate value), which comprises Sustainable Main Initiatives Value (social value) and economic value, we will continue working to sustainably generate profit, return profit to shareholders, and take other measures. In addition, in a proactive effort aimed at reaching the next level of growth, we will continue pursuing various options to achieve growth, such as resource allocation, open innovation, and M&A. In light of the impact that the COVID-19 pandemic has had on the first year of Value Up Enhance corporate value by creating innovation and 2023, we are extending the target period of this plan from the previous three years to four years. a sustainable growth cycle 1 ・Focus on strategic development investment and strengthen the business portfolio by promoting open innovation and M&A Core Concept ・Endeavor to create new businesses (e.g., life sciences, inspection & measurement, energy, and AI) Establishing a presence in the industry as a Solution Creator Generate cash flows equivalent to profits which are A Solution Creator refers to a company that enhances corporate value by contributing to the development of society and providing customers earned in pursuit of profitability and efficiency around the world with technologies, products, and services that solve social issues and needs. 2 ・Enhance capital efficiency on each business by introducing ROIC indicators ・Strengthen investment in growth fields by stably generating operating cash flows SCREEN Value ESG initiatives to be a sustainable corporation SCR EEN Gr o u p C o r p o r a te V a l u e 3 ・Formulate a medium-term plan, Sustainable Value 2023, based on Sustainable Value (social value) policy for socially sustainable development and execute the plan Sustainable Value (Social Value) ＋ Economic Value Numerical Targets of Economic Value Net Sales Achieve net sales of ¥ 400 billion or above in the final year Operating Income to FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 FY2024 Net Sales Ratio Achieve 15% or above in the final year ROE Achieve 15% or above in the final year Business Environment Operating Cash Flow Cumulative total of ¥ 120 billion in 4 years (Achieve a net cash position) Shareholder Returns Achieve a consolidated total return ratio of 30 % or above from FY2022 (Continue 25% or above in FY2021) ● Rapid shift to DX with the establishment of new value Note: The above figures are predicated on organic growth. ● Servers, 5G, AI, IoT, sensors, and power control devices become the growth drivers ● Growing demand of diversifying displays ● Acceleration of investment on new energy with growing awareness of the environment and resources ● Shift of demand from large-volume printing to high-mix, small-lot printing >>SCREEN’s technologies, products, and services are becoming ever more indispensable to people’s lives 15 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 16 Business Strategy and ESG Strategies by Segment Message from the CTO Although the SCREEN Group operates in the midst of a radically changing business environment, which demands speed and innovation, we believe that business opportunities are ever-present and that the market will continue to grow. We are working to achieve that next level of growth by pursuing the following segment-specific strategies and targets. Enhancing SCREEN Value SPE through Innovation Creation ・Increase market share in cleaning equipment Targets in the final year segment Net sales Operating income to net sales ratio ・Continue to transform toward profitability ¥280 billion – ¥300 billion 18 – 20% Soichi Nadahara ・Strengthen after-sales service HD Managing Director Market outlook: WFE market will grow at CAGR of 7% to over $65 billion Member of the Board ・Improve CCC* by strengthening SCM in 2023 Chief Technology Officer *Cash Conversion Cycle GA Q.1 Reflecting on the final fiscal year of the previous three-year medium-term management plan, Challenge 2019, what was achieved and what were the challenges faced? ・Expand inkjet products for the commercial printing Targets in the final year One of the basic policies implemented as part of Challenge 2019 to commercialize. Nevertheless, we do not fear failures; rather, market and the packages market (flexible, corrugate Net sales Operating income to net sales ratio was to use selected and focused development investment as a we learn from them, and apply their lessons in tackling new etc.) ¥45 billion – ¥50 billion 6 – 8% means of strengthening development in elemental technologies technological development. ・Strengthen recurring business underlying technology creation in existing business areas and Market outlook: Communication printing market will grow at CAGR of 8%, Results of Major Development Projects packages market will grow at CAGR of 20% (both POD the creation of business in new business areas. In addition, we have pursued a broad strategy of open innovation, which allowed Inkjet printing system for flexible packages, markets, 2020–2026) Moved into business organ fabrication system, technology for us to speed up the rate of development, as well as shore up phase decorative printing our weaknesses and bolster our strengths. The more than 30 Ready-to-launch 3D cell observation system, printing system FT development projects per year that we undertook produced a products for tablets multitude of positive results (see the table at right). However, due Semiconductor analysis simulation technology, inkjet impact, mist behavior ・Commercialize inkjet equipment business for largeTargets in the final year to insufficient technological capacity and an underestimation of Other major progress analysis technology-driven minute the market, there were a number of products that we were unable phenomena elucidation sized OLED TVs Net sales Operating income to net sales ratio ・Commercialize energy-related business ¥45 billion – ¥50 billion 8 – 10% Q.2 What are your thoughts on technology development during an era of coexisting with COVID-19? Market outlook: Display manufacturing equipment market will grow at CAGR of 1% (2020–2022) In the midst of a highly uncertain world situation beset with tasks, and reducing manpower have been proposed. But with trade conflicts and geopolitical issues, in particular, the battle the momentum generated by the COVID-19 catastrophe, the for dominance between the U.S. and China, COVID-19 spread shift to digital will accelerate irreversibly, including IoT-based throughout the world, resulting in the movement of people data gathering, AI-based deep machine learning in virtual space, PE and goods being restricted and economic activity significantly automatic parameter adjustment, device autonomous control, suppressed. In the equipment industry, not only did it cause and failure prediction. Human thinking is being integrated with ・Increase market share of existing equipment Targets in the final year supply chain disruptions, but I also realized that things like setting machine information processing, and we can regard this as ・Work on new product development and launch on Net sales Operating income to net sales ratio up new equipment and optimizing processes are still as labor human evolution advancing to the next stage. the market intensive as ever. Up to now, working remotely, automating ¥12 billion – ¥14 billion 8 – 10% Market outlook: PCB market will grow at CAGR of 6–7% (2020–2024) Q.3 What are your thoughts on the mediumto long-term challenges to be tackled as part of the new medium-term management plan, Value Up 2023? As part of the new medium-term management plan, we term development of elemental technologies that spur innovation New Business are pursuing a basic strategy of enhancing corporate value in addressing the challenges faced by society and, thereby, by creating innovation and a sustainable growth cycle. We contribute to the sustainable growth of the SCREEN Group. To will continue to focus on strategic development investment, accomplish this, we will work in concert with our marketing team ・Inspection and measurement: Become profitable by solution business promoting open innovation, and leveraging M&A to strengthen to identify the varied trends within the current market and will ・Life sciences: Become profitable in tablet printing and cell fields our competitiveness in existing business areas, facilitate greater pursue greater industry-academia-government collaboration and ・Launch new project in growing market by strengthening marketing development diversification, and contribute to business portfolio more dynamic human resource exchange to facilitate flexible and restructuring. In addition, an important aspect of the new future-focused development. medium-term management plan is engaging in mediumto long17 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 18 Business Strategy and ESG ESG Initiatives to Be a Sustainable Corporation Looking Back at the Previous Three-Year Medium-term Management Plan —Challenge 2019 (FY2018–FY2020) “Sustainable Value 2023” Under Challenge 2019, net sales for all three years exceeded the target of ¥300 billion, thanks to the growing demand in the semiconductor market. Specifically, in the first fiscal year of the plan, we achieved a record high ¥42.7 billion in operating income and achieved zero net In the SCREEN Group, we are working to enhance our value to society through an emphasis on ESG, through a commitment to meeting the interest-bearing debt (net cash). However, in the latter half of the plan, due to lower profitability amid a declining economy and disruption of expectations and earning the trust of a diversity of stakeholders and by fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities, as well as by actively operations amid expanding sales, the operating income ratio did not meet the target in the final fiscal year. Furthermore, there remain major addressing environmental and social challenges through our business activities so that we can contribute as a solution creator to the sustainable issues regarding cash generating power. development of society. Sustainable Value (social value) Main Targets and Their Change over Time Changes in three years Contributing to the sustainable development of society Targets FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 We will actively engage in sustainable management practices that contribute to the realization of the 1. Expand sales international community’s shared SDGs and to earning the trust of stakeholders ¥339.3 ¥364.2 ¥323.2 Consolidated annual net sales Net sales billion billion billion approximately ¥300 billion E (Environment) Reduce environmental impact through business 2. Maintain and improve profitability Operating Operating income ratio in the final year of income ratio 12.6% 8.1% 3.9% the plan 13% or above 3. Maintain and improve capital efficiency ROE 18.2% 10.3% 2.8% ・Reduce CO2 emissions by lowering energy consumption and environmental impact based on the SBT* framework and contribute to the ROE approximately 15% 1 realization of a decarbonized society through our business ・Contribute to the realization of a recycling-oriented society through conservation of water resources, reduction of waste, and response to environmentally regulated substances S (Social) Create a great place to work and involve in solving social issues Results and Challenges 1. Established robust business foundations supported by annual net sales of ¥300.0 billion thanks to the success of growth investment In 1H of the three-year plan, the ratio of operating income to net sales and market capitalization hit record highs, while our targets for net cash flows and other performance indices have been met. ・Implement new, sustainable working styles, as well as develop and strengthen systems and environments conducive to the growth of, and greater participation by, a more diverse workforce ・Pursue industry-academia-government collaborations, which contribute to the creation of innovations that address the diverse challenges facing 2. On the other hand, we have seen growth in sales in 2H, albeit with temporary operational society, and undertake social contribution activities that facilitate the development of local communities confusion. Some issues must be addressed to offset a decrease in profitability and create cash flows in a disadvantageous environment arising from the deterioration of market conditions G (Governance) Strengthen risk management and business continuity plans >>Based on the new medium-term management plan, we will refresh our focus on pursuing improvement in corporate value ・Accurately identify risk issues and implement Group risk management to prevent or minimize these issues’ negative impact on corporate value ・Strengthen supply chain management based on the RBA* Code of Conduct 2 ・Improve the resilience of the Group BCP structure in the face of increasingly diverse disaster risks *1 SBT (Science Based Targets): An international initiative to combat global warming, which calls for the establishment of scientifically based CO2 emission reduction targets *2 RBA (Responsible Business Alliance): An alliance encompassing the electronic device, IT, toy, and automotive industries, which establishes rules and regulations related to human rights, health and safety, ethics, the environment, and other concerns Note: Refer to “Sustainable Management” on p. 29 for more information. 19 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 20 Business Strategy and ESG At a Glance Net Sales (Fiscal year ended March 31, 2020) By Segment By Region GA Graphic Arts Equipment Business SCREEN Graphic Solutions Co., Ltd. Truepress Jet520 HD Series PE Other Europe Other Full-Color Variable Printing System ¥10.0 billion (3.1%) ¥1.9 billion ¥22.8 billion (7.1%) ¥5.4 billion (1.7%) Provides various graphic arts equipment and services. Adapts to (0.6%) changes in the market and continue to focus on POD*1 sales to FT Japan capitalize on projected market growth while also expanding after-sales Market Share for POD Equipment*3 Segment Sales / Operating Income Ratio ¥35.1billion North America ¥71.7 billion (22.2%) services*2. ■ Sales Operating income ratio (Full-Color Variable Printing System) (10.9%) Net sales Net sales (%) ¥52.4 billion ・ Results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020: Compared with ¥323.2 ¥323.2 Asia & Oceania 8 (16.2%) 5.7 the previous fiscal period, sales of ink and other after-sales services GA billion ¥170.7 billion (52.8%) (Billions of 3.2 billion saw solid growth, but equipment sales dropped, resulting in lower 2.4 4 ¥45.5 billion ■ Taiwan ¥76.5 billion (23.7%) CY2019 yen) 60 53.4 revenue. Profit rose as decreased fixed costs due to business (14.1%) SPE ■ China ¥71.4 billion (22.1%) restructuring previous fiscal year, and the increased sales ratio for ink. 32 % 48.2 45.5 0 ■ South Korea ¥14.8 billion (4.6%) ¥230.5 billion ■ Other 7.8 billion (2.4%) ・ Currently transitioning from a business restructuring phase into No. 1 30 (71.3%) global share an earning power strengthening phase. In order to boost earning power, the ongoing growth in POD sales will be enhanced through 0 a greater emphasis on direct sales and an even higher sales ratio for 2018 2019 2020 (Years ended March 31) after-sales services. ・ Chosen as one of the 2020 Global Niche Top Companies Selection 100 by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI). *1 POD: Stands for “print on demand”. Printing of the number of copies needed when they are needed SPE using a digital printing presses. Semiconductor Production Equipment Business *2 After-sales services: Ongoing sales of ink and services following sales of POD equipment. Aftersales services accounted for approx. 40% of total sales in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. SU-3300 *3 Market share is calculated based on the number of products manufactured and shipped. 2019, SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co., Ltd. Single Wafer according to a SCREEN survey (calendar year). Cleaning Equipment Provides equipment for surface processing, a crucial part of circuit formation on silicon wafers for semiconductor devices. Processing includes cleaning, coating / developing and annealing. Handles a wide range of customer needs connected with the use of FT Display Production Equipment and Coater Business SCREEN Finetech Solutions Co., Ltd. SK Series Coater / Developer increasingly miniaturized leading-edge processes and IoT-related equipment (200 mm) in Segment Sales / Operating Income Ratio all device-related fields, thereby contributing to improved quality and productivity. ■ Sales Operating income ratio Establishes a sustainable business portfolio built from the sale of (%) 16.0 20 various equipment and services utilized in display manufacturing, as ・ Results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020: Compared with the previous fiscal period, well as from an expanded focus on applying coating technology to the (Billions of 10.2 Market Share for Coater / Segment Sales / Operating Income Ratio sales to customers in foundries, logic, and imaging devices grew. However, sales to yen) 7.0 10 development of coating equipment business (new business). Developers for Displays* ■ Sales Operating income ratio memory companies fell, and revenue and profit fell due to stagnant investment in memory. 280 252.5 (%) 227.1 230.5 10.2 ・ Market Outlook: Mediumto long-term growth is projected due to increasing demand in 0 ・ Results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020: Compared with 7.7 12 communication-related devices and servers in areas such as 5G. In the short term, it is the previous fiscal period, while sales were up for large-sized panels 140 (Billions of difficult to predict containment timing and impacts of COVID-19. (LCD panels), sales dropped for small-and medium-sized panels yen) 0 CY2019 -7.3 due to delivery delays. A rise in the variable cost ratio resulting from 60 ・ Moving forward, stronger supply chain management, design standardization, stronger after0 the product mix led to a fall in revenue and profit. 61 % 45.2 49.2 -12 sales services (around 20%–25%), and the new automated factory (S3-3) will be utilized to 2018 2019 2020 35.1 (Years ended March 31) ・ Moving forward, the scope of display production equipment No. 1 30 boost profitability and achieve a growth rate above the market average. global share business will continue to be expanded (such as with touchscreen ・ In addition to joint development with imec, Leti, IBM Albany Nanotech, and other research institutions, and with Applied Materials for collaborate at its R&D facility, META Center* 1, applications) while greater sales from new business are sought. 0 SCREEN concluded collaborative agreement with Shiga University in the field of data science, ・ Profitability will be improved by leveraging production systems and 2018 2019 2020 (Years ended March 31) through which mutual human resource development and joint research is being undertaken. sites (in Changshu, China). * Market share is based on the number of products ordered. 2019, according to a SCREEN survey *1 Please see SCREEN SPE News on page 25. (calendar year). Market Share for Single Wafer Cleaning Equipment* Market Share for Batch-type Cleaning Equipment* Market Share for Spin Scrubber* PE PCB-related Equipment Business SCREEN PE Solutions Co., Ltd. Ledia 6H Direct Imaging System Provides exposure systems and inspection systems and services CY2019 CY2019 CY2019 utilized in PCB (printed circuit board) manufacturing. Exposure equipment (direct imaging systems) is used to perform direct imaging 45 % 71 % 76 % of circuit patterns, while inspection equipment is used in circuit defect Segment Sales / Operating Income Ratio ■ Sales Operating income ratio No. 1 No. 1 No. 1 detection and PCB inspection. 8.3 (%) global share global share global share 6.2 10 ・ Results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020: Compared with the (Billions of -2.6 0 previous fiscal period, a slowdown in smartphone-related investment yen) 14 12.1 12.3 resulted in stagnant sales of direct imaging systems and led to decreased 10.0 -10 * Chart created by SCREEN based on Gartner Research. revenue and profit. Source: Gartner, Market Share: Semiconductor Wafer Fab Equipment, Worldwide, 2019, Bob Johnson, Gaurav Gupta, 14 April 2020; Vendor Revenue from Shipments Basis Single Wafer Cleaning Equipment = Single Wafer Processors; Batch-type Cleaning Equipment = Wet Stations; Spin Scrubber = Scrubbers ・ For 5G (infrastructure, mobile) and other growth markets, we are boosting 7 Disclaimer: The Gartner content described herein (the “Gartner Content”) represent(s) research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. ( Gartner ), and are our product lineup with the development of direct imaging systems, not representations of fact. Gartner Content speaks as of its original publication date and not as of the date of this Annual Report and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Content are subject to change without notice. inspection equipment (with AI functions added), and inkjet products 0 2018 2019 2020 that boast minimal water usage and other environmental benefits. (Years ended March 31) 21 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 22 Business Strategy and ESG Interviews with Business Operating Company Presidents Semiconductor Production Equipment Business (SPE) SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co., Ltd. Masato Goto President New Arrival SP-2100 SU-3200 Spin Processor Single Wafer Cleaning Equipment Q1. Please sum up the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. Q4. What is the role of SPE business within the new medium-term plan, and what are the priority measures? This past fiscal year was my first as president, and it has been a year reap the fruits of our efforts from the first half, such as by getting the SPE business is essential for driving the sales and profits needed to and 300 mm Si (silicon) in the power device market, thereby improving of course correction. During the first half of the year, we worked to new S3-3 factory at the Hikone Plant ready for full operation. However, sustainably grow the SCREEN Group. In order to achieve that, two our corporate position. Additionally, in terms of manufacturing, we are resolve issues like the supply chain disruption of the previous fiscal due to a delay in anticipated large orders, along with the outbreak of key challenges, which must be addressed are improving profitability increasing operations at our new S3-3 factory, which is equipped with year (ended March 31, 2019) by improving the variable cost ratio and COVID-19, we were unable to proceed as planned, resulting in lower and cash flow. In the medium term, we are working to implement solid automated infrastructure to improve productivity. putting in place systems and structures that would put us on track revenue and profits compared with the same period of the previous structural reforms that will enable us to achieve an operating income Through efforts that take development, manufacturing, procurement, for growth. Starting in the latter half of the fiscal year, we prepared to fiscal year. ratio of 20% as the company with the No.1 share equipment in the and other processes together as an integrated whole, we have market worldwide. designed new cleaning equipment (improved version of existing The SCREEN Group as a whole, under the leadership of HD platforms) with which we are achieving our expected numerical targets President Hiroe, will continue to undertake ROIC-focused operations. in terms of profit ratio. We will continue to work on improving our Q2. Could you provide us with an overview of your course correction efforts and their results? Within SPE business as well, we will continue to carefully examine and profitability by increasing the percentage of business that involves pursue capital investment and R&D investment while also working to highly profitable equipment and devices such as this. Another way We put into practice the lesson that we learned from dealing with We will also seek to address the issue of our evaluation equipment, achieve greater return on those investments. that we are contributing to greater profitability is through a project to supply chain disruption, which was that the appropriateness of which have been a major cause of worsening profitability but which are For example, we are working to prioritize resource allocation for the strengthen after-sales services, aiming to increase them to 25% or procurement must be ensured in terms of both quantity and price. essential for business expansion. In order to estimate an appropriate sake of increasing our share of the single-wafer cleaning back-end more of overall sales. Along with reviewing suppliers on a part-by-part basis, we asked annual volume, we will perform systematic management each year of market and accommodating demand for 200 mm SiC (silicon carbide) suppliers to increase their production capacity, worked to expand our the number of units and the timing of sales, thereby avoiding the risk domestic and overseas procurement network, and took other steps to of a sudden drop in profit. reduce purchasing costs. Q5. What are the business opportunities and risks that you see from the standpoint of ESG? Q3. Given the concerns about a slowdown in investment resulting from the COVID-19 crisis, what Within the semiconductor industry, any company that is not working We are similarly committed to ensuring such as the safety, and is your outlook for the market in the current fiscal year ending March 31, 2021? to reduce its environmental footprint is not going to be welcomed as diversity of our employees. When semiconductor manufacturers and a business partner. Within SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions as well, other customers are deciding between companies of comparable we would never allow equipment development that did not incorporate device quality, they will choose the company that demonstrates greater Originally, owing to growing demand in such areas as 5G, AI, IoT, foundries and logic demand remains high, and in the area of memory, energy-saving concepts. Under the SCREEN Group’s greenhouse gas enthusiasm and commitment to ESG initiatives. computer servers, industrial equipment, and automotive devices, it where there had been a curtailment in investment, demand is expected reductions targets, which have been recognized by the SBT Initiative Our ESG initiatives are not designed to achieve short-term results. I was expected that 2020 would be a pivotal year of positive growth to rebound from the latter half of this year. Orders in the fourth quarter and which we have committed ourselves to achieve by March 31, myself reiterate them on a daily basis, and we use design reviews and for the semiconductor market. However, the slowdown in the global of the term ended March 31, 2020 under review were strong, totaling 2030, we aim to not only reduce our own power, water, and other other opportunities to stringently check that they are incorporated into economy has affected the semiconductor market as well. Although 62.4 billion yen, and this gives a sense of the strong fundamental resource consumption but also contribute to reductions among our new product development. All of this is intended to ensure that our it is not possible to predict at this time when the pandemic will be demand in the market. I feel that, if the impact of COVID-19 is customers as well. ESG initiatives achieve company-wide saturation. contained, there is still deeply rooted market demand. In the areas of removed, there is significant room for a recovery in investment. 23 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 24 Business Strategy and ESG Interviews with Business Operating Company Presidents Display Production Equipment and Coater Business (FT) SCREEN SPE News SCREEN Finetech Solutions Co., Ltd. SCREEN Signs Process Development Agreement with Applied Materials Yasumasa Shima President SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co., Ltd. (SCREEN SPE) has signed an agreement with American materials engineering solutions company Applied Materials, Inc. to collaborate on process development at Applied’s new R&D facility—the Materials Engineering Technology Accelerator (META Center). The agreement brings together SCREEN SPE’s expertise in wafer cleaning technology with Applied’s leadership in materials engineering solutions. Applied’s META Center is a unique facility aimed at speeding customer prototyping of new chip materials, process technologies, and devices. Under the agreement, SCREEN SPE will install an SU-3200 singlewafer cleaning system at the META Center. The SU-3200 will complement Applied’s state-of-the-art process systems currently running in the META Center and enable the companies to configure optimal cleaning Q1. Please sum up the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. technology for preand post-cleaning processes. Vice President for Advanced Product Technology Development within the New Markets and Alliances Group The figures were harsh for both net sales and operating income. In in operating income. With regard to G10.5 business, we fully realize addition to the sales period for comparatively high-profit projects that the reason for the poor profitability was the fact that we were late at Applied, Ellie Yieh said, “The addition of SCREEN SPE’s wafer cleaning system strengthens the capabilities being pushed into the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021 (the current to market and could not, therefore, reduce costs enough to meet the of the META Center and gives us more resources to help the industry accelerate development of new fiscal year), an increase in the sales ratio of new business centered on market price. Moving forward, we will ensure that cost reductions are technologies from lab to fab. We look forward to collaborating with SCREEN SPE and others at the META generation 10.5 (G10.5) LCD production equipment and lithium-ion fully incorporated into any new equipment and devices we introduce. Center to optimize processes for advanced chip designs.” battery (LiB) coater / dryer equipment also contributed to the downturn (From a January 14, 2020 announcement in a newsletter) Q2. What is the market outlook for the current fiscal year (ending March 31, 2021), and what challenges do you foresee? There is currently almost no new investment in LCDs in the TVs display China, which began operation in the summer of 2019, we are market and our current target is production equipment for generation utilizing standardization as a driving element of drastic cost reduction 6 flexible OLED used in smartphones. This equipment comprises the measures. All of this is expected to contribute to sales opportunities core of the products that we will be delivering, as well as the business during the current fiscal year. In addition, we are working to revamp negotiations that we will be having, over the course of this fiscal year. production by distributing the cost reduction ratio across all Thus, the most important challenge for us is to reduce costs processes, from procurement to design, assembly, and inspection, as associated with our OLED production equipment. In addition to well as through a restructured quality management system (QMS). reducing production costs centered on our plant in Changshu, Q3. What are the priority measures for achieving the targets of the new medium-term plan? In the display field, we are working towards commercializing inkjet LiBs and fuel cells, which contribute to the realization of a low-carbon devices for the large-sized OLED TVs market. society. As a business opportunity that we can be proud of, we will In the area of new business, we are looking to expand sales respond to a variety of needs through the provision of equipment, by focusing on new energy, a field attracting rapidly increasing including power saving, and strive to increase the social value and investment. From an ESG standpoint, our new business offers economic value. significant social value through the resulting end products, such as A ceremony marking the signing of the agreement 25 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 26 Business Strategy and ESG Interviews with Business Operating Company Presidents Interviews with Business Operating Company Presidents Graphic Arts Equipment Business (GA) PCB-related Equipment Business (PE) SCREEN SCREEN Graphic Solutions Co., Ltd. PE Solutions Co., Ltd. Takanori Kakita Hitoshi Yamamoto President President Q1. Please sum up the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. Q1. Please sum up the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. Although the year got off to a slow start in the first quarter, a recovery not meet our business plan targets for the entire fiscal year. During the first half of the fiscal year, there was solid automotivewere down, together with an operating loss. in sales of print on demand (POD) printers within the U.S. market and On a positive note, however, ink-related sales grew thanks to related demand; however, smartphone-related investment remained In contrast, one positive outcome was the growth of highly profitable better-than-expected performance in Europe and other overseas concerted efforts begun in the previous fiscal year (ended March stagnate. In the latter half of the fiscal year, just when 5G-related service-related sales to encompass 35% or more of overall sales. markets, as well as in the domestic market, helped us to achieve 31, 2019). This contributed to a significant increase in after-sales investment was beginning to pick up, the effects of COVID-19 hit. This growth helped to temper the decline in profits. We are working an operating income ratio of more than 9% for the second quarter. services as a percentage of overall sales of at least 40%, of which ink Looking at the year overall, both direct imaging system and inspection to expand the scope of our services further with the aim of increasing Unfortunately, due to a reversal during the third and fourth quarters, accounted for more than 15%. system saw slumping sales, while year-on-year revenue and profits such sales to around 35% to 40% of all sales. which was compounded further by the COVID-19 pandemic, we did Q2. What is the market outlook for the current fiscal year (ending March 31, 2021), and what Q2. What is the market outlook for the current fiscal year (ending March 31, 2021), and what challenges do you foresee? challenges do you foresee? Chinese customers’ production are almost fully back on line, and business is to shrink the distance with our customers by having both With demand growing for digital printing that can accommodate high-mix Since the release of our inkjet label printer five years ago, we have grown fabrication equipment for 5G-related terminals, base station server development and sales representatives meet with customers onlow-volume production, the shift to POD is finally underway. Offset printing to become one of the top vendors in this field internationally. In the coming substrates, and other products has become the central focus of future site and increase the amount of direct sales in order to be a “solution is still the norm for commercial printing. However, all of the changes term we will be launching an inkjet printing system that is usable with investment. Taiwanese manufacturers with large-scale investments creator” that generates new value. Our immediate aim is to capture a in industrial structure and lifestyle occurring as a result of COVID-19 flexible packaging materials like polyethylene. We are also collaborating are also getting moving. greater share in uncommoditized fields (high-value-added fields), are prompting a reconsideration of conventional printing systems and with the largest company in the industry, a German company, to develop SCREEN PE Solutions, on the other hand, is still somewhat smallsuch as equipment incorporating AI and inspection equipment processes as well. Looking ahead, the rate of POD adoption is only an inkjet printer that can be used with cardboard. One of our group scale with a limited industry presence; thus, in order to ensure we tailored for interlaminar (in-between layers) conductive holes (vias) in expected to increase. companies, U.K.-based Inca Digital Printers, will start development on an survive, we need to produce distinctive products. The aim of our multilayer substrates. In particular, package printing for adhesive labels, flexible packages, inkjet printer for folded boxes. The current fiscal year is being treated as and the like is an area where sustained demand is anticipated. We will an investment year that will prepare us for sustained future growth. therefore continue to invest resources into it in order to grow our business. Q3. What are the priority measures for achieving the targets of the new medium-term plan? One priority, as PCB manufacturing becomes increasingly technologically cycle by shrinking development lead time by standardizing parts and Q3. What are the priority measures for achieving the targets of the new medium-term plan? advanced, is to maintain our top market share in the area of highcomponents. If we are able to swiftly provide customers with leadingresolution and high-precision patterning (we are currently the world edge equipment and devices, they will be able to bring distinctive This term we established the Service & Solutions Division. The aim environment through our business. Under our new medium-term leader in solder resist exposure). Towards this end, we are planning to products to market sooner, thereby increasing their profitability. of this division is to facilitate the creation of new added value by business plan, social value is given the same amount of weight as release new products this fiscal year (ending March 31, 2021). For SCREEN PE Solutions as well, shorter development lead time linking POD together with a variety of different processes. We will economic value, and because POD makes it possible to quickly In addition, we are capitalizing on the collective expertise of the means greater profitability and cash flow. As we continue to use this work to strengthen the degree to which our hardware and software print whenever, wherever, and whatever quantity necessary, this SCREEN Group to put ourselves at the forefront of the industry in approach to build up win-win relationships with our customers, we are integrated into customers’ facilities and equipment in order to naturally results in reduced energy usage and environmental footprint production control, such as by offering customers on-line automated will also work to speed up receiving inspections and shorten the time improve their operation rate and provide appealing solutions, thereby overall. Furthermore, in the area of POD for flexible packages, we are control systems for their production lines. between product delivery and payment collection. building win-win relationships that will increase after-sales services as switching from solvent-based inks to aqueous inks, which are more We are currently working to shorten our product development a percentage of overall sales to at least 50% by the end of this new environmentally friendly and which also provide a level of safety in medium-term. accordance with food product-related standards. We are also working to ensure that we are contributing to the 27 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 28 Business Strategy and ESG Sustainable Management The SCREEN Group puts into practice a corporate philosophy built around “Sharing the Future,” “Human Resource Development”, and “The Pursuit ● Performance of the Previous CSR Medium-term Plan (FY2018–FY2020) of Technology,” all of which are in service of our mission to help create a sustainable society for the future. We are working to enhance our value to Material Issues Goals Performance society through an emphasis on ESG, through a commitment to meeting the expectations and earning the trust of a diversity of stakeholders and by E (Environment) Creating environmental value and contributing to low carbon society and circular economy fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities, as well as by actively addressing environmental and social issues through our business activities. Providing of products and Reduce CO2 emissions from products services that contribute to Reduce 6% compared with FY2014 in emissions intensity of sales; Target:765 Achieved goal with 18% reduction reducing environmental impact metric tons CO2e/hundred millions yen Reduce CO2 emissions from facilities Basic Policy Reduce 6% compared with FY2014 in emissions per unit weight of product Achieved goal with 22% reduction shipments; Target: 8.64 metric tons CO2e/metric tons ・In December 2017, we signed an agreement on forest usage and conservation with the Kyoto Model Forest Association, Kyoto Prefecture, Kameoka City, and Miyagawa District in Miyazaki, The SCREEN Group has established a CSR Charter / Code of Conduct SCREEN Group demonstrates a commitment Proactive efforts for Kameoka City. Since FY2019, four events have been held annually and, in FY2020, carbon environmental conservation that sets forth the code of conduct that all group executives and to adhering with the norms of the international Actively engage in forest and biodiversity conservation activities offsets of 9.22 metric metric tons CO2e/yr were achieved ・On December 1, 2017, rare plant cultivation planning and landscaping for the 18th Kyoto Life employees should follow and includes principles of conduct based community, such as by signing the UN Global and Culture Collaborative Rejuvenation Project was completed on our corporate philosophy. We are putting it into practice in areas Compact, a United Nations initiative that comprises ・Awarded three stars (maximum) in the FY2019 Shiga Prefecture Certification Program for Biodiversity Measures including compliance, human rights, anti-corruption, product liability, 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, S (Social) Offering decent work and creating social value and the supply chain, thereby fulfilling our social responsibility as labor, environment, and anti-corruption. ・In FY2020, we placed within the top 20% to 30% in the results of a health and productivity a corporation and responding to the expectations of society. The management assessment; certified as an excellent corporation (large corporations category) in health and productivity management Ensuring health, and ・Each and every employee is healthy and active ・Expanded policies encouraging employees to take leave, expanded the scope of work-attransforming ways of working to ・Productivity and efficiency have been improved, and employees enjoy a SCREEN Group CSR Charter Valued Principles, Charters, and Norms improve the quality of work good work-life balance home eligibility, and implemented other policies aimed at creating more employee-friendly work environments 1. Provision of Products and Services Beneficial 6. Appropriate Management and Utilization Paid leave utilization rate: Improved from 74.5% in FY2018 to 83.4% in FY2020 ・UN Global Compact Childcare leave utilization rate among male employees: Improved from 1.2% in FY2018 to 90.8% in FY2020 to Society of Information and Intellectual Property ・SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) ・Employees are proactive in designing their own careers ・Support for employees taking the initiative to pursue professional growth via career level and Developing diverse human 2. Respect for Human Rights and Friendly 7. Appropriate Disclosure of Company ・RBA (Responsible Business Alliance) resources ・Approaches and development plans for nurturing the next generation of goal-specific educational and training programs offered by the SCREEN BUSINESS SCHOOL managers are in place; implement human resource development plans (Number of new programs: 25; total attendance: approx. 3,300) Work Environment Information ・Universal Declaration of Human Rights Promoting CSR in the supply On July 3, 2019, the SCREEN Supplier Code of Conduct was revised in line with Version 6.0 of A CSR code of conduct is being followed along the entire supply chain 3. Establishment of Friendly Environment for 8. Corporate Social Responsibility as Good ・UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human chain the RBA* Code of Conduct People and Our Planet Corporate Citizen Rights Social contribution activities ・Promote social contribution activities that employees can participate in ・In FY2019, a CSR survey confirmed the results of social contribution activities by 22 SCREEN centered on coexistence, continuously Group companies 4. Sound and Effective Corporate Governance 9. Exclusion of Anti-Social Forces ・OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises empathy, and nurturing of the ・Check participants’ level of satisfaction for each event; reach and maintain ・Since FY2019, Model Forest activities have been held four times per year, and surveys of 5. Compliance with Laws and Regulations, ・ISO 26000 next generation satisfaction of 70% or higher participants have consistently shown satisfaction at or above 95% and Standards of Ethics G (Governance) Implementing a system of both passive and active governance while disclosing ESG information CSR Charter ・Internal controls that ensure the soundness and transparency of management properly ・Continue to satisfy internal governance audits required by related laws implemented www.screen.co.jp/en/sustainability/csr_charter ・Within the SCREEN Group, 100% usage of risk management sheets and ・100% implementation of risk management sheet within the Group; In FY2019, procurement risk mitigation effect Establishing internal control and risks accompanying natural disasters had occurred risk management structures to ・100% resolution of reported issues An effective internal whistleblowing system is in operation throughout the support proactive governance ・Semi-annual checks of persons in charge of harassment consultation office; trained new staff Structure for Sustainable Management Group both in Japan and overseas ・100% resolution rate for reported issues members ・Completed survey of whistleblowing systems for overseas subsidiaries; began efforts to ・Investigate operational status of whistleblowing system and improve it address and improve problems SCREEN Holdings appoints a Chief Officer of Sustainability which meets twice annually, and the Group EHS Committee, which Nonfinancial information is being effectively disclosed and stakeholders are Maintained effective ESG information disclosure via annual report Promotion who is entrusted with the authority and responsibility meets four times annually. Meetings are attended by representatives being proactively engaged with based on an accurate understanding and Proactive disclosure and ・Implemented CSR training, in particular training to raise awareness and understanding of SDGs proper adherence to international CSR standards for overseeing the sustainable management practices of the entire from each Group company who periodically share information internal / external sharing of ESG ・CSR-related opinion exchange facilitated via CSR Talks held on a quarterly basis in each ・Publish integrated report (booklet, website) information department Group, the promotion of which is carried out by the CSR Promotional as well as coordinate with other Group companies on priority ・Implement CSR training in all departments: Implementation rate of CSR Implementation rate: 82% (FY2018), 81% (FY2019), 86% (FY2020) small meetings (called as CSR Talks) 70% or higher Department. The structure for sustainable management ensures that measures and Group employee CSR awareness-raising efforts. *RBA (Responsible Business Alliance): An alliance encompassing the electronic device, IT, toy, and automotive industries, which establishes rules and regulations related to human rights, maximum consideration is given to the environment, health and safety Subcommittees (Disaster Prevention BCM Subcommittee, Healthcare health and safety, ethics, the environment, and other concerns when we develop our business activities, that we maintain initiatives Subcommittee, Product EHS Subcommittee, and Environment and that contribute to a sustainable society, and that we are working Energy Subcommittee) have been established under the Group EHS to improve the effectiveness and outcomes of these activities. The Committee to facilitate the integrated management of environmental, ● Sustainable Value 2023: Material Issues and Goals Identified for Social Value Enhancement Group committee structure is comprised of the CSR Committee, health and safety activities. Issues and goals have been identified based on the results of the previous CSR medium-term plan and predictions about future global trends and societal changes. which meets twice annually, the Group Risk Management Committee, Material Issues Goals for FY2024 President, Member of the Board (CEO) E (Environment) Reduce environmental impact through business Reduce CO2 emissions from business activities Reduce CO2 emissions by 10% (compared with FY2019), and by 30% by the end of FY2030 as SBT* (Scope 1, 2) Chief Officer of Sustainability Promotion CSR Committee Reduce CO2 emissions due to products Reduce CO2 emissions from use of sold products by 8% (compared with FY2019), and by 20% by the end of FY2030 as SBT* (Scope 3) CSR Promotional Department Group Risk Management Committee Reduce waste (promote recycling) Reduce waste by 5% in intensity per unit weight of product shipments (compared with FY2019) Effective use of water resources Reduce water withdrawal(for tap water, industrial use,etc.)by 5% in intensity per product shipments (compared with FY2019) SCREEN Business Expert Co., Ltd. Group EHS Committee Preserve biodiversity Continue and expand forest and biodiversity preservation efforts Environmental Sustainability Division S (Social) Create a great place to work and involve in solving social issues Disaster Prevention BCM Subcommittee Product EHS Subcommittee Hire and develop diverse human resources Expand internships, year-round hiring, and measures (training and environmental) that facilitate development of diverse human resources SCREEN Group companies Systems and measures that provide a tangible Healthcare Subcommittee Environment and Energy Subcommittee Revise personnel system to facilitate human resource development sense of growth Sustainable new work styles Carry out operational reform and innovation, as well as develop systems and environments that foster work styles resilient to environmental change Health and well-being initiatives Reduce rate of sick leave days (0.68% or less) Eliminate occupational accidents Achieve zero occupational accidents causing four or more working days to be lost Be a scandal-free company Prevent corruption, eliminate compliance violations, and achieve zero IT-related accidents / incidents CSR Medium-term Plan Industry-academia-government collaborations to Promote collaboration with the government, educational institutions, and others in pursuing various joint operations address challenges facing society The SCREEN Group established and implemented a CSR mediumdialogue, and on the three areas of “environment” (E), “social” (S), and Activities that nurture the next generation Undertake more robust efforts to support the development of children and students term plan, which was based upon Challenge 2019, our previous “corporate governance” (G), in order to find and act upon those social G (Governance) Strengthen risk management and business continuity plan three-year medium-term management plan. We identified priority issues with which we were most closely connected and which had an Group risk management Identify risks to corporate value and minimize their impact material issues from among many environmental and social issues. impact on achieving a sustainable society. CSR initiatives in the Supply Chain Pursue ongoing strengthening of the supply chain structure, including widespread adoption of the code of conduct, procurement practices, and BCP Resilience to increasingly more severe natural In the course of this process, we put great emphasis on stakeholder disasters Improve the resilience of the Group BCP structure in the face of increasingly diverse disaster risks *SBT (Science Based Targets): An international initiative to combat global warming, which calls for the establishment of scientifically based CO2 emission reduction targets 29 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 30 Business Strategy and ESG Corporate Governance Basic Concepts Board of Directors In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 (FY2020), there was 100% SCREEN Holdings has a Board of Directors comprising eight directors attendance at Board of Corporate Auditors meetings*. In line with By striving to improve corporate governance in pursuit of enhanced Grand Design,” which is a vision of the SCREEN Group and guidelines (including three outside directors). In the fiscal year ended March 31, the audit policies and plans formulated by the Board of Corporate transparency, soundness, and efficiency in business management, to boost SCREEN Value; “SCREEN Group CSR Charter,” which 2020 (FY2020), there was 100% attendance at Board of Directors Auditors, it is responsible in monitoring and overseeing the legality of the SCREEN Group aims to ensure that shareholders and all other describes the principles of action for all executives and employees meetings*. the official acts of the directors. This is done through daily audits to stakeholders benefit in line with its Corporate Philosophy of “Sharing of the Group; and “SCREEN Group Code of Management,” which The Board of Directors determines basic policies and strategies for the ensure propriety. The company has set up the Corporate Auditors the Future,” “Human Resource Development,” and “the Pursuit of regulates the controlling policies and systems of Group companies Group management and important matters in business execution and Department staffed with dedicated employees to support the Technology.” as well as other regulations with which all executives and employees exercises supervision over business execution, holding regular monthly auditors' duties. * There were 26 meetings in FY2020. Hirofumi Ota attended a total of 19 meetings The Group recognizes that effective corporate governance is should comply. meetings and additional meetings as necessary. It includes more than following his appointment to the Board of Corporate Auditors on June 25, 2019. essential to the achievement of this goal, thus it has strengthened its Corporate Governance Report (updated on July 7, 2020) one-third of outside directors with the aim of functional enhancement of capabilities to govern through the establishment of its “Management www.screen.co.jp/download_file/get_file/20200707_CGR_E.pdf management oversight and the maintenance of management objectivity. Corporate Officer System The term of office for directors is set at one year as the Company The Group has introduced the corporate officer system in order to aims to clarify responsibilities of directors in addition to securing a accelerate business execution and clarify responsibility. Corporate Continuously Improving Group Governance management structure capable of quickly adapting to changes in the officers effectively execute their duties in accordance with the basic operating environment. policies and strategies determined by the Board of Directors. SCREEN Holdings has continued to strengthen and improve corporate governance, such as by beginning to appoint outside directors in 2000. * There were 14 meetings in FY2020. Toshio Hiroe and Hidemi Takasu attended a total of 10 meetings following their appointment to the Board of Directors on June 25, After we adopted a holding company structure in 2014, we have continued to reinforce our group governance. 2019. Management Committee The Management Committee, comprising the full-time directors, presidents ● SCREEN Governance History Board of Corporate Auditors of business operating companies and functional support companies, and The Board of Corporate Auditors comprises four members, of whom two are officers whom the chairman of the Committee appoints, meets more April 1999 Adopted a corporate officer system. outside corporate auditors who meet our own criteria for independence. than once a month to deliberate matters related to management and to The Board of Corporate Auditors holds two regular meetings per month facilitate the decision making of the Board of Directors and representative June 2000 Began appointing outside directors. and additional meetings as necessary. directors. 2005 and before April 2002 Introduced the internal company system. ● Corporate Governance Structure Abolished retirement benefit for senior management and directors and introduced new directors’ compensation July 2005 system with stronger link between corporate performance and compensation, part of which was stock allowances. Shareholders’ Meeting Introduced new compensation system for corporate officers with stronger link between corporate performance Appointment Appointment April 2006 and dismissal Report and dismissal Proposal and report and compensation (includes stock allowances). Request for 2006–2010 advisory 1 inside director May 2006 Started new structure of internal control with three outside directors among the nine directors. Board of Directors Nomination and Compensation Board of Corporate Auditors April 2011 Formulated the SCREEN Group Risk Management Guidelines. 5 inside directors Make a 2 inside corporate 3 outside directors recommendation auditors (3 independent directors) Formulated company-wide Business Continuity Management Regulations and Bylaws to focus on BCM May 2012 2 outside corporate (business continuity management). auditors Appointment, dismissal Proposal and 3 outside directors (3 independent directors) (2 independent auditors) Advisory Committee and oversight report April 2014 Formulated Management Grand Design. Monitoring Representative Director Holding Company (Managerial oversight) Oversight Transitioned to a holding company structure in which the company is split up and changed name to SCREEN 2011–2015 October 2014 Management Committee Holdings Co., Ltd., and formulated SCREEN Group Code of Management. Improvement Proposal and April 2015 Formulated SCREEN Group CSR Charter and SCREEN Group Code of Conduct. instructions report Director and Corporate Officer Accounting Auditor Established the Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee to improve functions regarding Executive Division June 2015 Audit compensation advising. November 2015 Began submitting corporate governance reports. Proposal and Oversight Group Risk Management Committee report April 2016 Adopted a corporate officer system at business operating companies and functional support companies. Cooperation Business Operating and Group Committee CSR Committee Board of Directors (Business execution) June 2016 Board of Directors began analyzing and evaluating its own effectiveness. Appointment, Proposal and Oversight Group EHS Committee dismissal and oversight report 2016 and after Functional Support Companies For compensation for directors and corporate officers, began using performance-linked share compensation in August 2017 Timely Disclosure Committee place of stock allowances. President On the advice of a third-party organization, began analyzing and evaluating the effectiveness of the Board of Management Committee Pension Assets Management Committee May 2019 Directors. Proposal and Oversight ・ ・ Internal Audit ・ report ・ ・ Department Subsidiaries of the Business Operating, Corporate Governance Structure Functional Support, and Holding Companies SCREEN Holdings is a company with a Board of Corporate Auditors and maintains a functional balance between enabling the Board of Directors to achieve maximum efficiency and effectiveness and ensuring that management oversight of the entire Group is securely in place. Management Grand Design / SCREEN Group CSR Charter (SCREEN Group Code of Management / Regulations) 31 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 32 Business Strategy and ESG Duties of Directors, Appointment of Candidates for Directors and Corporate Auditors, Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors Dismissal of Directors To evaluate how it can contribute to making SCREEN Holdings’ of Directors in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, it was confirmed corporate governance function more effectively, once a year the that the Board of Directors is functioning effectively overall. The principal duty of the directors is “to recognize their fiduciary works to ensure the independence of the outside directors and outside Board of Directors conducts an analysis and evaluation of its own Based on this analysis and evaluation, the Board of Directors responsibility to shareholders and assume the responsibility of corporate auditors, applying the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s standards effectiveness in which it identifies problems and works to attain formulates and executes measures for further improvement in order sustainably enhancing the SCREEN Group’s corporate value.” of independence as well as the Group’s own criteria for independence improvement. An overview of the results is made public. Since the to ensure it improves its functions and contributes to ongoing growth SCREEN Holdings’ Nomination and Compensation Advisory of outside directors and outside corporate auditors. All five outside fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, this analysis and evaluation has and mediumto long-term improvements in corporate value. Committee is in place to ensure a highly transparent and objective directors and outside corporate auditors (three outside directors and been conducted by a third-party organization. As a result of an Summary of Results of Evaluation of the Board of Directors’ Effectiveness (May process for appointing and dismissing candidates for director, two outside corporate auditors) are registered with the Tokyo Stock analysis and evaluation of effectiveness of SCREEN Holdings’ Board 12, 2020) corporate auditor and corporate officer positions, thereby Exchange as independent directors and corporate auditors. www.screen.co.jp/download_file/get_file/20200512_BME_E.pdf strengthening the Board of Directors’ supervisory functions. Regarding Regarding the dismissal of directors, the Board of Directors may the nomination of candidates for director and corporate auditor propose to dismiss an individual to whom one of the Criteria for positions, candidates are selected in accordance with SCREEN Dismissing Directors apply after seeking the advice of the Nomination Holding’s “Criteria for Appointing Candidates for Directors and and Compensation Advisory Committee. Dismissal of said individual is Messages from Outside Directors An evaluation determined that the Board of Directors is functioning effectively. We asked the three outside directors about this effectiveness. Corporate Auditors” and approved by the Board of Directors after then finalized at the shareholders meeting based on a resolution passed seeking the advice of the Nomination and Compensation Advisory by the Board of Directors. Committee, which includes outside directors (the majority) and the With the COVID-19 pandemic showing no signs of subsiding, consumers worldwide are buying less. At the Criteria for Appointing Candidates for Directors and Corporate Auditors, and chairman of the Board of Directors. for Dismissing Directors same time, sectors related to 5G, telecommuting, and online gaming are booming. Because these require Outside directors and outside corporate auditors are selected based www.screen.co.jp/download_file/get_file/Election_HD_E.pdf large-capacity servers, things are looking up for the semiconductor industry. on experience and expertise, with the aim of drawing on a variety of Criteria for Independence of Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors To seize this opportunity, it is crucial that we three outside directors, each with his own perspective, perspectives to ensure objective, bias-free management. Our company www.screen.co.jp/download_file/get_file/20170509_Ind_Crit_E.pdf contribute our viewpoints and knowledge in discussions of the Board of Directors in order to raise the corporate value of the SCREEN Group. Management Compensation It is also vital for directors to take ongoing training in things like the latest industry information. For example, we must waste no time in acquiring IT literacy, which allows us to respond to changes in the Compensation for directors and corporate officers now consists approved for director compensation at the Shareholders’ Meeting. business environment so that we can carry out the most effective discussions on online meetings that have of three elements: (a) basic remuneration for fixed cash payment, The following policies are followed with regard to determining Shigeru Saito become so ubiquitous during the COVID-19 pandemic. (b) a short-term performance-linked cash bonus, and (c) share the proportion of compensation allocated to basic remuneration, Director (Outside) compensation linked with the shortand mediumto long-term performance linked cash bonus, and performance-linked share Chairman and CEO, TOSE performance, and corporate value (shareholder’s value). This compensation. CO.,LTD. compensation scheme better motivates recipients to improve business ・ Basic remuneration is paid relative to responsibility of director in performance and to increase the mediumto long-term Company’s terms of business size that they are engaged in. Companies today require governance and management that takes into account the post-COVID-19 world value (shareholder’s value). The well-balanced scheme allows to ・ Performance-linked cash bonus is paid less than half of fixed and the new normal. As an outside director, I want to adjust to this new world by being alert and sensitive develop management personnel, resulting in the sustainable growth of compensation. the Company. ・ Performance-linked share compensation is designed to grant while at the same time not being tied down by new rules. In particular, the introduction of performance-linked share approximately 40% of basic remuneration at most. Its monetary I believe that SCREEN’s Board of Directors is functioning effectively overall. However, one problem we compensation makes the link between the company’s stock value and value could change with fluctuations in share value. need to deal with is that there is not quite enough time for us to thoroughly debate the many issues that are the compensation paid to directors and corporate officers clearer than Performance measurement is aimed at strengthening business brought up for discussion during our meetings. To further improve the Board of Directors’ effectiveness, I ever, thereby focusing the attention of management personnel more foundations and, as such, relies on indicators like the ratio of sales think we must limit the number of proposals and find more effective ways of submitting these proposals. keenly on contributing to greater performance and corporate value to market growth, the operating income ratio, ROE, and the rate of over the medium to long term. Please note that SCREEN Holdings progress for operating income relative to management plan (all on a Outside directors have a limited knowledge of SCREEN’s business and industry trends. I think it's abolished its retirement benefit for directors in 2005. consolidated basis). In addition, indicators in terms of internal control, important for us to have opportunities to gain deeper insight into these and for opinion-exchange meetings Outside directors receive only basic remuneration and performancegovernance, and environment and health and safety are introduced Makoto Yoda with business division heads. And with calls to reform work styles and boost efficiency, I want to focus on linked cash bonus. Also, corporate auditors receive only basic to enable the Sustainable Value enhancement of the Company. Director (Outside) finding corporate governance methods suitable to this new era. remuneration, which is determined by the Board of Corporate The amount of performance-linked bonus is determined on scoring Auditors based upon the total amount approved for corporate auditor achievement of each indicator. compensation at the Shareholders’ Meeting. Note: For details on management compensation, such as total amount of compensation Amidst dramatic social changes brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, trade tension continues between (by type, board member category), and number of eligible board members, see Management compensation is determined by the Board of the U.S. and China and the semiconductor production equipment industry is becoming a major battlefield. page 51 of the 79th Term Securities Report (in Japanese only). Directors based upon the recommendations of the Nomination and In order to avoid foreseeable risks and formulate future growth strategies, it’s important that the Board of Compensation Advisory Committee, while director compensation is 79th Term Securities Report Directors functions effectively by having directors debate matters from all possible angles, making use of not determined by the Board of Directors based upon the total amount www.screen.co.jp/download_file/get_file/YH79.pdf just in-house information but also management information from sources outside the Group. With innovations in technology moving at a faster pace than ever and new technologies emerging that can make previous ones ● Total Amount of Compensation (by Type, Board Member Category), Number of Eligible Board Members (Fiscal year ended March 31, 2020) obsolete and change the world in an instant, we must reinforce our own position to avoid being left behind. Total amount of Total amount for each type of compensation (million yen) Number of eligible Category I am committed to energizing the Board of Directors and reaffirm its role as a forum for fruitful debate and compensation (million yen) Basic remuneration Performance-linked cash bonus Performance-linked share compensation board members Directors not just a place to rubber stamp policy. To this end, I will strive to use my strengths as an outside director— (outside directors excluded) 321 208 45 67 7 Hidemi Takasu impartiality, my unique outside perspective, the global network I have built up, my specialized field of Corporate auditors (outside Director (Outside) corporate auditors excluded) 43 43 ― ― 3 knowledge, and my business experience—to further boost the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and Substitute Corporate Auditor, Outside directors 38 34 3 ― 6 Samco Inc. contribute to continuously improving the ESG-centered corporate value of the SCREEN Group. Note: The above includes one director, one corporate auditor, and one outside director who retired at the time that the 78th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders concluded on June 25, 2019. 33 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 34 Business Strategy and ESG Directors and Auditors (As of July 1, 2020) 〈Directors〉 〈Corporate Auditors〉 Toshio Hiroe Tetsuo Kikkawa Eiji Kakiuchi Representative Director Soichi Nadahara Corporate Auditor Representative Director President Managing Director Hirofumi Ota (Outside) Chairman Member of the Board Member of the Board Senior Corporate Akio Umeda (President and Attorney-atMember of the Board Chief Executive Officer Chief Technology Officer Auditor Corporate Auditor Law, Kyoto Mirai Law Firm) April 1981 Joined the Company April 1983 Joined the Company April 1986 Joined TOSHIBA CORPORATION April 1981 Joined the Company April 1985 Joined The Daiwa Bank, Ltd. (Currently Resona April 1982 Registered with Osaka Bar Association April 2005 Corporate Officer April 2006 Vice President, Semiconductor Equipment Company April 2001 Group Manager, Processing Technology Promotion April 2005 General Manager, Finance & Accounting Department, Bank, Ltd.) Joined Miyake Joint Partnership Law Office (Currently April 2006 Senior Corporate Officer April 2007 Corporate Officer Center, Semiconductor Company, Accounting Company October 2003 General Manager, IR Office, Planning Division, Miyake & Partners) April 2007 Corporate Executive Officer October 2009 Deputy General Manager, R&D Center TOSHIBA CORPORATION April 2012 General Manager, Finance & Accounting Group, Resona Holdings, Inc. April 1986 Registered with Kyoto Bar Association April 2011 Chief Officer of IR, Security Export Control, April 2011 Senior Corporate Officer April 2004 Joined the Company Business Service Center October 2005 General Manager, Corporate Communications Established Masukawa & Kikkawa Joint Partnership GPS and Group G10 April 2014 President, FPD Equipment Company October 2004 Vice President, Semiconductor Equipment Company April 2014 General Manager, Finance & Accounting Group, Division, Resona Holdings, Inc. Law Firm June 2011 Director August 2014 President, SCREEN Finetech Solutions Co., Ltd. April 2006 Corporate Officer General Administration Division October 2009 General Manager, Osaka Public Affairs Division, April 1995 Vice-chairman, Kyoto Bar Association April 2014 Representative Director, President, April 2019 Chairman, SCREEN Finetech Solutions Co., Ltd. April 2011 Senior Corporate Officer October 2014 General Manager, Finance & Accounting Department Resona Bank, Ltd. October 2002 Established Kyoto Mirai Law Firm Member of the Board June 2019 Representative Director, President, April 2013 Chief Technology Officer (Current) April 2016 Corporate Officer April 2014 Manager, Human Resources Division, October 2002-present President and Attorney-at-Law, Kyoto Mirai Law Firm April 2016 Chief Executive Officer Member of the Board (Current) June 2014 Managing Director, Member of the board (Current) June 2019 Senior Corporate Auditor (Full-time; Current) Resona Bank, Ltd. June 2010-present Outside Corporate Auditor, Kosei Kensetsu Co., Ltd. June 2019 Representative Director, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer (Current) April 2015 Joined the Company April 2012 Chairman, Kyoto Bar Association Member of the Board (Current) Assistant to Chief Officer of General Affairs & Human Resources June 2015 Corporate Auditor (Full-time; Current) Kimito Ando Managing Director Shigeru Saito Yoichi Kondo Member of the Board Director (Outside) Seiji Yokoyama Substitute Corporate Auditor Managing Director General Affairs & Member of the Board Corporate Auditor (Outside) Member of the Board Human Resources Strategy (Chairman and CEO, (Outside) Tomoyuki Ito Chief Financial Officer Tokyo Representative TOSE CO., LTD.) (Certified Public Accountant) Attorney-at-Law, Ashida Law Office April 1982 Joined The Bank of Tokyo, Limited (Currently MUFG April 1981 Joined the Company November 1979 Joined TOSE CO., LTD. April 1983 Joined Toray Industries, Inc. April 1989 Appointed as Judge, Osaka District Court Bank, Ltd.) April 2006 President, Human Resources Company Head of Development Division, TOSE CO., LTD. October 1985 Joined Tohmatsu Awoki & Co. (currently Deloitte April 1991 Assigned to Kanazawa District Court June 2010 Corporate Officer, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, April 2011 Corporate Officer October 1985 Director, TOSE CO., LTD. Touche Tohmatsu LLC) April 1994 Registered with Kyoto Bar Association Ltd. (Currently MUFG Bank, Ltd.) April 2014 Senior Corporate Officer February 1987 President, TOSE CO., LTD. March 1989 Registered as Certified Public Accountant April 1994-present Attorney-at-Law, Ashida Law Office June 2013 Joined the Company August 2014 Director, SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co., Ltd. September 2004 President and CEO, TOSE CO., LTD. February 2000 Registered as California-Licensed Certified Public Senior Corporate Officer April 2016 Corporate Executive Officer, SCREEN Semiconductor June 2013 Director, Member of the Board of the Company (Current) Accountant (USA) April 2014 General Manager, General Administration Division Solutions Co., Ltd. December 2015 Chairman and CEO, TOSE CO., LTD. (Current) July 2001-present Partner, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC June 2014 Managing Director, Member of the Board (Current) June 2017 Director June 2017 Outside Director, Wacoal Holdings Corp. (Current) (scheduled to retire on June 15, 2020) Chief Financial Officer (Current) Chief Officer of General Affairs & HR Strategy (Current) Chief Officer of Tokyo Representative (Current) June 2019 Managing Director, Member of the Board (Current) Note: The Company has reported all outside directors and outside corporate auditors to Tokyo Stock Exchange Group, Inc. as an independent director / auditor. Hidemi Takasu Director (Outside) Makoto Yoda Member of the Board Director (Outside) (Substitute Corporate Member of the Board Auditor, Samco Inc.) March 1972 Joined Japan Storage Battery Co., Ltd. (Currently GS March 1971 Joined Toyo Electronics Industry Corporation (Currently Yuasa International Ltd.) ROHM Co., Ltd.) June 2004 President, GS Yuasa Power Supply Co., Ltd. (Currently June 1997 Director and Deputy General Manager, ULSI Research & GS Yuasa International Ltd.) Development Headquarters, ROHM Co., Ltd. June 2006 President, GS Yuasa Corporation June 2009 Managing Director and General Manager, LSI General October 2007 Chief Executive Officer, GS Yuasa Corporation Headquarters, in charge of Research & Development June 2015 Chairman, GS Yuasa Corporation Headquarters, ROHM Co., Ltd. Chairman, GS Yuasa International Ltd. October 2009 Managing Director and General Manager, Research & May 2016 Chairman, Kyoto Industrial Association, Inc. Development Headquarters, ROHM Co., Ltd. June 2017 Advisor, GS Yuasa Corporation May 2013 Managing Director in charge of Quality and General Manager, June 2018 Director, Member of the Board of the Company (Current) Research & Development Headquarters, ROHM Co., Ltd. July 2013 Managing Director in charge of Business Creation and Quality, ROHM Co., Ltd. August 2017 Advisor, Samco Inc. (Current) October 2018 Substitute Corporate Auditor, Samco Inc. (Current) June 2019 Director, Member of the Board of the Company (Current) 35 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 36 Business Strategy and ESG Compliance Internal Control Compliance System Whistleblowing System Group Governance Structure within Holding Company Structure The SCREEN Group has established a CSR Charter / Code of We have established Internal Reporting Hotline, a whistleblowing The SCREEN Group has adopted a holding company structure made The business operating companies have also adopted a corporate Conduct that all group executives and employees should follow and system that helps to prevent improprieties through the early detection up of separate business operating companies to enable agile and officer system, which aims to clarify responsibilities and roles of includes principles of conduct based on our corporate philosophy. of harassment and suspected violations of corporate ethics and bold business execution. The Holding company determines the basic officers, and to secure a management structure capable of quickly Based on the CSR Charter / Code of Conduct, the SCREEN Group corporate regulations. Our global whistleblowing system has Hotlines policies and strategies for Group management as well as the optimal adapting to changes in the operating environment. In addition, each will comply with all applicable laws and regulations, as well as in all SCREEN worldwide regions to accept inquiries from all Group allocation of management resources. In addition, it has management of these companies maintains a management committee to deliberate standards of ethics in all relevant countries, and will conduct business employees, officers and employees of supplier companies. There are oversight over the business execution of each Group company, matters related to management and facilitate the decision making of activities in a fair and sensible manner. To this end, we have appointed also rules in place regarding anonymity and privacy protection, as well ensuring the functional segregation of business execution and oversight. the Board of Directors and representative directors. a compliance officer in efforts to raise awareness of compliance and as for ensuring that no one will be given unfair treatment for having make it fully understood across the entire SCREEN Group. Our Legal used the whistleblowing system. This system is operated by our Legal ● Group Governance Structure within Holding Company Structure (As of July 1, 2020) & Compliance Department takes the lead in promoting abidance & Compliance Department. We have also established external hotlines with international rules and each country’s laws and regulations and operated by law firms. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, we HD offering compliance education. inspected Corporate Ethics Help Line at overseas companies and The CSR Committee is chaired by the HD Representative Director, made rule revisions and other necessary improvements. Holding 3 outside directors 2 outside corporate auditors 5 inside directors 2 inside corporate auditors President, Member of the Board and comprises the Chief Officer of Periodic in-house audits are conducted to see how well we are company Sustainability Promotion, Chief Compliance Officer, CSR officers and complying with laws and corporate ethics and how well our Hotlines CSR department General Managers of the business operating and are operating. functional support companies. At meetings, members confirm and SPE GA FT PE AS IP share information on the state of compliance efforts at each company. Business operating and functional support companies Board of Directors HD director (3 persons) Board of Directors HD director (2 persons) Board of Directors HD director (2 persons) Board of Directors HD director (2 persons) Board of Directors HD director (2 persons) Board of Directors HD director (2 persons) Compliance with Competition Laws and Compliance Education Anti-corruption 2 inside directors 1 inside director 1 inside director 1 inside director 1 inside director 1 inside director Through both classroom work and e-learning, newly graduated The SCREEN Group formulated the Guidelines on Preventing employees, mid-career hires, and officers and employees at SCREEN Collusive Bidding by Cartels and conducts education for officers and companies worldwide receive education including compliance basics, employees on improper activities. The goal is to prevent collusion, job-level-specific classes, specialist classes, and classes on SCREEN monopolies, unfair advantages to one’s own suppliers, and other Corporate officer (8 persons) Corporate officer (5 persons) Corporate officer (4 persons) Corporate officer (3 persons) Corporate officer (1 person) Corporate officer (1 person) Group’s CSR Charter / Code of Conduct. Education also includes actions that violate anti-monopoly and fair competition laws, as well as periodic classes on harassment prevention and on compliance with prevent bribes and other such improper acts. In the fiscal year ended laws related to unfair competition, anti-corruption, subcontracting, March 31, 2020, there were no instances in the SCREEN Group of personal information protection, worker dispatching and insider trading. anticompetitive or antitrust practices or illegal monopolistic activities. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, we provided education for Corporate auditor Corporate auditor Corporate auditor Corporate auditor Corporate auditor Corporate auditor HD 1 person employees in Japan on revised laws and new laws, such as those 1 inside auditor HD 1 person HD 1 person HD 1 person HD 1 person HD 1 person related to civil matters, worker dispatch, fixed-term employment Exclusion of Anti-Social Forces contracts, and workplace harassment prevention. For subsidiaries in China and Taiwan, we provided officers and employees with education The SCREEN Group will ban any relationships with anti-social on information management covering sales secrets and other matters. forces, including organized crime groups, which pose a threat to Towards Stronger Group Governance public order and safety of society. We will stand firm against, and reject, unreasonable demands and requests of anti-social forces. Risk Management Strengthening and Reorganization of the Security Export Control Furthermore, we will not engage in any transactions or relationships Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee of any kind with anti-social forces. We will also demand that our The SCREEN Group places a high priority on carrying out security customers and business partners also eliminate any relationships with During my time as chairman of the Board of Directors over the past year, I have undertaken a review of export control. The aim is to help preserve international peace and anti-social forces. governance for the SCREEN Group as a whole. One area we focused on was strengthening the functioning safety by preventing weapons or goods and technologies that of business operating company audits. We improved how corporate auditors (dispatched from the HD Group could be converted for military use from falling into the hands of Audit Department) function with regard to the board of directors in each business operating company, and, at the same time, we identified and instituted improvements when Group company subsidiaries of business governments or terrorists who could threaten world safety. Our Providing Appropriate Product Information Security Export Control Department gathers the latest information on operating companies were audited and found to be inadequately prepared, in terms of rules and regulations, Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act and other related export Each department involved in public relations, legal affairs, and to deal with changing business. rules and disseminates this information throughout the Group. It intellectual property verifies product and service information prior to Another priority issue is Group risk management reform, which requires that sufficient attention and study also confirms that goods and technologies we export correspond to its external release. In this way, we work to ensure fair and accurate be given to potential sources and impacts of risk. To oversee this process for the company as a whole, we regulations, and it formulates and checks conformity with in-house information disclosure. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, there established the Group Risk Management Committee. Moving forward, we are working to put in place an ISOrules supporting export control processes that are aimed at confirming were no significant legal violations by any Group company in areas based risk management structure. end users’ identity and their intended use of goods and technologies. related to the provision of information about or labeling of products With regard to HD governance, we reorganized the Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee The Group’s business operating companies have been approved by and services or marketing. Going forward, we intend to conduct Eiji Kakiuchi so that it is now comprised of three outside directors and myself; this is first time in SCREEN Group history the Director of Osaka Customs as “authorized exporters” under the thorough checks of each Group company to continue to prevent that the CEO has not been a member. We believe that, by instituting a structure in which the CEO consults HD Representative Director Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) program. To ensure ongoing infractions. Chairman the Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee regarding remuneration, selection / dismissal and compliance with this program, we disseminate information on relevant Member of the Board succession planning for himself / herself and the other members of senior management, this will improve laws and regulations throughout the Group and conduct periodic legal objectivity and transparency in these matters. Through a clearer delineation of roles that allows President audits. Hiroe to focus on carrying out business as CEO, while I, the other members of the Board of Directors and the Compliance members of the Board of Corporate Auditors focus on performing verification and oversight of that process, www.screen.co.jp/en/sustainability/compliance we are making our corporate governance that much stronger and more robust. 37 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 38 Business Strategy and ESG Risk Management In accordance with the SCREEN Group Code of Risk Management and other relevant in-house rules, SCREEN Holdings is engaged in initiatives Promoting Information Security aimed at identifying and mitigating business risk and, as the holding company, has in place a system for assessing the status of risk management for the entire Group. Recently, the increasing frequency and sophistication of cyber attacks guidelines. We also work to improve IT literacy among all executives, and other such incidents have reinforced the fact that information employees, temporary personnel, and everyone else in the SCREEN security risks represent a serious business challenge, and we are Group through a variety of means, including annual information security Risk Management Structure continually working on stronger measures to ensure our information training, which is updated with the latest information. stays secure. We have put in place a Group-wide information security We pursue measures that will enable us to conduct our business In order to mitigate risk with the potential to negatively impact the Risk Managers. Every organization within the Group identifies and structure overseen by SCREEN Holdings’ Chief Officer of Business safely, securely, and without interruption, such as establishing SCREEN Group’s corporate value, we have established a risk categorizes risks into different categories, including Governance, Strategy, who works in conjunction with the representatives of the a dedicated, in-house consultation service capable of promptly management structure, which includes the SCREEN Holdings Human Rights, Labor Practices, the Environment (including Climate different Group companies to create Group-wide rules and guidelines, investigating and addressing risks identified from information securityPresident as the Risk Management Group Chief Officer, the Change), Fair Business Practices, Consumer Issues, and Community as well as a mediumto long-term IT roadmap. related incident reports, as well as conducting year-round, round-theChief Officer of Sustainability Promotion as the Risk Management Engagement, and then evaluates each to come up with measures, Given the ever-changing nature of the information security risk clock monitoring of our in-house network infrastructure. Officer, and the presidents of each SCREEN Group company as which are implemented to address it. environment, we regularly review our information security rules and Cyber-attack Response Training with Kyoto Prefectural Police Headquarters Further Enhancement of Risk Management Effectiveness On August 28, 2019, SCREEN Holdings and representatives from the Kyoto Prefectural Police In the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021, we established a Group ・At the semiannual meetings of the Group Risk Management Headquarters Cyber-attack Special Investigation Unit and the Kamigyo Police Station held a joint Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for identifying Committee, reviewing Group risks and critical Group risks; checking cyber-attack response training session. The SCREEN Holdings headquarters is located within the big-picture risks for the SCREEN Group as a whole, identifying those their management status; discussing what measures are needed to jurisdiction of the Kamigyo Police Station, and we were the first company to hold this sort of joint which are critical risks, and setting the direction of risk management address them; and reporting / advising on the results to the holding training with them. The training session was for IT-related personnel within the SCREEN Group and involved simulated attacks. The training featured a demonstration of how personal data can be stolen action to be taken. We adopt a “three lines of defense” approach: the company’s Board of Directors from a PC infected with a virus, as well as provided examples of how targeted attack emails can be first line of defense is the Group business operating companies; the Critical Group Risks Major Issues for Monitoring hidden among daily work emails and how to tell the difference between the two. Such examples were second is the holding company organizations and functional support A training session (August 28, 2019) Changes in ・Business trends / economic conditions used as part of practical exercises and group discussion, which facilitated greater IT literacy. companies; and the third is the auditing department. In line with this surrounding ・Financial and economic policies we designate individual risk managers and management roles and environment ・Industry trends / markets establish a governance structure for sharing risk-related information Compliance ・Responsiveness to legal / regulatory revisions between operations sites and senior management. Information security ・Information leak / hacker countermeasures We are undertaking the following based on this structure. ・Ef fectiveness of response to intensif ying disasters / Business Continuity Plans (BCP) BCP (business ・Categorizing and creating lists of ESG-focused Group risks pandemics continuity plan) ・Strengthening of supply chain management When it comes to catastrophic earthquakes, typhoons, flooding and other natural disasters, infectious disease pandemics, factory accidents, and (approximately 160 risk items) ・Status of hiring and training of key personnel other risks with the potential of interrupting business operations, the SCREEN Group’s first priority is ensuring the safety of its employees and their ・Evaluating the manifestation and impact of risks over the past three Human resources ・Issues in successor training and status of response management families, followed by ensuring the prompt resumption of business operations in order to meet our product and service supply obligations to our years and identifying critical Group risks ・In-house penetration of work style reforms customers. Towards this end, we work to develop and implement effective BCP. ・Directing the Group companies, as the first line of defense, to re・Eradication of occupational accidents and incidents Safe work examine their own organizational risks, based on the Group risk list, ・Status of response promotion throughout the entire supply environment chain Preparation of Emergency System Resilience of Parts Procurement and to then take action to mitigate those risks ・Customer satisfaction improvement, quality complaint We have put in place a safety confirmation system that uses mobile With regard to critical parts that have limited suppliers, we are ・Directing the holding company organizations and functional support Quality assurance reduction phones and smartphones to facilitate confirmation of the safety promoting substitution to generic alternatives or access to more companies, as the second line of defense, to utilize their individual, system ・Establishment and operation of an adaptive quality assurance status of employees following a large-scale disaster and to facilitate than one supplier. At the same time, in order to maintain stable specialized functions in monitoring and managing risks, based on system a rapid response in line with the damage situation. Based on the parts procurement, during the design stage we work to prevent the each organization’s allocation of roles, in order to help support the Environmental ・CO 2 emissions reduction (responding to SBT) measures ・Development of technology to reduce environmental impact email replies from employees, we can determine the magnitude inclusion of parts that have limited suppliers. first line of defense and, thereby, prevent the manifestation of risks of human casualties and direct disaster damage and then work ● Risk Management Structure to guarantee the safety of employees, which is most essential to Preparation of Complementary Production Systems business continuation. Based on lessons learned from large-scale disasters and supply HD Board of Directors chain interruptions, we endeavor to put in place complementary Strengthening Seismic Resistance of Facilities production systems that incorporate and manage domestic and Report Supervise, manage For our operations sites in Japan we undertake a variety of overseas production sites, as well as parts suppliers, in order to measures, including seismic resistance evaluations, building prevent significant damage to our business. In addition, we have Group Risk Management Committee reinforcement, dismantling of aging facilities, immobilization of acquired ISO 22301 certification for business continuity management Identify risk status of entire SCREEN Group, confirm risk countermeasure policies according to severity, and give instructions Report equipment and facilities, and introduction of seismic-resistant systems (BCMS), and we develop BCP based on these standards. machinery and equipment. • Identify and list Group risks on cross-sectoral basis • Determine critical risks, considering their probability and scale of impact • Reflect reports from the 1st and 2nd lines of defense and regularly review the list Response to the COVID-19 Crisis Instruct policies Report Instruct policies Report 3rd line of defense In response to the Japanese government’s designation of the provide online support to customers, and to facilitate other measures 1st line of defense 2nd line of defense novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) as a “designated infectious that will ensure business continuation. Internal auditing department disease,” the SCREEN Group has established a Group Emergency The policies adopted by the Group Emergency Headquarters are Business operating companies, HD administrative departments and HD business departments functional support companies Headquarters within the SCREEN Holdings head office, which immediately shared with the other Group companies worldwide, Auditing by independent (including business operating subsidiaries) organization is overseen by the SCREEN Holdings president. We have also and the Group companies submit reports as needed to the Group Monitor and supervise using Manage risks on a daily basis specialized functions • Determine whether the Group’s established local emergency headquarters at operation sites in Japan Emergency Headquarters about the socio-economic, sales, • Based on the Group risk list, identify and evaluate own overall risk management is and overseas, as well as established business recovery headquarters procurement, production, and other situations in their respective organization’s risks • Monitor and supervise 1st line of defense from an expert’s functioning properly • Report occurrences or signs of occurrence, implement perspective • Directly audit the risk management at our business operating companies. All of these headquarters countries. By ensuring that the Group Emergency Headquarters’ remedial measures • Implement risk management in the area in charge that require status of each department are used to check on the health of people connected with the policymaking and dissemination is carried out swiftly, the Group as a • Each company’s board of directors supervises and manages expertise and each company (including its own organizational risk countermeasures under a system subsidiaries) SCREEN Group, to mitigate workplace infection risks, to ensure the whole is able to carry out its response swiftly. in line with the 3 lines of defense redundancy and distributed operation of production systems, to 39 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 40 Business Strategy and ESG Human Resource Management The SCREEN Group has formulated basic policies in seven fields of human resource management (employment, evaluation, treatment, personnel development, use of human resources, labor–management relationship, and work environment). These policies are in line with our corporate Interview with an employee who completed the Junior Business Leader Training Course philosophy of “Sharing the Future,” “Human Resource Development,” and “The Pursuit of Technology,” and founded on the pillars of our CSR Charter / Code of Conduct and SCREEN Group Code of Management. Under these policies, we strive to create an environment where a diversity Get the Bigger Picture of Business, Focus on Figures, of employees can maximize their talents and enjoy rewarding work. and Get Things Done The SCREEN Group will endeavor to hire and maintain employees free Yusuke Shinki Assistant Manager, Process Development Section, Process Development Department, The SCREEN Group will perform fair Development Division, GA and acceptable evaluations based on from discrimination based upon race, roles and job performance of each color, ethnicity, religion, gender, sexual Employment We studied a wide range of picture of work. The scope of the directions I get from my superiors is individual employee. orientation, national origin, age, mental topics, including management naturally limited to some extent, since I’m an assistant manager. But Work or physical disability, and genetics. strategy, financial accounting, understanding their background and the financial status of the business Evaluation The SCREEN Group will promote fair Environment and critical thinking to as a whole allows me to appreciate the consistency of the company’s The SCREEN Group will create and treatment to reward contribution by understand the bigger picture of business. In the first half of the course, business processes. I can now comprehend the entire value chain maintain a safe, hygienic, and healthy each individual employee, reflecting the Code of participants from various companies gathered at SCREEN and tackled as scope of my job, and the quality of my work output has clearly work environment so that the employees results of employee evaluations and Human common issues. In the second half, we attended an outside business improved. Labor– can work comfortably and at ease. corporate and sectional performance. Resources school to proceed with learning outside a corporate environment. I got I also learned that it’s important to have everyone in your team Treatment Management Management to know different people, who really inspired me—for example, a young on board to get business going. This involves sharing ideas and Relationship The SCREEN Group will address the person who has already achieved a lot and others who have their own knowledge. That’s why I began holding lectures to convey to younger The SCREEN Group will support improvement of various labor-related clear vision. I realized having a network of contacts in and outside the employees what I’ve learned through this course. For the future, I the career paths of each individual policies and the betterment of work company can help you when you run into an obstacle. Even today, I want to focus on figures. By that, I mean I’ll search for figures that can employee and develop diverse human Personnel Use of Human environments through sincere discussions sometimes ask them for advice. serve as the benchmark for my job, helping me set targets, manage resources in a systematic manner by Development Resources between labor and management. The course has taught me the importance of identifying problems and the progress of projects, and determine the extent to which we meet enhancing programs and measures asking questions, finding your own solutions, and conveying them to our targets. Three years from now, I expect to see my current project based on medium and long-term The SCREEN Group will actively utilize others in the world of business, where there is no single right answer. become the most advanced of its type in the world and I expect to see perspectives. diverse human resources to help each My mindset has also changed—now I’m more conscious of the whole new businesses emerging. individual employee fulfill his / her ability to a maximum extent. Personnel Development under the Value Up 2023 Medium-term Management Plan Building a Worker-Friendly Environment The SCREEN Group formulated its Basic Philosophy on developing human resources over the medium to long term. The Basic Philosophy Work-Style Reform or elderly family members. We provide systems that match each states the concept and basic policies of personnel development and the definition of ideal personnel. Under the Value Up 2023 medium-term individual employee’s particular needs. We offer flextime with Work-style reform is a crucial element to further boosting the management plan, we are implementing the programs and measures that will bring the basic policies to fruition. Our aims are to promote the no core hours for employees who are pregnant (or who have a competitiveness of the SCREEN Group. For the fiscal year growth of all our employees (the foundation for improving corporate value), to create a corporate climate conducive to taking on challenges, and pregnant wife), who are caring for elderly or sick family members ended March 31, 2020, young employees from various sections to foster the next generation of management personnel. or children, or who are undergoing medical treatment. We also within the SCREEN Group formed a team to study ways to Concept of Personnel Development, Ideal Personnel, Personnel Development Plan Basic Policies streamline operations by using ICT. Also, online newsletters to operate a partial work-at-home system and offer the option of www.screen.co.jp/en/sustainability/social/employee boost employees' IT literacy were sent out and “spot” offices (mini reduced work hours. These systems allowed us to smoothly satellite offices) were set up on the premises of some of our shift to a work-from-home system in response to the COVID-19 SCREEN BUSINESS SCHOOL Cultivating Next-Generation Business Leaders pandemic and enabled seamless business continuity. facilities for employees on business trips there. In order to put our basic policies of personnel development into In order to cultivate the next generation of capable business leaders, Other systems include making it compulsory for male employees action, we have established the SCREEN BUSINESS SCHOOL, we have established the Business Leader Training Course for Improving Work-Life Balance to take paternity leave so they can take part in caring for their which offers a wide range of educational and training programs managers and the Junior Business Leader Training Course for regular The SCREEN Group strives to build and maintain an environment newborn baby. In recent years, the number of male employees tailored to different career levels and goals in order to empower employees. Participants selected from our group companies take part in which diverse employees can use their abilities to the fullest taking paternity leave is increasing. For the fiscal year ended employees in taking the initiative to better themselves. For the fiscal in content-rich training programs throughout the year. These programs while carrying out home duties such as taking care of children March 31, 2020, 69 men took paternity leave. year ended March 31, 2020, we continued delivering the programs include talks by directors / corporate officers, specialized lectures by that were most highly rated by participants. We also set up seven outside instructors, and competitive business simulations carried Main Work-Life Balance Systems (as of April 2020) new programs, including ones on logical thinking and critical thinking. out with employees from other companies. In addition to providing Employees who take less than 60% of their paid leave Subsidy to partially compensate for wages lost due PitStop 5 paid Subsidy for childcare during a given year must take at least five consecutive to taking leave or working shorter hours to care for About 1,220 employees took part in these and existing programs. practical business knowledge, participants develop a more managerial leave days off in the following year. leave, etc. children. We also create an environment where employees can grow and outlook and the ability to think and act independently as future Subsidy to pay for daycare and other expenses Spouse Leave for employees to help wife care for infant after giving Subsidy for early return for employees making an early return to work after be active, regardless of which stage of life they are at. We offer business leaders. As of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, there childcare leave birth (paid leave; as a rule, mandatory). to work taking childcare leave. programs for employees who have limited time due to childcare, were 9 people enrolled in the Business Leader Training Course and 13 SpouseSkills training for Leave for employees who want to accompany their spouse Online learning program so employees can study nursing care, or other family duties. people enrolled in the Junior Business Leader Training Course. accompaniment employees on childcare to an overseas posting (unpaid leave, limited time period). while they are on childcare leave. leave leave For the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021, in line with the Value System allowing employees to do some of their work at Partial work-atUp 2023 medium-term management plan, we launched a training home if they are pregnant, caring for elderly or sick family Subsidy to partially compensate for wages lost due home system Subsidy for nursing care members or children, or undergoing medical treatment. to taking leave or working shorter hours to care for program named SKIP (SCREEN’s Key learning for Innovative leave, etc. System allowing employees to shorten work hours if they elderly or sick family members. Process). This program is key to ensuring SCREEN can make Reduced work are caring for elderly or sick family members or children (up hours to 6th grade in elementary school) or undergoing medical Subsidy for nursing care Subsidy to partially pay for the purchase or rental innovative progress. It will allow us to reinforce our foundations treatment. equipment of nursing care equipment. to make SCREEN a company where individual employees find Minimum break System allowing employees to have a minimum number of Nursing care Dedicated staff provides consultation on company between work hours between finishing work one day and starting work systems, government support, and private nursing their work rewarding and create a work environment conducive to days the next day (minimum of nine hours). consultation care services. generating innovations. Limited System limiting the work region for employees who cannot Seminars provide the basics on nursing care so geographical be transferred far away due to elderly / sick care or child Nursing care seminars that employees do not have to quit their jobs to SCREEN Group Education System region system care duties. care for elderly or sick family members. www.screen.co.jp/en/sustainability/social/employee Note: Detailed data on human resource management can be found in the Sustainability Data Book (pages 1–3). Business Leader Training Course participants present a proposal to management (December, 13, 2019) Sustainability Data Book 2020 www.screen.co.jp/en/ir/annual 41 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 42 Business Strategy and ESG Safety and Wellbeing Working Together with Our Stakeholders Health and Safety Communication with Suppliers Conforming to the RBA Code of Conduct Based on occupational health and safety management system that Frequency Rate of Occupational Accidents The SCREEN Group creates a variety of opportunities for dialogue The SCREEN Group formulated the SCREEN Supplier Code of complies with ISO 45001, an international standard for this area, all ● Frequency rate of occupational accidents with suppliers in order to forge stronger relationships built upon Conduct* in accordance with the RBA (Responsible Business Alliance) our group companies in Japan conduct risk assessments, preliminary ● Average for manufacturing industry (source: Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare) collaboration, trust, and mutual development. In the first quarter of Code of Conduct. As a CSR code of conduct for the supply chain, it is health and safety reviews, and inspections of heavy-lift operations. We 1.15 1.20 1.20 each fiscal year, we provide our major suppliers with the SCREEN available on our website for our suppliers to learn and abide by. 1.2 1.02 also offer comprehensive training programs to educate inexperienced Group’s financial statement, an overview of the Group’s business To determine our suppliers’ level of compliance with the SCREEN 0.8 operators and supervisors. Our overseas bases are also strengthening situation, our medium-term business plan, and other relevant Supplier Code of Conduct, we surveyed 68 of the major suppliers of 0.4 0.19 0.25 their own occupational health and safety management systems. The 0 0 information. The 2019 SCREEN Holdings financial results briefing our business operating companies in the fiscal year ended March 31, SCREEN Group in Japan aims for zero occupational accidents that 0 held on May 10, 2019 was attended by 180 of our major suppliers 2020. Our survey focused on human rights and labor issues, such as 2016 2017 2018 2019 cause four or more working days to be lost. To this end, we strive to in commercial products, processed goods, design, software, and harassment, foreign laborers, and slave, forced, and child labor. The *Frequency rate = (No. of casualties due to occupational accidents / Total work hours) x reduce the frequency rate of occupational accidents* and the number 1,000,000 assembly. In the third quarter, all major Group business operating survey indicated that we have no problems in these areas. of points accumulated in the SCREEN Group’s proprietary internal No. of casualties due to occupational accidents for each 1,000,000 total hours of work. companies discussed their *The SCREEN Supplier Code of Conduct explicitly states our policy on conflict minerals. Data for January–December each year. Our supplier survey has a section to determine whether suppliers are dealing in conflict occupational accident rating system. detailed business plans minerals. and engaged in information SCREEN Supplier Code of Conduct sharing with suppliers. www.screen.co.jp/en/sustainability/rba Healthy Work Environments Another briefing for our major suppliers was At the SCREEN Group, in order to maintain a healthy workplace environment and to prevent illness, we are working on employees’ health planned in mid-May, but Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors management through the goals we have set in reducing sick leave. this was cancelled due to 2019 SCREEN Holdings financial results briefing the spread of COVID-19. (May 10, 2019) Through our investor relations (IR), we strive to give our shareholders Comprehensive Health Check-ups care and support by senior staff in the workplace. In addition, when and investors a greater understanding of the SCREEN Group by Starting in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, employees aged 40 necessary, public health nurses, doctors specializing in occupational communicating our management, business, and financial position in a medicine, and staff from external employee assistance programs and older are required to undergo a comprehensive medical checkOngoing Dialogue with Local Communities timely, accurate, and clear-cut manner. IR also provides a means for up. This is optional for employees under 40. These check-ups cover (EAP) can be called on to provide individual support and discussion. us to get opinions and other feedback from these investors that we a wide range of items, leading to the early detection of diseases or The Group also operates a recovery program for those who must Founded on the concepts of coexistence, consideration for others, use to maximize corporate value. signs of illness. take temporary leave due to mental health issues. Our goals are to and nurturing of the next generation, the SCREEN Group carries out Following earnings announcements and at conferences, our CEO, help them return to work as quickly as possible and to prevent any social contribution activities in five areas: Science and education, CFO, Chief Officer of Sustainability Promotion, and other management Healthier Eating Habits relapse in their condition. Social welfare, Sports and culture, Environmental conservation, and members receive interviews from and hold dialogue with our Another initiative we started in the fiscal year ended March 31, Community contribution. investors*1. We also focus on shareholder engagement aimed at voting 2020 was upgrading the company cafeteria. This is a joint labor– Fitness Campaigns In January 2020, we signed a comprehensive regional revitalization representatives, mainly through our IR representatives. When it comes management effort aimed at improving the health of cafeteria users. At the SCREEN Group, to promote employees’ health, each year we partnership agreement with Kyoto Prefecture, aimed at making Kyoto to fair disclosure, we strive to improve and expand the information Steps to help raise employees’ awareness of health include enhancing hold a fitness campaign that focuses on everyday themes, such as a dynamic world-leading hub of activity. Drawing on our expertise, we we provide and release it in a timely manner. We create IR materials the menu to provide healthier dishes, using nutrient-rich rice and walking, weight and blood pressure measurement, and the recording collaborate with Kyoto Prefecture and other local community groups in two languages (Japanese and English) and publish on web site healthier seasonings, of sleep hours. Through this initiative, we aim to reduce the rate of to develop activities that contribute to the sustainable development of whenever possible, such as Annual Reports, earnings presentation and showing the origin of sick leave days*, which has recently been on the rise. society. For example, we support local companies such as start-ups documents, FAQs, shareholder newsletters (only in Japanese), and the ingredients as well as and we collaborate with academia in promoting recurrent education. more. Since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, we have sent their calorific value and Rate of Sick Leave Days We are also collaborating in new fields, such as cooperating with Kyoto questionnaires to institutional investors and analysts once a year to salt content. We also ● Rate of sick leave days Prefectural Police Headquarters in reinforcing cyber security. identify the challenges in our IR activities. 1.0 0.886 conduct regular surveys 0.647 0.590 0.615 Social Contribution Activities *1: The COVID-19 pandemic has caused us to cancel face-to-face IR activities. Instead, we are holding remote IR meetings using IT tools, such as web conference systems so that we can continue 0.5 www.screen.co.jp/en/sustainability/social/initiative and telephone conference systems. improving the cafeteria and thereby boost 0 Science and Number of Dialogue-Based IR Activities (Fiscal year ended March 31, 2020) 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Years ended employees’ satisfaction. March 31) education ・ Earnings presentations: 4 Some of the items on the menu *Rate of sick leave days = Total number of sick leave days / employees’ total ・ Meetings with institutional investors and analysts: Approximately 450 Improving Mental Healthcare number of prescribed work days × 100 Environmental ・ Overseas IR activities: 2 (North America and Europe) Social contribution Social welfare New index for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 and beyond, for which we conservation We have introduced a range of measures to address mental health target a reduction compared with the previous fiscal year. Coexistence ・ Institutional investor events, domestic conferences: 6 issues, including stress checks and e-learning courses on selfConsideration for others ・ Shareholder engagement aimed at voting representatives: 7 Nurturing of the next generation ・ Company briefings for individual investors: 0* 2 ・ Plant tours for analysts and institutional investors: 1 President Hiroe Hosts Lunch Meetings with Young Employees Sports and Community *2: Company briefings for individual investors were cancelled in view of the COVID-19 culture contribution pandemic. After becoming president in June 2019, Mr. Hiroe felt the need to set meetings are now being postponed. But we are searching for new ways to Communications with Shareholders and Investors up an opportunity for dialogue with young employees. Regular lunch hold these lunches—for example, as online remote lunch meetings. www.screen.co.jp/en/sustainability/social/investor meetings help to promote lively exchanges within the organization. The first lunch was held in December 2019, with President Hiroe and five employees from each business operating company taking part. At first, the participants seemed a little stiff and nervous. But they soon loosened up Enhancing Customer Satisfaction Quality Management System and began sharing their thoughts on work, the company, and their personal We take steps to keep our customers’ trust and live up to their In order to improve the quality of our products and services and, by lives. President Hiroe was able to get frank opinions from the young people, expectations. One example is optimizing the cleaning method and extension, improve customer satisfaction, the SCREEN Group utilizes while they were able to convey their thoughts and feelings and get some the temperature of the chemical solutions used on the SU-3200 and a quality management system that conforms to ISO 9001 standards. advice from a company leader. It was a valuable exchange of views. SU-3300 single wafer cleaning equipment to reduce the amount As of March 31, 2020, all Group business operating companies and Three lunch meetings were held in the fiscal year ended March of chemical solutions used. This is one of our efforts to achieve 13 domestic and 4 overseas Group companies are ISO 9001 certified. 31, 2020—two at the head office, and one at the Hikone Plant. Five employees took part in each lunch. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, these At a lunch meeting the improvement targets demanded by our customers, such as for Improve Customer Satisfaction / Quality Management System boosting productivity and energy efficiency. www.screen.co.jp/en/sustainability/social/customer Health and Safety www.screen.co.jp/en/sustainability/social/safety 43 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 44 Business Strategy and ESG Environment Under the SCREEN Group Management Grand Design and the new Value Up 2023 medium-term management plan, we are aiming to achieve Reducing Waste a decarbonized, circular economy-based society that coexists in harmony with nature. To this end, we implement measures in our business activities to reduce our environmental footprint, and we work to help mitigate climate change, which has major impacts on society. We have set By the fiscal year ending March 31, 2024, we aim for our facilities of. Specifically, we periodically visit all the waste disposal contractors a long-term CO2 reduction target to achieve by 2030, which has been recognized under the Science Based Targets*1 initiative. in Japan to achieve 5% reduction in waste (intensity per unit weight handling the steps of the waste disposal process—from waste of product shipments) compared to fiscal 2019 levels. Likewise, we collection and transport within our facilities to final disposal. We use a are targeting a recycling rate of at least 98%. To this end, we make checklist to confirm that the contractors carry out waste processing Reducing CO2 Emissions effective use of resources, control and reduce the waste generated, appropriately. If we find any problems that need to be addressed, we and recycle materials wherever possible. We also manage waste swiftly instruct them to take corrective action and demand thorough We help mitigate global warming by reducing CO2 emissions from We are working towards SBT that we have set to achieve by 2030. disposal stringently to ensure industrial waste is properly disposed waste management. business activities at our facilities. The measures we take include We aim to reduce total CO2 emissions from facilities (Scope 1*2 and minimizing energy consumption by installing energy-efficient equipment. Scope 2*3) by 30% compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 Waste generated ■ Waste generated (SCREEN Group in Japan) ■ Waste generated (SCREEN Group overseas) The products are certified under our own standards for environmental (FY2019). Also by 2030, we are working to reduce CO2 emissions from Actual intensity (SCREEN Group in Japan) Recycling Rate friendliness as Green Products. We are working to expand sales of the use of our sold products (Scope 3*4) by 20% compared to FY2019. Target intensity (SCREEN Group in Japan) ■ Recycling rate (SCREEN Group in Japan) these products. Energy-saving measures are becoming ever more We undergo third-party verification (kg/metric tons) (%) important at customers’ factories. We evaluate the energy efficiency of facility CO2 emissions (Scope 1+2) 198 200 100 197 193 of products, resource efficiency, ease of disassembly, recycling, and third-party verification of CO 2 Down 5% 98.0 98 environmental protection, environmental safety, and information emissions from the use of our sold (Metric tons) 190 96.4 disclosure. Based on these criteria, we seek to minimize our products’ products (Scope 3 Category 11). 2,765 3,000 2,696 173 2,304 188 96 95.4 95.0 energy consumption. 201 180 146 2,000 94 (Thousand CO 2 Emissions from Facilities (Thousand CO 2 Emissions from Products 2,495 2,592 2,157 1,000 92 metric tons metric tons CO2e) CO2e) 60 54.8 54.8 3,000 0 0 50.6 2,603 2018 2019 2020 2024 (Years ended 2018 2019 2020 2024 (Years ended 50 Down 10% 2,500 2,306 Down 8% Base year Target March 31) Base year Target March 31) 2,149 Down 20% 45.5 Down 30% 2,395 40 2,000 2,082 35.4 30 1,500 Biodiversity Conservation 20 1,000 10 500 Kyoto Life and Culture Collaborative Rejuvenation Project SCREEN Forest (Kyoto Model Forest Initiative) SCREEN Holdings is headquartered in Kyoto, an area rich in Because our company benefits greatly from the surrounding forests, 0 0 2018 2019 2020 2024 2030 (Years ended 2018 2019 2020 2024 2030 (Years ended nature, culture, and history. We work to boost awareness among we are in full support of Kyoto Prefecture’s forest conservation Base year Target Target March 31) Base year Target Target March 31) employees of the natural environment and traditional culture efforts. We cooperate in such activities and do our part in mitigating surrounding us, and we contribute to local communities through global warming. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, the forest Effective Use of Water and Water Quality Control of Effluents biodiversity conservation activities. conservation activities at the SCREEN Forest (total 1.31 ha: 1.04 ha In December 2017, we joined the Kyoto Life and Culture of Japanese cypress and 0.27 ha of pine) could be converted into We are working to achieve a 5% reduction in water withdrawal (tap Water withdrawal ■ Water withdrawal (SCREEN Group in Japan) Collaborative Rejuvenation Project*5 run by the city of Kyoto. We 9.22 metric tons CO2e/yr of carbon dioxide assimilated by forests. water, industrial-use water, etc.) by March 31, 2024 compared to ■ Water withdrawal (SCREEN Group overseas) were officially certified by the city as the 18th contributor to the We also strive to deepen understanding of biodiversity through forest Actual intensity (SCREEN Group in Japan) fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 levels (intensity per unit weight Target intensity (SCREEN Group in Japan) project. Under a three-year plan, we are growing more than 10 conservation activities and other such events for current and former of product shipments). We also strive for efficient water usage and species of plants—including rare, endangered ones—in green SCREEN Group employees and their family members. water discharge quality control at our development and production 303 (m3/metric tons) spaces on the head office premises. The futaba-aoi (hollyhock) 300 sites. We send wastewater through a purification process that is we grow here are presented as offerings to the annual Aoi Matsuri based on our in-house standards, which are stricter than legal and festival in Kyoto. 274 275 regulatory standards. We are also actively working to reduce the (Thousands m3) 259 2,500 Down 5% amount of water used in the operation of products at customer sites. 250 2,063 2,102 72 2,087 246 2,000 50 35 2,013 2,030 2,052 Participants of a SCREEN Forest event held May 25, 2019 1,500 2018 2019 2020 2024 (Years ended Base year Target March 31) Green space on the head office premises *1 Science Based Targets (SBTs) represent an international initiative to prevent global warming by setting CO2 reduction targets that are based on scientifically sound principles. 8th Green Value Awards *2 Scope 1 emissions are direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources owned or controlled by the reporting company (fuel combustion, industrial processes, etc.) *3 Scope 2 emissions are indirect greenhouse gas emissions from consumption of electricity, heat, or steam purchased from other companies. Every year the SCREEN Group hosts the Green Value Awards for group Awards include EHS Management Supervisor Award, Encouragement *4 Scope 3 emissions are all indirect greenhouse gas emissions not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 that occur in the value chain of the reporting company (i.e., emissions by other companies related to the reporting company’s activities). companies in Japan and overseas. The purpose of this award program Award, and Effort Award. *5 The project is designed to preserve and revive the use of plants that have played a role in local festivals and traditional culture. Kyoto City certifies the activities of project members and is to promote business operations-integrated EHS (environment, health, The 8th Green Value Award for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 sends experts to support cultivation efforts when necessary. and safety) activities and increase awareness of EHS among employees. saw 15 entries from Japan and overseas undergo strict judging. Two A judging panel comprising group companies’ CSR officers examines EHS activities of the Display Production Equipment and Coater Business the EHS activities of organizations within the SCREEN Group based on (FT)—namely display panel-related technology and fuel cell-related six criteria, including innovativeness and originality. The EHS activities technology—were given the EHS Management Supervisor Award for are conducted in four areas: environment, health, safety, and BCP. their significant contributions to reducing environmental impact. 45 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 46 Achievement of Value Creation Performance Highlights 〈Financial〉 Operating Income / 〈Nonfinancial〉 Net Sales / EPS Ratio of Operating Income to Net Sales CO2 Emissions / Emissions per Unit of Green Products as a Percentage of Sales / ■ Net Sales ■ EPS ■ Operating income ● Ratio of operating income to net sales Weight of Product Shipment Number of Certified Products (Billions of yen) (Yen) (%) ■ CO2 emissions (SCREEN Group in Japan) ■ CO2 emissions (SCREEN Group overseas) ■ Number of certified products ● Percentage of sales (actual) 400 800 20 ● Emissions per unit weight of product shipment (Metric tons CO2e/ 364.2 metric tons) (%) 339.3 608 323.2 11.2 12.6 (actual for SCREEN Group in Japan) 7.09 10 95 100 300.2 9.1 300 600 8.1 10 (Thousand metric 92 94 94 92 259.6 511 (Billions of yen) 3.9 tons CO2e) 6.76 (Number) 50 42.7 80 6.71 6.72 5 200 90 5.98 200 396* 387 400 0 155 33.7 29.6 60 53 53 55 51 55 150 133 137 144 23.5 4 3 4 7 0 119 80 25 3 100 107 200 12.5 40 100 49 50 51 48 48 20 50 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) Equity / Equity Ratio Interest-bearing Debt / Debt-to-Equity Ratio Water Withdrawal Number of Occupational Accidents / Incidents ■ Equity ● Equity ratio ■ Interest-bearing debt ● Debt-to-equity ratio ■ Water withdrawal (SCREEN Group in Japan) ■ Occupational accidents (SCREEN Group in Japan) 47.5 50.0 (%) 0.39 (Times) (Thousands m3) ■ Water withdrawal (SCREEN Group overseas) (Number) ■ Incidents (SCREEN Group in Japan) 46.7 47.0 50 0.33 0.4 44.3 0.31 2,500 2,102 2,087 50 45 2,021 2,034 2,063 40 40 0.2 2,000 36 29 50 72 35 40 38 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 0.12 0.08 200 170.8 179.1 173.9 80 67.3 1,500 30 27 12 8 21 142.8 30 55.3 0 119.6 39.6 1,000 1,985 2,005 2,013 2,030 2,052 20 18 11 100 40 7 28 30 24 17.5 13.1 500 10 16 11 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 0 0 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) ROE / Capital Expenditures / R&D Expenses / Cash Flows Depreciation and Amortization Number of Employees Number of New Employees and Their Retention Rate After Number of employees (consolidated) ( ■ Japan ■ Asia & Oceania ■ North America ■ Europe) Three Years (Holding, business operating, and functional support companies) ■ Operating activities ■ Investing activities ■ Financing activities ■ Capital expenditures ■ R&D expenses ■ Depreciation and amortization (Billions of yen) ● ROE (%) ■ Number of employees (holding, business operating, and functional support companies) ■ New employees ● Retention rate after three years 49.0 18.4 18.2 (Persons) 6,074 50 16.3 20 (%) 36.7 6,300 5,835 6,099 97.8 98.1 94.2 96.3 100 28.8 10.3 5,422 5,182 25 10 87.8 14.7 11.8 4.9 (Billions of yen) 40 2.8 4,200 59.1% 59.3% (Persons) 72 90 59.7% 70 66 62.8% 0 0 65.0% 54 54 52 -2.5 -2.8 -5.8 20.8 24.022.8 21.5 2,136 80 -11.2 -11.5 -19.0 -11.2 20 15.1 17.7 14.4 2,100 2,187 2,165 2,181 2,183 7.9 8.8 -25 35 -27.4 6.3 8.2 6.8 25.0% 25.7% 26.0% 5.0 5.3 5.7 19.5% 21.8% -37.5 7.1% 6.9% -50 0 6.8% 6.8% 6.6% 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 0 8.6% 8.7% 8.7% 8.1% 7.8% 0 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) Cash Dividends per Share / Total Consolidated Shareholder Return Ratio PBR / PER Ratio of Female / Non-Japanese Employees in Management Post Number of Patents Held (Holding, business operating, and functional support companies) (Holding, business operating, and functional support companies) ■ Cash dividends per share ● Total consolidated shareholder return ratio ● PBR ● PER ● Ratio of female employees ● Ratio of non-Japanese employees ■ Japan ■ Overseas 28.0 (%) 37.25 (Times) 20.4 25.2 25.1 25.1 30 40 (%) 2.4 2.31 (Number) 6,000 5,704 2.01 5,132 16.00 16.04 4,762 15 20 4,418 (Yen) 11.22 11.52 1.8 4,222 150 1.43 (Times) 1.36 4,000 3,384 110 2.69 2.67 2,900 87 97 0 3.0 0 1.2 1.01 1.03 0.95 1.08 2,124 2,303 2,566 1.76 75 60 1.5 1.16 1.07 0.65 2,000 30 0.6 0.25 2,196 2,232 2,320 2,098 2,115 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 0 0 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) Note: The Company implemented a one-for-five consolidation of its common stock on October 1, 2016. Therefore, EPS (net income per share) of capital stock is calculated based on the Note: Holding, business operating, and functional support companies refer to the following seven companies. assumption that the consolidation of shares had been implemented at the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. Holding company: SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. Fact Book 2020 Business operating companies: SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co., Ltd. / SCREEN Graphic Solutions Co., Ltd. / SCREEN Finetech Solutions Co., Ltd. / www.screen.co.jp/en/ir/investor SCREEN PE Solutions Co., Ltd. / SCREEN Advanced System Solutions Co., Ltd. Functional support companies: SCREEN IP Solutions Co., Ltd. * Data for fiscal years prior to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 include data for SCREEN Manufacturing Support Solutions Co., Ltd. (absorbed by SCREEN MFG Service Co., Ltd. in January 2019) * Data for fiscal years prior to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 include data for SCREEN Business Support Solutions Co., Ltd. (absorbed by SCREEN Business Expert Co., Ltd. in October 2019) 47 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 48 Achievement of Value Creation Eleven-year Trends in Key Financial and Nonfinancial Indicators SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2020 For the Year: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Net sales ¥ 323,249 ¥ 364,234 ¥ 339,369 ¥ 300,234 ¥ 259,675 ¥ 237,646 ¥ 235,946 ¥ 199,795 ¥ 250,090 ¥ 254,953 ¥ 164,129 $ 2,965,587 Cost of sales 246,680 263,667 229,838 206,687 178,677 165,192 177,175 157,790 187,325 182,990 137,827 2,263,119 Cost of sales to net sales (%) 76.3% 72.4% 67.7% 68.8% 68.8% 69.5% 75.1% 79.0% 74.9% 71.8% 84.0% Operating income (loss) ¥ 12,562 ¥ 29,645 ¥ 42,725 ¥ 33,732 ¥ 23,557 ¥ 17,168 ¥ 8,903 ¥ (4,833) ¥ 13,498 ¥ 26,811 ¥ (14,046) $ 115,248 Operating income to net sales (%) 3.9% 8.1% 12.6% 11.2% 9.1% 7.2% 3.8% -2.4% 5.4% 10.5% -8.6% Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent ¥ 5,011 ¥ 18,059 ¥ 28,507 ¥ 24,169 ¥ 18,816 ¥ 12,122 ¥ 5,419 ¥ (11,333) ¥ 4,637 ¥ 25,687 ¥ (8,003) $ 45,972 Comprehensive income (907) 13,425 34,934 28,011 11,567 24,018 14,262 (6,031) 4,192 22,576 (5,257) (8,321) Depreciation and amortization 8,860 6,883 5,708 5,398 5,030 4,880 4,101 4,731 4,986 5,805 7,012 81,284 Cash flows from operating activities 11,812 (37,534) 28,878 49,024 14,721 (1,492) 24,703 (15,320) 11,279 34,299 25,113 108,367 Cash flows from investing activities (11,294) (19,020) (11,230) (5,860) (2,558) (6,318) (4,201) (5,768) (4,162) (2,191) 6,885 (103,615) Cash flows from financing activities 4,928 36,761 (11,512) (27,479) (2,846) (3,823) (29,302) 21,534 (9,468) (22,250) (27,124) 45,211 Capital expenditures 7,985 24,089 14,429 8,256 6,352 6,659 4,574 6,450 7,347 3,613 1,911 73,257 R&D expenses 21,525 22,825 20,837 17,794 15,166 13,972 12,274 12,685 13,889 12,130 11,615 197,477 Per Share of Capital Stock: Yen U.S. dollars Net income (loss) ¥ 107.37 ¥ 387.10 ¥ 608.62 ¥ 511.96 ¥ 396.75 ¥ 51.07 ¥ 22.83 ¥ (47.75) ¥ 19.54 ¥ 108.21 ¥ (33.71) $ 0.99 Net income ― diluted 101.47 370.66 ー ー ー ー ー ー ー ー ー 0.93 Cash dividends 30.00 97.00 110.00 87.00 60.00 7.00 3.00 ー 5.00 5.00 ー 0.28 Net assets 3,727.10 3,838.90 3,661.96 3,040.79 2,533.41 467.13 364.23 321.24 379.44 367.00 272.15 34.19 At Year End: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Total assets ¥ 347,965 ¥ 380,916 ¥ 365,874 ¥ 300,660 ¥ 270,094 ¥ 249,517 ¥ 232,376 ¥ 232,390 ¥ 245,382 ¥ 253,127 ¥ 216,622 $ 3,192,339 Return on total assets (%) 1.4% 4.8% 8.6% 8.5% 7.2% 5.0% 2.3% -4.8% 1.9% 10.9% -3.5% Current assets ¥ 238,543 ¥ 263,265 ¥ 254,756 ¥ 215,159 ¥ 188,522 ¥ 160,367 ¥ 157,327 ¥ 161,614 ¥ 177,543 ¥ 183,523 ¥ 139,984 $ 2,188,468 Net property, plant and equipment 60,894 61,398 48,973 41,758 43,378 42,606 40,711 39,902 38,669 40,699 45,413 558,661 Current liabilities 136,879 160,852 175,509 135,576 120,857 92,750 114,367 120,014 123,223 148,132 93,874 1,255,771 Long-term debt 30,205 33,848 5,227 10,907 18,986 32,666 21,943 29,642 25,988 10,634 48,195 277,110 Equity 173,942 179,116 170,839 142,805 119,650 110,865 86,448 76,248 90,069 87,118 64,607 1,595,797 Equity ratio (%) 50.0% 47.0% 46.7% 47.5% 44.3% 44.4% 37.2% 32.8% 36.7% 34.4% 29.8% Return on equity (%) 2.8% 10.3% 18.2% 18.4% 16.3% 12.3% 6.7% -14.2% 5.2% 33.9% -11.9% Capital stock ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 $ 495,826 Retained earnings 130,908 130,274 117,359 92,937 71,602 54,448 41,824 36,405 55,440 26,418 731 1,200,991 Number of shares issued (in thousands) 50,795 50,795 50,795 50,795 50,795 253,974 253,974 253,974 253,974 253,974 253,974 Number of employees 6,074 6,099 5,835 5,422 5,182 5,082 4,968 4,955 4,890 4,732 4,679 Key Environmental Indicators CO 2 emissions (metric tons CO2e) 54,794 50,566 54,776 53,357 52,523 52,625 53,810 48,600 37,858 31,312 29,993 Water withdrawal (Thousands m3) 2,087 2,102 2,063 2,034 2,021 1,840 2,034 2,151 2,113 2,084 1,918 Waste generated (metric tons) 2,304 2,765 2,696 2,064 1,848 2,048 1,893 1,744 1,806 1,794 937 Notes: 1. Dollar figures are translated, for convenience only, at the rate of ¥109 to US$1.00. 5. The Company implemented a one-for-five consolidation of its common stock on October 1, 2016. Net income per share of capital stock, cash dividends per share of 2. Net income (loss) per share of capital stock is calculated based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding during each term, excluding the Company’s capital stock, net assets per share of capital stock and number of shares issued are calculated based on the assumption that the consolidation of shares had been treasury stock. Fully diluted net income per share of capital stock is not shown for the years that net losses were recorded or no dilutive stock existed. Net assets implemented at the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. per share of capital stock is calculated based on the fiscal year-end total number of shares outstanding, excluding the Company’s treasury stock. 6. The Company introduced a performance-linked share compensation system for directors and corporate officers. The SCREEN Holdings shares remaining in trust are 3. Return on total assets and return on equity are calculated on the basis of average total assets and average equity, respectively, at the current and previous fiscal recorded as treasury stock under shareholders’ equity and are deducted from the number of shares outstanding as of the fiscal year end for the purpose of calculating net year-ends. assets per share of capital stock (88 thousand shares as of March 31, 2020 and 99 thousand shares as of March 31, 2019) and are deducted from the weighted average 4. Effective from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, as for main unit sales in the SPE and the FT, the revenue recognition method was changed to the completion number of shares outstanding during the year for the purpose of calculating net income per share of capital stock (91 thousand shares for the year ended March 31, 2020 of installation basis. Accordingly, amounts for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 have been reclassified with amounts calculated by applying this change of and 105 thousand shares for the year ended March 31, 2019). accounting policies retroactively. 49 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 50 Achievement of Value Creation Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries As of March 31, 2020 and 2019 Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars Assets 2020 2019 2020 Liabilities and Net Assets 2020 2019 2020 Current Assets: Current Liabilities: Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 35,520 ¥ 30,922 $ 325,872 Notes and accounts payable— Time deposits 2,251 1,271 20,651 Trade ¥ 66,395 ¥ 94,531 $ 609,128 Construction and other 3,675 6,747 33,716 Notes and accounts receivable-trade 82,758 100,835 759,248 Short-term debt 30,000 18,000 275,229 Allowance for doubtful receivables (701) (669) (6,431) Current portion of long-term debt 3,614 1,504 33,156 Inventories 106,260 116,803 974,862 Lease obligations 1,211 450 11,110 Other current assets 12,455 14,103 114,266 Accrued expenses 7,156 7,830 65,651 Total current assets 238,543 263,265 2,188,468 Income taxes payable 2,227 4,365 20,431 Provision for product warranties 6,787 6,876 62,266 Provision for bonuses 1,201 2,618 11,018 Provision for directors' bonuses 123 155 1,128 Provision for loss on order received 312 74 2,862 Other current liabilities 14,178 17,702 130,076 Total current liabilities 136,879 160,852 1,255,771 Long-Term Liabilities: Long-term debt 30,205 33,848 277,110 Net defined benefit liability 1,016 943 9,321 Lease obligations 2,272 1,519 20,844 Deferred tax liabilities 2,376 3,641 21,798 Property, Plant and Equipment, at Cost: Asset retirement obligations 65 67 596 Land 9,460 9,475 86,789 Provision for directors’ retirement benefits 182 176 1,670 Buildings and structures 59,999 59,622 550,450 Provision for stock payment 44 34 404 Provision for management board incentive plan trust 43 39 394 Machinery, equipment and other 67,541 61,844 619,641 Other long-term liabilities 740 663 6,790 Lease assets 4,885 4,908 44,817 Total long-term liabilities 36,943 40,930 338,927 Construction in progress 7,094 8,049 65,083 Total Liabilities ¥ 173,822 ¥ 201,782 $ 1,594,698 Total property, plant and equipment 148,979 143,898 1,366,780 Accumulated depreciation (88,085) (82,500) (808,119) Contingent Liabilities Net property, plant and equipment 60,894 61,398 558,661 Net Assets: Shareholders’ Equity: Capital stock Authorized—180,000,000 shares in 2020 and 2019 Issued—50,794,866 shares in 2020 and 2019 54,045 54,045 495,826 Capital surplus 4,488 4,488 41,174 Retained earnings 130,908 130,274 1,200,991 Treasury stock, at cost 4,125,447 shares in 2020 and 4,136,788 shares in 2019 (17,962) (18,044) (164,789) Total shareholders’ equity 171,479 170,763 1,573,202 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income: Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities 10,842 14,320 99,468 Foreign currency translation adjustment (7,135) (5,345) (65,460) Investments and Other Assets: Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (1,244) (622) (11,413) Investment securities 30,586 37,083 280,606 Total accumulated other comprehensive income 2,463 8,353 22,595 Lease assets 90 98 826 Net defined benefit asset 4,366 5,364 40,055 Non-controlling interests: Deferred tax assets 4,981 3,754 45,697 Non-controlling interests 201 18 1,844 Total net assets 174,143 179,134 1,597,641 Other assets 8,505 9,954 78,026 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 347,965 ¥ 380,916 $ 3,192,339 Total investments and other assets 48,528 56,253 445,210 The number of shares of treasury stock of the Company included 88 thousand shares as of March 31, 2020 and 99 thousand shares as of March 31, 2019 held by a trust related to a Total Assets ¥ 347,965 ¥ 380,916 $ 3,192,339 performance-linked share compensation system for directors and corporate officers. 51 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 52 Achievement of Value Creation Consolidated Statements of Income Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 For the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Thousands of Millions of yen Millions of yen U.S. dollars Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income 2020 2019 2020 Shares of Valuation Foreign RemeasureNet Sales ¥ 323,249 ¥ 364,234 $ 2,965,587 issued capital difference on currency ments of Nonstock Capital Capital Retained Treasury available-fortranslation defined controlling Total net Cost of Sales 246,680 263,667 2,263,119 (thousands) stock surplus earnings stock sale securities adjustment benefit plans interests assets Gross profit 76,569 100,567 702,468 Balance at the Beginning of Fiscal 2019 50,795 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 4,546 ¥ 117,359 ¥ (18,085) ¥ 18,428 ¥ (4,716) ¥ (738) ¥ 41 ¥ 170,880 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 64,007 70,922 587,220 Profit attributable to owners of parent − − − 18,059 − − − − − 18,059 Operating income 12,562 29,645 115,248 Cash dividends paid, ¥110.00 per share − − − (5,144) − − − − − (5,144) Other (Income) Expenses: Valuation difference on available-for− − − − (4,108) − − − (4,108) Interest and dividend income (660) (613) (6,055) − sale securities Interest expenses 559 543 5,128 Foreign currency translation adjustment − − − − − − (629) − − (629) Exchange loss on foreign currency transactions, net 297 60 2,725 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans − − − − − − − 116 − 116 Insurance income (138) (459) (1,266) Acquisition of treasury stock − − − − (5) − − − − (5) Loss on retirement of non-current assets 380 929 3,486 Disposal of treasury stock − − 0 − 46 − − − − 46 Gain on sales of investment securities (333) (445) (3,055) Purchase of shares of consolidated Loss on valuation of investment securities 1,814 62 16,642 − − (58) − − − − − − (58) subsidiaries' treasury stock Business structure improvement expenses − 1,088 − Other − − − − − − − − (23) (23) Impairment loss 1,576 844 14,459 Balance at the End of Fiscal 2019 50,795 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 4,488 ¥ 130,274 ¥ (18,044) ¥ 14,320 ¥ (5,345) ¥ (622) ¥ 18 ¥ 179,134 Gain on sales of non-current assets (29) (717) (266) Balance at the Beginning of Fiscal 2020 50,795 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 4,488 ¥ 130,274 ¥ (18,044) ¥ 14,320 ¥ (5,345) ¥ (622) ¥ 18 ¥ 179,134 Share of loss of entities accounted for using equity method 492 111 4,514 Other, net 25 512 229 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting − − − ¥ 159 − − − − − ¥ 159 policies Net other (income) expenses 3,983 1,915 36,541 Currently stated balance, as of beginning Income Before Income Taxes 8,579 27,730 78,707 50,795 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 4,488 ¥ 130,433 ¥ (18,044) ¥ 14,320 ¥ (5,345) ¥ (622) ¥ 18 ¥ 179,293 of the current period Income Taxes Profit attributable to owners of parent − − − 5,011 − − − − − 5,011 Current 4,486 11,298 41,156 Cash dividends paid, ¥97.00 per share − − − (4,536) − − − − − (4,536) Deferred (891) (1,621) (8,174) Valuation difference on available-for− − − − (3,478) − − − (3,478) Total income taxes 3,595 9,677 32,982 − sale securities Profit 4,984 18,053 45,725 Foreign currency translation adjustment − − − − − − (1,790) − − (1,790) Profit Attributable to Non-controlling Interests (27) (6) (247) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans − − − − − − − (622) − (622) Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent ¥ 5,011 ¥ 18,059 $ 45,972 Acquisition of treasury stock − − − − (3) − − − − (3) Disposal of treasury stock − − 0 − 85 − − − − 85 Per Share Information: Purchase of shares of consolidated Yen U.S. dollars − − − − − − − − − − subsidiaries' treasury stock 2020 2019 2020 Other − − − − − − − − 183 183 Net income ¥ 107.37 ¥ 387.10 $ 0.99 Balance at the End of Fiscal 2020 50,795 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 4,488 ¥ 130,908 ¥ (17,962) ¥ 10,842 ¥ (7,135) ¥ (1,244) ¥ 201 ¥ 174,143 Net income—diluted 101.47 370.66 0.93 Cash dividends, applicable to earnings for the year 30.00 97.00 0.28 The Company has introduced a performance-linked share compensation system for directors and corporate officers. The SCREEN Holdings shares remaining in trust are recorded as treasury stock under shareholders' equity and are deducted from the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year for the purpose of calculating net income per share (91and 105 Thousands of U.S. dollars thousand shares for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively). Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income Valuation Foreign Remeasuredifference on currency ments of NonCapital Capital Retained Treasury available-fortranslation defined controlling Total net stock surplus earnings stock sale securities adjustment benefit plans interests assets Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Balance at the Beginning of Fiscal 2020 $ 495,826 $ 41,174 $1,195,174 $ (165,541) $ 131,376 $ (49,037) $ (5,706) $ 165 $1,643,431 SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Cumulative effects of changes in accounting − − $ 1,459 − − − − − $ 1,459 policies For the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Currently stated balance, as of the beginning Thousands of $ 495,826 $ 41,174 $1,196,633 $ (165,541) $ 131,376 $ (49,037) $ (5,706) $ 165 $1,644,890 of the current period Millions of yen U.S. dollars Profit attributable to owners of parent − − 45,972 − − − − − 45,972 2020 2019 2020 Cash dividends paid, $0.89 per share − − (41,614) − − − − − (41,614) Profit ¥ 4,984 ¥ 18,053 $ 45,725 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities − − − − (31,908) − − − (31,908) Other Comprehensive Income Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (3,478) (4,108) (31,908) Foreign currency translation adjustment − − − − − (16,423) − − (16,423) Foreign currency translation adjustment (1,770) (588) (16,239) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans − − − − − − (5,707) − (5,707) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (622) 116 (5,706) Acquisition of treasury stock − − − (28) − − − − (28) Share of other comprehensive income of entities accounted for using equity method (21) (48) (193) Disposal of treasury stock − 0 − 780 − − − − 780 Total other comprehensive income (5,891) (4,628) (54,046) Purchase of shares of consolidated − − − − − − − − − Comprehensive Income ¥ (907) ¥ 13,425 $ (8,321) subsidiaries' treasury stock Comprehensive income attributable to Owners of parent (880) 13,437 (8,073) Other − − − − − − − 1,679 1,679 Non-controlling interests (27) (12) (248) Balance at the End of Fiscal 2020 $ 495,826 $ 41,174 $1,200,991 $ (164,789) $ 99,468 $ (65,460) $ (11,413) $ 1,844 $1,597,641 53 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 54 Achievement of Value Creation Basic Information Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Corporate Profile (As of July 1, 2020) For the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Company Name: SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. Capital: ¥54.0 billion Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2020 2019 2020 Established: October 11, 1943 Number of Employees: 6,074 employees (consolidated; as of March 31, 2020) Cash Flows from Operating Activities: Representative: Eiji Kakiuchi, Chairman Income before income taxes ¥ 8,579 ¥ 27,730 $ 78,706 Toshio Hiroe, President and CEO Main Sites: Head Office, Rakusai (WHITE CANVAS RAKUSAI), Kumiyama, Yasu, Hikone, Taga, Shinagawa, Depreciation and amortization 8,860 6,883 81,284 Monzennakacho (WHITE CANVAS MON-NAKA) Impairment loss 1,576 844 14,459 Consolidated Companies (As of March 31, 2020) Loss (gain) on valuation of investment securities 1,814 62 16,642 Loss (gain) on sales of investment securities (333) (445) (3,055) 57 companies (Japan: 27 companies / Overseas: 30 companies) Gain on sales of non-current assets (29) (717) (266) Domestic Overseas Loss on retirement of non-current assets 380 929 3,486 SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co., Ltd. / North America Share of loss (profit) of entities accounted for using equity method 492 111 4,514 SCREEN SPE Tech Co., Ltd. / SCREEN SPE Service Co., Ltd. / SCREEN SPE USA, LLC / SCREEN GP Americas, LLC / Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit asset and liability 153 78 1,404 SCREEN SPE Quartz Co., Ltd. / SCREEN SPE Works Co., Ltd. / Silicon Light Machines Corp. Increase (decrease) in provision for bonuses (1,417) (1,586) (13,000) SCREEN SPE SSERC Co., Ltd. / Increase (decrease) in provision for directors' bonuses (31) (65) (284) Europe SCREEN Graphic Solutions Co., Ltd. / Increase (decrease) in provision for stock payment 10 5 92 SCREEN SPE Germany GmbH / SCREEN GP Japan Co., Ltd. / Increase (decrease) in provision for management board incentive plan trust 3 (6) 28 Laser Systems & Solutions of Europe SASU / SCREEN GP Service Japan East Co., Ltd. / Inca Digital Printers Ltd. / SCREEN GP IJC Ltd. / Increase (decrease) in provision for product warranties (76) 509 (697) SCREEN GP Service Japan West Co., Ltd. / SCREEN GP Europe B.V. Increase (decrease) in provision for loss on order received 238 16 2,183 SCREEN Finetech Solutions Co., Ltd. / Interest and dividend income (660) (613) (6,055) FEBACS Co., Ltd. / SCREEN Laminatech Co., Ltd. / Asia & Oceania Interest expenses 559 543 5,128 EMD Corporation / SCREEN SPE Korea Co., Ltd. / SCREEN Electronics Shanghai Co., Ltd. / Decrease (increase) in trade notes and accounts receivable 17,580 (15,354) 161,284 SCREEN PE Solutions Co., Ltd. / SCREEN SPE Taiwan Co., Ltd. / SCREEN SPE Singapore PTE. Ltd. / SCREEN PE Engineering Co., Ltd. / SCREEN HD Korea Co., Ltd. / SCREEN GP China Co., Ltd. / Decrease (increase) in inventories 9,383 (13,236) 86,083 SCREEN Advanced System Solutions Co., Ltd. / SCREEN GP Shanghai Co., Ltd. / SCREEN GP Hangzhou Co., Ltd. / Decrease (increase) in other current assets 1,234 (569) 11,321 SCREEN IP Solutions Co., Ltd. / SCREEN GP Taiwan Co., Ltd. / SCREEN Holdings Singapore PTE. Ltd. / Increase (decrease) in trade notes and accounts payable (25,239) (21,069) (231,550) SCREEN Business Expert Co., Ltd. SCREEN GP Australia PTY., Ltd. / Increase (decrease) in other current liabilities (6,021) (2,871) (55,239) SCREEN Finetech Solutions Shanghai Co., Ltd. / Other, net 1,011 594 9,275 SCREEN FT Changshu Co., Ltd. / SCREEN FT Taiwan Co., Ltd. / Subtotal 18,066 (18,227) 165,743 Trivis Co.,Ltd. Interest and dividend income received 630 584 5,780 15 other companies Interest expenses paid (555) (546) (5,092) Contribution in connection with the shift to a defined contribution pension plan (1) (1) (9) Stock Information (As of March 31, 2020) Income taxes paid (6,328) (19,344) (58,055) Stock Information Bank References Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 11,812 (37,534) 108,367 MUFG Bank, Ltd. / Resona Bank, Limited / The Bank of Kyoto, Ltd. / Authorized Number of Shares: 180,000,000 Cash Flows from Investing Activities: The Shiga Bank, Ltd. / Development Bank of Japan Inc. Decrease (increase) in time deposits, net (1,090) 1,005 (10,000) Number of Shares Issued: 50,794,866 Purchase of property, plant and equipment (9,114) (15,679) (83,615) Number of Shareholders: 15,872 Underwriter Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 93 1,358 853 Number of Shares Held by NonNomura Securities Co., Ltd. Purchase of intangible assets (1,277) (4,185) (11,716) Japanese Companies and Individuals: 8,967,910 (17.65%) Purchase of investment securities (476) (2,041) (4,367) Sub-Underwriters Stock Listings: Tokyo Stock Exchange Proceeds from sales of investment securities 591 864 5,422 Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. / Other, net (21) (342) (192) Code Number: 7735 Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (11,294) (19,020) (103,615) Cash Flows from Financing Activities: Major Shareholders Breakdown by Type of Shareholder Percentage of Net increase (decrease) in short-term debt 12,000 18,000 110,092 Number of total shares shares issued (excluding Treasury stock Japanese Repayments of long-term debt (1,504) (5,680) (13,798) (thousands) treasury stock, %) Repayments of finance lease obligations (1,244) (404) (11,413) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 7,929 16.96 7.94% individuals and others Proceeds from issuance of convertible bond-type bonds with share acquisition rights − 30,060 − Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 4,617 9.88 Securities companies 15.04% Payments related to changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result Nippon Life Insurance Company 1,830 3.92 No. of shareholders: − (98) − in change in scope of consolidation The Bank of Kyoto, Ltd. 1,346 2.88 4.03% 15,872 Proceeds from share issuance to non-controlling shareholders 210 24 1,927 Foreign institutions No. of shares issued: SCREEN’s Business Partners Shareholders’ Financial 948 2.03 and others Net decrease (increase) in treasury stock (3) (5) (28) Association Synchronize 50,794,866 institutions Cash dividends paid (4,531) (5,136) (41,569) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 9) 913 1.95 17.65% 48.92% Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 4,928 36,761 45,211 Resona Bank, Limited 912 1.95 Other Japanese The Shiga Bank, Ltd. 848 1.81 companies Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents (848) (102) (7,779) Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 4,598 (19,895) 42,184 Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. (Securities 785 1.68 6.38% Investment Trust Account) Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period 30,922 50,817 283,688 MUFG Bank, Ltd. 784 1.68 Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period ¥ 35,520 ¥ 30,922 $ 325,872 Note: SCREEN Holdings holds 4,037,947 shares of treasury stock (percentage of total number of shares outstanding: 7.94%) but is excluded from the list of major shareholders. 55 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 SCREEN Group Annual Report 2020 56 Tenjinkita-machi 1-1, Teranouchi-agaru 4-chome, Horikawa-dori, Kamigyo-ku, Kyoto 602-8585, Japan Contact: IR Department Tel: +81-75-414-7233 www.screen.co.jp/en/contact/ir IR-AR2020E̲2020.10 R2̲Yu
