ANNUAL REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS THIS IS BERNER 3 SUSTAINABILITY 27 Berner in brief 4 Sustainability at Berner 30 Group key figures 6 We operate ethically and CEO’s review 7 communicate in an open manner 32 Highlights in 2019 9 We take care of our Protecting Tomorrow 11 personnel’s well-being 35 Megatrends 13 We ensure the responsibility of our products 42 BUSINESS AREAS 14 Climate and environmental impacts 48 Consumer goods 16 We create value for our Leisure goods 20 stakeholders 53 Agency 22 Pro 23 GRI index 56 Agricultural trade 25 Reporting principles 61 Machines 26 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 62 Key indicators 64 Income statement 65 Balance sheet 68 THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 This is Berner THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 BERNER IN BRIEF Berner is a Finnish family company established in 1883. Its high-quality Finnish and international brands are an integral part of daily life in Finland. Our diverse product portfolio is managed through six business in the 1950s with the XZ oil care product. Today, we develop our units: Consumer goods, Leisure goods, Agency, Pro, Machines products at the laboratory of our company headquarters in Heland Agricultural trade. Our main customers are the private sinki’s Herttoniemi district and manufacture them at Heinävesi, sector, the public sector and consumers. where we have almost 60 employees. Our headquarters, product development and production faQuality has been the most important criteria of our products cilities are based in Finland, with subsidiaries in Sweden and the ever since 1883, when the company’s Norwegian founder Sören Baltic countries. We also seek profitable growth opportunities in Berner went into the herring import business. Our high quality regions in the vicinity of our home market. requirements apply to our own manufacturing as well as the Our operations include in-house product development and products we source around the world. production, import operations, sales and marketing as well as Berner has a long track record of operating responsibly, and efficient services for product management and supply chain sustainability is at the heart of everything we do. We want to build TALLINN management. Last year, Berner had a total of 510 employees. a better tomorrow and work to ensure well-being and good living Berner Group also includes Berner Chemicals Ltd. which profor all of us – also 100 years from now. RIGA duces magnesium chemicals in Kokemäki, Finland, for industrial Our sustainability efforts are guided by our new sustainability uses and for the purification of air and water. Through its own program and its targets. The program’s main themes are emproduct and process development, Berner Chemicals promotes ployee’s well-being, sustainable products, climate and environVILNIUS the use of magnesium in circular economy solutions, among mental impacts and value creation for stakeholders. High level of other things. business ethics and open communication are the principles that Domestic product development and production are among underpin the other focus areas. our key strengths. We began the production of our own products THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 The history of Berner is colorful – and full of change. We started off as a small family business importing herring to Finland back in 1883. Over more than a hundred years, we’ve grown into a multifaceted, family-owned company that works in six areas of business. Through the years, many things have changed, but one thing always remains at the heart of Berner: everything we do, we do for a better tomorrow. We act in ways that ensure well-being and good living for all of us – also 100 years from now. Read more about Berner’s history. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 GROUP KEY FIGURES Turnover, meur Equity ratio, % Personnel (average) Return on invested capital, % Operating profit, meur Operating profit, % 303.9 76.3 510 12.3 15.6 5.1 THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 CEO’S REVIEW The development of our sustainability efforts was one of the focus areas of our operations last year. We created a new sustainability program and developed our sustainability through concrete action. Sustainability is also a key element of our new purpose statement “Protecting Tomorrow”. During the year, we also continued the strong development of our customer focus and data-driven management. New sustainability program sustainability and we recognize that it is a process that is never Berner has a long tradition of corporate responsibility. In the finished. 1940s, the company introduced flexible working hours, occuLast year was the first full year of using electricity generated pational healthcare physician’s services and dental care, and by wind power in our operations in Finland, which was reflected Berner also started profit sharing with its personnel. in a significant reduction in our carbon dioxide emissions. GreenResponsible operating methods have thus been an integral Care reduced the use of virgin plastic in packaging by 35,000 kg part of our daily operations for several decades, but last year and we launched a mandatory course on our Code of Conduct we took a more systematic approach to the development of our for our employees. You will find more examples of our practical sustainability efforts. We have now set broader measurable actions related to sustainability in the sustainability section of targets for our sustainability and we will also start to report more our Annual Report. extensively on our sustainability. As part of the development of our new sustainability program, Protecting Tomorrow – with more than 100 years of we asked our stakeholders to share their views of our sustainaexperience bility. We are grateful to them for sharing their opinions, and we Sustainability is also a key element of our new purpose statement hope to hear more about their views – and your views – in the “Protecting Tomorrow”, which reflects our commitment to future. We are committed to the continuous development of our operating in such a way that, 100 years from now, the world will THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7 still be a good place to live for all of us. We also updated our vision Continued development of customer focus position as we enter 2020. The same flexibility and cohesive and mission last year and rephrased what our values mean for We continued to develop cooperation and harmonize processes team spirit can be seen throughout our personnel as we find us in practice. In spite of the updates, our decades-long values of between our six business areas and made our organization ourselves in exceptional circumstances brought about by the work, integrity and humanity remain unchanged. Our employee even more customer-focused than before. We further increased coronavirus epidemic in the spring of 2020. satisfaction survey indicates that our three core values are widely our cooperation with customers and invested in data-driven known and our employees feel that we are doing an exceptionally management. Antti Korpiniemi good job of working in line with our values. Our customer focus will be improved further next year with the CEO continued deployment of our new ERP system. The new system Berner Ltd. Production volumes at Heinävesi grew by nearly will enable even better service for our customers and suppliers. 20 percent In the future, our customers will be able to purchase products Helsinki, 20 March, 2020 We are very proud of our domestic research, development and from all of Berner’s business areas in one order and have the production activities. Our R&D team based at our head office products delivered together. developed nearly 50 new products for our own production in Heinävesi. Our development efforts will continue in 2020 ”Berner Ltd. is participating in the It was a busy year at our production facilities in Heinävesi, In addition to the continued development of our strong United Nations Global Compact with the total production volume growing by nearly 20 percent focus on customers and consumers, we will make significant sustainability initiative. We are year-on-year. One of the factors behind the higher volume was investments in areas such as internal training, including committed to observing and the Curly Girl social media haircare phenomenon. The flexibility the launch of a growth program focused on leadership and of our domestic production meant that we were able to respond business development in cooperation with Aalto Executive promoting in all our operations and quickly to the sharp increase in demand created by the popuEducation. operating countries the ten generally larity of the Curly Girl method and we supplied the market with Internationalization is one of our strategic priorities and accepted principles concerning large quantities of XZ, LV and Herbina haircare products that are we will continue to build our internationalization strategy. human rights, labour standards, the compatible with the method. Last year, we gained access to several new export markets environment and anti-corruption.” The new Heti line of detergents produced at Heinävesi was also for Korrek Pro consumer and professional products, for very well received by consumers and the sales exceeded all of our example. expectations. Berner had an eventful 136th year of operations in 2019. I Antti Korpiniemi Our consolidated operating profit amounted to MEUR 15.6 want to take this opportunity to thank our employees, cusCEO (MEUR 15.6) in 2019 while turnover declined year-on-year to aptomers, partners and owners for the past year. In particular, proximately MEUR 304 (MEUR 316). The most significant factor I wish to single out the employees of our production plants behind the decrease in revenue was a reduction in the sales of in Heinävesi for their excellent performance and flexibility plant protection products in the Baltic countries. in responding to increases in demand. We are in a good THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8 HIGHLIGHTS IN 2019 JANUARY Launch of the Heti product line Partnership with the Olympic Stadium We launch the Heti series of house cleaning products We sign a partnership agreement with the Stadium Foundation. Under with eco-friendly spirits vinegar as the active ingredient. the agreement, Berner and the GreenCare brand are a service and prodThe products are manufactured in Heinävesi and uct partner for the renovated Olympic Stadium. Through the partnerpackaged in bottles made from recycled plastic. ship, we are also involved in growing the new grass inside the stadium. XZ biodegradable and vegan products XZ launches Natura haircare products based on natural Finnish We continue our BSAG Baltic Sea commitment ingredients. The vegan and biodegradable Natura products are We continue our efforts to improve the well-being of the Baltic Sea sold in recyclable pump bottles. through our Baltic Sea commitment to the Baltic Sea Action Group (BSAG). Among other things, we are committed to developing eco-friendly product innovations through circular economy solutions. APRIL Cooperation between Nokian Footwear and Nanso The BioA fertilizer plant starts operations – Nokian Footwear and Nanso, two strong Finnish brands, we become a distributor for recycled fertilizer combine their design expertise by launching a joint colBioA’s first fertilizer plant goes into production in Kotka. Farmer’s Avena Berner lection. The collection includes Nokian Footwear rubber acts as the distributor for BioA’s recycled fertilizer in Finland. boots with Nanso’s print designs. LedTailor distribution agreement We sign a distribution agreement with the Finnish company LED Tailor Innova7ion for its lighting products and systems intended for surface disinfection and indoor air quality solutions. The anti-microbial effect of LED Tailor’s products is based on blue light. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 MAY The popularity of the Curly Girl Method Sustainability survey for our stakeholders takes the Finns by surprise We ask our stakeholders to share their views of our The Curly Girl Method for haircare makes a big splash in Finland. sustainability as part of the drafting of our new Many XZ, Herbina and LV products are a good fit with the methsustainability program. od. During the resulting peak in demand, our production plant in Heinävesi is in operation around the clock. SEPTEMBER Berner starts to represent GOSH COPENHAGEN MAM wins an EU Product Safety Award The representation of the Denmark-based cosmetics brand The European Commission announces the winners of GOSH COPENHAGEN is transferred to Berner. Established in the first EU Product Safety Awards. One of the winners is 1945, GOSH COPENHAGEN is an innovative cosmetics compaMAM, whose products we market in Finland. ny that has a strong focus on sustainable development. DECEMBER BF&HAPPY supports a UNICEF project in Sweden TRICO Garden repellent chosen as Berner and four other Finnish entrepreneur families the Gardening Product of the Year 2020 support UNICEF’s three-year initiative to reduce maternal The Association of Finnish Garden Centers chooses the TRICO Garden mortality and child mortality in Rwanda through their repellent as the Gardening Product of the Year 2020. The product is BF&HAPPY project. marketed in Finland by Berner. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 PROTECTING TOMORROW We act in ways that ensure well-being and good living for all of us – also 100 years from now. That’s what protecting tomorrow means for us. Values Mission By building a better The basis of all our operations What we do tomorrow, we create WORK Cooperation, partnership and innovation are With our work, we build a better tomorrow and promote the cornerstones of our family company. At Berner, well-being. Our responsible business and steady growth value for our personnel, everybody’s work is valued and respected. Each Berner create sustainable benefits for our customers, consumcustomers, principals employee must have the opportunity to develop, succeed ers, employees, partners and stakeholders. and enjoy their everyday life as part of our family. Each and consumers. Berner employee takes responsibility of achieving our Vision common goals. INTEGRITY All of our operations must be based on honesty in relation to our clients, principals, other cooperaHow we do it tion partners and personnel. Integrity at Berner means reliable, well-planned and transparent operations. Our family business is committed to being a forerunner of quality, innovation and responsibility today and in the HUMANITY Berner succeeds when our employees future. We achieve this goal through seamless coopersucceed. In an equal working environment, we care for ation and the team spirit that Berner employees show each other, cheer each other on and trust that by working every day. together we will succeed. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS • Culture of shared objectives and working together • Increasing the occupational well-being of personnel through clearer ways of working and objectives and a more uniform management method • Training programmes for leadership and managerial work • E-commerce development • Development of incentive models • Rationalisation of processes • Continuous rationalisation • Renovations of production • Open culture of experimentation facilities and development of the • Personnel training supply chain • Knowledge-based management Management and job satisfaction Digitalization and Cost robotics competitiveness Focusing operations, growth, Internationalisation Sustainability mergers and acquisitions THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12 THE MEGATRENDS THAT INFLUENCE OUR OPERATIONS Megatrends are general directions of developResponsible consumers and Climate change and dwindling Technology and the digital ment that have impacts at the global level and are consumption natural resources transformation expected to continue to develop in the current Environmental awareness among There is no doubt that climate Technological progress and the direction. Identifying the megatrends that influence consumers and expectations change is real. Stopping climate digital transformation are accelerthe company helps prepare for the challenges and concerning the responsibility and change calls for action by ating and cutting through all areas transparency of corporations governments as well as corporations. of society. Digital channels are opportunities presented by them. are here to stay. Consumers Climate change also contributes to becoming increasingly important The key megatrends and the related threats increasingly take the sustainability the dwindling of natural resources. purchasing channels in all product and opportunities can be quite different between perspective into consideration categories and markets. when making purchase decisions. our six business areas. The table below provides a summary of the most important megatrends that have a broader impact on the company as a whole. WE WILL RESPOND TO THE CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES BY They are: responsible consumers and consumption; TAKING THE FOLLOWING ACTION, AMONG OTHER THINGS: climate change and dwindling natural resources; • Domestic production and local • Green wind power in Finland • B2B and B2C online stores technology and the digital transformation. tax footprint • Domestic production and short • Process automation with the • Sustainability program and its transport distances help of software robotics and targets • Circular economy solutions in integration • Developing the transparency of fertilizer products • Continuous development of the supply chain through Amfori • Making use of industrial side systems and tools BSCI membership, for example streams • Data-driven management • Biodegradable and vegan • Sustainable packaging materials • Increasing consumer insight products, circular economy and communications that are products and Nordic Swan • Increased use of renewable raw materials relevant to consumers Ecolabel products THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 Business areas THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14 OUR BUSINESS AREAS CONSUMER GOODS LEISURE GOODS AGENCY PRO AGRICULTURAL TRADE MACHINES We manufacture and import We manufacture and market The Agency business area Berner Pro is a strategic We are a reliable partner for We offer comprehensive a broad selection of diverse products for consumers’ leiacquires products globally partner for professionals. farmers in Finland and Swesolutions for managing the products that increase sure needs and hobbies. Our for its market area. We store We specialize in healthcare, den. We offer plant protection machines of our customer wellness in consumers’ daily product selection consists of and deliver raw materials and laboratories, animal welfare, products, fertilizers, seeds, companies; we sell, rent, lives. Our well-known brands leading brands and products additives to industry and the professional cleaning and farming supplies and related finance and service forklift compete in a leading position for car care, gardening and infrastructure sector cost-efkitchen hygiene. In addition to solutions and advisory sertrucks and real estate mainin many categories: outdoor recreation. While we fectively and quickly from our our own production, our sevices directly to our farmer tenance machinery. We also hygiene, groceries, home invest particularly in Finnish local warehouses in the Nordic lection includes high-quality customers. In Estonia, Latvia offer extensive spare parts, care, wellbeing, childcare, design, product development countries. In addition to the products from our internaand Lithuania, we operate servicing and maintenance daily accessories and beauty. and production, we also Nordic region, we have custional principals who are through local distributors. services. We invest in Finnish product operate in close cooperation tomers in the Baltic countries, on the leading edge of their Our operations in all of our development and production. with our international partner Russia and Belarus. respective industries. We markets are built on strong Our own brands have been network. In addition to our We also offer various added operate in Finland, Sweden, partnerships with our cusdeveloped in cooperation with leading brands, our strengths value services to our cusEstonia and – starting from tomers and suppliers. Finnish consumers right from include local consumer tomers and manage the side 2020 – Norway. the start. insight as well as strong streams generated by our cusexpertise concerning brands, tomers’ production operations marketing and distribution. by utilizing them with the help of our extensive network. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 CONSUMER GOODS The consumer goods business area had a good year in 2019 in terms of sales. We launched new products in response to consumer trends. The launches were very successful and demand for the products has been strong We started a process of customer-driven reorganization with the al survey conducted by Reader’s Digest. We launched XZ Natura, Groceries & homecare aim of serving all of our product areas more comprehensively as a line of biodegradable and vegan hair care products, to an At the start of the year, we launched Heti, a new line of house one Berner. excellent reception by consumers. We also introduced XZ Pihlaja cleaning products. The products were very well received by Plex products to bring plex technology to supermarket shelves. consumers and the sales figures were a positive surprise for us. Hygiene The packaging of XZ product line will be redesigned in 2020. Heti is the first series of house cleaning products in the market The Hygiene group had a very successful year in 2019. We LV continued to see strong growth in 2019. We introduced newthat uses eco-friendly spirits vinegar as the active ingredient. achieved excellent success in our goal-driven and strong cooperlook packaging and launched a line of intimate care products, The detergents are manufactured in Heinävesi and packaged in ation with our partners. for example. LV products are completely free of fragrances and bottles made from recycled plastic. With spirits vinegar being a We had prepared in a timely manner for the transition period coloring agents and they have all been designed in cooperation hot product currently and the Heti series being made in Finland, stipulated by the technical document concerning marketing with the Finnish Allergy, Skin and Asthma Federation, which the timing of our launch was excellent. We will expand the Heti claims under the Act on Cosmetic Products. The transition period conducted the first study of fragrance sensitivity among Finns product family with new products in 2020. ended in the summer and its impacts gradually became visible last year. The results showed that nearly one in three respondRajamäen spirits vinegar continued to be used for cooking and on shop shelves. One example of a claim that can no longer be ents (32%) considered themselves sensitive to fragrances. The preserving purposes, but demand was also boosted significantly used is “paraben-free”, which we removed from our products well results of the study further enhance the strong growth achieved by the growing popularity of vinegar in laundry and cleaning. This before the end of the transition period. by our LV series during the past few years. traditional, natural and effective product was talked about a lot XZ had a successful year in 2019 thanks to successful product The packaging of the Herbina line was also redesigned across and it saw increased use in these areas. Apple cider vinegar was launches and the arrival in Finland of the Curly Girl method. XZ’s all product categories last year. We expanded the selection of also a prominent topic of discussion. The Rajamäen product family growth outpaced the hair care market by a clear margin in both facial care products with new products containing cucumber includes unpasteurized apple cider vinegar as well as apple cider shampoo and conditioner products. XZ was selected as the most extract and hyaluronic acid. vinegar beverages as the latest addition to the product line. More trusted shampoo brand in Finland for the eighth time in the annuTHIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 new and interesting products will be launched under the Rajamäen brand in 2020. In the homecare segment, LV is a strong Finnish brand with a loyal customer base. Among the key strengths of the product line The Curly Girl hair care is the fact that the products are free of fragrances and coloring agents and they are developed in cooperation with the Finnish method boosted demand Allergy, Skin and Asthma Federation. We redesigned the packaging of LV products and introduced new packaging solutions. In early The Curly Girl method made a big splash in the Finnish hair care 2020, we will launch a dishwashing product and laundry detergent market in 2019. The method represents an approach to hair care certified by EcoCert Greenlife. Responsibility is also reflected in based on supporting the formation of curls by using the right prodour commitment to developing products with as few ingredients as ucts and ingredients. The focus in hair care is on moisturizing the possible in our own product development activities. hair and avoiding products containing silicone, sulfates and alcohol, among other things. The method attracted growing interest among Wellbeing & childcare Finnish social media influencers, mass media and consumers in Wellness is a growing trend. The growing awareness of wellearly 2019 and the trend reached its peak in Finland in April–May. ness-related issues and the ageing of the population support the demand for Omron’s blood pressure monitors and pain relief The method increased interest in the hair care products in Berner’s solutions. Omron had a very good year in relation to our targets. hygiene category, as there are 21 products in the XZ product family We work in close cooperation with the Finnish Heart Association as well as several LV and Herbina products that are compatible with and the Finnish Brain Association, among others, and we strive the method. We communicated this actively to consumers and the to increase awareness of the risks associated with hypertension social media accounts of our brands engaged in active customer and the importance of at-home monitoring. We work together service efforts and answered consumers’ questions regarding with pain management associations to communicate informaproduct features and availability. tion on drug-free pain relief in line with the Finnish Current Care Guidelines. The short-term spike in demand placed increased pressure on our Oxygenol launched a 10% Xylitol toothpaste that can be used production facilities in Heinävesi. We kept our production running by the entire family. All Oxygenol toothpaste products contain around the clock during the peak demand period for products that xylitol in addition to fluoride. Oxygenol toothpaste products are suit the Curly Girl method. The planned summer shutdown had to be manufactured in Heinävesi. cancelled and the production plant continued to operate throughout the summer. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 The market for the childcare product group is challenging ”Our Ainu brand due to the Finnish birth rate declining at a record rate. Our Ainu brand had a good year in 2019 in line with our expectations. We had a good year in redesigned our packaging and invested in the development of communications and content marketing. We aim to continuously 2019 in line with our develop and renew the products on a consumer-driven basis, expectations.” operate responsibly and be close to the consumer. Examples of this include the new biodegradable, vegan and fragrance-free Ainu skincare products launched at the beginning of 2020. Daily accessories The result of our daily accessories business remained good in 2019. We successfully expanded our distribution among medium-sized customers in the school supplies and crafts category. We worked on the renewal of our M.E.C. brand, and the results of these efforts will be seen by consumers on shop shelves by the start of the new school year in 2020. The brand will also be expanded to the crafts segment in the near future. We continued marketing cooperation between brands with BIC and Kikkoman, which is another brand represented by Berner. For these two brands of our principals, we implemented a large multi-channel campaign for the barbecue season. The campaign activities included influencer cooperation and events. We will continue our efforts to develop and maintain a high level of customer satisfaction in 2020. Beauty In 2019, the cosmetics trade in Finland was characterized by trends, intensifying international and digital competition as well as changes in distribution channels. The international cosmetics brands we represent performed well in the challengTHIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18 ing competitive landscape and outgrew the market in general. the product range is set to be expanded in response to growing the service level of our retail locations, both of which play an imWe added a new series of color cosmetics to our product range consumer demand. portant role in the consumer’s path to purchase and the buying when the representation of Gosh Copenhagen was transferred Our selection of products was complemented in 2019 by our experience. We believe that our local expertise and extensive to us. representation of Gosh Copenhagen color cosmetics. The values experience of the Finnish cosmetics market will continue to be a While the decisions to close down the Hehku chain and the of sustainable development and recycling play a significant role competitive advantage for us going forward. Ego shops operated by University Pharmacy had an effect on in Gosh’s production and other operations, including the unique Our subsidiary Berner Baltic is the distributor of several interthe achievement of our targets, we were nevertheless able to Ocean Waste Plastic cooperation that involves recycling plastic national cosmetics brands in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The increase the sale of the brands we had previously sold in those that has accumulated in oceans and using it to manufacture more than 20 brands it represents include Berner’s own LV series chains in our other retail channels. packaging for new cosmetics products. About 70% of the prodalong with Lumene, IsaDora, Ducray and Lieray, among others. Selective skincare is one of the most important focus areas of ucts in the selection are vegan, and the share of vegan products Cosmetics products are its largest category. our business. Sensai, a sophisticated brand based on state-ofis set to grow in the future. We lost our representation of COTY in the Baltic countries at the-art technology and Koishimaru silk, improved its position Known for its high-quality fragrance-free cosmetics products, the beginning of 2017, and the hard work we have put in since in the category and outperformed the market in terms of its the IsaDora brand continued its strong performance supported then to fill that void began to bear fruit in 2019. Last year, we sales growth. The growth was driven by, among other things, the by the prevailing trends. The Active product family launched in began representing the French NOREVA brand in Latvia and launch of the new Absolute Silk skincare line. 2018 was expanded to present an even better response to the Estonia. Online stores are increasing their share of sales and Sales of the French brand Clarins developed in line with our athleisure linked to active lifestyles, where cosmetics products sustainability plays an increasingly important role for consumers targets and we maintained our market position in selective need to be long-lasting under all circumstances. in the Baltic countries, as in other regions. cosmetics in spite of changes in distribution channels. Each year, Mavala, the Switzerland-based market leader in nail care, is Clarins’ plant-based product development efforts help bring new known for its lovely seasonal colors and mini nail polish products. bio-inspiration to its frequently refreshed collection. Launched in The brand continued its strong growth in 2019. The colorful cosspring 2019 and targeted at people under the age of 30, the new metics brand Bronx Colors was launched in 2018 and its excellent MyClarins skincare line consists of fully vegan products based on price–quality ratio has surprised consumers and professionals natural raw materials. alike. Natural cosmetics and sustainability are becoming increasThe outlook for our cosmetics business in 2020 is positive ingly important priorities in consumer behavior. Interest in and we expect to see growth in all of our brands. The Finnish vegan cosmetics products is also growing as awareness of ecoCommerce Federation predicts that the annual cosmetics friendly choices increases. Nuxe is a French skincare brand whose spending of Finnish consumers will grow by nearly 6 percent by values are built on ethics and respect for nature. It is the leading 2023*. Spending on skincare and makeup is expected to increase pharmacy cosmetics brand in France. Nuxe will further increase the most in the next few years. We will maintain a strong focus the appeal and competitiveness of its offering in 2020 when on brick-and-mortar retail, which is how consumers mostly buy * Finnish Commerce Federation release, October 4, 2019: Intheir cosmetics. We aim to strengthen our digital visibility and creased spending on cosmetics among Finnish consumers. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 LEISURE GOODS Our brands continued to see generally positive market development in 2019. Many of our product groups are heavily linked to seasons and weather conditions, and these factors have a significant effect on market development and sales performance. The exceptionally dry spring slowed down the development of in the market, and Nokian Footwear is still the most popular and sneakers, among other things. the rubber boot market while accelerating the development of trusted rubber boot brand among Finns by a clear margin. The operational focus areas in 2020 for Nokian Footwear the gardening market. Similarly, the conditions during the winter Contracts with the Finnish Defence Forces are very significant for and Hai consist of deliveries to the Finnish Defence Forces and season have a significant impact on the sale of windshield washer Nokian Footwear. In 2019, Nokian Footwear had no deliveries to the increasing operational efficiency. We are also investing in digitality. fluid, for example. We performed well in all of our markets relative Finnish Defence Forces, with the timing of deliveries under the curOne example of this is the launch of Hai sales on Amazon Germany. to the development of the overall market. New products, responrent contract period taking place in 2018 and 2020. Nokian Footwear For Kontio boots, we will launch a two-year cooperation with Lauri sibility and sustainable development were important elements also won a competitive bidding process to supply rubber boots to the Tähkä with the aim of emphasizing the health-promoting and of our business development efforts. Our brands hold leading Swedish Armed Forces. The first deliveries were made in late 2019. stress-reducing effects of spending time in nature. positions in all of the categories we represent. The year 2019 was also a period of renewal for the Nokian Footwear product line. We introduced new products that add Car care Footwear & clothing diversity to the product line and discontinued some old models. KORREK Pro products maintained their popularity and remained The rubber boot market as a whole had a difficult year in 2019 We launched a cooperative product line with Nanso and took a the first choice in car care products among Finns in 2019. As due to the dry weather conditions. Nokian Footwear and Hai were major step forward in the development of our selection of print proof of the superior quality of KORREK technology, we introno exception, and the brands had a challenging year in terms of rubber boots. We also introduced new lightweight EVA boots for duced the KORREK Pro satisfaction guarantee, which helped the sales and profitability. The lack of rains was particularly reflected children and adults as well as the Verso garden shoe for people to consumer product category achieve sales development that exin sales during the spring. Combined with the dry weather in the wear during gardening in the spring and summer. Our new models ceeded the development of the overall market by a clear margin. previous fall, this led to higher inventories and weaker profit perwere well received in the market and we will continue the renewal We launched the KORREK Pro Center concept for our KORREK formance. We were nevertheless successful in the competition of the product selection in 2020 by launching the first line of Hai Pro Ceramic TFC™ service partners. The concept provides THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20 consumers with the best products on the market, paired with of packaging reduced the need for virgin plastic by approximately the best service promise. The KORREK Pro Ceramic TFC product 35,000 kg last year. TRICO Garden deer family was expanded by two new professional coating solutions: We have also increased the use of recycled raw materials in KORREK Pro Ceramic TFC™ One and the new flagship product production. The raw materials used in GreenCare products are repellent chosen as KORREK Pro Ceramic TFC™ EVO. The overall market for windshield washer fluids did not grow currently almost entirely plant-based, and our aim is to make GreenCare a 100% plant-based brand within the coming years. the Gardening Product in Finland in 2019 due to the mild and rainy weather. Our LASOL The production of GreenCare Ympäristön Ystävä makes use of the Year 2020 products nevertheless outperformed the development of the of food industry by-products, and the product is fully plantmarket in general in terms of sales. The new ready-to-use LASOL based. The fertilizer recycles by-products back into the soil and TRICO Garden, a natural deer repellent marketed by -22 Havuntuoksu windshield washer fluid was successfully sequesters carbon. We continued the cooperation between our Berner, was chosen as the Gardening Product of the launched as a new addition to the LASOL product family and its Ympäristön Ystävä fertilizer and the Baltic Sea Action Group, with Year 2020. Each year, the Association of Finnish Garden sales exceeded our expectations. We also redesigned the visual a portion of each unit sold donated to support the protection of Centers chooses a product that meets a current need appearance of LASOL products. the Baltic Sea. and deserves the attention of consumers. The award Exports of KORREK Pro professional products were expanded We supported the competitiveness of retail with our Shop in is given to an innovative and high-quality product that to Turkey and the service partner network in Germany grew to Shop solutions developed in collaboration with retailers. We also suits Finnish home gardeners and is recommended by reach 80 partner locations. In KORREK Pro consumer products, participated in the Housing Fair Finland event in summer 2019. At the Association of Finnish Garden we began efforts to export the products to the German and the Housing Fair in Kouvola, we created a GreenCare demonstraCenters. The Gardening Product Russian markets and secured our first listings with Globus SB tion yard for rowhouses in cooperation with the garden designer of the Year award has been given hypermarkets in Germany for spring 2020. Minna Toivonen. out since 2009. Regulations issued by the authorities in 2018 continued to Garden care & pest control result in changes to rodent control products last year. Our new Trico Garden is a 100% natural Berner’s gardening products for consumers were successful in rodent control products have been successful in the market and pest control solution used the market and our domestic contract manufacturing volume we became the market leader. We also offer rodent control assisto protect coniferous trees, grew from the previous year. The results for the year were good tance to consumers via the www.jyrsijantorjunta.fi website, which broad-leaved trees, shrubs and and our volume grew particularly in substrates and fertilizers as was redesigned last year. We help consumers choose the right ornamental plants from deer. well as rodent control products. Our Berner garden care category rodent control products through the website and by providing includes our own brands as well as contract manufacturing for in-store materials. private label soil and woodchip mulch products. The regulations issued by the authorities have led to increased GreenCare manufactures Finnish products from sustainable demand for mechanical traps. The Giljotti traps, which are made raw materials. We developed the sustainability of GreenCare in Finland and marketed by Berner, have achieved widespread further in 2019. The use of recycled plastic and the optimization popularity among consumers. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 AGENCY Our Agency business had an eventful year of hard work. There were significant fluctuations in the sales of our product groups compared to the previous year. The market climate and competitive landscape was challenging During the year, we continued to develop the responsibilities in certain sections of our customer base, but we were able to in our organization and hired more personnel. We will implement create new business elsewhere to compensate for it. restructuring measures in the organization in the beginning of We have continued the customer-driven development of new 2020 to support these changes, which we believe will enable us added value services, which we believe will help us take advantage to serve our customers and principals even better in the future. of new opportunities related to our existing products as well as new We will also hire more personnel in 2020 to support the continued products. Our growth is also promoted by our strategic expansion growth of our operations. We are entering 2020 with a positive in the Scandinavian market, where our competitiveness has been mindset all around. improved by the identification of a new kind of logistics solution for bringing products to market. The service we offer to customers is also improved by the expansion of our local warehouse network. Our business area has a long track record of making use of industrial side streams for various purposes. We are currently engaged in several circular economy projects in cooperation with other Berner business areas. We expect that these projects will present significant additional opportunities for providing cost-efficient and substitutive solutions to our customers in the next few years. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 PRO We increased our market share in several categories of consumption goods in healthcare, cleanliness and animal welfare in 2019. Nevertheless, the price-driven nature of public sector tendering processes meant that our higher volume was not reflected in a corresponding increase in turnover. In the capital goods category, such as laboratory equipment, the as well as occupational safety. Ansell’s patent-pending innovation number of projects was slightly lower than in previous years, and is the world’s first pre-donned surgical glove system that enables certain purchases already planned by customers were postdouble gloving in one don, making double gloving 50% faster than poned. Our sales grew substantially from the previous year, but with conventional products. The solution also saves shelf space we did not reach the overall target we had set for 2019. During the and reduces packaging waste. year, we also invested in strengthening and training our sales and We also signed a distribution agreement with the Finnish comservice personnel. pany LED Tailor Innova7ion for its lighting products and systems intended for surface disinfection and indoor air quality solutions. Healthcare The anti-microbial effect of LED Tailor’s products is based on blue Our healthcare segment had a strong year, especially in the light. product categories produced at our plant in Heinävesi, such as disinfectants. We also expanded our selection in the most common Laboratories consumption good categories in healthcare to provide an even betWe had a strong focus on our internal development efforts in 2019. ter response to the needs of healthcare. In surgery, our long-term We restructured our organization and our new micro-teams got off efforts in the field of hand surgery began to produce results, and to a good start in their work and in making progress on strategy we were also successful in electrosurgery and instrument sales. projects. We utilized analytical data in our services during the year. We launched the Ansell Glove-in-Glove System double gloving We also developed our operating methods in maintenance services solution based on new technology that increases patient safety to respond to the needs of the changing market. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 Our chromatography portfolio was complemented by the launch online store at ProShop.berner.fi showed particularly substantial Berner Eesti and Ordior Eesti of Shimadzu Nexera HPLC during the year. Even more compact growth and we reached a large number of entirely new customers. The portfolio of Berner Eesti consists of products for microbiolthan their predecessors, the Series 40 models have been designed We launched several new professional cleaning and kitchen ogy laboratories. The key product categories are bacteriological to be easy to use and eco-friendly. The power consumption in hygiene products manufactured in-house at Heinävesi in 2019. culture mediums, disinfectants and various laboratory supplies. standby mode can be reduced by as much as 80%, which also We introduced HETI Kuulas TFC™ products for glass surfaces. The sales of microbiology products grew slightly from the previhelps reduce costs. The treatment creates a unique invisible TFC™ thin film coating ous year and profitability improved substantially. Our portfolio is We introduced a new flagship product in food analytics followthat repels water and dirt very effectively, making surfaces comprehensive, and it matches the needs of our customers. ing the launch by FOSS of the next-generation FOSS FoodScan™ 2 easier to clean and keeping them clean longer. The cooperation The sale of laboratory equipment in Estonia is carried out by our meat analyzer that is pre-calibrated with ANN calibrations based we started with Vileda in 2018 progressed very well and the subsidiary Ordior Eesti, with Shimadzu and FOSS being its largest on thousands of samples taken around the world. The device is sales of cleaning supplies to professional customers met our principals. The outlook for public procurement was fairly weak, but suitable for nearly all types of meat samples and the analysis expectations. our annual sales were close to our targets thanks to equipment takes only 25 seconds. We launched the digital Boa Berner learning platform for our investments in the private sector. We sought new representations customers, making product information and method descripduring the year and started cooperation with Lauda, among Animal welfare tions conveniently available wherever they are needed. The others. Our cooperation agreement with Horizon ended in both The animal welfare business had a year of growth and we were platform supports our customers in personnel training and proEstonia and Finland. particularly successful with our Hill’s products. We worked tomotes the correct use of cleaning agents and cleaning supplies. In 2020, we will continue to implement our strategic projects gether with our customers to create video training material on anThe learning platform has been enthusiastically received and as well as develop both our logistics capabilities and the comimal nutrition to support the daily work of veterinary doctors and we intend to continue its development. The learning platform is petitiveness of the products we manufacture in-house. The nurses. We launched a dedicated online store for Hill’s breeders freely available at boa.berner.fi. healthcare business will be significantly affected by the Medical at www.hillskasvattajat.fi where breeders can make purchases Device Regulation, which will enter into force in May and impose conveniently at affordable prices. Berner Medical new requirements on some of the products we manufacture in The most important product launch in 2019 was Hill’s PrescripThe Berner Medical organization in Sweden underwent major Heinävesi. In our laboratory business, the outlook for the year is tion Diet Gastrointestinal Biome, an entirely new kind of food for changes during the year. We changed the operating model and promising. We will implement entirely new projects and launch cats and dogs that enriches their gut microbiome. It has been strengthened our team with a Sales Director and two product innovative products. known for some time that the gut microbiome of cats and dogs has specialists. The sales of Ansell and Harry Holms products went a significant impact on their digestive health. The product was well well and we introduced several new products and solutions to received by our customers. the market. The distribution of Boden hand sanitizers, which has been an important product category for us for several years, was Cleanliness taken over by the manufacturer. Our goal is to achieve significant In professional cleaning and kitchen hygiene, we were able to ingrowth in both current and new products in the next few years, crease our market share in a challenging market. Sales through our thereby strengthening our position as a Nordic operator. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24 AGRICULTURAL TRADE Our operations in all of our markets are built on strong partnerships with our customers and suppliers. Finland We had our first full year of operation as Farmer’s Avena Gullviks focuses on the retail sale of plant protection agents, Farmer’s Avena Berner’s strategy of focusing on the provision Berner in 2019. By cooperating with Avena Nordic Grain Ltd and nutrients, seeds, foliage nutrients and products used in forestry of expert and cost-efficient services to professional farms has combining our sales and procurement organizations, we have that are sold directly to farms. Strong cooperation with Swedish proved to be an effective and competitive decision. The structural achieved synergies in customer account management, marketfarmers continued to grow in 2019. gullviks.se transformation of agriculture was evident in our customer base in ing and sales. The synergies derived from the cooperation will 2019 as the total number of farms decreased while their average help the business develop favorably in the coming years. The Baltic countries size grew. The change was the most notable among cattle farms. In 2020, we will focus even more strongly on developing We reduced the scale of our operations in the Baltic countries Grain harvests in 2019 were substantially higher than in circular economy solutions for agriculture and working together significantly in 2019 and will continue our operations through our the two preceding years, but the lower price of grain posed a with our partners to promote more sustainable agricultural proFinnish organization. Our extensive experience with the Estonian, challenge to the profitability of farms. For horticultural farms, duction. The sales outlook is positive, as customer stockpiles are Latvian and Lithuanian markets and customers nevertheless the past year was successful on average. Our sales of production lower than in the past few years. viljelijanavenaberner.fi puts us in a position to continue our operations successfully in inputs, such as plant protection products, seeds, fertilizers and the Baltic countries with our current limited selection of products packaging supplies, developed favorably in spite of the difficult Sweden and services. We aim to expand our selection in order to continue circumstances. In particular, our sales during the growing season The weather conditions during the growing season were someto develop our cooperation with customers going forward. developed slightly better than expected. what more favorable to agriculture than in the previous year in We deepened our cooperation in Finland with the sugar proSweden. The large area under cultivation of fall crops in fall 2018 Read about our new circular economy products in the sustainaducer Sucros by starting to work together in sugar beet farmer was reflected in increased demand for plant protection last year. bility section. acquisition with the aim of increasing sugar beet cultivation. Farmers used excess inventory left over from the previous year to Farmer’s Avena Berner’s expert salespeople sign cultivation cover part of the increased need. In spite of this and the dry conagreements with both existing and new sugar beet farmers. ditions of the early summer, Gullviks’ sales developed favorably. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25 MACHINES The overall market turned to a slight decline in 2019 compared to the previous year. Nevertheless, we were able to achieve a good increase in the sales of the primary brands we represent: Mitsubishi Forklifts and Combilift forklifts. New sales initiatives involving Dulevo’s sweeper machines for outdoor maintenance were also successful. The Mitsubishi electric counterbalance forklifts manufactured in Järvenpää were again successful in the market. The systematic development of the product line supports future market changes, which will see electric forklifts replace conventional forklifts powered by internal combustion engines. We acquired significant new customer accounts in the latter part of 2019 and our order book is in good shape to start the new year. The new customer accounts are again built on a leasing solution based on long-term partnership. We have enjoyed a high level of customer loyalty through the years and we are confident this will continue in the future. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26 Sustainability THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27 Sustainability Our highlights highlights and The new sustainability program and its targets. As part of the creation of the program, a sustainability development survey for our stakeholders. areas in 2019 By switching to wind power, we reduced the carbon dioxide emissions of our operations in Finland by 894 metric tons compared to 2018. We launched a mandatory course on our Code of Conduct for our employees. We reduced the use of virgin plastic by 35,000 kg in our GreenCare packaging by using recycled plastic and optimizing packaging. We introduced a whistleblowing channel for our stakeholders to enable the anonymous reporting of suspected violations of our Code of Conduct. The new HETI series of house cleaning products was launched in recycled plastic bottles. We decided to become a member of the Amfori BSCI supply chain auditing system in 2020. Our development areas We will continue to develop our sustainable supply chain principles and related reporting practices. We will develop our targets and reporting and expand them to cover the entire Berner Group to support the development of our responsibility. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28 Sustainability programme We take care of our We ensure the We reduce our climate and We create value for our personnel’s well-being responsibility of our products environmental impacts stakeholders Occupational safety and well-being Product quality and safety Energy efficiency and emissions Solvency and profitable growth Equality and diversity Responsible supply chain Material efficiency Local tax footprint Competence development Sustainable packaging Domestic production Leadeship development Responsible raw materials WE OPERATE ETHICALLY AND COMMUNICATE IN AN OPEN MANNER THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29 SUSTAINABILITY AT BERNER Responsibility towards our stakeholders is an integral part of our company’s values, operating methods and management. We are committed to continuously developing our sustainability and engaging in open dialogue with our stakeholders. Our new sustainability program and its targets guide us in the day-to-day development of our sustainability. We started building our first sustainability program last year. Taking the responses of all stakeholder groups into consideraGRI guidelines, which represent the world’s most widely used Responsible operating methods have been part of Berner’s tion, the key sustainability priorities highlighted by the particisustainability reporting framework. approach to business for a long time, but our new Sustainability pants were responsible supply chain, product quality and safety program 2020–2022 brings all of the areas of our sustainability as well as occupational safety and well-being. There were some The principles guiding our sustainability and the relevant targets under one program. We will develop differences in the relative importance assigned to the priorities Our sustainability efforts in our day-to-day work are guided by and update our sustainability program annually and expand it to between different stakeholders and countries. a number of policies and principles, such as our environmental cover the entire Berner Group even more comprehensively. In the interviews, the respondents highlighted our responsibilipolicy, quality policy and HR principles. The development of our One important aspect of the development of our new sustainty for personnel and organizational culture as areas we have been sustainability efforts is guided by our sustainability steering ability program was a sustainability survey and interviews with successful in, along with our open and long-term cooperation group, which meets approximately once a month. The activities our internal and external stakeholders in the summer of 2019. with our stakeholders. Our domestic production was also widely of the steering group are coordinated by the Communications In the sustainability survey, we asked the respondents to tell us appreciated. The most important development areas that were and Corporate Responsibility Manager. what they think Berner’s key sustainability priorities should be. highlighted by the participants were ensuring responsibility in All of our operations are based on our Code of Conduct for emIn the interviews, we asked the participating stakeholders for supply chain and defining themes and targets for sustainability. ployees and suppliers. Our Code of Conduct represents Berner’s more details on what they perceive to be our successes in the Following the sustainability survey, we conducted an internal values – work, integrity and humanity – as well as the generally area of sustainability and what areas we should develop further, assessment of the significance of the impacts of the material accepted guidelines of conduct as documented in the UN Global among other things. We received a total of 341 responses to the aspects in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Compact’s ten principles. digital survey and conducted 28 interviews in our countries of guidelines on materiality analyses. We will also start to report on Our operations are certified pursuant to the ISO 9001 quality operation. our sustainability more systematically in accordance with the management certificate, the ISO 14001 environmental manageTHIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30 ment certificate, the ISO 22716 certificate regarding the manufacture and storage of cosmetics and hygiene products (GMP, Good Manufacturing Practices), and a third-party assured ISO 13485 quality system required for the manufacture of healthcare equipment. Our laboratories in Herttoniemi and Heinävesi are GLP certified by the Finnish Medicines Agency. Defined by the OECD, GLP (Good Laboratory Practice) is intended to produce reliable and sufficiently high-quality laboratory testing for purposes such as use by the public authorities. We are a member of the UN Global Compact sustainability initiative. We are also committed to the chemical industry’s international Responsible Care sustainability program. Responsible Care is an international sustainability program coordinated in Finland by the Chemical Industry Federation of Finland. UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) In 2015, UN Member States agreed on Sustainable Development Goals and a Global Action Plan that is intended to guide the world’s development efforts until 2030. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is aimed at eradicating extreme poverty and promoting sustainable development that takes people, the planet and prosperity into consideration on an equal basis. Businesses play a significant role globally in achieving the targets. There are 17 Sustainable Development Goals and they comprise 169 targets in total. As part of the creation of our new sustainability program, we estimated the impacts of our operations on the 17 Sustainable Development Goals and the 169 targets they comprise. While our operations have impacts on all 17 SDGs, we have identified five that we can particularly influence through our operations. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 WE OPERATE ETHICALLY AND COMMUNICATE IN AN OPEN MANNER At Berner, maintaining a high level of business ethics is the starting point for all our operations. We want to do the right thing and act responsibly to earn people’s confidence. We communicate in an open manner and listen to our stakeholders. The most important UN Sustainable Development Goal that we promote THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32 WE OPERATE ETHICALLY AND COMMUNICATE IN AN OPEN MANNER Tavoite 2020 – 2022 Results in 2019 generally accepted guidelines of conduct as documented in the Employee Code of Conduct UN Global Compact’s ten principles. Supplier Code of Conduct 100% of our employees in all In late 2019, we launched the In late 2019, we launched a course on our Code of Conduct for WhistleB reporting channel of our countries of operation course for the personnel of complete online training on our our head office and our sales the personnel of our head office and our sales staff elsewhere Code of Conduct each year. staff elsewhere in Finland. The in Finland. The mandatory course was completed by all of the Open communications and stakeholder relationships response rate was 100%. designated employees. Our employees at the production plants Our goal is to communicate on our operations in an open, timely We will add sustainability An extensive section on in Heinävesi and the central warehouse in Viinikkala, along with and stakeholder-driven manner. Our communication principles section to the websites of our sustainability was added to the our employees in our other operating countries, will also take the are trustworthiness, openness, understandability and interacown brands in 2020. Ainu website. course in 2020. tion. All Berner employees are obligated to comply with the Code of As a company with six business units, we have a significant Conduct and immediately report all suspicions or observations number of stakeholders. Naturally, there are substantial of inconsistencies with or violations of the Code of Conduct. We differences in the wishes, expectations and priorities of our encourage our employees to primarily report their suspicions. various stakeholders. One broad theme that is strongly highGood governance and ethical operating principles Employees who wish to report suspected violations anonymouslighted among many stakeholders in all of our business units is At Berner, maintaining a high level of business ethics is the ly can do it via the WhistleB reporting channel we launched in sustainability, and this sustainability report represents part of starting point for our operations. We want to act responsibly and August 2019. The channel also allows our external stakeholders our response to that observation. We also aim to add separate do the right thing so that we maintain the trust of our employees to report potential suspicions concerning conduct that violates sections on sustainability on the websites of all of our own and other stakeholders. the law and our Code of Conduct. We received two reports via brands in 2020. The ways in which we listen to the wishes and All of our operations are based on our Code of Conduct for the channel last year, with one of the reports leading to the start expectations of our stakeholders include day-to-day inter­employees and suppliers. Our Code of Conduct represents of internal development efforts related to occupational well-being action, meetings and events as well as separate surveys and Berner’s values – work, integrity and humanity – as well as the in one of Berner’s units. questionnaires. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33 In the fall of 2019, we conducted a satisfaction survey on Our key stakeholders internal communication, which was primarily focused on assessing satisfaction with our internal communication channels ranging from electronic channels to communication by our • Current and prospective employees management and supervisors. The average satisfaction score • Owners given by the respondents for the various channels was 3.5 on • B2B customers a scale of 1–5. We will carry out the survey again in the fall of • Consumers 2020 to determine whether our development measures have • Principals had an impact on satisfaction. • Suppliers of raw materials, goods and services Our employees also participated in the process of defining our • Media purpose “Protecting Tomorrow”. Among other things, we • Public authorities wanted to hear what “Protecting Tomorrow” means in practice in the daily work of our employees. As part of the development of our sustainability program, we conducted a sustainability survey and interviews of our external Our employees’ most significant memberships in associations and internal stakeholders in the summer of 2019. We asked our and organizations related to sustainability include memberships stakeholders what they think are the key themes of Berner’s in the Environmental Labeling Committee, the Chemical Industry sustainability and, in the interviews, we also asked them what Federation of Finland’s Innovation Committee and the Bio and areas they think we have been successful in and what areas Circular Economy Committee. require further development. A total of 341 people completed our online survey and 28 stakeholder representatives shared their opinions in the interviews. Our business units have conducted general customer satisfaction surveys as well as a survey on digital services and ecommerce. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34 WE TAKE CARE OF OUR PERSONNEL’S WELL-BEING To us, the well-being of our employees is a matter of pride. That is why we invest in safety, equality, good leadership and personal possibilities for development. The key UN Sustainable Development Goals that we promote THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35 WE TAKE CARE OF OUR PERSONNEL’S WELL-BEING Occupational safety and well-being at work Responsibility for employees is based on our values to all of its employees in Finland. Comprehensive occupational Our HR practices and principles are based on our values – work, healthcare includes preventive statutory occupational healthTarget 2020–2022 Results in 2019 integrity and humanity – and they form the foundation of our care as well as medical care. Statutory occupational healthcare responsibility for employees. Our common practices guide our includes health examinations, health advice, activities that Zero accidents and Zero occupational illnesses. occupational illnesses. Five occupational accidents operations with regard to recruitment, orientation, leadership, support functional capacity as well as first-aid preparedness. that led to sickness absences. personnel development and remuneration, among other things. Statutory occupational healthcare covers all employees right We also have practices and principles that enhance the work from the start of their employment. The sickness absence rate Sickness absence rate 2.66%. stays under 3%. Sickness absence rate in community’s operations and well-being. In addition to statutory occupational healthcare, we provide In production and logistics, production and logistics 4.24%. Berner Group’s Code of Conduct reflects our values. The Code our employees in Finland with healthcare and medical services the sickness absence rate is at of Conduct guides all of our day-to-day operations in every country that are voluntary for employers to offer. Employees who most 5.5% we do business in. The Code covers our key responsibilities and the receive a monthly salary are eligible for medical care. The Reduction in absences related to musculoskeletal symptoms. principles we are committed to observing as an organization and company pays for the costs of ordinary and reasonable general as individual employees. practitioner level medical care provided by its healthcare partner, including tests and treatment. Tests include ordinary No new cases of occupational There were no occupational diseases or work-related diseases or work-related Occupational safety and well-being at work laboratory tests and radiography. The services of specialized illnesses. illnesses in 2019. Berner Ltd’s occupational healthcare services are managed by physicians can be used by referral after six months of full-time the CFO and the HR function. Themes related to occupational employment. An average score of more than In 2019, the overall average 3.5 in all areas of the occupascore of the different areas of safety are handled and managed in cooperation between the We also provide our employees with sport and cultural tional well-being survey. the occupational well-being occupational safety and health committee, the company’s senior benefits and commuting benefits via the ePassi platform. The survey was 3.7. management and the HR function. sport and cultural benefits amount to EUR 400 per calendar The targets and results are for Berner Ltd’s operations in Finland unless We conduct a “Healthy at work” survey in each unit in threeyear, while the ticket benefits for commuting amount to EUR otherwise mentioned. Our aim is to expand our targets and reporting to year intervals. The survey includes a risk assessment, health 100 per calendar year. cover the entire Berner Group more comprehensively in 2020–2021. examinations and a development plan. In 2019, there were a total of five accidents leading to shortBerner offers comprehensive occupational health services term absence from work in Berner Ltd’s operations in Finland. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 36 Other occupational accidents logged at the workplace or Leadership – our average was 3.8. Our strengths in the Average number of employees, 2019, Berner Group during commutes did not lead to absence from work. The sickLeadership component included the support of immediate 2019 2018 2017 2016 ness absence rate was 2.66% overall and 4.24% for production supervisors, the supervisors operating in accordance with the Finland 392 372 385 381 and logistics. company’s values and culture as well as interest in competence Sweden 49 49 50 50 Last year, we conducted workplace surveys and “Healthy at development. Our development areas identified for this comwork” employee questionnaires as well as health examinations ponent of the survey were giving motivating targets, consistent The Baltic countries 69 74 86 115 in several of our units. We also conducted a company-wide communication by the management and making the manageTotal 510 495 521 546 employee survey to assess the atmosphere and well-being ment’s operating models and examples easy to follow. of the workplace community. The survey results and the identified key development areas were subsequently analyzed Direction – our average was 3.7. Our scores for the Direction in workshops in each unit. The survey results and the identified component were good, exceeding 3.5 for all survey items. The Execution – our average was 3.6. Our strengths for the development areas were used to draft action plans for the questions in the survey were related to the company’s vision, Execution component included satisfaction with our products company as a whole and for the individual units as well as form strategy and objectives and the related communications, the and services as well as the objectives of work being clear and working groups to maintain continuous development. The individual’s opportunity to exercise influence and the company’s attainable. Our development area highlighted for this component well-being survey process also includes “pulse measurements” plans for the development of well-being and health. of the survey was “giving feedback”. that we plan to implement in 2020. Competencies – our average was 4. We also achieved high Renewal – our average was 3.5. In the Renewal component, our Key results of the occupational well-being survey scores in Competencies, exceeding 3.5 for all items in the survey. strengths were identified as being the adequacy of physical and We conducted an occupational well-being survey in collaboration The questions were related to tools, health, the working environmental resources from the perspective of personal development with Hintsa and Ilmarinen last year. The survey was based on ment, competence, motivation and our key processes. and developing one’s work. Our development area highlighted eight components of well-being: Core, Leadership, Direction, for this component of the survey was the development of our Competencies, Relationships, Organizational structure, ExecuRelationships – our average was 3.9. Our scores for the Relaoperations relative to our competitors. tion and Renewal. The scores for each component were given on tionships component were good. The statements “I have positive a scale of 1–5. relationships at work” and “My immediate supervisor is nice to The survey also included a section for determining our eNPS work with” received particularly high scores. score, which reveals how likely Berner employees are to recomCore – our average was 3.9. Our strength in the Core commend their employer to others. Our eNPS was 19 on a scale of ponent included meaningful work and operating in accordance Organizational structure – our average was 3.6. In this -100 – +100. with the company’s values and culture as well as recognizing our component, our strengths were the clarity of job-related expecIn 2020, we will continue to conduct workplace surveys and social and environmental responsibility. Our development areas tations, responsibilities and roles. Our development area for “Healthy at work” questionnaires according to our planned identified for this component of the survey were equality and this component was to provide opportunities for planning one’s schedule. openness. working days and duties. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37 Equality and diversity We revised our Code of Conduct in 2018. Last year, we At the company level, in 2019, one of our main training activities launched a mandatory course on the Code of Conduct for our involved the Specialist Qualification in Management (JET) trainTarget 2020–2022 Results in 2019 employees. In the future, all new employees will complete the ing program, with employees participating from various business course when they join the company. units. The deployment of the new ERP system and continued Men and women receive the To be reported for the first time same pay for the same job in 2020. In 2019, we also created “Responsible conduct at work” internal training was the primary development area for the categories. principles and guidelines together with representatives of our project participants in 2019. We introduced a new online learning personnel. environment in December 2019. No incidents of discrimination. There were no incidents of discrimination at Berner Group In 2020, our aim is to further harmonize and specify our Every Berner employee has the right and the obligation to in 2019. We created “Responsicompany-level HR practices and thereby promote equality. In participate in an annual development discussion. Our employees ble conduct at work” principles addition, we have plans for supervisor training on the topic of and their supervisors also agree on regular follow-up discussions and guidelines together with representatives of our equality and diversity. between the annual discussions. personnel. Our remuneration practices are based on the targets set for work. We measure the targets and their achievements regularly The targets and results are for Berner Ltd’s operations in Finland unless during the year. otherwise mentioned. Our aim is to expand our targets and reporting to cover the entire Berner Group more comprehensively in 2020–2021. Competence development In 2020, we aim to make broader use of the online learning environment and to produce orientation materials and other Equality and non-discrimination as well as the effectiveness and Target 2020–2022 Results in 2019 training content on the platform for use by our business units. We performance of the workplace community are key objectives also aim to further strengthen our development discussion proHR plans have been prepared HR plans were created for each for Berner’s human resources management. Berner respects for each business area, business unit in 2019. cess and its documentation as well as make more systematic use and values all employees regardless of their gender, beliefs, age, including a concrete plan for of career and development plans in competence management. sexual orientation and health. competence development. The competencies necessary for supporting the deployment and We expect everyone at Berner to be supervisors, colleagues use of the new ERP system will be monitored during the year and and subordinates who act in accordance with our values. They 100% of our employees are We will report on this for the we will respond to the relevant competence needs as necessary. are the starting point of our orientation training and work comcovered by annual performance first time in our reporting on reviews and development 2020. munity training initiatives. We have a zero tolerance policy with discussions. regard to inappropriate conduct and harassment. No such cases were reported last year. We ensure the equality and diversity of The targets and results are for Berner Ltd’s operations in Finland unless otherwise mentioned. Our aim is to expand our targets and reporting to our personnel by producing an annual personnel report. cover the entire Berner Group more comprehensively in 2020–2021. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 38 Leadership development In 2018, we continued the fourth Specialist Qualification in supervisory training for new supervisors. Next year, we will also Management (JET) training program in Berner’s history. The continue the development of our online learning platform and its Target 2020–2022 Results in 2019 program will be completed in early 2020. JET training programs use to support supervisory work at Berner. have been previously implemented in 2007–2008, 2012–2013 The leadership index will be To be reported for the first time at least equal to the Finnish in 2021. and 2015–2017. supervisor index average (74.2) In 2020, we will launch a growth management program in and the Executive Board’s collaboration with Aalto EE. The program participants will include leadership index score will be at least 75. all of the members of our Executive Board and most of the managers of our business areas. We will also continue to provide All new supervisors have been In 2019, all new supervisors provided with the necessary participated in orientation skills for managerial work. training for new supervisors. Employee turnover is not The exit interviews held in 2019 attributable to the quality of did not indicate that the quality supervisory work. of supervisory work was a factor in departing employees’ decision to leave the company. The targets and results are for Berner Ltd’s operations in Finland unless otherwise mentioned. Our aim is to expand our targets and reporting to cover the entire Berner Group more comprehensively in 2020–2021. Good leadership at Berner refers to operating in accordance with our values and allocating human resources appropriately to support the achievement of business objectives. We take the diversity of people and tasks into account in our management and we want to be a work community that appreciates the strengths that enable diversity. We support the success and development of our managerial work through supervisor training and by conducting regular 360-degree leadership appraisals. The purpose of the appraisals is to ensure that our leadership experience corresponds to our values. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39 Employee figures of Berner Group 31.12.2019 Figures include all Berner Group’s companies i.e Berner Ltd. and Berner Chemicals Ltd. / Finland, Bröderna Berner /Sweden, Berner Baltic, Berner Eesti and Ordior Eesti / Baltic. New employee hires: gender and age groups by region Employee turnover: gender and age groups by region Number of employees and employment Finland Men Women Finland Men Women Finland Sweden Baltics Under 30 years old 7 11 Under 30 years old 10 12 Number of employees 406 53 68 31.12.2019 30–50 years old 13 17 30–50 years old 13 6 Total 527 Over 51 years old 3 3 Over 51 years old 9 6 Permanent Total 23 31 Total 32 24 Men 193 40 10 Women 199 11 57 Sweden Men Women Sweden Men Women Temporary Under 30 years old 1 0 Under 30 years old 0 0 Men 3 2 0 30–50 years old 1 1 30–50 years old 1 0 Women 11 0 1 Over 51 years old 1 1 Over 51 years old 3 1 Full-time Total 3 2 Total 4 1 Men 189 36 9 Women 196 11 54 Baltics Men Women Baltics Men Women Part-time Under 30 years old 0 2 Under 30 years old 0 1 Men 7 6 1 30–50 years old 0 10 30–50 years old 0 8 Women 14 0 4 Over 51 years old 0 1 Over 51 years old 0 1 Total 0 13 Total 0 10 THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 40 New employee hires, Berner Group Employee turnover, Berner Group 50 50 40 40 30 30 20 20 10 10 0 0 Under 30 30–50 Over 51 Men Women Under 30 30–50 Over 51 Men Women years old years old years old years old years old years old Number of injuries (short absence) Average training hours / employees Empployee gender and age groups, Berner Group Gender and age Board of Directors Executive Board Clerical Workers Finland (Berner Ltd.) 5 Finland (Berner Ltd.) 9.75 Men 4 8 161 87 Finland (Berner Chemicals Ltd.) 2 Finland (Berner Chemicals Ltd.) 0 Women 1 2 225 54 Sweden 0 Sweden 40 Under 30 years old 0 0 32 18 Baltics 0 Baltics 0 30–50 years old 2 8 225 71 Over 51 years old 3 2 129 52 Share of employees covered by Performance evaluation and development Sick leave absence rate collective bargaining agreements discussions, % of employees Finland (Berner Oy) 2.66% Finland 100% Finland Not reportable Finland (Berner Chemicals Ltd.) 12.70% Sweden 100% Sweden 100% Sweden 0.60% Baltics 0% Baltics (Berner Baltic) 70% Baltics (Berner Baltic) 2.76% THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 41 WE ENSURE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF OUR PRODUCTS Ensuring the quality and safety of our products is of paramount importance to us. We take a systematic and long-term approach to ensuring and developing the responsibility of our supply chain, raw materials and packaging. Promoting the circular economy is one of our major objectives. The key UN Sustainable Development Goals that we promote THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 42 PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY in accordance with customer needs. In product design, we focus Complaints and product recalls are logged and investigated as Target 2020–2022 Results in 2019 particularly on the functionality and effectiveness of our prodnecessary. The complaint handling process has been developed Zero recalls of products One: recall of ethanol delivered ucts as well as environmental and safety aspects. This ensures at the company level and the plans are for the implementation to manufactured by Berner. in a transport container due to the safety of our products during their use by the customer and begin in April 2020 after the new ERP system has been deployed. detergent residue. during our production processes. The product recall process will also be reviewed after the deployThe responsibility for product quality and safety lies with the ment of the new ERP system. We aim to have the new process The quality and safety of our products is of paramount imporSupply Chain Director, the Quality and Environmental Manager, tested by late 2020. tance to us. Our operations are certified pursuant to the ISO 9001 laboratory managers, product development managers and We did not receive any complaints from the authorities quality management certificate, the ISO 14001 environmental product development chemists. regarding products manufactured by us in 2019. We will develop management certificate, the ISO 22716 certificate regarding the the transparency of our internal reporting pertaining to products manufacture and storage of cosmetics and hygiene products 2019 from our principals. (GMP, Good Manufacturing Practices), and a third-party assured In 2019, we significantly increased our production volume withWe monitor the number of complaints regarding irritation ISO 13485 quality system required for the manufacture of healthout compromising on the quality of our products. caused by our cosmetics products. We react to deviations care equipment. We have evaluated the products and the raw materials used immediately in order to ensure a high level of product safety and Our laboratories in Herttoniemi and Heinävesi are GLP certiin them in the selection and development stages based on their customer satisfaction. fied by the Finnish Medicines Agency. Defined by the OECD, GLP environmental and safety-related attributes. The principle is to We did not receive any complaints from the authorities regard(Good Laboratory Practice) is intended to produce reliable and choose product and production alternatives that minimize the ing the labelling of products manufactured by us in 2019. In our sufficiently high-quality laboratory testing for purposes such as negative impacts on the environment and maximize the safety production operations in Heinävesi, the authorities observed inuse by the public authorities. of processes and users. We will develop the transparency of our sufficiencies in the labelling of chemicals during inspections and Our products are developed at our product development laboperations in this respect during the coming years by adopting audits. We have taken corrective measures regarding the matter. oratory in Helsinki and manufactured in Heinävesi in close coopnew performance indicators. In the area of chemical safety in processes, we focus on sufficient eration with our quality assurance team. Berner has a 14-person We had to carry out one product recall in 2019 for a product labelling and marking of chemicals on production lines and team in charge of research and development and a six-person manufactured by us. The reason for the recall was the detection containers. We emphasize the importance of safety observations team responsible for quality assurance. We develop our products of detergent residue in ethanol delivered in a transport container. in ensuring a safe environment. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN Developing the assurance of responsible supply chain at the Some of our suppliers in high-risk countries are in possesTarget 2020–2022 Results in 2019 Berner level will be one of the most important focus areas of sion of currently valid social responsibility certificates or audit The social responsibility of Decision taken to join Amfori our responsibility efforts in the coming years. As a conglomdocuments. Next year, we will systematically survey the current products manufactured in BSCI in 2020. Some of our erate that operates in several sectors, we import products situation pertaining to social responsibility for all of our suppliers high-risk countries is ensured suppliers in Amfori BSCI highby third-party audits. risk countries are in possession and raw materials from abroad and engage in international in high-risk countries and initiate audits in accordance with an of a currently valid auditing contract manufacturing in addition to our own strong domestic audit plan. We will also develop our reporting with regard to document or certificate production activities. responsible purchasing. concerning responsible purchasing. Our responsible purchasing is based on our Supplier Code of Conduct. The Supplier Code of Conduct covers topics including We take social and We will report on this for the human rights, non-discrimination, working hours and wages, environmental responsibility first time in our reporting on freedom of association and the prohibition of the use of child into account in the selection of 2020. new suppliers. labor and forced labor. We require our suppliers to commit to compliance with our Code of Conduct. 100% of our suppliers have We will report on the number Our target is to have 100% of our suppliers sign the Supplier signed the Supplier Code of of signed agreements for the Conduct. first time in our reporting on Code of Conduct by the end of 2022. The new ERP system we will 2020, enabled by our new ERP deploy in 2020 will enable us to monitor the number of signed system. agreements much more effectively than in 2019. We continuously develop our We began the development of We began the development of our principles for ensuring responrisk management related to our principles for responsible sible supply chain in 2019. We also took the decision to join Amfori responsible supply chain. supply chain 2019. BSCI in 2020. We will continue our development efforts next year. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 44 SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING We aim to develop the responsibility of our packaging by using rePackaging manufactured from recycled materials representTarget 2020–2025 Results in 2019 cyclable materials, increasing the use of recycled and renewable ed 2% of the total last year. Our target is to increase their share All of the plastic packaging 95% mono-material (PE, PP or materials and reducing the amount of packaging materials used. to 50% by 2025. in our own production will be PET) at the end of 2019. We strive to minimize the use of packaging materials and we aim A further goal is to replace packaging made from virgin recyclable by 2025. to use mono-material plastic packaging. plastic with packaging made from renewable materials where 50% of our products 2% produced from recycled Our packaging development efforts are guided by EU and possible. We actively test packaging alternatives that can manufactured in-house will be plastic at the end of 2019. national legislation as well as our environmental program. The replace virgin plastic produced from fossil materials. The packaged in recycled materials by 2025. Packaging Development Manager is in charge of the developplans for achieving these targets will be specified further in the ment of packaging for our products manufactured in-house. spring 2020. We will reduce the amount of We will report on this for the In 2019, we started to add plastic material indications and plastic used in the packaging first time in our reporting on of our products manufactured 2020. Results in 2019 recycling instructions to the labels of our product packaging. in-house by 10% by 2025, In 2019, 95% of the plastic packaging used for the products we We will continue to add recycling instructions to product labels compared to 2019. manufactured at Heinävesi was recyclable. All of the cardboard, in 2020 when new products are launched and product labels 10% of the products we We will report on this for the metal and glass packaging of our products manufactured are replaced. manufacture in-house will use first time in our reporting on in-house is already recyclable. All of our plastic packaging can In our contract-manufactured GreenCare products, the use packaging that is bio-based or 2020. be sorted as plastic waste. Some 5% of our plastic packaging of recycled plastic and the optimization of packaging reduced otherwise reduces the use of consists of multiple plastics, which means that they cannot be rethe need for virgin plastic by approximately 35,000 kg in 2019. fossil virgin plastic by 2025. cycled in mechanical plastic recycling. Nevertheless, this plastic packaging can be recovered as energy. Our goal for 2025 is that all of the packaging materials used in our products manufactured in-house are recyclable or reusable. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 45 RESPONSIBLE RAW MATERIALS In our own production, we always try to choose raw material Target 2020–2022 Results in 2019 alternatives that are better for the environment, such as raw We will transition to using 100% certified mass balance RSPO We will report on this for the first time in our reporting on materials with fewer environmental classifications. We also take palm oil products, or corresponding products, in our own 2020. the biodegradability of raw materials into consideration. We aim production activities. The interim target is 90% in 2020. to take into use new biodegradable raw materials and replace We will increase the proportion of renewable raw materials The proportion of renewable raw materials in our Nordic Swan current raw materials with biodegradable raw materials. We to 30% in our Nordic Swan Ecolabel certified products Ecolabel certified products was 25% at the end of 2019. apply specific restrictions to UV protectants and fragrances. manufactured in-house. The interim target is 27% in 2020. In 2019, we eliminated the environmentally harmful cyclopenWe emphasize biodegradability in new raw materials used in We will report on this for the first time in our reporting on tasiloxane and microplastics from all of our roll-on deodorant our in-house manufacturing and we will increase the number of 2020. products manufactured in-house. Although the law only requires biodegradable raw materials each year. the removal of cyclopentasiloxane and microplastics from We aim to increase the number of in-house manufactured No new environmentally certified in-house manufactured washable products, we wanted to implement the same change to environmentally certified products by six. products in 2019. products that are applied on the skin and not rinsed off. All of the Recycled by-products will amount to 120,000 metric tons in Recycled by-products amounted to 8,500 metric tons. products we manufacture in-house do not contain microplastics. 2023. Our environmental certification requirements guide the raw material choices of our environmentally certified products. In GreenCare will use 100% plant-based raw materials. Approximately 98% of the raw materials used in GreenCare products do not contain animal-based materials. 2019, we had 30 in-house manufactured products on sale that are Nordic Swan Ecolabel certified. We aim to prioritize raw materials manufactured in Finland, the Nordic region and Europe. In our XZ products, for example, we have used Finnish extracts for more than 20 years. While we do not purchase palm oil as a raw material in its unprocessed form, palm oil is used in the manufacturing of certain raw materials used in cosmetics. We purchase all of our palm oil-based raw materials from a raw material supplier that is THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 46 a member of RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil). RSPO develops principles for sustainable palm oil production. Our tarNew circular economy solutions get is that, by 2022, all of the palm oil-based raw materials used in our in-house production activities will be 100% certified mass in agriculture balance RSPO palm oil products or corresponding products. Promoting the circular economy is also prominent in agriculture. Mass Balance means that part of the palm oil is non-certified. We In 2019, we introduced two new circular economy solutions to the use raw materials that have palm oil compounds as their primary market in our role as distributor to improve the reuse of nutrients materials and, unfortunately, the majority of these raw materials as fertilizer: The NK 26-2 fertilizer by the Finnish company BioA are not yet available in Identity Preserved form, which refers to and the DeltaLent Active fertilizer from Germany. 100% traceable and certified palm oil. Our product development chemists, product developers and BioA recycled fertilizer is based on by-products that cannot be product development managers are in charge of the responsibiliused in industry. BioA’s recycled fertilizer conserves energy and ty of the raw materials used in our own production activities. natural resources, enriches the soil and helps plants make better Our Nokian Footwear contract-manufactured products are priuse of the nutrients contained in soil. The BioA fertilizer producmarily made using natural rubber mixtures from rubber harvesttion plant in Kotka opened in April. ed from cultivated rubber trees. The natural rubber used by our contract manufacturers is sourced from Vietnam. We continually DeltaLent helps enhance the use of nutrients from liquid manure strive to develop and deepen our knowledge about the origins of and significantly reduce the negative environmental impact of the our raw materials and the transparency of information. use of manure. This reduces the need for additional fertilizer use We have increased the use of recycled raw materials in the producand improves crop yields. tion of our GreenCare products. The raw materials used in GreenCare products are nearly 100% plant-based and the aim is to make GreenBerner has been involved in the development of Finnish agriculture Care a completely plant-based brand within the coming years. for 100 years. Now, we want to play a strong role in promoting cirThe circular economy is of growing importance in Berner’s cular economy solutions in agriculture. We surveyed the views of operations. In 2019, recycled by-products totaled 8,500 metric farms regarding the use of circular economy products in the sumtons. By-products are generated in the animal feed, food and forest mer 2018. The study we commissioned from Kantar TNS showed industries, for example, and their uses include fertilizers and biothat more than half of the surveyed farmers were interested in the gas production. The production of GreenCare Ympäristön Ystävä use of recycled nutrients. makes use of food industry by-products. The fertilizer recycles by-products back into the soil and sequesters carbon. Berner’s circular economy target for 2023 is 120,000 metric tons. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 47 CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS A better tomorrow starts from respecting the environment and the climate. We develop our operations to reduce our climate impacts and increase the energy and material efficiency of our production and logistics. Let’s take care of nature. The key UN Sustainable Development Goals that we promote THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 48 WE REDUCE OUR CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Energy efficiency and emissions Our efforts to improve energy efficiency and reduce emissions Target 2020–2022 Results in 2019 are primarily guided by our environmental policy. The individuals We will increase our energy efficiency. We will join the Motiva energy Our energy consumption grew by 5.5 percent year-on-year in 2019 due in charge of managing energy efficiency are the Supply Chain efficiency agreement in 2020. We will set a quantitative target in to an increase in production volumes. Director, the Plant Manager for the Heinävesi plant, the Head of 2020. Logistics and the Quality and Environmental Manager. We will reduce our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. 2019 was our first full year of using green electricity generated by We will reduce the VOC emissions of vinegar production. We will set wind power in our Finnish operations. By switching to wind power, we Achievements in 2019 and our targets quantitative targets in 2020. reduced the carbon dioxide emissions of our operations in Finland by The year 2019 was our first full year of using green electricity 894 metric tons compared to 2018. generated by wind power in our Finnish operations. Thanks to We will explore opportunities to replace the oil-fired boiler at the Renewable energy accounts for 87.3% of the total energy consumption the use of wind power, our CO2 emissions were reduced by 894.3 Heinävesi plant with renewable energy to achieve carbon neutrality at the H1 plant and 97.9% at the H2 plant. metric tons (CO2-eq.) compared to 2018. We will set quantitative in the energy consumption of our in-house production operations. targets for the reduction of our greenhouse gas emissions in We aim to increase the size of our gas and/or biodiesel-powered We will report on this for the first time in our reporting on 2020. 2020. We will also explore opportunities to reduce VOC emisfleet in our transport operations related to our own production and sions in vinegar production. contract manufacturing. Renewable energy accounted for 71.1% of the energy These targets apply to Berner Ltd’s operations in Finland and our own production activities in particular. We aim to expand our targets and reporting to cover the consumption of our operations in Finland in 2019, compared to entire Group more comprehensively in 2020–2021. 36.7% in 2018. We will also set quantitative targets for our energy efficiency in 2020. In the area of transport, we will explore opportunities to increase the share of renewable energy sources in transport services. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 Energy consumption, MWh, Berner Ltd, all operations in Finland Other airborne emissions, metric tons, production plants in Renewable and non-renewable energy, MWh, Heinävesi Berner Ltd, all operations in Finland 2019 2018 Electricity 2,502.3 2,286.9 2019 2018 71.1% 6,000 VOC, metric tons 3.623 3.758 63.3% District heating 5,660.6 5,493.2 5,000 Fuel oil 189.0 109.0 Pesticide packaging operations have been downscaled significantly. 4,000 Total MWh 8,352.0 7,881.2 36.7% 3,000 28.9% 2,000 Energy consumption increased due to higher production volumes. We are Emissions from the in-house energy production of the plants in currently unable to report separately on the energy consumption of cooling. Heinävesi (other than CO2), kg 1,000 Instead, it is included in other uses of energy. Steam is not available at our 0 production plants. 2019 2018 Renewable Non-renewable Renewable Non-renewable energy energy energy energy VOC 3.45 4.16 2019 2019 2018 2018 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2), NO2 17.24 20.77 metric tons of CO2-eq., production plants in Heinävesi SO2 0.24 0.29 2019 2018 For electricity, the emission calculations are based on information provided Scope 1 by Motiva. District heating has, with the exception of our head office, been calculated using the emission factors provided by the local district heating H1 plant 34.0 35.6 company. For Opus, we have used Helen’s average emission factor for district H2 plant 0.2 16.2 heating because more accurate information was not available. Emission factors determined for fuels by Statistics Finland have also been used in the Scope 2 calculation of bio-based values where necessary. District heating 524.8 545.7 CO2 savings from wood chips 265.9 233.4 Scope 1 emissions arise from in-house energy production at the H1 plant and the use of auxiliary power at the H2 plant. In 2019, auxiliary power was needed at the H2 plant only for test runs. Scope 2 emissions arise from purchased electricity and district heating. The purchased electricity in all of the company’s operations in Finland was 100% renewable wind power with zero CO2 emissions. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 50 Material efficiency Target 2020–2022 Results in 2019 We aim to reduce our environmental impacts by developing our We will also explore opportunities for the reuse of ethanol-based material efficiency in our production operations in Heinävesi. We products and its impact on costs. We will monitor and strive to We developed our RINKI produced some 14.83 million products in Heinävesi last year. We The production volumes of our Heinävesi plants increased enhance the material efficiency reporting related to the also produce bulk vinegar. by almost 20%. Relative water consumption remained largely of our in-house production. producer responsibility for materials. We achieved good Our material efficiency is guided by our environmental unchanged in spite of the higher production volumes. results in a RINKI audit that policy. Berner’s Supply Chain Director is responsible for the The water used at our production facilities in Heinävesi is verified the quality of the data management of material efficiency. In 2020, we will establish a groundwater that is filtered through calcareous gravel for pH provided by us. working group focused on the management of Berner’s material regulation and channelled through a UV filter before use. Water We will enhance the use of We will report on this for the efficiency. quality is monitored by means of samples taken by the company washing water by adopting new first time in our reporting on as well as the municipality. washing practices and reducing 2020. the volume of waste water as Achievements in 2019 and our targets Our production facilities in Heinävesi are not located in a well as the amount of waste Our goal is to continuously improve our material efficiency. We groundwater area. Most of the water intake at the production sent to the hazardous waste aim to avoid material waste by evaluating our material balances plant is used for production. Water is also used for washing treatment plant. more effectively than before. production lines, containers and pipe systems and, in small We will explore opportunities to We will report on this for the We will enhance our pallet management. Based on the RINKI amounts, for cooling. The H2 plant uses a closed circulation reuse ethanol-based products. first time in our reporting on reporting for 2019, we will determine the necessary corrective cooling system. 2020. measures to increase awareness and identify cost-efficient The cleaning of the equipment and facilities generates waste operating methods. water, which is sent to a water treatment plant operated by the We aim to reduce the share of water in hazardous waste, which municipality of Heinävesi. The company has signed an industrial will influence the volume of waste generated and reduce the waste water agreement with the municipality of Heinävesi. The environmental impacts of transport. Reducing the share of water agreement sets out boundary values for the composition and will also make the waste more suitable for energy recovery. quantity of water sent to the treatment plant. From the enviWe aim to reduce the amount of waste water by means of CIP ronmental perspective, the most significant variable monitored washers, for example. CIP washers will be built at the H1 plant in in waste water is its chemical oxygen demand (CODCr). Daily 2020, which will make it possible to optimize washing water volsamples are taken from waste water and the quantity of emisumes for each production line and recipe, leading to a reduction sions is monitored at the monthly level by an external accredited in the amount of waste water generated. laboratory. There were no instances of the permitted COD levels We will re-evaluate our waste streams and explore recycling being exceeded in 2019. opportunities together with our waste management partners. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 51 Water consumption and waste water, m3, plant H1 and H2 Waste water volume relative to production volume Raw materials, kg Water consumption 2019 2018 2019 2018 Renewable virgin 2019 H1 plant 11,221 7,979 H1 plant 0.45 0.45 H1 plant 148,093 H2 plant 7,869 7,143 H2 plant 0.26 0.27 H2 plant 604,742 Total 19,090 15,122 Total 752,835 Waste water Waste, metric tons Non-renewable virgin H1 plant 1,354 1,158 H1 plant 750,752 2019 H2 plant 2,205 1,889 Amount of normal waste, t 89.1 H2 plant 2,968,742 Total 3,559 3,047 Amount of hazardous waste, t 418.7 Total 3,719,494 Total amount of waste, t 507.7 Water consumption relative to production volume Waste recovery rate (%) Percentage share of renewable raw materials 2019 2018 Material recovery 9.4 2019 H1 plant 3.75 2.9 Energy recovery 88.0 H1 plant 16.48 H2 plant 0.93 1.01 Reuse 2.6 H2 plant 16.92 Total 752,835 We developed our reporting on renewable raw materials in 2019. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 52 WE CREATE VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS As a responsible family company, we want to build an even better tomorrow for the current and future generations. That is why we make sure to create value and growth everywhere we operate. The key UN Sustainable Development Goals that we promote THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 WE CREATE VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS Local tax footprint Last year, we also supported sports, well-being and environmenTarget 2020–2022 Results in 2019 Berner’s operations generate economic well-being for several tal protection through different donations and partnerships. The We strive for stable, 5–10 In 2019, consolidated turnover stakeholders. It is a matter of honor for us to invest in and pay end of last year saw the launch of an extensive UNICEF project percent annual growth decreased by a total of 3.8 our taxes in our local countries of operations. Throughout its spanning several years in which Berner is included. Berner and of turnover and net profit. percent to MEUR 303.9. Operating profit decreased by existence, Berner has focused on investments in its home market four other Finnish entrepreneur families support UNICEF’s three0.2 percent. in addition to international growth. Our operations generate ecoyear initiative to reduce maternal mortality and child mortality in nomic well-being for several stakeholders. Suppliers, personnel, Rwanda through their BF&HAPPY project. In Rwanda, 32 children shareholders, and society all receive their share of the cash flow out of a thousand still decease before their first birthday. In FinSolvency and profitable growth from Berner’s business operations. land, the corresponding figure is below 2. In a global world, also The emphasis of our economic responsibility is on strong solvenresponsibilities are global. cy and profitable growth. Strong solvency and profitable growth GreenCare continued the cooperation between the Ympäristön enable long-term commitment to staff well-being and social Division of economic value and tax footprint (EUR 1,000) Ystävä fertilizer and the Baltic Sea Action Group, with a portion welfare through taxes, among other things. Parent company Group of each unit sold donated to support the protection of the Baltic In 2019, consolidated turnover decreased by a total of 3.8 perTurnover, other operating 227,573 306,480 Sea. We also used the money reserved for Christmas cards and cent to MEUR 303.9 (MEUR 315.9). The most significant factor income and financial income gifts to support the operations of BSAG. Last year, Clarins, whose behind the decrease in revenue was a reduction in the sales of Suppliers: Materials and services 151,002 214,939 products we import, participated in an international charity crop protection substances in the Baltic countries. The Group’s campaign of FEED and Clarins for the second time. Other partners: Other operating 39,268 45,626 solvency and liquidity remained at an excellent level in 2019. expenses and investments A total of 9,500 school meals were donated to the FEED program The equity ratio was 76.3 percent (73.8 percent). Return on from Finland as part of the campaign. Clarins has been partnerStaff: Salaries and fees 20,377 25,882 invested capital was 12.3 percent (11.7 percent). ing with the social charity FEED since 2011, playing an Shareholders and financiers: 6,031 6,156 important role in funding more than 27 million school meals for Dividends and financial costs children. Society: Income taxes, value 39,558 54,405 added taxes, other taxes, pensions and social security costs THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 54 Production in Finland At the end of 2019, we employed 53 people at our Heinävesi production plants, making us the largest industrial employer of the municipality. At Berner, we place a high value on keeping production in Finnish hands and having the ability to employ people both directly and indirectly, also in smaller towns. The production volumes in Heinävesi increased by almost 20 percent from 2018, and we also hired more employees. We kept our production running around the clock during the peak demand period for products that suit the Curly Girl hairstyling method. The planned summer shutdown had to be cancelled and the production plant continued to operate throughout the summer. Our research and development team based at our head office in Herttoniemi developed nearly 50 new products for our own production in Heinävesi. In 2019, our R&D department employed 14 people and the quality assurance in Heinävesi employed five people permanently. In Heinävesi, we manufacture cosmetics and hygiene products, car care products, crop protection products, washing agents and cleansers and vinegar products. Our best-known brands include XZ, LV, Herbina, Ainu, Oxygenol, Tummeli, Lasol, Korrek, Heti and the Rajamäen product family. Our operations are certified under the ISO 9001 quality management certificate, the ISO 14001 environmental management certificate and the ISO 22716 certificate regarding the manufacture and storage of cosmetics and hygiene products. We want to offer Finns only the best, and keeping this promise requires that we monitor the quality of our products from product development all the way to the consumer. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 55 GRI INDEX GRI 102: General disclosure Page Comments / Additional information UNGC principle Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization 4 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4 102-3 Location of headquarters 4 102-4 Location of operations 4 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4 102-6 Markets served 16–26 102-7 Scale of the organization 4, 6, 51, 64, 70–71 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 40–41 Work conducted mainly by own employees. No big seasonal variations. 6 Information from local HR systems. 102-9 Supply chain 16–26 Reported partly. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No significant changes. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 43 102-12 External initiatives 30–31 102-13 Membership of associations 34 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 7–8 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 30–55 THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 56 GRI 102: General disclosure Page Comments / Additional information UNGC principle Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 11 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 33 1–5 Governance structure 102-18 Governance structure Not reported. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 34 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 41 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholders have an impact on us and we have an impact on them. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 33–34 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 33–34 Not reported by stakeholder groups. Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Berner Ltd., Berner Chemicals Ltd., Bröderna Berner, Berner Eesti, Ordior Eesti, Berner Lietuva. 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 30 Reported partly. 102-47 List of material topics 29 102-48 Restatements of information First report. 102-49 Changes in reporting First report. 102-50 Reporting period 61 102-51 Date of most recent report First report. 102-52 Reporting cycle 61 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 61 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 61 102-55 GRI content index 56–60 102-56 External assurance 61 THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57 GRI 103: Management approach Page Comments / Additional information UNGC principle 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 32–55 103-2 The management approach and its components 32–55 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32–55 Economic standards GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 63–71 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No cases in 2019. 10 GRI 206: Anti-copetitive behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, No cases in 2019. 10 and monopoly practice Environmental standards GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 52 Reported partly. 7, 8 GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 50 7, 8 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 51 Reported partly. 8 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 51 Reported partly. 8 303-5 Water consumption 52 Water consumption reported. 8 GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 50 Reported partly. 7 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 50 Reported partly. 7 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 49 Reported partly. 8 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions 50 Reported partly. 7 THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 58 GRI 307: Environmental compliance Page Comments / Additional information UNGC principle 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No violations in 2019. Social standards GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 40 Numbers reported. GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 36 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 36 403-3 Occupational health services 36–37 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational Healthy at work surveys conducted every 3 years include questions on health and safety health, safety and work. 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety We organise first aid trainings. 403-6 Promotion of worker health Supporting worker health is included in HR processes, whose tools supervisors can use. 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly The coverage of occupational health care services (e.g. vaccinations linked by business relationships and salmonella testings) has been clarified in certain roles due to the demands of business relationships and clients. 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 36–37 403-9 Work-related injuries 41 Reported partly. 403-10 Work-related ill health 36–37 No fatalities. Reported partly. GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 41 Reported partly. 6 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 38–39 6 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 41 Reported partly. 6 development reviews THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59 GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity Page Comments / Additional information UNGC principle 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 41 6 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No cases in Grpup in 2019. 1, 6 GRI 416: Customer health and safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of No violations in own production in 2019. products and services GRI 417: Marketing and labelling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications No violations in 2019. GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area No violations in 2019. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 60 REPORTING PRINCIPLES This is the first sustainability report of Berner Ltd. based on Global Reporting Initiative sustainability reporting framework. The report complies with part of the requirements for the core reporting option. Reporting period is 1.1.31.12.2019. We will report about our sustainability annually in the future. Ou reporting for environmental standards covers our operations in Finland of Berner Ltd. For social standards, we are are reporting about our achievements also regarding Finnish operations of Berner Ltd. but the personnel figures cover the whole Berner Group and all the operating countries. Our aim is to expand our reporting and include in it also other Berner Group companies more extensively in the future. The report has not been externally assured. The comparison of our reporting between the GRI Standards requirements is reported in the GRI index. We have also marked in the index what disclosures we have used to describe our progress in complying with the UNGC principles concerning human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Contact for additional information: Maria Nymander, Communications and Corporate Responsibility Manager, Maria Nymander, maria.nymander@berner.fi THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 61 Financial statements THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 62 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In 2019, consolidated turnover decreased by a total of 3.8 percent to MEUR 303.9 (MEUR 315.9 in 2018). Consolidated profit was MEUR 15.6 (MEUR 15.6). Total profit for 2019 was 5.1 percent of turnover (4.9 percent). As a Finnish family company, Berner aims at balanced long-term operation and steady growth. The Group’s solvency and liquidity remained at an excellent level in 2019. The equity ratio was 76.3 percent (73.8 percent). Return on invested capital was 12.3 percent (11.7 percent). In 2019, the Group had an average of 510 employees (495), of whom 49 worked in Sweden (49) and 69 in the Baltic countries (74). In 2019, Berner Ltd had 376 employees, of whom 247 received a share of the profit. The share of profit paid based on the result for 2019 was, on average, 5.2 percent of the annual income of each employee entitled to this share. THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63 Key indicators Turnover, meur Operating profit, meur Personnel (average) Structure of holdings, meur 350 20 600 200 180 300 500 16 160 250 140 400 12 120 200 300 100 150 8 80 200 60 100 4 100 40 50 20 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Liquid assets Investments Receivables Tangible goods Floating assets Intangible goods Return on invested capital, % Equity ratio, % Investments, meur Structure of capital, meur 20 80 10 200 180 70 16 8 160 60 140 12 50 6 120 40 100 8 30 4 80 60 20 4 2 40 10 20 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Current liabilities Non-current liabilities Equity capital THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 64 Income statement GROUP PARENT COMPANY 1.1–31.12.2019 1.1.–31.12.2018 1.1.–31.12.2019 1.1.–31.12.2018 Turnover 303,879,627.27 315,941,034.29 219,244,742.44 223,152,882.67 Variation in stocks of finished and semifinished goods 325,421.82 -818,549.24 330,021.82 -818,549.24 Other operating income 1,735,014.49 580,730.41 1,928,333.27 1,443,691.79 Materials and services Raw materials and consumables Purchases during the financial year -210,154,858.66 -229,976,886.86 -147,309,278.32 -160,592,118.72 Variation in stocks -2,531,554.35 5,707,983.47 -1,827,606.48 6,712,867.03 External services -2,491,728.87 -2,722,569.69 -2,195,372.10 -2,500,689.40 -215,178,141.88 -226,991,473.08 -151,332,256.90 -156,379,941.09 Employee expenses Wages and salaries -25,882,365.24 -24,109,606.77 -20,376,714.60 -18,936,971.48 Social security costs Pension costs -4,601,783.34 -4,309,763.83 -3,614,281.69 -3,490,799.66 Other social security costs -2,015,648.16 -1,974,828.61 -628,426.48 -677,683.04 -32,499,796.74 -30,394,199.21 -24,619,422.77 -23,105,454.18 Depreciation, amortization and impairment Depreciation according to plan -4,498,385.84 -5,210,590.81 -4,048,791.29 -4,509,535.99 Other operating expenses -38,211,876.59 -37,516,123.00 -33,391,885.12 -33,430,577.75 THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65 GROUP PARENT COMPANY 1.1–31.12.2019 1.1.–31.12.2018 1.1.–31.12.2019 1.1.–31.12.2018 Operating profit 15,551,862.53, 15,590,829.36, 8,110,741.45, 6,352,516.21, Financial income and expenses Income from other investments of non-current assets From Group companies 5,481,160.87 5,610,206.71 From others 0.00 74,546.60 0.00 74,546.60 Other interest and financial income From Group companies 202,764.95 214,529.27 From others 865,314.69 1,016,573.73 715,860.95 831,968.29 Impairment of investments held as 970,140.52 -948,371.89 970,140.52 -948,371.89 current assets Interest and other financing expenses To Group companies 0.00 0.00 To others -351,457.04 -321,643.64 -227,092.38 -228,524.90 1,483,998.17 -178,895.20 7,142,834.91 5,554,354.08 THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 66 GROUP PARENT COMPANY 1.1–31.12.2019 1.1.–31.12.2018 1.1.–31.12.2019 1.1.–31.12.2018 Profit before appropriations and taxes 17,035,860.70 15,411,934.16 15,253,576.36 11,906,870.29 Appropriations Difference between depreciation 98,620.22 134,388.47 according to plan and depreciation in taxation Income taxes For the financial year -3,464,687.59 -3,279,016.22 -1,798,284.76 -1,497,749.79 For previous financial years -100.00 -9,308.70 -100.00 -9,308.70 Deferred taxes -69,398.96 -51,053.01 -3,534,186.55 -3,339,377.93 -1,798,384.76 -1,507,058.49 Profit for the financial year 13,501,674.15 12,072,556.23 13,553,811.82 10,534,200.27 Minority share of the profit 287,752.94 145,077.35 Consolidated profit in the financial year 13,789,427.09 12,217,633.58 THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67 Balance sheet GROUP PARENT COMPANY 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets Intangible rights 644,220.73 537,778.70 307,476.00 520,197.96 Goodwill 3,458,713.67 5,197,107.45 3,397,150.90 5,018,947.24 Other long-term expenditures 2,768,052.25 3,475,808.06 2,646,560.59 3,226,316.40 Advance payments 3,929,409.32 1,664,342.50 3,929,409.32 1,664,342.50 10,800,395.97 10,875,036.71 10,280,596.81 10,429,804.10 Tangible assets Buildings and structures 2,102,087.44 2,276,810.69 2,102,087.44 2,276,810.69 Machinery and equipment 8,751,010.23 8,379,793.71 6,569,942.06 6,767,282.49 Advance payments 928,541.91 217,501.87 267,629.51 9,717.74 11,781,639.58 10,874,106.27 8,939,659.01 9,053,810.92 Investments Shares in Group companies 6,575,516.98 6,565,470.26 Shares in associated companies 2,005,292.07 5,045.64 2,005,292.07 5,045.64 Other shares 1,187,745.15 1,238,654.06 1,187,745.15 1,238,654.06 3,193,037.22 1,243,699.70 9,768,554.20 7,809,169.96 THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 68 GROUP PARENT COMPANY 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Current assets Inventories Raw materials and consumables 5,376,978.48 5,027,658.48 4,939,662.03 4,536,658.48 Semifinished products 439,311.85 436,159.13 439,311.85 436,159.13 Finished goods 51,034,534.36 52,929,351.14 32,473,706.17 34,377,447.10 56,850,824.69 58,393,168.75 37,852,680.05 39,350,264.71 Receivables Long-term Receivables from Group companies 240,000.00 0.00 Other receivables 163,639.97 4,482.81 2,117.65 4,482.81 Loan receivables 200,000.00 200,000.00 200,000.00 200,000.00 363,639.97 204,482.81 442,117.65 204,482.81 Short-term Accounts receivables 39,157,774.96 48,071,847.87 17,253,964.63 18,761,654.14 Receivables from Group companies 1,646,639.94 1,658,834.26 Loan receivables 100,000.00 0.00 Other receivables 3,291,090.48 4,673,111.33 2,077,993.04 3,563,069.35 Accrued income 1,470,425.67 1,584,264.26 800,698.02 993,220.09 43,919,291.11 54,329,223.46 21,879,295.63 24,976,777.84 Investments Other investments 23,707,885.49 20,882,916.21 23,707,885.49 20,882,916.21 Cash and cash equivalents 37,700,053.74 29,968,312.06 22,483,570.28 19,699,397.13 188,316,767.77 186,770,945.97 135,354,359.12 132,406,623.68 THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69 GROUP PARENT COMPANY 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 1,000,000.00 1,000,000.00 1,000,000.00 1,000,000.00 Legal reserve 207,755.40 208,472.28 168,187.93 168,187.93 Retained earnings 126,100,560.58 121,452,219.56 76,818,302.85 73,058,402.60 Profit for the financial year 13,789,427.10 12,217,633.58 13,553,811.82 10,534,200.27 141,097,743.08 134,878,325.42 91,540,302.60 84,760,790.80 Appropriations Depreciation reserve 6,262,972.82 6,361,593.04 188,316,767.77 186,770,945.97 135,354,359.12 132,406,623.68 Minority share of the profit 0.00 254,902.65 THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 70 GROUP PARENT COMPANY 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 LIABILITIES Long-term Capital loans 150,000.00 0.00 Loans from financial institutions 1,711,111.10 1,091,000.00 Deferred tax liability 0.00 4,011,745.45 Other payables 4,078,567.85 50,000.00 0.00 50,000.00 5,939,678.95 5,152,745.45 0.00 50,000.00 Short-term Loans from financial institutions 928,579.10 0.00 Advance payments 3,419,105.19 3,692,471.46 3,407,667.99 3,692,407.46 Accounts payables 21,680,166.24 26,759,487.24 16,444,266.84 21,149,526.86 Liabilities to Group companies 6,531,963.10 3,991,723.11 Other payables 5,946,467.70 7,007,445.15 4,610,590.20 5,779,654.24 Accruals and deferred income 9,305,027.51 9,025,568.60 6,556,595.57 6,620,928.17 41,279,345.74 46,484,972.45 37,551,083.70 41,234,239.84 188,316,767.77 186,770,945.97 135,354,359.12 132,406,623.68 THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71 Board of Directors From left: • Hannes Berner, Chairman of the Board, b. 1953, Master of Economics • Ove Uljas, Member of the Board, b. 1966, Master of Economics • Heli Arantola, Member of the Board, b. 1969, Dr. Economic Sciences • Antti Korpiniemi, CEO, b. 1961, MS Agriculture and Forestry, BS Agriculture, eMBA • Edvard Björkenheim, Member of the Board, b. 1970, Master of Economics • Nicolas Berner, CFO, Member of the Board, b. 1972, LLB THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 72 Executive Board Standing from left to right: • Pauliina Bovellán, Director, Business Unit Pro, b. 1973, Master of Social Sciences • Mika Pirhonen, Director, Business Unit Agency, b. 1970, Master of Engineering • Satu Laakso, Marketing Director, b. 1972, Master of Economics, (as of January 1, 2020) • Kalevi Sevón, Director, Business Unit Consumer Goods, b. 1958, Upper secondary school graduate • Nicolas Berner, CFO, b. 1972, LLB • Kimmo Hakkala, Director, Business Unit Leisure Goods, b. 1971, MS Agriculture and Forestry, BS Agriculture Sitting from left to right: • Tomi Virtanen, Financial Manager, b. 1982, Master of Economics • Juha Starck, Supply Chain Director, b. 1975, MBA • Kalle Erkkola, Director, Business Unit, Farmer’s Berner, b. 1974, MS Agriculture and Forestry, BS Agriculture • Antti Korpiniemi, CEO, b. 1961, MS Agriculture and Forestry, BS Agriculture, eMBA THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 73 BERNER LTD. SUBSIDIARIES Head Office Bröderna Berner Auditor Hitsaajankatu 24 HAB Box Ernst & Young Oy Authorised 00810 Helsinki 50132 Hemsögatan 10 B Public Accountants Switchboard +358 20 791 00 20211 Malmö info@berner.fi Sverige Tel. +46 40 680 6800 Logistics Katriinantie 20 Berner Eesti OÜ PL 64 Ehitajate tee 114, 01530 Vantaa PL 27 13517 Tallinn Estonia Tel. +372 625 7773 Machines Ordior Eesti OÜ Katriinantie 20 Betooni 9, PL 64 50411 Tartu 01530 Vantaa Email: info@ordioreesti.ee Tel/fax: +372 73 07833 Heinävesi factories Yrittäjätie 5 (H1) UAB Berner Lietuva Karpalotie 6 (H2 ja H3) Lakūnųg. 30 79700 Heinävesi LT 09131 Vilnius Lithuania Email addresses Tel. +370 618 40000 firstname.lastname@berner.fi Berner Chemicals Ltd. www.berner.fi Puhdistamontie 9 32800 Kokemäki Finland Tel: + 358 50 66655 THIS IS BERNER BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 74
