UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2020 DATE: 26.06.2020 “For us, sustainability is not a product of chance but the result of conscious decisions and every individual's responsibility. The Kärcher sustainability program 2025 reflects our support for the United Nations Global Compact and our determination for high environmental and social standards, which have always been deeply embedded in our family-owned company. In 2019, we initiated the sustainability 2020+ project to define the Kärcher sustainability program until 2025. To further improve our performance, 130 employees around the world discussed the main action fields of sustainability in workshops. As a result, we introduced the three initiatives “Zero Emissions”, “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” and “Social Hero”. Each of them contributes to the sustainable development goals and our vision of being a benchmark in the sustainable cleaning business.” Hartmut Jenner Chief Executive Officer & Chairman of the Board of Management Alfred Kärcher SE & Co. KG SUPPLIER RISK MANAGEMENT By 2025 a global pro-active supplier risk 1 management will be implemented. We will systematically assess and improve social and environmental impacts of our 1st tier suppliers worldwide. HUMAN RIGHTS Therefore we implement a predictive sustainability risk intelligence from social media data for our 1st tier suppliers as part of our integrated eProcurement solution. Practical actions to implement the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact AUDITS ON WORKING CONDITIONS 2 In 2019 we conducted 185 on-site supplier audits in working conditions worldwide. In addition to that at 237 new suppliers compliance with social and environmental standards were assessed using our online supplier management software. LABOUR By end of 2019 in total 2,128 suppliers have been online analyzed according to compliance with social and environmental standards of the UN Global Compact. Practical actions to implement the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact ZERO PLASTIC WASTE PRODUCTION 3 By 2025 we target a zero plastic waste pilot production at our Headquarters production site in Winnenden (Germany). We analyzed all upstream plastic packaging used ENVIRONMENT from local suppliers and already achieved some significant reductions by using returnable packaging solutions in 2020. Practical actions to implement the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact COMPLIANCE ASSESSMENT By end of 2019 we conducted an overall compliance 4 assessment, including relevance of compliance topics and need for action on compliance issues. The topics of anti-corruption, antitrust and tax law are relevant and are therefore included in the ANTI-CORRUPTION Compliance Program with a corresponding focus. Further steps are the detailed elaboration of the global compliance approach with regard to cooperation, roll-out etc. Practical actions to implement the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact MAKE A DIFFERENCE THANK YOU 7 Alfred Kärcher SE & Co. KG | UNGC CoP 2020 | 2020-06-16
