0 Table of Contents INTRODUCTION 2 COMMITMENT TO UNITED NATION GLOBAL COMPACT 3 COMMITMENT TO POSITIVE IMPACT 4 MANTU 6 Vision and mission 6 Mantu values 6 GOVERNANCE 8 Highest level of commitment 8 Sustainability progress 8 10 Sustainable Development Goals elected 9 Link between SDGs and Mantu 10 CSR APPROACH 11 A Global project 11 Internal control 12 EcoVadis assessment 12 Stakeholders management 13 Risk and crisis management 14 POSITIVE BUSINESS IMPACT 16 TEAMS ENGAGEMENT IN SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS 17 Team engagement through surveys 17 From Amaris Foundation (2016 to 2019) … 18 … to One Small Step 19 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 20 Supplier management 20 LABOR PRINCIPLES 21 Diversity and Inclusion 21 Health and safety 25 Labor laws 26 ESAT/EAT 27 Elise 27 One Small Step: one project 27 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES 28 Environmental Management System 28 Carbon footprint assessment 29 Local consumption 32 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 33 Code of ethics 33 PLANS FOR THE FUTURE 34 Building 2021 Positive Impact Vision 34 APPENDIX – Mantu’s Ecovadis assessment improvement plan 35 REFERENCES 37 1 Introduction Mantu has committed since August 2018 in following the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact: Human Rights P1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; P2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour P3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; P4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; P5: The effective abolition of child labour; P6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment P7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; P8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and P9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption P10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. This communication on progress presents Mantu's objectives and actions in terms of sustainable development and positive impact. It presents the results of the 2020 vision as part of Mantu's commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals. 2 Commitment to United Nation Global Compact Two years ago, the Amaris group undertook a huge transformation. The birth of Mantu marked a turning point in the group's history. This reinvention is part of a real change in the world in which the group is evolving. Today, businesses can no longer choose to ignore their environment. Environmental issues must be at the forefront of action in all parts of society. Today, I wish to reaffirm Mantu's commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. Mantu is working to implement policies and concrete actions to support the ten principles of the Global Compact as well as to strengthen our impact in support of the Sustainable Development Goals. We are no longer in the age of rhetoric. Today and more than ever, we must act. And that's what we do and will continue to do every day. The publication of this Communication on Progress is a key step in the goal of transparency that we are pursuing. Sincerely yours, CEO Mantu Group SA Olivier BROURHANT 3 Commitment to Positive Impact In a report Shaping the Trend of Our Time, (UN Economist Network , 2020), the UN Economist Network announces that the lack of success in staying on track for the SDGs, five years into implementation of the Sustainable Development Agenda, is due to deficiencies in national policies and global cooperation and also to slow changes of consumption habits and production from companies. According to the chief economists in the United Nations, five megatrends which are shaping our world over time have also had an impact on the progress of the 2030 Agenda. These megatrends are climate change; demographic shifts, particularly population ageing; urbanization; the emergence of digital technologies and inequalities. They all have been created by human activity and according to the UN Economist Network, “they can be shaped by human decisions and policy choices”. We strongly believe at Mantu that economy and businesses have a role to play to put the world on a more sustainable path. Not only can we decide to make the right choice for our stakeholders and the communities around us, but we also believe that companies should leverage their voices and resources to influence economic and societal changes. Since one year now, Mantu has integrated long-term sustainability objectives into its vision and strategic direction. Our industry, in the consulting sector, is by nature subject to rapid changes: we always have to be at the forefront of innovation and business and societal trends in order to guide our clients through the fast-paced changes they are facing themselves as well. In the current context of societal and environmental changes, it is critical for us to not only embed sustainability in corporate culture, but also into our business and core offering. This report will offer an overview of the sustainability initiatives that we have led along the year of 2020 as well as the goals for the coming years, as we are committed to do more and more over time. In 2020, we had decided to focus our actions on four main streams of sustainability. First, to contribute to tackle climate change. We have for the first year conducted a voluntary carbon footprint assessment, followed by a rigorous reduction plan with ambitious targets. We also have the ambition to offset the residual emissions which are not reduced by specific reduction programs. 4 Second, to contribute to more diversity and inclusion in a technological sector which remains in majority male and white. Knowing how technology is shaping our future, we believe that diversity is key to avoid gender and racial biases that already exist in algorithms and to ensure that technology provides positive opportunities to solve some pressing societal issues. Third, to engage our teams across the world in sustainability initiatives and volunteering missions. We think that positive change will be driven by new generations and that we need to give them a voice to express their ideas and to support them in suggesting new ways of doing business. Fourth, we believe that integrating sustainability into our corporate culture is not sufficient. To make things change, we have decided to transversally integrate sustainability services into our value proposition. We believe that growth of our business should not come at the expense of sustainability and can even have a positive impact on our communities, on the planet and on the future of new generations. Executive VP Sustainable Development Constance NEVORET 5 Mantu Mantu is an international platform providing guidance and services to businesses and entrepreneurs. It has more than 6,500 people from 95 different nationalities, spread across five continents and more than 55 countries. Mantu stands beside businesses and entrepreneurs to help them fulfil their dreams, achieve their ambitions, and materialize their projects. Mantu bolsters their growth, enables their development, and supports their transformation. Vision and mission We believe that businesses are above all, a human adventure that carries the world forward – that’s why entrepreneurship is the world’s biggest transformation lever. We exist to generate opportunities for a vast talent community and pass on our boldness and our entrepreneurial culture and spirit. We want to contribute to changing people’s lives by enabling them to have an impact, to make a difference, and to move the world forward together. Mantu values The values of the Mantu platform are strongly rooted in everyday life and are one of the anchors of the sustainable development policy. These values are 5 in number and its internationally shared in the group by all teams: Boldness Independence Our spirit of entrepreneurial adventure is Mantu belongs to those who created it and what brings us all together and leads us to to those who develop it every day. success. Boldness and resilience are the key Independence is the key to successful traits of entrepreneurship and they have sustainable development. We follow our always been at the core of our mindset. Our vision and stay true to our values. It gives us ability to move fast, to evolve, and to the freedom to make our own choices and understand how the world is changing is build our future the way we want to. It gives what allows us to keep growing year after us the ability to anticipate change and to be year. flexible over time as the economy evolves. Staying independent sets us apart on the global market. 6 Trust The foundation of all relationships, trust enables us to promote freedom of expression, creativity, and innovation. We believe that businesses are above all a human adventure that carries the world forward. We put our trust in a great talent community to build a global company. We put our trust in people to shape innovation, to change the world, and improve our way of life, so that tomorrow will be human. Performance Commitment This translates into a constant desire to We don’t just fulfil our commitments and move forward and never stop asking more of work hard to achieve great results; we are ourselves. Our ambition pushes us to think committed to making a difference for our differently every day to stand out and clients and our community. We are a group consistently rise to the challenge for our of committed people with the will to clients. The secret of our performance lies in contribute to changing the world by the combined power of human creativity transforming companies and businesses. augmented by technology. 7 Governance Highest level of commitment Sustainable development is carried to the highest level of the group and intrinsically linked to Mantu’s values and strategy. In 2020, the Positive Impact Department has been created to embody the commitment from Mantu to work toward Sustainable Development Goals and Positive Impact. Link to the audit and risk management department, with a common operation manager, the team is designed to manage positive impact project and deploy Mantu’s vision following best practices and standards. The audit and risk management department aims to master compliance with certifications, international standards, and manages the coordination of sustainable development actions. Through a system allowing the integration of all the normative references as well as the best available practices, this body allows Mantu to structure its activities while mastering the risks. Sustainability progress Mantu decided to formalize its commitment to sustainable development for the first time in 2014, with the integration of Smeta-4-Pillars requirements into its management system. Following its growth and to support global, client and internal issues, Mantu became increasingly involved in improving its impact. 8 After a few years of involvement in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Mantu has decided to make its commitment more formal by signing the United Nations Global Compact. This commitment opens a new era for Mantu, an era of reporting and transparency on the aspects related to social responsibility and sustainable development. 10 Sustainable Development Goals elected As part of its commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals, Mantu has chosen to work primarily on the following ten objectives in colour bellow: These different objectives have been chosen according to the impact that Mantu can generate on its ecosystem, but also according to the effect that these may have on the company and its employees. Moreover, Mantu’s talents volunteering empowerment tool, One Small Step (more information and projects examples given further on in the report), enables us to make an impact on these various Sustainable Development Goals through the support provided to non-profit organisations acting in different fields: education, gender equality, healthcare, social justice, etc. 9 Link between SDGs and Mantu Impact within Mantu Impact for Mantu environment SDG 3 Increase the level of safety and wellbeing of Mantu’s employees through the implementation of additional measures. SDG 4 Allow the group's employees to share OSS: Support initiatives where people their knowledge and engage in skills from Mantu coach and mentor people sponsorship actions. through associations (ex: women in reinsertion) SDG 5 Ensure equal opportunities and access Ensure equal opportunities and access to employment, training, and career to employment for candidates in development for all employees of recruitment process with Mantu. Mantu without distinction of gender. SDG 8 Mantu’s development offers decent work for all and contributes to economic growth for local communities throughout our 75 offices SDG 9 Support our clients in the industry and infrastructure sector through our innovation and engineering competencies to build innovative and sustainable solutions SDG 10 Development of practices aiming to reduce inequalities through Diversity and inclusion actions SDG 12 Development of best practices and Supporting our clients through the working environment promoting research and development of responsible consumption and responsible products. production. Sustainable procurement plan promoting local and responsible suppliers. SDG 13 Completion of actions to move Integration of climate action inside our towards carbon neutrality: through a core offering for our clients: we are rigorous reduction plan of our supporting them to help them reduce emissions and a plan to offset the their environmental impact. remaining emissions. SDG 16 Acting for peace and justice and strong institutions. SDG 17 Create partnerships to develop projects and actions to contribute to the goals. 10 CSR Approach A Global project Mantu's Positive Impact approach has been structured around four categories in 2020: Environmental contribution With a global footprint all over the world, Mantu commits to contribute to reducing its carbon footprint and its impact over the environment. Diversity and inclusion Mantu wants to contribute to more diversity and inclusion in a technological sector which remains in majority male and white. Knowing how technology is shaping our future, we believe that diversity is key to avoid gender and racial biases that already exist in algorithms. Team engagement We believe that sustainability should be embedded in every aspect of the organization and involve multiple stakeholders. That is why we encourage our teams across the world to get involved in sustainability initiatives and volunteering missions. We think that positive change will be driven by new generations and that we need to give them a voice to express their ideas and to support them in suggesting new ways of doing business. Positive business impact Being mostly active in the services and consulting industry, the greatest impact we can have is the one we have with the clients that we support. That is why we are constantly rethinking and making our offering evolve to help them adapt to societal and environmental challenges. 11 Internal control An internal control system is put in place to ensure that all requirements and best practices are considered. Conducting internal audits allows the Mantu to identify risks and opportunities across all its activities. Legal, commercial, and standard requirements are monitored during annual audits and action plans are created if necessary. Audits are planned over 3 years to ensure the visibility and continuity of the system. Principle All principles Objective 100% of entities assessed on CSR risks and with high risk to be audited at least once a year Initial state 2018: 0% of entities audited 2019: 17% of entities audited Final state 2020: 69% of entities audited Next objective 2021: 100% of entities audited EcoVadis assessment Mantu has decided to assess its sustainability practices following the EcoVadis quotation, with the objective of setting up a strategy and action plan to improve our practices. EcoVadis is an international third-party audit organization and a global provider of business sustainability ratings. Audits are tailored to industry sector, country, and size of the company (EcoVadis, 2018). EcoVadis’ methodology is built on international sustainability standards, including the United Nations Global Compact, covering a total of 190 spend categories and 160+ countries. The audit is based on 21 CSR criteria in four themes: environment, labour and human rights, ethics, and sustainable procurement. The audit results are based on documentation provided directly on the EcoVadis platform. In 2020, EcoVadis quotation has been performed on different scopes for several companies belonging to Mantu. The latest and most global EcoVadis audit which has been performed was focusing on Mantu at international level. We have been awarded a Bronze medal, with a global score of 52/100. Below are the detailed scores by category. 12 Following this assessment, action plans have been set to continuously improve our sustainability practices and reinforce Mantu’s compliance. The improvement plan defined following 2020 assessment is available in appendix. Principle All principles Objective Quotation done of Mantu and on 20% of entities representing 80% of the Mantu’s business Initial state 2019: Quotation done on six entities of Mantu 2020: Quotation done on nine entities of the platform representing 17% of the 20% of entities representing 80% of the business Final state Quotation done of Mantu and on 20% of entities representing 80% of the Group’s business Next Complete another yearly assessment on Mantu and obtain Silver level objective Stakeholders management Mantu aims to build a win – win relationship with all its stakeholders: clients, providers, employees…. We identify them all as well as their requirements and expectations. Once identified, they are carefully monitored. Mantu analyses twice a year and monitors the stakeholders through a defined mapping process using a tool called ‘’Stakeholder identification and management’’ which contains the results of an impact assessment, a stakeholder quotation along with an analysis on requirements and a treatment follow up. a. Identification and management of stakeholders and their key requirements During the identification phase the necessary information is acknowledged and documented to make sure a prioritization is set in place followed by an analysis and if necessary, a treatment. 13 The stakeholder’s interests, possible requirements and capacity of engagement are taken into consideration during the yearly assessment of stakeholder impact analysis and reassessed during process reviews, internal audits, risk identifications and surveys. In addition, during the year any stakeholder feedback received through the internal ticketing system is considered and analysed. b. Importance The quantitative and qualitative findings from the yearly assessment process are incredibly valuable for Mantu to identify learnings and areas of the strategy or impact management process that can be improved. Stakeholder data and input are important sources of evidence to inform changes in strategy, help identify innovations or modifications to services, discover new opportunities, improve performance, adjust objectives and monitoring, and review resource allocation. Principle All principles Objective Identify and treat key requirements and expections from Mantu’s key stakeholders Initial state No stakeholders management Final state 2019: stakeholders management process defined 2020: stakeholders management process defined, implemented and audited Next objective Create complete materiality matrix Risk and crisis management a. Risk management Mantu has put in place a strong risk management process through the company. It follows ISO 31000 guidelines, and its goal is either to handle operationally risk topics (such as health and safety or information security risks) and to promote risk management on all departments. Risk management process is deployed on several topics: process and delivery, information security, health and safety, environment and legal. The process is as following: Identification Analysis Assessment Treatment Review •Identify risks and •Analyse impacts •Realize quotation •Define treatment •Review events based on criteria plans, means and effectiveness of in order to define effectiveness the treatment and level of the risk criteria re-assess the risk and priority 14 To make sure the risk management reach its goals, the Risk and Audit operational committee review mains risk and treatment plans. Each director and head of department is aware of the risks identified over its scope. Human resources and direct managers are also aware of risk topics, to make sure all alerts sent raise an action from the group. b. Crisis management As the sustainability of the company is based on its ability to survive to unexpected event, a crisis management process is defined and implemented. The crisis involves a level of mobilization, vigilance, and reaction out of the ordinary provided by a specific procedure. A continuity management is also implemented and ready to be deployed to handle the situation and make sure Mantu’s activities are still running while we ensure safety and security. Risk management is an integral part of the sustainable development strategy. The identification of risks is implemented throughout the group, including the different activities but also the various environments in Mantu is working. Principle All principles Objective 100% of entities assessed on CSR risks and action plan set up on critical and high risk Initial state No assessment on CSR Final state 2019: 64% of entities assessed on CSR risks and action plan set up on critical and high risk 2020: 100% of entities assessed on CSR risks and action plan set up on critical and high risk / Crisis management deployed for COVID19 Crisis Next objective Integrate risks on stakeholders and CSR crisis models 15 Positive Business Impact We believe that integrating sustainability into our corporate culture is not sufficient. To have a larger impact on all our stakeholders, we have decided to integrate value-added sustainable development services into our offering. This allows us to promote sustainability practices to our clients and to influence the future of their industry. We have worked with an external company specialized in sustainability consulting, Brundtland Minds, to develop an enhanced service offering of Mantu. The project started by identifying priority issues in terms of sustainable development and ranking the sustainability topics that stand out most in descending order of importance depending on our clients’ sectors. We have conducted a materiality assessment of sustainability topics for each industry. A cross has then been made between the range of possible sustainable development services and the issues with the highest impact for each of the selected industries. Some of the services of this enhanced offering are: Responsible Supply Chain, Products and Services Eco-Design, Environmental impacts on products & services lifecycle, Stakeholders dialogue on social and environmental aspects (eg. on 5G), … Following the identification of these new sustainable development services, we have started to communicate and train our consultants on topics related to sustainability, so that they can raise this aspect while conducting their project. We also have business managers dedicated to promoting our sustainability offers. Our objective is to increase our share of revenue generated by sustainability projects in the coming year, to 10% in 2023. For one of the companies belonging to Mantu, LittleBIG Connection, we have also decided to organize a Hackathon on December 16 and 17 with their 160 employees across the world. LittleBIG Connection is the platform of the future of work, bringing together businesses, today’s talents, and tomorrow’s expertise. The theme is “LittleBIG for Good” and the goal will be for people within teams of 5, with diverse cultures and background, to think, iterate, design and pitch solutions to drive positive change in our value proposition. We will have two phases of selection of the projects and we aim to integrate one or several of the projects which will be selected by the jury into LittleBIG Connection’s core offering. Principle P8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility P9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Objective Integrate sustainability in our core offering Initial state 2019: no inclusion of positive impact in our business offers Final state 2020: several sustainability offers included in our core offering with 8 projects won Next objective share of revenue generated by sustainability projects: 10% in 2023 16 Teams engagement in sustainability topics Team engagement through surveys We deeply think that positive change will be driven by new generations and that we need to give them a voice to express their ideas and to support them in suggesting new ways of doing business. This effort to engage our teams across the world in sustainability initiatives is reflected in two main initiatives: • Consultations of our teams’ opinions via surveys • Opportunities to participate in volunteering missions through the Foundation and One Small Step (more details later in this section) We launched a large survey in June 2020 to better understand what sustainability topics are important to Mantu teams, their opinion on Mantu’s performance on sustainability topics, and to gather ideas on sustainability initiatives to launch. We gathered a total of 510 responses. Respondents said that sustainability issues were important to them at a score of 4.36 / 5, but that sustainability topics were only familiar to them at a score of 3.84 / 5. This is one of the reasons why we launched several e-learnings available to all as a first step in our initiatives. Respondents were given a list of 19 different sustainability issues, covering environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. They were asked to rank each topic on a scale from 1 to 5 (1 being low, 5 being high), on • How important is each issue to them? • How well does Mantu manage each issue? The overall results of these questions are summarized in the document below. 17 We have also been able to gather suggestions of topics to prioritize according to our teams as well as new ideas to implement. Most of the respondents said they were willing to improve Mantu’s Positive Impact and interested in contributing in initiatives. We have identified a large group of people through this survey and we ensure to reach out to them to engage and help move some projects forward. From Amaris Foundation (2016 to 2019) … Since 2007, Amaris Group (today Mantu) has committed itself to several sustainable initiatives, which reflects the Group’s founding values. However, their aim was to go a mile further: to take concrete, local, and measurable actions to positively impact communities and people’s lives. This is how the Amaris Foundation was created, with the wish to gather all the sustainability initiatives into a single entity and the wish to share Amaris Group success and expertise enabling everyone to grow and create their own disruptive story. We differ ourselves from others, thanks to our dynamic and innovative approach. The Foundation has been built up in a collaborative way by deeply engaging its talents in its activities. The support provided by the Foundation at different levels (financial, material and in skills) has been able to empower more than 20 non-profit organizations in the concretization and success of their impactful projects. Commitment has always been at the heart of the group's values. Since its creation, the Foundation has been allowing many of us to help causes close to our hearts. Thanks to the energy and drive of all those who have been involved with the Foundation, myriad projects have taken shape. Projects like the development of the iClown application with Le Rire Médecin, the Basefugees platform with Techfugees (a non-profit using technology to help refugees, asylum seekers and displaced people) and the growth of VUI House (a non-profit helping people with disabilities in Vietnam) would have been impossible without this support. We believe that the company should be a lever for everyone to help make the world a better place. The company is a tool its teams can use to help build sustainable development. 18 … to One Small Step Empowering our worldwide talents in making a concrete and positive impact on causes that matter to them has always been at the heart of our sustainability strategy. To go further in the possibilities that we offer and to leverage our impact while keeping the collaborative spirit inherited from Amaris Foundation, we have launched the One Small Step project at the end of 2019. One Small Step expresses the idea that each of us can make some apparently “small” positive actions but taken as we have the real possibility of making a collective significant change. It also reflects the fact that sustainable development is in the hands of everyone and that each contribution has a real importance. This digital innovative tool (created in partnership with Wenabi) creates a connection between our worldwide skillful talents and our non-profit partners and aims at reaching the achievement of meaningful and impactful projects. Our non-profit partners are chosen regarding precise criteria: Alignment with our ethical vision: being a non-profit organization not political, religious nor discriminatory Having its activities officially and legally declared towards the government Being clear of any suspicion after the performance of an online reputational background check Demonstrating to have the means of managing the volunteering missions in an effective and efficient way Once validated as a Mantu partner, the non-profit organizations have the possibility to autonomously publish their volunteering missions offers on One Small Step and then have access to the skills of our worldwide talents. Each Mantu talent has access to One Small Step, giving them the opportunity of supporting any of the causes close to their heart while developing their skills. One Small Step is Mantu talents’ key to concretize their volunteering aspirations. On a global perspective, it reinforces the positive impact we make on society. For these reasons, the One Small Step project is fully integrated in the Positive Impact global project that is currently being developed. Principle P1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Objective 10% of talents involved in at least one mission each year Initial state No tool to track talents’ involvement Final state End of year 1: 1% of involvement (tool launch just before covid crisis having repercussions on talents and sustainability management team) Next objective 10% of talents involved in at least one mission on year 2 19 Human rights principles Supplier management Mantu commits to maintain a strong relationship with his economic and social partners to develop each side a win-win and trust-oriented business. c. Suppliers risk management The management of the relationship with our suppliers begins with the complete identification of the risks that may weigh on them or the established relationship. This identification is carried out through a risk analysis on different levels, including quality and ability to respond to requirements. d. Policies The Supplier Responsible Purchasing Charter is a key document of the system. It aims to frame the expectations and requirements of the Mantu group to ensure optimal collaboration concerning the expectations of the group but also suppliers. It is essential to establish a winwin relationship. e. Follow up, controls and improvement To support this common relationship, Mantu has a three steps process: 1Selection: Mantu must be sure that sub-contractor can work for/with Mantu being compliant with the requirements provided without too many risks for and from both sides. This step is realized by a questionnaire filled in by the provider to ensure that some specific requirements are met (dependency, commitment, quality, health and safety, CSR...). Mantu wants to favour as much as possible providers who have a proven positive social or environmental impact. 2Assessment: Mantu makes an annual assessment of his provider which aim is to be able to propose improvement axes to the provider 3Requirements/audit: Mantu provides some requirements and guidelines to his provider in order topics are handled both sides Principle P2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses P4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; P5: the effective abolition of child labor; Objective 100% of suppliers’ risks assessed, 100% of critical suppliers assessed once a year Initial state 2019: No suppliers risks assessment, 30% of critical suppliers assessed once a year Final state 2020: 100% of suppliers’ risks assessed, 90% of critical suppliers assessed once a year Next objective Deployment of new Procurement plan including new sustainable suppliers and more demanding criteria 20 Labor principles Diversity and Inclusion Mantu is committed to ensure equality of opportunity for all our talents, by implementing Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) initiatives. Our initial efforts were focused on creating an inclusive work environment, while also conducting research within the organization to establish to present situation in terms of diversity at Mantu. a. Unconscious Bias Training As of October 2020, we created an unconscious bias training in the form of an e-learning. The goal is to educate our teams on how to recognize a possible situation where unconscious biases can impact organizational activities and then how to deal with these situations using different techniques. Within this training program, participants are demonstrated that even if they do not consciously endorse a stereotype or an attitude, unconscious biases can still influence their behaviour outside their awareness, which will then influence their decisionmaking process (Dovin, Mar. 2018). There are many stereotypes that are associated with an individual’s gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, or any other identity features. This information is communicated to us through stories, culture, the media, etc. and certain associations have unconsciously been established to these identities. Even though managers and recruiters individually know that this information should not be taken into consideration in their unprejudiced decision-making process for ethical and moral reasons, this information has still been processed and stored in our brains. Therefore, despite consciously knowing that these associations to stereotypes should be discarded, they can still unconsciously affect the way decisions are made (Association, Dec 2011). Even though such training is widely used in the corporate world, there are important limits that Mantu had to take into consideration. The main one is that there is no research that empirically proved such training would have direct repercussions on reducing discrimination in the decision-making process of managers. The consensus is that unconscious bias training is a good step towards creating an inclusive work environment, but it should be complementary to more tangible initiatives. For the training to be effective, it needs to be recommended to employees, so that they can learn about the topic, without forcing them. Therefore, we decided to create the training as a resource that was available to all employees, without including it in their mandatory training topics. Using many different types of resources such as existing unconscious bias trainings, competitive benchmarks, and expert opinions on the subject, we were able to elaborate informative content that was ready to be shared with all stakeholders within the organization. 21 Principle P6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Objective raise awareness on unconscious biases and learn different methods on how to reduce their negative impact on the decision-making process of Mantu’s talent Initial state 2019: No D&I axes included in the CS plan Final state 2020: 121 employees completed the training Next objective 50% of employees did the training Elaborate additional initiatives that will create an even more inclusive work environment. b. Demographic Data Analysis To prioritize initiatives, set objectives and track the progress of our efforts, we started with a demographic data analysis, where we used to information of Mantu’s talents to assess the current situation in terms of diversity within the organization. This analysis was a collaboration between the Positive Impact team and the HRI (Human Resources Intelligence) department. HRI oversees gathering, storing, and interpreting the data of all Mantu talent. By collaborating with this team, we were insured that our data would be complete and reliable. Due to some data regulations in some countries, we could not have a very exhaustive overview of all aspects related to diversity, just because the data was not available. The only metric that was consistently available for all employees was their gender, even though we understand that diversity is not only about gender and could related ethnicity, race, native or indigenous origin, age, generation, sexual orientation, culture, religion, etc. We concentrated the scope of the analysis on gender across different organizational contexts, as it was the only metric, we had that could offer a snapshot of the diversity of Mantu’s talent across the organisation. When we were elaborating the list of information needed from the HRI team, we established our request based on Bloomberg’s Gender Equality Index (GEI). The GEI is a modified market capitalization-weighted index that aims to track the performance of public companies committed to transparency in gender-data reporting. By exploring their methodology, we could list the specific data that were available to us, which could offer diversity acumen. We also gained insight by doing a competitive benchmark, which also gave us ideas on different data to analyse, while gaining knowledge on which diversity information our competitors are disclosing to the public. After conducting such investigation, we then had a clear understanding of what to ask the HRI team. We therefore requested to have a breakdown in percentage of men/women through the recruitment, headcount, and promotion for Mantu talents. This information was further dissected by age and seniority, when relevant. By analysing these data, we were able to pinpoint areas in the organization where diversity could be improved. The first observation was related to the recruitment of consultants, where a great majority of them were men. The reason is because we mostly hire consultants for jobs in telecommunications, engineering IT and IS, where the talent pool for candidates is mostly dominated by men. As this issue seems 22 to be caused by external factors, we decided to invest our time in helping the transition towards a more gender balanced talent pool. See our collaboration with Inspiring Girls for more information. Among the many other observations that drew our attention, there were two of them that we wanted to investigate their cause. The first was that among our staff, the turnover for women was higher than for men. The second was that as management positions were mostly occupied by men, and this trend seemed to get more prevalent as the management positions would increase in hierarchy. These observations are complex organizational issue that depend on many factors, but both impacted the experience of the women at Mantu. To further think about potential causes for these observations in the data and then generate ideas to resolve certain issues, we needed to go beyond the numbers and conduct qualitative interviews to investigate them. Principle P6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Objective Determine the present situation in terms of diversity within the organization. Initial state 2019: No D&I axes included in the CS plan Final state 2020: Demographic Data Analysis performed and action plan to be defined for 2021 Next objective Repeat this exercise every year, in order to prioritize initiatives, set objectives and track the progress of our efforts. c. D&I Interviews As we established the topics we wanted to explore in greater details, we began by creating an interview guide that would answer our questions. Using the funnel technique, we planned on asking more general questions at first, to see which D&I topic would come up organically. As we progressed in the questions, they would become increasingly specific, to answer the interrogations we established during the demographic data analysis. The benefit of this approach is that if the topics we were interested in would be mentioned by the participant in an unprompted manner, it would demonstrate that our initial interests were similar to what our talents would experience as members of the Mantu platform. We then had to find participants. As the topics were related to the experience of the women of Mantu, we decided to exclusively interview female talent, to gather their feedback. Through the whole process, anonymity was paramount. To collect data that would lead to actionable responses, we had to ensure that each participant felt comfortable sharing their genuine feedback, without fear of repercussions if they were honest. We guaranteed this aspect by having only one Mantu talent conduct the interviews and keeping the feedback confidential. Each participant was attributed a randomly generated number, which would be the only information related to them mentioned in the document that contained all their feedback. The personal information related to the randomly generated number could be found in a separate document that only the interviewer had access and kept undisclosed. 23 As for the sample that was chosen, we had to make sure it was representative of our population at Mantu. We collaborated with HRI once more, so they could elaborate a list of employees that would give a representative depiction by governance (Administrative & Finance, Business, General Secretary, Information Technology, Marketing and Recruitment), but also by whether employees were in management positions or not. By having participants of each governance, we would be able to gather the feedback from different perspectives in the organization. It was also very important to have the perceptions managers vs. nonmanagers, to see if they encountered the same experiences in their daily activities. Based on whether the participant was in a managerial role or not, the interview guide was adapted to both profiles, to truly encapsulate the difference in experience between the two participant profiles. In total, we were able to gather the feedback of 24 women. The whole process was very eye opening. As we speak, the interview results are being compiled and analysed by the interviewer, so that we can extrapolate possible answers for our interrogation we had in the first place. Once a proper report is created, highlighting the finding of the interviews, it will be shared to the executive committee. Following the discussions that will stem from the results, we will be able to orient our D&I strategy for the next year, while also knowing which initiatives are to prioritize in the short and long term. Principle P6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Objective Gather the feedback of a representative sample of women to understand their experience as Mantu talents. Initial state 2019: No D&I axes included in the CS plan Final state 2020: feedback of 24 women gathered and analysed and action plan to be defined for 2021 Next objective Elaborate D&I strategies and initiatives based on the feedback gathered. d. Collaboration with Inspiring Girls As mentioned, one of the main causes for the lack of diversity within the recruitment of consultants is the lack of women in the talent pools of the domains we are implicated in (telecommunications, engineering IT and IS). Since we cannot change the proportion of men and women that graduate from the fields in which we hire, or even in the professionals that are presently working in these industries, we decided on contributing to the shift of this trend for the coming years. Within Mantu, we have amazing women that are involved in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) and could use their knowledge and experiences to help associations that are encouraging young girls to pursue education in STEM. Therefore, we decided to collaborate with Inspiring Girls. This entity uses their platform to encourage women from all over the world to make short videos about their experience in their STEM field, which are then shared with young girls who have an interest in these fields. By contacting the association directly, we can come to an agreement where we could ask some of the women of Mantu to make 2 to 3-minute videos based on the Inspiring Girls 24 format, which we could then use on our social network platforms and also their platform. Once the videos were created, our own social media team could edit them to include our Mantu branding, which we then shared on LinkedIn. The original videos were also shared directly to Inspiring Girls, so their own editing team could include their own branding. Using this approach, we were able to reach as many viewers as possible, while maintaining the common goal of promoting women that serve as role models for young girls that want to take similar paths. Here are some examples of videos we already shred, with more on the way: Mandana AFRASIABI: https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:668112964 6840389632/ Maliha VAYID: https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:673980845 0462654464/ Ariana DIPIETRO: https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:674244274 4112783360/ Principle P6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Objective Promote the amazing women of Mantu by letting them tell their story and experiences in their STEM field, so they can encourage young girls to pursue similar path Initial state 2019: No D&I axes included in the CS plan Final state 2020: launch of the collaboration and three videos done Next objective Encourage other women of Mantu to directly get implicated with Inspiring Girls, helping the organization gain more influence and reach. Health and safety Mantu considers the prevention and the protection of the health of its employees as an essential value which must be included daily and in a permanent way in the minds. Developing a preventive health and safety culture must, therefore, be a priority for all. Mantu supports its clients in important phases of change and progress. This support must be embedded in a strong culture, in addition to the values, we advocate, which are: commitment, boldness, independence, performance, and trust. Management, at its highest level, wants to make it a point of honour to protect its employees from occupational diseases and accidents. The management of Mantu takes the following commitments and requests all its employees to act accordingly: • Identify the risks linked to its activities, according to the constraints of the intervention context 25 • Preventing risks identified by applying the principles of prevention • Train and sensitize employees on HSE issues and empower them according to the identified risks • Limit the use of temporary staff • Emphasize the use of subcontractors with an equivalent level of management • Find out about the applicable regulations, examine compliance with these regulations and implement the necessary actions to comply • Regularly measure its performance in management review and adjust the objectives, targets, and actions of the management system accordingly. The management of Mantu also undertakes to regularly update its policy in the light of changes in its activities, the achievement of its objectives, and the review of these policies. Training and awareness are key levers for the success of a prevention and risk management approach for people. In this context, Mantu focuses its actions on programs aimed at explaining to its employees how to detect risky situations, how to protect themselves or react in the event of a crisis. This awareness begins with the arrival of employees and continues throughout their career according to their need and their level of exposure to risks. Principle Objective 100% of Mantu employees trained on health and safety at arrival and at least once each 2 years Initial state 6% of Mantu employees trained on health and safety at arrival Final state 2019: 19% of Mantu employees trained on health and safety at arrival 2020: 36% of Mantu employees trained on health and safety at arrival Next objective 100% of Mantu employees trained on health and safety at arrival and at least once each 2 years Labor laws Giving its international presence, Mantu has to address multiple challenges in identifying, considering, and enforcing several applicable regulations. Each regulation must be considered, and actions implemented to comply with specific requirements. Whether in the field of law relating to work, business management, or data protection, the stakes are high, and expectations are growing. To cope with these regulatory requirements, Mantu has several internal and external bodies. • Corporate legal • Commercial legal • HR legal • Compliance In the same way, group entities are accompanied according to the cases and needs by lawyers. 26 ESAT/EAT The Mantu Group is continually seeking to increase its local impact. With this in mind, the Group calls on ESATs and EATs to encourage work integration and reintegration, moderate the environmental impact, favor the local economy, favor suppliers that respect the working conditions and well-being of the workforce. its employees, workers with disabilities. [Paris – France] Elise Elise makes it possible to recover 100% of office waste by ensuring their recycling and creating solidarity jobs. For this, baskets are made available to employees. ELISE is in charge of the collection, sorting and recycling. Every quarter, a report allows the office to see what its impact has been. [France] One Small Step: one project Le Rire Médecin dreams of a world where, regardless of their condition and the severity of their illness, all children in the hospital always find allies at their side to restore, listen, understand, and make them laugh to alleviate hospitalization and give them the strength to overcome illness. For the past 26 years, the 100 clowns of Le Rire Médecin have been involved in 45 pediatric services in 15 hospitals in France and offer nearly 80,000 magic moments to hospitalized children. To prolong the action of clowns with sick children, the Amaris Foundation and Le Rire Médecin co-created the iClown application through financial and human support. This application which has been developed by Amaris employees, broadcasts films with professional clowns to help children in addressing pain and to facilitate the work of the caregivers. 27 Environmental principles Environmental Management System Contributing to the protection of our environment is one of the challenges Mantu has committed to take on. Since years, some initiatives have been conducted to make significant progress on this matter: launch of the Green Week in our Vietnam office, creation of local sustainability committees or support to eco-friendly non-profit’s projects for instance. In 2020, Mantu aims at going further by including the Environment protection at the heart of the Positive Impact project and by developing global environment-specific projects. To ensure a significant reduction of our activities’ environmental impacts and a qualitative management of the environmental topics, Mantu has made the decision of deploying an Environmental Management System based on ISO14001 and ISO50001 standards’ framework. A first certification on these standards is expected for the France scope in March 2021. Part of the Environmental Management System consists in identifying which of our activities make a significant impact, what are the requirements we need to fulfil, which risks we need to treat on the environmental field etc. To do so we set up different processes that will be updated on a yearly basis: issues analysis, legal requirements acknowledgment, stakeholders’ requirements analysis, risks and opportunities assessment, carbon footprint assessment and the environmental impact analysis. These different processes enable us to come out with the list of priority environmental topics on which we need to work on to be able to meet our requirements while decreasing our impact. The protection of the environment is a global concern in the group involving all the different departments. The decrease of our environmental impact will be achieved in collaboration with various internal stakeholders: we assume that grouping our efforts in driving significant changes in our ways of working will be the best way of reaching our impact reduction purpose. In this perspective, the different priority environmental topics identified through the different analysis processes are all leading to the setup of actions by the different departments of Mantu. All these actions are gathered and followed up on in our Environmental Management Plan. At the end of 2020, already 35 cross-departments (Office management, Journey & workplace, Procurement, Information Technology etc.) actions have been identified and validated which will lead to significant progress. For each action, specific targets are set up along with their reach deadline enable us to measure and follow up on our advancements. Since our environmental impact reduction objective is a collective project, we need to involve every and each talent in the adoption of eco-friendly habits. That is why we have created and launched an Environmental practices e-learning, available to each talent of Mantu. This training includes some knowledge regarding sustainability and an overview of Mantu’s first achievements. The objective of this training is to give concrete and relevant tips to enable our talents to get involved in the cause by adapting their daily behaviour. Among other tips, this 30-minute training provides recommendations regarding traveling, office life and even IT practices: for instance, it explains why it is important not only to switch off but also to unplug 28 our electronic equipment or how making our emails less harmful for the environment. So far, already more than 400 employees have completed the training which has been launched at the end of November 2020. Mantu is convinced that it needs to lead the change and facilitate its talents’ engagement, but as well that an effective contribution to the protection of the environment is a collective purpose and responsibility. Thanks to the Environmental Management System, Mantu aims at making significant progresses in handling the environmental topics as well as concretely reducing its environmental impact, in a collective positive dynamic. Principle P7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; P8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and P9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Objective Environmental topics well managed and constant env. impact reduction on all Mantu Initial state Environmental Management System in deployment at Mantu Final state Mantu certification ISO14001 and ISO50001 Next objective France ISO certification expected in March 2021 Carbon footprint assessment Mantu has performed a voluntary carbon footprint assessment to measure its environmental impact for the year 2019. This reporting has been realized on major brands of Mantu so far and it will be extended to more in the coming years. a. Methodology Two different types of scopes must be defined before gathering the data: the organizational and the operational scope of the analysis. The organizational scope and the definition of the scope included in the analysis regarding the organization of the company is as following: Scope 1 (direct emissions) – mandatory. Scope 2 (Indirect emissions – energy) – mandatory. Scope 3 (indirect) – optional but important to gather data to have an exhaustive overview of our environmental impact. Scope 3 emissions are included in the presentation of our carbon emissions below and are also included it in our reduction plan. It is possible that Scope 3 emissions will not be included in the final public report, as some data of the Scope 3 is subject to many assumptions or approximation. 29 b. Parameters The data collection has been done on a defined timeframe from the 1st of January to the 31st of December of the previous year. • Project framework June July • Data processing September • Method definition • Data recovery • Data analysis • Workshop • Kick-off • Data processing • Action plan May August c. Results of the assessment (including Scopes 1, 2 and 3) Category Emissions CO2 (tCO2e) tCO2e / FTE Carfleet 661,33 0,15 Travel (Plane) 928,74 0,21 Travel (train) 2,82 0,00 Travel (hotels) 282,23 0,06 Product & services 1.216,65 0,27 Energy 2.169,88 0,48 Commute 4.270,29 0,95 Waste 1.159,97 0,26 Total 10691,91 2,37 Following the results of this first carbon footprint assessment, we have decided to develop a robust reduction plan to reduce carbon emissions at the source (e.g. office, travel,…) with targets and deadlines for all actions. We will closely monitor progress on each of these actions. We then intend to offset the residual emissions which are not reduced by specific reduction programs to contribute to carbon-neutrality. Principle P7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Objective Get complete reporting on most impacting countries Initial state 2018: No countries integrated in the reporting 2019: 3 countries over 12 countries integrated in the reporting Final state All countries included in the reporting Next objective 14 countries integrated in the reporting 30 Eco-offices program One of our first actions in terms of environmental impact reduction has been around the management of our offices at an international level. As a company in the services industry, one of our biggest impacts is generated by the energy we consume and by the waste we generate in our offices. For this reason, and in a continuous improvement perspective, we have launched in October 2020 the Eco-offices project. The goal was to involve all offices’ managers to gather their inputs on the local management of environmental topics with two objectives: Better understand how environmental topics are managed in our different offices worldwide Be able to set up concrete action plans to improve these topics’ management together with the offices’ managers and then reduce the impact of our local activities on the environment More specifically, we created a checklist listing different eco-friendly practices and processes. Each office manager had to report if these practices and processes were already deployed in their office or not. The checklist was then generating a scorecard assessing the level of environmental performance of each office. All office managers have been trained and on-boarded on this tool’s use and the results are expected at the beginning of 2021. The Eco-offices program will then enable us, in a collaborative way, to better understand the local situations regarding environmental topics management and to design specific improvement action plans to increase each office’s score and then performance. Principle P7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; P8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Objective Checklist fill and improvement actions plan done for 100% of Mantu offices Initial state Project not deployed Final state Offices’ managers trained, checklists are being filled in Next objective By the end of January 2021, having received 100% of filled checklists and having analysed the project’s results 31 Local consumption We also want to promote local consumption initiatives in countries where we have operations. Here are some of the initiatives we are supporting: Potager city: The company is originally from Lyon and now covers France entirely. The goal is to offer baskets of fruits and vegetables which are varied, seasonal, and local all year long. Employees can benefit from this on-site service in Lyon, by ordering their cart and being delivered once a week to the office. [Lyon, France] Baguette à Bicyclette: A local company that works in an organic and short circuit with local bakers, pastry chefs, market gardeners, and fruit juice producers. The choice is large: pastries, lemon cake, homemade brownie, fresh fruit juice, tea, and coffee, etc. The concept is very original: the breakfast is delivered by bicycle and all set up by the deliveryman with an ethical decoration on the spot [Lyon France] Les plaisirs fruités: Every week, a delivery of fruit baskets of the season or from sustainable agriculture is carried out. [Paris, France] HEQ Building Mantu’s new buildings and all renovated offices have been designed to reduce our environmental impact. To this end, a number of measures have been put in place, including LED lighting and the smart air conditioning system. All the paperboards have been replaced by whiteboards. Printers are accessible with a badge, in order to print only what is needed. Finally, the capsules are recycled. 32 Anti-corruption principles Code of ethics Mantu has set up a Code of Ethics, Standards Of Professional Conduct & Whistleblowing Policy based on its values. This Policy exists to guide employees when dealing with ethical dilemmas and serves to inform about acceptable conduct within our business. It sets out the basics principles that allow to all Mantu employees and temporary collaborators and its subsidiaries to conduct their business and build a good relationship with the employees, the customers, competition, and the business partners. Strong anti-corruption stance: Staying focused on anti-corruption is important to Mantu. This is achieved through a combination of risk assessment and internal audits. Mantu continuously assesses corruption risks as part of the Risk Assessment policy, in line with the strategy and target-setting processes. The effectiveness and appropriateness of any anti-corruption program are also reviewed and evaluated. Gifts, bribes, and other pressure: Mantu believes that integrity and fair dealing should be reflected in all our activities, and we will work against corruption in any form. We do not accept corrupt activities, whether committed by our employees or by third parties acting on our behalf. An employee cannot offer or give an undue advantage or receive such an advantage, outside the legal limits. Among the unacceptable benefits are included: cash or cash equivalent, personal services, employment offers, charitable donations, loans, sponsorships, or any other asset. In summary, it should not be given or accepted anything that could compromise the objectivity or the impartiality of an employee. Conflict of interest: The Company commits to respect the privacy of each employee in the conduct of his personal affairs. However, all the employees must ensure that their personal and financial interests do not conflict with their functions on behalf of the Mantu Group Company. The employees should not use their status as an employee of Mantu Group to extract or obtain any personal advantage, financial or other for their benefit or one of their parents or associates. Similarly, the employees should not encourage Mantu Group’ Companies to do business with friends or parents, or with a company in which the employee or friends or parents have an interest. Indeed, The Company’s employees, their parents or friends should not be shareholders of a collaborative bank, have a relationship with a collaborative company or be part of a political family which could have any financial or other interest with Mantu Companies. Anti-Corruption Training: Additional specialized training is provided to key staff in Business, Procurement, and other relevant functions. 33 PLANS FOR THE FUTURE Building 2021 Positive Impact Vision Following a year with multiple initiatives which aimed to do significant progress in our sustainability practices of the four streams we had chosen (environment, diversity and inclusion, team engagement, positive business impact), we are now building our vision and roadmap for the year 2021. We want to be even more ambitious for the year to come and we want to define a vision that will allow us to make the highest impact, based on who we are and the nature of our services. Being a company focusing mainly in the technology sector, we believe that there is a lot we can do to contribute to build the best sustainable practices in this field, for example by promoting and educating about digital sobriety, or by going one step further in promoting diversity in technologies. Above all, we want to continue to integrate sustainability in every aspect of the company and in our core business, for our sustainability commitments to be cascaded throughout our clients’ organization. 34 APPENDIX – Mantu’s Ecovadis assessment improvement plan Mantu’s last Ecovadis assessment results have been disclosed on October 15th 2020. Here are the improvement areas having a high (X) or medium (X) priority level (P) per theme, with the corresponding action plan. P Improvement axis Corrective Action Deadline Environment Policies X Basic environmental policies: only Review of Sustainable 31-12-20 basic statements or lacks details on Development Policy including specific issues more elements regarding environmental topics Actions X Supporting documentation Deployment of the 31-12-21 demonstrates a low level of coverage Environmental Management of environmental actions throughout System with associated actions the company operations (Environmental Management Plan) in all Mantu X No information regarding ISO14001 and ISO50001 31-03-21 certification of an environmental certifications for France management system ISO14001 and 50001 31-03-22 certifications for Mantu Results X Basic reporting on environmental COP disclosure including 12-12-20 issues environmental topics X Declares alignment with a widely COP based on GRI reporting 12-12-21 recognized reporting standard, but no guidelines supporting documentation available Labor & Human Rights Policies X Inconclusive documentation or only Review of Sustainable 31-12-20 basic policy on some relevant Development Policy including issues [i.e. working conditions, more elements regarding labor diversity, discrimination & & human rights harassment] Actions X Supporting documentation Perform an internal audit on 31-03-21 demonstrates a medium level of labor & human rights topics to coverage of labor and human rights prioritize actions 35 actions throughout the company operations/workforce X No information regarding Make a research on existing 30-04-21 certification of a labor and human charters / certifications on rights management system labor & human rights topics Results X Declares alignment with a widely COP based on GRI reporting 12-12-21 recognized reporting standard, but no guidelines supporting documentation available Ethics Actions X Supporting documentation Perform an internal audit on 31-03-21 demonstrates a medium level of ethics topics to prioritize coverage of ethics actions throughout actions the company operations No supporting documentation Review the content of the 30-06-21 X regarding awareness trainings on existing training corruption X No supporting documentation Perform a corruption risk 31-03-21 regarding corruption risk analysis assessment performed Results X Basic reporting on ethics issues COP disclosure including ethics 12-12-20 topics X Declares alignment with a widely COP based on GRI reporting 12-12-21 recognized reporting standard, but no guidelines supporting documentation available Sustainable procurement Policies X Basic sustainable procurement Review of Sustainable 31-12-20 policies: only basic statements or Development Policy including lacks details on specific issues more elements regarding sustainable procurement Actions X No information on on-site audits of Perform a suppliers risk 31-03-21 suppliers on CSR issues assessment to determine the necessity to realize on-site audits on CSR issues Results X Basic reporting on sustainable COP including sustainable 12-12-21 procurement issues procurement topics X Declares alignment with a widely COP based on GRI reporting 12-12-21 recognized reporting standard, but no guidelines supporting documentation available 36 REFERENCES Association, A. B. (Director). (Dec 2011). Neuroscience [Motion Picture]. Retrieved from www.youtube.com/watch?v=kzz5Ae-Jq0s Dovin, A. (Mar. 2018). “Unconscious Bias Training: an Assessment of the Evidence for Effectiveness.”. Equality and Human Rights Commission. Retrieved from www.equalityhumanrights.com/en/publication-download/unconscious-biastraining-assessment-evidence-effec EcoVadis. (2018). EcoVadis CSR Methodology Oview and Principles. Retrieved from https://www.ecovadissurvey.com/MediaAssets/8_InformationResources/EcoVadis%20CSR%20Methodolo gy%20Overview%20and%20Principles.pdf UN Economist Network . (2020). Shaping the Trends of Our Time. United Nations. Retrieved from https://www.un.org/development/desa/publications/wpcontent/uploads/sites/10/2020/10/20-124-UNEN-75Report-ExecSumm-ENREVISED.pdf 37
