Focus on rare diseases Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Contents Introduction This is Sobi 2 Year in brief 4 From the CEO 6 Market 8 Business overview Business model 10 Strategy and objectives 11 Haematology 12 Immunology 15 Specialty Care 17 Geographical expansion 18 Research & Development 20 Sustainability 22 Financial overview Investment case 26 The share 28 Five-year summary 30 Reporting Directors’ report 32 Financial statements 46 Notes 56 Corporate governance Letter from the Chairman 93 Corporate Governance Report 94 Auditor’s report on the Corporate Governance statement 101 The Board 102 Executive Committee 104 Auditor’s report 106 Sustainability Sustainability notes 110 GRI Index 117 Auditor’s report on the statutory ­Sustainability statement 120 Additional information 2020 Annual General Meeting 121 Definitions 122 Glossary 123 This is Sobi’s Annual and Sustainability Report 2019. The audited Annual Report includes pages 32–92. The Sustainability Report is found on pages 22–25, 40–45 and 110–119 and ­consists of the Company and the Group’s legally ­required ­sustainability report according to the Annual Accounts Act, 6 chap. 11. The report also con­stitutes our reporting to the UN Global Compact, Communication on Progress. Rare strength An international biopharmaceutical company specialising in rare diseases We bring something rare to rare diseases – the strength of focus, the power of partnership and the agility to innovate. We believe in the potential of the people we are dedicated to serving. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 1 This is Sobi This is Sobi At Sobi, we are transforming life for people with rare ­diseases. As an international biopharmaceutical company, we provide access to innovative treatments in the areas of haematology, immunology and specialty care. • Two therapeutic areas – Haematology and Immunology – and a portfolio of products within Specialty Care • A strong portfolio of on-market products, and an extensive portfolio of pre-market assets • Our extended half-life factor replacement treatments Elocta® and Alprolix® are the most prescribed treatments for haemophilia A and B respectively in several markets • We put our focus where we can have the greatest impact, in late-stage research and ­development, and in patient access and commercialisation • Global Head Office in ­Stockholm, Sweden, with offices in more than 30 countries, delivering ­treatments to patients in more than 70 countries • The Sobi share (STO:SOBI) is listed in the Large Cap segment on Nasdaq Stockholm. 14,248 Total revenue, SEK million 1,335 35% 6,145 Number of Increase in Adjusted EBITA, employees (FTE) haemophilia SEK million patients 2 T his is S obi With the acquisitions made over the past two years our pre-market portfolio has never been stronger. Haematology Immunology Avatrombopag1 – CIT, ITP (EU) Emapalumab4 – secondary HLH BIVV0012 – haemophilia A Emapalumab4 – new indications Pre-market BIVV0023 – haemophilia B Anakinra5 – indication expansion Nirsevimab6 (MEDI8897) – RSV Elocta – haemophilia A Gamifant®4 – primary HLH (US) On-market Alprolix – haemophilia B Synagis® – RSV (US) Doptelet®1 – ITP (US), CLD Kineret®5 1. Avatrombopag – approved as Doptelet for thrombocytopenia in chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) and chronic liver disease (CLD) in the US. Approved in EU for CLD but not yet launched. Under investigation for chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia (CIT). 2. Developed in collaboration with Sanofi. 3. Sobi has elected to add the BIVV002 programme to the collaboration agreement with Sanofi but has not yet opted in. 4. Emapalumab – approved as Gamifant in the US for primary haemaphagocytic lymphohystiocytosis (HLH). 5. Anakinra – approved as Kineret in the US and in the EU for several autoinflammatory diseases. 6. Nirsevimab (MEDI8897), a follow-on compound to Synagis for respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). Recent acquisitions provide better balance Total revenue and adjusted EBITA The creation of a strong second SEK M leg in Immunology balances 15,000 12,000 our success in haemophilia, 9,000 while expansion in North 6,000 America during 2019 3,000 strengthens our revenue 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 base outside Europe. Total revenue Adjusted EBITA Revenue per geographic region Revenue per business area SEK M SEK M 10,000 8,000 7,000 8,000 6,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 2,000 1,000 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Europe North America Rest of the world Haematology Immunology Specialty Care 3 Year in brief Year in brief Our growth journey continued at speed during 2019 as significant acquisitions drove the ongoing transformation of the company. A sharper R&D focus, broader geographical footprint and two strong therapeutic areas position us well for continued strong growth. We continue to deliver on our strategy Expand within Grow within Continue Strengthen R&D Haematology Immunology to expand pipeline with geographically late-stage assets Sobi completed the acquisition of Synagis, significantly expanding operations in the US. Sobi acquired emapalumab and related assets, giving Sobi access to additional competence within the immunology field. Sobi discontinued its early-phase R&D operations in order to focus on late-stage R&D projects within the core areas of haematology and immunology. Sobi acquired Dova Pharmaceuticals, creating a global growth platform in haematology. The acquisition provided Sobi with Doptelet (avatrombopag), a second-generation small-molecule thrombopotein receptor (TPO) agonist used in the treatment of thrombocytopenia by increasing platelet count. Sobi entered into an expanded agreement with Sanofi to exercise early opt-in for the development and commercialisation of BIVV001, an investigational extended half-life factor VIII therapy with the potential to provide extended protection from bleeds with once-weekly dosing for people with haemophilia A. The first patient was dosed in the phase 3 study with BIVV001 for the treatment of haemophilia A. The FDA grants orphan drug designation for avatrombopag as a candidate for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia (CIT). Sobi established a presence in Asia with office and staff in China. 4 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Year in brief 56%Revenue growth 72% Adjusted EBITA growth Revenue per geographic region Revenue per business area » The year ended on a high note with strong organic growth as well as new assets added to the portfolio. « n Europe 64% n North America 32% n Haematology 54% n Immunology 33% n Rest of the world 4% n Specialty Care 13% Key figures SEK M 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total revenue 3,228 5,204 6,511 9,139 14,248 Gross profit 2,007 3,651 4,657 6,723 10,913 Gross margin1, % 62 70 72 74 77 Operating expenses 1,861 2,518 3,057 3,601 6,430 EBITA1 433 1,543 2,053 3,571 5,933 Adjusted EBITA1,2 433 1,543 2,053 3,571 6,145 EBIT 146 1,133 1,600 3,122 4,533 Profit/loss for the year 83 802 1,149 2,418 3,304 Earnings per share, SEK 0.31 2.99 4.27 8.97 11.29 Earnings per share, SEK adjusted1,2,3 0.31 2.99 4.27 8.97 11.89 Cash flow from operations 507 343 1,333 2,090 3,634 Equity per share1,2,3 SEK 17.3 19.8 24.6 33.1 56.4 Equity assets ratio, % 56 54 61 53 37 Dividend 0 0 0 0 0 No. of employees (full-time equivalents) 702 760 800 902 1,335 1. Alternative Performance Measures (APMs). 2. EBITA full-year 2019 excluding non-recurring items; transaction costs related to the acquisition of Dova of SEK 92 M, restructuring costs of SEK 157 M and gain from divestment of SOBI005 of SEK 37 M. 3. EPS full-year 2019 excluding impairment of intangible assets of SEK 18 M related to restructuring. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 5 F r o m t h e C EO Increasing speed The transformation of Sobi accelerated during 2019, with the acquisition of Dova Pharmaceuticals, the closing of the Novimmune acquisition and the first year of Synagis sales, as well as significant progress with our core brands Elocta, Alprolix and Kineret. In addition, we have been able to advance important assets in our pipeline. 2019 was a rewarding year in which we Haematology increasing platelet count. We look formade major progress in every area of our While extending the scope of our former ward to bringing this important medicine strategy. We ended the year as a stronger haemophilia business to the broader to more people around the world. company with a broader geographical area of Haematology, we believe in the footprint and exceptional value in both strengths of our existing core products Immunology our on-market and pre-market port­ Elocta and Alprolix. The continued In Immunology, we have created a folios. strong growth for both products justifies strong second leg to balance our We are proud to have access to five our belief that factor replacement outstanding success in haemophilia. material growth drivers in our portfolio. remains a mainstay of treatment for All three products in our Immunology These have the potential to transform haemophilia, and I am confident that portfolio performed well during 2019. the outlook of our company based on we will continue to grow significantly in • We completed our acquisition of launch performance and indication haemophilia based on greater patient emapalumab and all related assets, expansion, see below. access and internationalisation. and integrated the emapalumab Our success during 2019 led to total Our decision to opt in early to the organisation into Sobi during 2019. revenue of SEK 14,248 M, up 56 per cent development of BIVV001, a novel Launched in the US at the beginning on 2018 (48 per cent at CER), and investigational factor VIII therapy, shows of 2019 as Gamifant, emapalumab has adjusted EBITA1,2 of SEK 6,145 M. our ongoing commitment to the field of performed well. Sales have however Organic growth adjusted for Synagis haemophilia. Promising early data shows been volatile during this period, which and ­Doptelet amounted to 20 per cent. the potential for BIVV001 to provide is common for products in ultra-rare We now have two core therapeutic extended protection from bleeds with diseases. Gamifant is currently under areas, Haematology and Immunology, once-weekly dosing for people with investigation in other markets and in both of which are growing strongly. haemophilia A. other indications including secondary We completed our acquisition of Dova HLH. 1. Alternative Performance Measures (APMs), see page 122. Pharmaceuticals in November, reinforc• Synagis is flourishing under our care. 2. EBITA full-year 2019 excluding non-recurring items; ing our Haematology portfolio with the After we acquired the US rights, and transaction costs related to the acquisition of Dova in Q4 of SEK 92 M, restructuring costs of SEK 157 M in Q2 and Dova asset Doptelet which is used in the entire Synagis team agreed to join gain from divestment of SOBI005 in Q1 of SEK 37 M. the treatment of thrombocytopenia by Sobi, we strengthened the field force during 2019, and intensified efforts to extend protection against RSV to even more children. Key growth drivers • Kineret continues to deliver double1. Gamifant – in launch phase in primary 3. Kineret – expanding into new indicadigit growth in both North America HLH (haemophagocytic lymphohistiotions and improving absolute growth. and the EMENAR region (Europe, cytosis) in the US, phase 3 in secondary 4. BIVV001 – phase 3 study now under ­Middle East, Northern Africa and HLH, and further internationalisation. way. Sobi has the rights for Europe, the Russia). Extensive scientific interest 2. Doptelet – launch phase in chronic Middle East and North Africa. in potential new indications shows liver disease (CLD) and immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) in the US, phase 3 that it holds much promise for years in chemotherapy-induced thromboto come. cytopenia (CIT), and further expansion into international markets. 6 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 F r o m t h e C EO »With several launches in new markets and new indications to accelerate our growth journey, 2020 will be when we turn potential into value for our stakeholders.« Geographical expansion We have long seen North America as a strategically important market for Sobi. Including the additions of Dova and Synagis, we have built our workforce in the US and Canada from 54 to 420 in just two years, giving us the scale we need to build our position in the largest rare disease market in the world. With the addition of Gamifant and Doptelet to our portfolio, we have two new products with a global scope, which will allow us to expand into new terri­ tories and new indications. The establishment of our office in China in early 2020 is the first step of our exploration of the Asian market. In a shift in our research & development, we took the decision to discontinue early research and focus instead SEK 15,000–16,000 M, reflecting expected 2019 was a year of transformation for on late-stage development. Combined double-­digit growth in each of the two Sobi. As our growth journey continues, with our acquisitions over the past few core businesses, Haematology and I see 2020 as a year when we turn poten­ years, we now have a strong late-stage Immunology. EBITA is expected to be tial into value for our stakeholders. With pipeline. These pre-market assets should in the range of SEK 5,500–6,300 M, COVID-19 posing a major challenge allow us to maintain a high pace of including the development and launch for societies around the world, we will launches in new indications and new of Doptelet which will affect EBITA negcontinue to do our best to protect the markets over the coming years, which atively by around SEK 500 M in 2020. interests of the many people around also delivers on our mission and sustainI am pleased to confirm that we the world who rely on us. Our ambition ability commitment to enable access to continue to support the ten principles is that investments in 2020 will lay the treatments. of the United Nations Global Compact in foundations for continued annual douWith our strong revenue growth, and the areas of human rights, labour, envible-digit growth in Haematology and as profitability generated by both new ronment and anti-corruption, and that Immunology in the medium term. In the and established products continues we are committed to making the Global slightly longer term, both Doptelet and to generate substantial cash flow, we Compact and its principles part of our Gamifant have the potential to generate expect to expand both organically and strategy, culture and daily operations. peak sales of more than USD 500 M. through acquisition. Investments in 2019 Yes, 2019 was an exciting year, but were debt-financed but given the strong not without its challenges. I wish to Guido Oelkers cash-flow generation we should be able thank everyone working at Sobi for their Chief Executive Officer to restore our financial position quickly. efforts every day to make a difference for Revenue for the full-year 2020 ­people with rare diseases. I am proud to is expected to be in the range of be part of this team. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 7 Market The rare disease market There are thought to be around 6,000 rare diseases, affecting a total of 300 million people around the world1. Yet around 95 per cent of rare diseases still do not have any approved treatment option2. High unmet medical need Many physicians may never have seen a Fast track An estimated 75 per cent of identified specific rare condition before and, as a Because of the challenges, and the rare diseases affect children, often with result, many cases can go undiagnosed high unmet medical need in most rare a devastating effect on life expectancy for years. diseases, government authorities such as and quality of life. Around 30 per cent of the US Food & Drug Administration (FDA) children diagnosed with a rare disease Rare challenges and the European Medicines Agency will not live to see their fifth birthday. The rare disease landscape presents spe(EMA) have put measures in place to The severe nature of many rare cific scientific, medical and commercial encourage pharmaceutical companies diseases often leads to high levels of challenges. These include understanding to develop treatments for rare diseases distress for patients and their families, the biology of little-known diseases, and reduce the time it takes for the treatwith an accompanying high treatment developing the complex biopharmaceuments to reach patients. burden. tical processes to manufacture a drug, In small studies, the process can be Many rare diseases are inherited rather designing and running clinical studies accelerated if a candidate treatment than acquired, and involve a defect in in extremely small patient populations, demonstrates transformative results for the genes that instruct our bodies how navigating new regulatory pathways, study patients. Both the FDA and EMA to work3. As a result, the body may fail to and working with healthcare profescan allow such breakthrough therapies produce an essential enzyme or protein, sionals to improve diagnosis of diseases to be fast-tracked through the approval for example, or immune defences may that most doctors may see only once in process, providing priority review proattack its own systems. a lifetime. cedures. Because they are often genetic disorThe term “orphan drugs” describes Being the first to bring a new orphan ders, rare diseases tend to be lifelong. In medicines designed to treat diseases so therapy to patients can also have advansuch cases, treatment often focuses on rare that companies would be reluctant tages. With comparatively few comparesolving the problems caused by the to develop them under normal market nies working in the area, first movers defective gene, alleviating symptoms conditions. can gain a sustainably high market share and allowing the person to live a more in an orphan indication. Regulatory normal life. 8 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Market authorities can also grant a company Treatments reaching more people are under-served by their healthcare market exclusivity for a specific time. Advances in scientific knowledge are systems – are increasingly becoming The nature of rare diseases, and the allowing the industry to identify and empowered to pursue treatments that complex nature of biopharmaceutical develop new treatments for more of can improve their lives. therapies in particular, make the rare those 6,000 or so rare diseases that have In many countries with less-develdisease space less attractive for generic been identified. In the US, the 21 orphan oped healthcare systems, improving or biosimilar competitors. drugs approved by the FDA6 in 2019 repfinances and better infrastructure are The price of orphan drugs is relatively resented 44 per cent of total novel-drug also allowing the expansion of screening high compared with other treatments approvals, while in Europe, orphan drugs programmes that can detect rare distargeting larger patient populations, accounted for approximately 12 per cent eases. In many cases, early diagnosis while the total cost to the healthcare of total positive opinions in 20197. and treatment can prevent long-term system is relatively small, particularly The small size of rare disease popinjury and decreased quality of life. considering the transformative value that ulations, and the often high levels of orphan drugs bring to patients4. engagement among patients, families and treaters, also stimulate the uptake Rapidly growing market of new treatments. Such closely What is a rare disease? In 2018, the size of the orphan drugs connected, well-informed disease In Europe, a rare disease is defined market was USD 131 billion and it is communities share information about as one affecting fewer than one projected to reach USD 242 billion by novel therapies, and better informed person per 2,000. In the US, the 2024, with a compound annual growth patients feel more able to discuss possiOrphan Drug Act of 1983 defines a rate (CAGR) of 12.3 per cent5. This is ble new treatments with their physicians. rare disease as a condition affectdouble the growth rate estimated for Many people with rare diseases – who ing fewer than 200,000 people. the non-orphan market. histo­rically have been and often still Worldwide orphan drug sales & share of prescription drug market (2016–2024) Worldwide orphan drug market growth USD bn % High unmet need: Approximately 6,000 rare Forecast diseases globally – around 95 per cent have 25 1,400 no approved treatment. 1,200 +12.3% CAGR 2019–24 20 Attractive opportunity: Rare disease thera1,000 peutics can generally command a higher 15 price due to the transformative value they 800 offer to small patient populations. 600 10 Shorter time to market: Multiple ways to speed up R&D projects (including orphan 400 development designation, priority review by 5 FDA and EMA, conditional approvals in case 200 of unmet medical needs). 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Limited competition: Few companies are active in orphan indications – translating to Prescription excl. generics and orphan Generics Orphan sustainably high share for first entrants. Orphan drug sales as a percentage of prescription sales Limited generic threat: Orphan drugs are less Compound annual growth rate (CAGR) – orphan drug market likely to face generic competition because of Source: EvaluatePharma Orphan Drug Report 2019. their biological nature, and are less attractive targets for biosimilars because of the small patient population. 1. www.rarediseaseday.org/article/what-is-a-rare-disease 5. EvaluatePharma® Orphan Drug Report 2019 2. Global Genes, www.globalgenes.org 6. www.fda.gov/media/134493/download 3. ËURORDIS, www.eurordis.org 7. www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/report/human-medicines-highlights-2019_en.pdf 4. www.rarediseases.org/updated-study-analyzes-use-and-cost-of-orphan-drugs/ S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 9 Business model Business model Sobi’s business model spans from late-stage clinical research to commercialisation. An integrated, patient-centric model several companies to provide access to Ensuring that patients never risk going Across the entire value chain, Sobi works innovative treatments to patients. without their medicine is of the utmost in close dialogue with stake­holders such importance. That is why we have built as patient organisations, healthcare sysCommercialisation and patient access up robust delivery and distribution tems, government authorities and payers We work in cross-functional teams processes and systems that cover all our in order to transform life for people living bringing together our many disciplines. markets. with rare diseases. By bringing patient access specialists in Responsible pricing is vital in ensuring as early as possible into development access to treatment. It requires us to From late-stage R&D to the patient projects, approval applications and pricbalance the roles of a sustainable comSobi’s value chain spans from late-stage ing negotiations, for example, we can pany with being a sustainable part of a clinical research and development to get treatment to patients more quickly. healthcare system. Through continuous commercialisation and patient access to Our commercial and medical teams, dialogue with rare-disease stakeholders, treatments. Our strengths include evaluatas well as those in R&D, work together we can ensure that we continue to ing and developing late-stage projects, with healthcare professionals, external provide treatments to patients efficiently commercialisation and getting treatments researchers and other stakeholders and responsibly. to the patients as quickly as possible. to increase understanding of patients’ In all pricing negotiations, we take into and healthcare professionals’ changing account the following basic principles: Partnership and cooperation needs. This leads to insights into needs medical need, the benefit the innovaBy combining our strengths with those that we continuously feed back into tion brings to patients, benefits for the of our collaboration partners, we shape the system to improve our treatments healthcare system, and the cost required unique opportunities to create value and systems. This also allows us to see, to continue innovation and meet future within the rare disease landscape. We for example, how new formulations medical needs. see partnership as essential in our efforts or support systems can better meet to provide sustainable access to treatpatient needs. ment all around the world. We work with Sobi business model A continuous dialogue with patients, patient associations, healthcare providers, regulators and payers to make products and treatments Patient and available to patients community value Ongoing operational efficiency improvements Commercialisation and Financial value Developing and evaluating projects making treatments (cash flow) in late clinical stage available to patients Partnerships and acquisitions 10 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 St r at e g y a n d o b j e ct i v e s Strategy and objectives Our strategy established in 2017 remains in place, with ­refinements reflecting the evolution of the company. Expand within Grow within Continue Strengthen R&D Haematology Immunology to expand pipeline with geographically late-stage assets Vision We have established a strong second see address unmet medical needs and Our vision is to be recognised as a global leg in Immunology, where we have have great potential market value. We leader in providing innovative treatments three growing products with significant now have a significant stock of pre-marthat transform life for people living with potential for further expansion. Work will ket assets under development, which rare diseases. intensify in order to extract maximum will provide new therapies for launch in value from these products. And we conboth the short and medium term. Strategy and objectives tinue to search for new products for the We continue to deliver on our strategy Immunology portfolio. Sustainable growth which was first put in place in 2017. We continue to expand geographiSobi’s strategy for sustainable growth We aim to grow within Haematology. cally. Our North American operations is closely linked to our commitment to Building on our success over the past have grown from 54 staff to 420 in just provide access to treatment for people four years within haemophilia, we over two years, giving us a significant with rare diseases. will continue to expand access to our presence in the world’s single largest Enabling access to treatments is our extended half-life factor replacement rare disease market. We continue to key contribution to sustainable developtreatments Elocta and Alprolix, reaching build up our operations in Europe, the ment. In order to meet this aim, we will more people with haemophilia A and Middle East, North Africa and Russia, and promote a balance between: B in more countries. Within the larger we have taken a first step into Asia with • Making a commitment to patients to scope of Haematology, we will work to the establishment of an office in China. ensure and expand access realise the potential of our new product We continue to strengthen our R&D • Providing effective treatments that Doptelet, taking it to new markets and pipeline. During 2019, we took the decihave favourable safety profiles for new indications. We continue to look for sion to discontinue early-stage research both patients and the environment further external growth opportunities. and focus on late-stage assets that we • Acting responsibly and ethically. FINANCIAL OUTLOOK 2020 Revenue for 2020 is expected to be in the range of SEK 15,000–16,000 M reflecting double-digit growth in each of the two core businesses, ­Haematology and Immunology. EBITA is expected to be in the range of SEK 5,500–6,300 M, including the development and launch of Doptelet which will affect EBITA negatively by around SEK 500 M in 2020. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 11 H a e m at o lo g y Haematology Building on our success in haemophilia, we have expanded the therapeutic area to encompass haematology and create a platform for long-term growth. Haematology includes the diagnosis, A and haemophilia B, respectively. We greater protection at specific times. treatment and prevention of diseases of aim to enable access to our treatments The opportunities available have raised the blood and bone marrow as well as for everyone in our territory – Europe, expectations. For many years, the main the immunological, haemostatic (blood most countries in the Middle East, North goal of treatment has been protection clotting) and vascular systems. It covers Africa and Russia – who has a need. from bleeds. This remains a primary conmore than 100 benign and malignant More people are switching to Elocta sideration, but replacement treatment disorders of the red and white blood and Alprolix. The number of patients has now progressed beyond bleed precells, platelets and coagulation system. using Elocta, for example, has more than vention. People with haemophilia have The science of haematology profoundly doubled since the first quarter of 2017. the right to treatment that suits their lives affects the understanding of many and their own ambitions, rather than diseases. Greater expectations letting their treatment and condition As well as protection from bleeds, EHL limit their dreams. Building a leading position treatments are allowing people with By personalising treatment, a person Our foundation in haemophilia and our haemophilia to expect less pain, better with haemophilia can be certain they track record in getting innovative treattarget joint resolution (halting repetitive have the right level of protection to suit ments to the people who need them bleeds into a specific joint and reversing their lifestyle. position us well to take a leading role in joint damage) and fewer days when they haematology. have to worry about their treatment. BIVV001: breaking barriers for Results from the pivotal phase 3 A-LONG factor treatment Continued growth study and ASPIRE long-term extension In September 2019, we announced • Elocta sales up 38 per cent (34 at CER) study show that weekly prophylactic an expanded agreement with Sanofi • Alprolix sales up 50 per cent (46 at CER) dosing with Elocta has the potential to to exercise an early opt-in for the • Acquired Doptelet provide improved bleed protection over development and commercialisation of episodic treatment, resolve target joints BIVV001, an investigational long-acting Elocta and Alprolix and reduce the treatment burden assoVIII therapy with the potential to provide Together with Sanofi, we provide ciated with more frequent dosing. greater protection from bleeds with Elocta (efmoroctocog alfa) and Alprolix Today’s available EHL treatments once-weekly dosing for people with (eftrenonacog alfa), extended half-life also allow people with haemophilia to haemophilia A. BIVV001 shows the (EHL) recombinant clotting factor personalise their treatment regimes, potential to deliver a new standard of replacement treatments for haemophilia for example increasing factor levels for care by providing near-­normal factor levels for much of the week. In connection with the expansion of the collaboration agreement, a new ­supply contract with Sanofi until 2027 Haemophilia for Elocta and Alprolix has been agreed, Haemophilia is a type of bleeding disorder in which the blood does not clot with the potential for expansion to properly. The worldwide incidence of haemophilia is estimated at more than include BIVV001. 400,000 people, although only around 25 per cent receive adequate treatment1. Haemophilia is caused by lack of a coagulation factor, factor VIII in Doptelet strengthens portfolio haemophilia A and factor IX in haemophilia B. Appropriate management aims to The acquisition of Dova Pharmaceutihelp people with haemophilia to live full, healthy and active lives, with the same cals, which was finalised in November opportunities as anyone else. 2019, has added Doptelet to our Haema­ tology portfolio, in both on-market and 1. www.hemophilia.org/About-Us/Fast-Facts pre-market indications in the area of thrombocytopenia. Although Doptelet 12 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 H a e m at o lo g y 54% of total revenue is used in another part of the clotting (ITP) in adult patients who have had The thrombopoietin (TPO) market is process than the replacement factor an insufficient response to a previous estimated at USD 2 billion, growing by therapies used for haemophilia, many treatment. Doptelet was approved in the 5 per cent, and represents an attractive healthcare professionals treating people EU for CLD in June 2019, and we have commercial opportunity. with haemophilia are also active in the submitted the marketing authorisation Doptelet’s recent US launch for the general area of haematology. application (MAA) for the treatment of treatment of ITP is a first step towards Doptelet was approved by the FDA in ITP in the EU. capturing significant mid-term market May 2018 for the treatment of thromboA phase 3 study of Doptelet in chemoshare. In addition, Doptelet has the cytopenia in adult patients with chronic therapy-induced thrombocytopenia potential to become the first-to-market liver disease (CLD) who are scheduled to (CIT), a common side effect of chemodrug to treat CIT. undergo a procedure, and in June 2019 therapy, is currently underway. for chronic immune thrombocytopenia Total revenue, Haematology Revenue per product, Haematology SEK M SEK M 2019 2018 Change, % 8,000 7,000 Elocta 4,508 3,261 38% 6,000 Alprolix 1,463 974 50% 5,000 Doptelet 34 — N/A 4,000 3,000 Manufacturing1 376 436 –14% 2,000 Royalty2 1,373 1,341 2% 1,000 Total 7,755 6,012 29% 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1. Manufacturing of the drug substance for ReFacto AF®/Xyntha® for Pfizer. 2. Sanofi’s sales of Eloctate and Alprolix. Total revenue S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 13 H a e m at o lo g y Mountains are there to be climbed With personalised treatment, people with haemophilia do not have to let their condition hold them back. Erik, from Sweden, shared the story of his challenge – hiking up Sweden’s tallest mountain – on LiberateLife.eu Theoretical activity level and dosing scenario of a clotting factor 100% Prophylaxis Treatment High-risk surgery, life or 80% limb-threatening bleed Very high impact Major surgery/trauma With factor replacement therapy, Factor VIII Level physical activity1 different activities and measures Minor surgery, major bleeds require different levels of coag50% ulation factor in the blood. Major surgery and very high-impact Treatment period physical activity, for example, after major surgery require factor levels of 50–80 per or ICH cent, while minor surgery requires 30% 15–30 per cent. With personalised Intensive Minor invasive treatment, a person with haemosport procedures, philia can adjust their factor levels ­activities2 post-surgery to ensure they have the right level 15% of protection to suit their activities High-risk activities, patients and lifestyle. who bleed at lower trough levels 5% Untreated severe and moderate haemophilia with risk for spontaneous and severe bleeds. 0% Time Theoretical activity level and dosing scenario of a clotting factor 1. Lorio et al. Haemophilia 2017. 2. Srivastava et al. Haemophilia 2013; a,b discussed, but no consensus reached. 14 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 I m m u n o lo g y Immunology With three strongly growing products that each address high unmet medical needs, our Immunology portfolio represents a new focus that builds on our heritage in rare diseases. Our immune system is essential for Kineret Expanding patient access protecting us from harmful diseases. Yet In the US, a new distribution agreement sometimes the immune system can mal• Sales up 19 per cent (12 per cent is increasing patient access to Kineret, function, underreacting or over­reacting at CER) to SEK 1,571 M. including co-payment programmes to a real or perceived threat. The field of and assistance with reimbursement, immunology has long been at the heart Sales of Kineret (anakinra) continued im­proving adherence and helping of what we do at Sobi, allowing us to to grow strongly in both EMENAR and ­people stay on their treatment longer. gain many years of experience. North America, driven by several factors. Other programmes include injection During 2019, we established ImmuOne key driver is increasing awareness education through in-home nurse visits, nology as its own therapeutic area, of IL-1 as a key mediator of inflammation and in­­creased support for the auto­ providing a strong second leg to balance and scientific interest in Kineret as a inflammatory community. our success in haemophilia and diversify treatment for systemic autoimmune/ Furthermore, in line with our geoour revenue base. Immunology makes autoinflammatory disorders. graphical expansion strategy, we are the most of the strengths we have built investigating taking Kineret into new up in rare diseases and orphan drugs Medical need countries where there is an unmet over the years. Kineret has now been launched for Still’s ­medical need. Building on the success of Kineret, disease in all EU markets, and is reimwe were able to add emapalumab – bursed in almost all. Kineret is approved Steady scientific interest approved as Gamifant in the US – which for Still’s disease in adults and children Researchers and healthcare professionwe acquired in its entirety in June 2019, from the age of eight months as a firstals continue to show significant interest and the US rights to Synagis, acquired in line treatment before the use of steroids in interleukin-1’s role in autoimmune/ 2018 with closing in January 2019. – avoiding the risk of growth retardation, autoinflammatory disease, and the The three products combined provide a common side effect of steroids. effects of anakinra as an IL-1 receptor strong revenue flows as well as extensive The ability to start treatment from as antagonist in blocking the inflammation. potential for future growth. early as eight months is also important This interest has been strengthened considering the risk of organ damage if most recently by EU approval in 2018 of treatment is delayed. Kineret as a treatment for Still’s disease Total revenue, Immunology Revenue per product, Immunology SEK M 5,000 4,000 33% 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 of total revenue Total revenue n Synagis 55% n Kineret 33% n Gamifant 12% S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 15 I m m u n o lo g y in Europe, and building on the underMaterial growth driver ­ edicine for the prevention of serious m standing of the role of IL-1 blockade in We see extensive promise for lower respiratory tract infections caused CAPS. It can be seen in the number of emapalumab beyond the current indiby RSV in high-risk infants, and signifipublications in the IL-1 area and continucation and market, and believe it has cantly reduces the risk of RSV hospitalious requests for investigator-sponsored strong potential to be a material growth sation. The seasonal nature of RSV has a studies (ISS) as well as independent driver. Investigations are beginning in major effect on sales of Synagis, with the studies. areas including secondary HLH and haevast majority of sales taking place during mopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). RSV season which covers the fourth and Gamifant and HLH Patient recruitment is going well in the first quarters of each year. study in secondary HLH in children, • Sales of SEK 542 M and we have started a study in adults. Strong growth The pilot phase of the study in acute Sobi acquired the US rights to Synagis Before 2018, there was no medicine graft failure (HSCT) is scheduled to start from AstraZeneca in 2018, integrating approved for the treatment of primary towards the end of 2020. the Synagis team into our US operations haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis Emapalumab is currently approved during 2019. We have subsequently seen (HLH), a life-threatening syndrome of only in the US, for the treatment of growth above that achieved in prior hyperinflammation. The most comprimary HLH, and is under review by the seasons. We are seeing a high level of mon treatment involved a cocktail of EMA and in other markets. Some patients referrals and good momentum working immuno­suppressant drugs together with in Europe and the Middle East have with institutions as we continue to steroids and chemotherapy, a combinaalready received treatment under early identify high-risk infants who are eligible tion that can have significant side effects, access programmes. for Synagis. ahead of a stem cell transplant. A study Some patients in Canada have also showed a 50–60 per cent survival rate been treated under an early access Additional opportunities among patients with primary HLH, a ­programme, and filing is expected Our investments in expanding the field genetic form of the syndrome which ­during 2020. force and market access continue to predominantly affects children, receiving In line with our strategy of geograph­ deliver additional opportunities for this the traditional therapy. ical expansion, we are beginning important brand, including identifying In November 2018, the FDA approved work on the regulatory pathway for and gaining label coverage for even emapalumab as Gamifant for second-­ emapalumab in China. There is a high more high-risk infants who would line treatment of primary HLH in children unmet medical need in China, which ­benefit from Synagis. and adults, and was subsequently has an accelerated approval path for An extensive campaign for RSV launched in the US. A study published rare diseases. We are also investigating Awareness Month in October 2019 in February 2019 showed 90 per cent other Asian markets. helped raise awareness of RSV ahead survival after stem cell transplant for HLH of the approaching virus season. patients treated with emapalumab.1 Synagis and RSV Supporting diagnosis • Sales of SEK 2,594 M Launch activities have included negotiations on pricing and reimbursement, and RSV, or respiratory syncytial virus, is ensuring supply and distribution. There a common and highly contagious was also a strong focus on education, seasonal virus that is contracted by disease awareness and helping healthnearly all babies by the age of two. In care professionals identify HLH, which most babies, RSV causes only a mild is often misdiagnosed. respiratory infection; however, for some Gamifant sales reached SEK 542 M – especially babies who are considered for the year. The product is still in launch high risk – RSV can develop into a much phase, and sales of products for ultra-­ more serious infection. rare diseases are often initially volatile RSV is the leading cause of hospital due to the limited number of patients admission in infants aged less than and difficulties in obtaining a correct one year in the United States2. Synagis diagnosis. (palivizumab) is the only approved 1. www.sobi.com/en/press-releases/new-emapalumab-data-presented-transplantation-and-cellular-therapy-tct-meeting 2. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5090170/ 16 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 S p e c i a lty C a r e 13% of total revenue Specialty Care portfolio We remain committed to Orfadin® and have also streamlined our ­Specialty Care portfolio in line with our sharpened strategic focus. We remain committed to Orfadin, challenges facing people with HT-1 Streamlining the portfolio which is approved in the US, the EU and during different stages of life. Rather than marketing partner products, several other markets for the treatment With an increase in newborn screen­ where we control a relatively small of hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1), ing in several countries, more patients part of the value chain, we will look in combination with dietary restriction are being diagnosed earlier. The Sobi-­ for opportunities to acquire or wholly of tyrosine and phenylalanine. HT-1 is a patented oral suspension makes treatlicense products focused on rare rare genetic disorder that can cause liver, ment simpler for younger infants. At the diseases or niche indications. This will renal and neurological complications. other end of the scale, the larger 20 mg provide long-term strategic ownership When Orfadin was first launched capsule – which is the only one on the while supporting our strengthened focus in 2002, few patients living with HT-1 market – allows older patients to reduce and increased investments in the areas would celebrate their second birthday1. the number of capsules they have to of Haematology and Immunology. Today, thanks to improved newborn take every day. In conjunction with this adjustment, screening, effective treatment and dieGeneric competition has entered several contracts in the Specialty Care tary management, we are seeing the first some markets for other formulations, portfolio were terminated during 2019, generation of patients with HT-1 reach and sales of Orfadin declined in 2019. including Xiapex® and Ravicti®. an age where they are starting their own We remain strongly committed to the families. HT-1 community and providing life-long Over years of working closely with the treatment with Orfadin and associated HT-1 community, we have continued patient support services. to develop Orfadin to meet the various 1. von Spronsen et al. Hepatology. 1994; 20(5):1187-1191 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 17 G e o g r a p h i c e x pa n s i o n Global expansion powers growth Geographical expansion is taking our treatments to more people and creating new growth opportunities. We see geographical expansion as an Growing in Europe and around To address this unmet need, we estabimportant aspect of our strategy, and are the world lished operations in China in January pursuing it through acquisitions, greater Europe, the Middle East, North Africa 2020. China has accelerated paths to market penetration and by establishing and Russia have traditionally been Sobi’s approval for orphan drugs. operations in new markets. home markets. Even with our growth in With the addition of China, we are Expansion in North America, and in North America, these markets continue now represented in more than 30 the US in particular, is a strategic objecto play a vital role for both our Haemamarkets across North America, Europe, tive. The US represents half of the global tology and Immunology franchises. the Middle East, North Africa, Russia and rare disease market, and a significant In Haematology, we continue to Asia, providing treatment for patients in presence there is a prerequisite for a increase market penetration with our more than 70 countries. global leadership position. extended half-life factor replacement There is significant potential to expand treatments for haemophilia A and B. our global position, with focus on the 15 Strengthened US presence Market share in existing markets conlargest markets representing a majority US growth has been significant, coming tinues to grow: both Elocta and Alprolix of the global market for rare diseases. from acquisitions and organic growth. are the market-leading factor therapies This would allow us to maximise the North America’s share of revenue has in Scandinavia, and in 2019, people growth potential of our pre-market and risen from 14 per cent in early 2018 to with haemophilia in almost 30 counon-market portfolio. 32 per cent at the end of 2019. From 55 tries – including the recent additions of employees there at the start of 2018, we Romania and Hungary – had access to Global supply chain had a total of 420 by the end of 2019. our EHL treatments. We market and sell a wide range of The acquisition of the US rights for products in more than 70 countries. It Synagis in 2018 accelerated the expanNew products for European market is our key responsibility to ensure that sion of our workforce there, with all 133 Doptelet, which became a Sobi asset patients never risk being without their people from the Synagis team joining with the acquisition of Dova, was medication. Sobi when the acquisition was finalised approved in the EU for chronic liver Our global Technical Operations team late that year. The workforce continued disease (CLD) in June 2019, and a launch ensures the sourcing, manufacturing to grow throughout 2019 with the is planned in certain European markets and distribution of compliant products launch of Gamifant as well as reinforceduring 2020. A European filing for the to patients. ment of the Synagis and Kineret teams. chronic immune thrombocytopenia Our supply chain depends on the (ITP) indication has been submitted. qualified services of multiple partners Dova bolsters Haematology In Immunology, we have filed for engaged in manufacturing, testing, storThe acquisition of Dova PharmaceutiEuropean approval of emapalumab ing and finally distributing our products. cals, finalised in November 2019, conas a therapy for primary HLH. Full and often serialised control over the tinued the expansion of our operations Following EMA approval of Kineret as entire chain is vital, as are Good Pharma­ in the US. a treatment for Still’s disease in Europe ceutical Practices to ensure product Based in Durham, North ­Carolina, in 2018, we launched Kineret in this integrity and quality. Dova brought 125 employees to the indication in 17 countries in 2019. Several During 2019, we introduced a team, including specialists in haemapeople with Still’s disease have comResponsible Sourcing Programme to tology, strengthening our infrastructure menced treatment. verify the sustainability of our supply in Haematology and broadening our chain, read more on page 24. competence base in the US. Launching operations in China High unmet medical need has been seen in China in HLH and thrombo­cytopenia. 18 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 G e o g r a p h i c e x pa n s i o n Global presence Patient access Sobi’s operations Sobi’s markets Haematology Immunology Specialty Care »A significant Doptelet Synagis Orfadin presence in the Gamifant Kepivance® USA Kineret United States is a prerequisite for a Elocta Kineret Orfadin Europe Alprolix Partner Products global leadership Doptelet position.« Elocta Kineret Orfadin Middle East Alprolix Gamifant (NPU) 1 Doptelet Rest of the Doptelet 2 Kineret Orfadin world See page 115–116 for full details. 1. NPU – Named patient use. 2. Outlicensed in China. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 19 R e s e a r c h a n d D e v e lo p m e n t Strengthening late-stage pipeline Innovation has been at the heart of Sobi throughout our history. We combine our expertise with that of our partners to find and develop innovative treatments that address significant unmet medical need among people with rare diseases. We see innovation as an essential treatment. The pivotal phase 3 study in (HLH) with refractory, recurrent or element in achieving our vision of being adults started in December 2019. ­progressive disease or intol­­erance for recognised as global leaders in rare conventional HLH treatment. C ­ urrently diseases. We take new treatments to Doptelet under evaluation by the EMA for primary patients, expand our existing products Doptelet is already approved in the HLH, emapalumab is also under investiinto new indications and regions where US and the EU for the treatment of gation for secondary HLH and haemothey address unmet medical need, and thrombocytopenia in adult patients poietic stem cell transplant failure. gather real-world evidence from avail­ with chronic liver disease (CLD) who able products. are scheduled to undergo a procedure, Nirsevimab (MEDI8897) As part of sharpening our strategic and in the US for chronic immune Nirsevimab, developed by Sanofi and focus, our R&D is now concentrated on thrombo­cytopenia (ITP) in adult patients AstraZeneca, has entered phase 3 for the late-stage research within Haematology who have had an insufficient response prevention of respiratory syncytial virus and Immunology. With the acquisitions to a previous treatment. (RSV) in high-risk children and in healthy over the past two years, our pre-market A phase 3 study of Doptelet in chemo­ late preterm and term infants. Nirsev­ portfolio has never been stronger. therapy-induced thrombocytopenia imab is a single-dose extended half-life (CIT), a common side effect of chemoanti-RSV F mAb being developed for Haematology therapy that results in a low number of the prevention of lower respiratory tract platelets, is underway. At present, there infections (LRTI) caused by RSV in all Within Haematology, we added two are no approved drugs to treat CIT. infants entering their first RSV season major new assets to our pipeline during and children with chronic lung disease 2019: BIVV001, an investigational Elocta and Alprolix or congenital heart disease entering long-acting factor VIII treatment with Several phase 4 studies (some in their first and second RSV season. It has potential to provide greater protection partnership with Sanofi) of Elocta and been engineered to have a long half-life from bleeds with once-weekly dosing Alprolix, our extended half-life factor so that only one dose will be needed for people with haemo­­philia A; and replacement therapies for haemophilia for the entire RSV season. Sobi has the Doptelet, a second-genera­tion small-­ A and B respectively, are gathering realrights to 50 per cent of future US earnmolecule thrombopoietin receptor world evidence of safety and efficacy. ings of nirsevimab. ­agonist used in treatment of thrombo­ cytopenia by increasing platelet count. Immunology Kineret We continue to investigate Kineret BIVV001 Within Immunology, emapalumab – a (anakinra), which still attracts much We see BIVV001 as having the potential monoclonal antibody (mAb) that binds ­scientific interest nearly 20 years after to deliver a new standard of care for and neutralises interferon gamma – is it was first described as an interleukin-1 people with haemophilia A. By adding a key focus. Emapalumab was approved (IL-1) receptor antagonist. IL-1 blockade BIVV001 to our collaboration agreement in the US in 2018 for adult and paediatric is one of the oldest biological therapies, with Sanofi, we are taking an active role (newborn and older) patients with primary yet use continues to rise as the role in the development of this potential haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis of IL-1 activation is being recognised 20 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 R e s e a r c h a n d D e v e lo p m e n t in a wide spectrum of inflammatory Potential new indications Filing to follow successful trial disorders, from gout to cancer. As well Anakinra has also been under investigaSobi has applied for EMA approval of as investigator-sponsored studies, tion in other IL-1 related illnesses. an extended indication for Orfadin for researchers are also carrying out their • Deficiency of interleukin-1 recepthe treatment of alkaptonuria (AKU) own trials without Sobi’s involvement. tor antagonist (DIRA), a rare and after positive results on efficacy without Approved in several countries for IL-1 life-threatening autoinflammatory safety concerns from the phase 3 study related illnesses, Kineret was approved in disease. SONIA 2. 2018 for Still’s disease in Europe. A study • Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is AKU was the first identified human in Still’s disease in the US was halted due an inherited disorder manifested by genetic disease and is said to be the to recruitment issues, but based on the episodic fevers, often with pain in the birth of human genetics. It is a serious, convincing results we plan to file for FDA abdomen, joints or chest, and rash in ­autosomal recessive, multisystem approval in Still’s disease. the lower extremities. disorder affecting around one in every 250,000 to 1 million people, although prevalence is higher in some countries. For more information, visit DevelopAKUre.eu Our innovation pipeline as per 25 March 2020 Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Registration NI-17011 Gamifant/emapalumab BIVV001/ Gamifant/emapalumab Anti-CD47/CD19 Secondary HLH/ rFVIIIFc-vWF-XTEN 2 Primary HLH (EU) R/R B cell lymphoma macrophage activation Haemophilia A FILING SUBMITTED syndrome (MAS) children Gamifant/emapalumab Kineret/anakinra Secondary HLH adults Familial Mediterranean Open for enrolment Fever (FMF) (EU) FILING SUBMITTED Haematology Immunology MEDI8897/ Kineret/anakinra Specialty Care nirsevimab3 Deficiency of IL-1 receptor RSV prevention antagonist (DIRA) (US) 1. Financial interest only. FILING PLANNED IN 2020 2. Developed in collaboration with Sanofi. 3. Nirsevimab is under development by Sanofi and AstraZeneca. Sobi has rights to 50 per cent of US earnings. Doptelet/avatrombopag Orfadin/nitisinone Chemotherapy-induced Alkaptonuria (EU) thrombocytopenia (CIT) FILING SUBMITTED IN 2020 In collaboration with Sanofi, Sobi is also conducting two phase 4 studies – reITIrate and verITI8, for Doptelet/avatrombopag immune tolerance induction (ITI) Chronic immune in patients with haemophilia A thrombocytopenia (ITP) (EU) FILING SUBMITTED IN 2020 who have developed inhibitors. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 21 S u s ta i n a b i l i ty Sustainability Our commitment to provide access to treatment for people with rare diseases is our main contribution to sustainable development. Access to treatment and policies aimed at creating a One of the most important ways in Our sustainability strategy consists of sustain­able organisation purposed to which we work with the community is three key areas aimed at increasing serve the community. in patient access, ensuring access to patient access to treatment: treatment for people with rare diseases • Supporting the rare disease comSobi has been a signatory to the UN through the healthcare system. Patient munity through our commitment to Global Compact since 2017 1, and we access involves negotiations and dispatients and working actively with conduct our business in a manner concussions with healthcare and regulatory pricing, reimbursement, knowledge sistent with the principles of the Global authorities, payers, treaters and patient sharing, regulatory approvals and Compact. We report our sustainability organisations. market expansion. performance within the framework of • Providing effective treatments that the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), in Pricing and reimbursement have a favourable safety profile for accordance with the Core option. Social, economic and healthcare priorboth patients and the environment. ities are different in every country, and This is achieved by following high Commitment to patients each assesses medicines in different pharmaceutical standards, and Throughout our history, we have worked ways based on its local priorities, context undertaking initiatives to promote with the rare disease community to and philosophy. Sobi works with each responsible sourcing and greater provide access to innovative treatments. country on an individual basis to find environmental responsibility. We continue this cooperation across a appropriate solutions to reach patients. • Acting ethically and responsibly wide range of areas, and see it as vital for Pricing and reimbursement are two in everything we do, through high the future. essential areas of enabling patient research standards, business ethics access. Several factors must be taken into account when pricing a medicine. At Sobi we follow a value-based Sustainability strategy pricing approach. The price of our medicines should represent the benefit that the innovation delivers to patients living with rare diseases, to healthcare systems, payers and to societies. A successful pricing strategy supports further investment in innovation so that we can continue to meet the needs of patients in the future. Commitment to patients In some markets, patient access to treatments may be limited by the lack or complexity of reimbursement processes. We have several initiatives in place to Access to support patients and doctors to gain access. One such programme is treatment KINERET ON TRACK2 in the US. Safety for Ethical and Knowledge sharing patients and responsible Each rare disease is so uncommon in its environment behaviour nature that knowledge about the disease is often rare too. It is not uncommon that a rare diagnosis is delayed. Understanding the patient experience of living with a rare disease can provide 1. www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/112201-Swedish-Orphan-Biovitrum-AB-publ2. www.kineretrx.com/nomid/kineret-on-track 22 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 S u s ta i n a b i l i ty important information and in­­crease knowledge of disease burden and Contributing to UN’s Sustainable Development Goals treatment possibilities. In 2018, Sobi commissioned an ethnographic study of Sobi is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and is committed over 50 people living with haemophilia to supporting the principles it outlines. We have identified the in Europe. SDGs that we can help to achieve. By sharing the data from this study with patient organisations, treaters and Goal 3: Good Health and Wellbeing payers, we hope to increase understandThrough our day-to-day operations we provide treatments to patients ing not only of the challenges facing with rare diseases and work to expand access in our markets and beyond. people living with haemophilia but also of the opportunities. Several organisaGoal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production tions have received presentations on the We continuously monitor and improve the environmental performance of key findings, and a congress poster was our operations and we work with our supply chain to promote a common presented in October 2019. We intend Code of Conduct, implement screening processes to promote good practo publish more detailed manuscripts tices and improve our sustainability reporting. in 2020. Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals We support the research commuWe believe in working in partnerships – with patient organisations, through nity with grants and other forms of industry initiatives, research consortia and healthcare authorities – to create assistance. During 2019, we launched a greater impact in the rare disease space. the Sobi Scientific Innovation Awards, recognising innovation and scientific Follow our progress towards each of these SDGs in the Sustainability Notes excellence by both established and on pages 110–114. up-and-coming researchers. The inaugural awards focused on haemophilia research, with prizes for clinical and pre-clinical work. 160,000 acute bleed treat­ments, leading Another example of innovative strategies During the year, we have also been a to major improvements in quality of life to increase access to treatments is the sponsor of FYMCA, a medical education for thousands of people.2 European Haemophilia Consortium’s organisation that develops improved Acknowledging that donations do not (EHC) Procurement of Affordable rare-disease education and services for provide sustainable or long-term access Replacement Therapies Network of the developing world.1 to treatment in recipient countries, we European Relevant Stakeholders – the strive to transform donations to access PARTNERS programme, which Sobi supInnovative access strategies within the regulated healthcare system ports. The PARTNERS programme aims In terms of access outside our key where possible. One example of this is to increase access to replacement thermarkets, our largest single contribution, the achievement of sustainable access apies in countries that provide little or together with our partner Sanofi, is the to treatment for hereditary tyrosinaemia no such treatment to their haemophilia 2015 pledge to donate up to 1 billion (HT-1) treatment in Palestine. Sobi has patients. The EHC estimates that more international units (IUs) of extended been donating Orfadin for the treatment than 5,000 people with haemophilia half-life coagulation factor replacement of HT-1 in Palestine for more than 20 could benefit from the programme.3 for use in developing countries over ten years. During 2019, after constructive years. During the first five years, 500 discussions between Sobi, the Palestinmillion IUs have been earmarked for ian Ministry of Health and the treating distribution through the World Federaphysician in Palestine, the Ministry of tion of Hemophilia (WFH) Humanitarian Health was able to take over responsiAid Program. The donation has so far bility and funding for existing and future reached more than 17,200 people in 40 HT-1 patients, ensuring true sustainable countries, enabling 2,322 surgeries and access. 1. www.fymcamedical.com 2. www.wfh.org/en/wfh-humanitarian-aid-program 3. www.ehc.eu/partners/ S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 23 S u s ta i n a b i l i ty Safety for patients and the environment Environmental responsibility Business travel is an area where we Sobi follows pharmaceutical regulations Sobi’s environmental impact is attributed are working to find ways to reduce our and standards governing the safe proto direct and indirect activities, through greenhouse gas emissions. We believe duction and monitoring of treatments. our own operations and through that less travel will benefit not only the We set high standards in regards to the sourced activities. Due to our business planet but also our employees. During safety of our treatments for patients. model, an extensive proportion of our the year, we expanded the ability for staff To ensure treatments also are safe impact arises from the activities we to use video-conferencing facilities in for the environment and responsibly source from our contract manufacturers. order to reduce travel between offices. produced, we took several initiatives Environmental impacts from producin 2019. tion, either in-house or outsourced, are Ethical and responsible behaviour mainly derived from the use of energy, We aim to always act ethically and Responsible sourcing water, chemicals, generated waste and require the highest ethical standards of With a largely outsourced supply chain, discharge of sewage. We work actively our employees. In line with the growth we rely on sustainable and robust supto phase out chemicals that may be Sobi is undergoing, we continuously pliers to produce, package and distribute harmful to the environment or human review and adopt our policies and our products. health. Chemicals legislation is extensive systems to ensure that we continue In 2019, we introduced a Responand continuously expanding; all hanto maintain our high standards. Our sible Sourcing Programme, including dling of chemicals in our laboratories employees receive regular training on the introduction of a Partner Code of and manufacturing processes therefore appropriate conduct. In 2019, 95 per Conduct and screening of sustainability follows strict instructions. cent of our employees completed the aspects, starting January 2020. The Our greenhouse gas emissions arise mandatory anti-corruption, drug safety screening involves ensuring compliance from areas such as energy consumption, and Code of Conduct training. with standards in the areas of managebusiness travel, logistics within the To support the specific area of comment, labour and human rights, and envisupply chain and distribution of our pliance in healthcare interactions, a ronmental responsibility. In 2020, our aim products. Healthcare Interactions Portal was made is to include the Partner Code of Conduct We continuously monitor and evaluavailable in 2019, providing guidance in all new agreements, to introduce our ate the energy and water consumption and assistance for all staff. top 100 partners to the Code and to of our production facility. The electricity Ethical behaviour is promoted through initiate screening of their operations. consumed at the Stockholm plant is our company values and our Code of Sobi also became a member of the entirely a mix of certified renewable Conduct. Sobi’s five core values are Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative energy sources. The impact of our aimed at ensuring that more patients (PSCI) in 2019. manu­facturing plant in Stockholm, benefit from our therapies, both now Sweden, is described in detail on and in the future. See the illustration pages 110–112. below. Sobi’s core values Care We are who we are because of our dedication, knowlers own hip edge and passion. Care is the foundation upon which our strategy, our business and our culture are built. Ownership It is our duty to act. We therefore encourage intra­ preneurship and learn from our experiences. ambition urgency Urgency We need to embrace a sense of urgency, while safe­ guarding our standards, because patients cannot wait. care Partnership We embrace partnerships and collaboration, both within Sobi and with external partners and ­stakeholders. Ambition par tn ers hip We set ourselves ambitious goals and do our utmost to achieve them. 24 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 We are who we are because of our dedication, ­knowledge and passion. Responsible employer and inclusive workplace with equal introducing new e ­ mployees to Sobi’s Our workforce is essential for our ability development opportunities for all. culture and values. Our corporate values to deliver on our strategy. At the end In 2019, activities were focused on are actively promoted within our organof 2019, we had 1,335 highly skilled supporting Sobi’s strategic shift and inteisation and lived by our employees. Our employees1 in more than 30 countries gration of the employees joining Sobi Code of Conduct is publicly available on around the world. Positive relationships from the companies acquired in 2018 the Sobi.com website. with our employees support their develand 2019. We have seen a high level opment, wellbeing and job satisfaction, of retention during these integrations, and we are proud to offer a safe, healthy and continue to develop the process of 1. FTE, full-time equivalents. Our employees Number of employees Geographical distribution Gender distribution Number 1,500 1,200 900 600 300 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 n Europe 66% n North America 32% n Women 60% n Other markets 2% n Men 40% S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 25 Investment case Sobi investment case With a solid financial position and significant potential in our portfolio of pre-market and on-market products, Sobi is well positioned for continued international expansion and profitable growth in an attractive market. Well positioned in a fundamentally attractive market Worldwide orphan drug sales & share of prescription drug market (2016–2024) Sobi is a global player in the USD bn % rare-disease market, which is 1,400 Forecast 25 characterised by high unmet +12.3% CAGR 2019–24 medical needs. The cost of 1,200 20 developing a treatment for a rare 1,000 15 disease is high in proportion to 800 the number of patients; such a 600 10 medicine therefore generally 400 commands a higher price and 5 200 has a shorter time to market 0 than other pharmaceuticals. 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Rare disease therapies are also Prescription excl. generics and orphan Generics Orphan drugs less likely to face generic comOrphan drug sales as a % of prescription sales Compound annual growth rate (CAGR) – orphan drug market petition, limiting price pressure. Source: EvaluatePharma Orphan Drug Report 2019.  Read more on page 8. Significant pre-market pipeline Sobi has built a significant pre-market pipeline through the continued development of core assets and by acquiring promising late-stage assets. External growth is essential for the strategy and Sobi continues to evaluate opportunities. The medium-term focus is on the current pre-­ market portfolio which has potential to offer significant organic growth opportunities.  Read more on page 20. Haematology Immunology Avatrombopag1 – CIT, ITP (EU) Emapalumab4 – secondary HLH BIVV001 2 – haemophilia A Emapalumab4 – new indications Pre-market BIVV002 3 – haemophilia B Anakinra 5 – indication expansion Nirsevimab 6 (MEDI8897) – RSV 1. Avatrombopag – approved as Doptelet for thrombocytopenia in chronic liver disease (CLD) and chronic immune thrompocytopenia (ITP) in the US. Under development for chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia (CIT). 2. Developed in collaboration with Sanofi. 3. Sobi has elected to add the BIVV002 programme to the collaboration agreement with Sanofi but has not yet opted in. 4. Emapalumab – approved as Gamifant in the US for primary haemaphagocytic lymphohystiocytosis (HLH). 5. Anakinra – approved as Kineret in the US and in the EU for several autoinflammatory diseases. 6. Nirsevimab (MEDI8897), a follow-on compound to Synagis for respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). 26 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Investment case Geographical expansion Sobi is represented in more than 30 markets across Europe, North America, the Middle East, Russia, North Africa and Asia. There is significant potential to expand our global position, with focus on the 15 largest markets representing a majority of the global market for rare diseases. With more late-stage candidates and more on-market products for which we hold the global rights, global expansion should allow us to maximise the growth potential of our portfolio.  Read more on page 18. Commercial excellence is our core competence Our core competence is late-stage clinical development and commercialisation, which opens up for co-development opportunities. Commercial excellence refers to our skills and experience, competence and the networks required to launch innovative rare-disease and niche medicines for sustainable patient access.  Read more on page 10. A continual dialogue with patients, patient associations, healthcare Patient and providers, regulators and payers to make products and treatments community available to patients value Ongoing operational efficiency improvements Commercialisation and Financial Developing and evaluating making treatments available value (cash projects in late clinical stage to patients flow) Partnerships and acquisitions Cash flow and financial position support growth Sobi has a strong cash conversion rate, which has enabled investments in on-market products and late-stage assets in the R&D portfolio as well as in focused acquisitions. The ambition is to further strengthen cash flow and profitability in the commercial portfolio, and to drive development projects to market launch over the next five years. Sobi has good financial capacity based on a strong operational cash flow which enables debt-financed external growth followed by quick reduction of debt. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 27 The share The share The share (STO:SOBI) is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, under the company name of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum. Over the 2015–2019 period, the share price has increased by more than 94 per cent. In 2019 the highest price paid was Share capital Shareholders SEK 234.3 on 8 April, and the lowest was At year-end, the total number of shares At year-end, the number of shareholders SEK 144.7 on 4 October. Sobi’s market outstanding in Sobi was 299,977,839. was 25,226 (23,435). The largest sharecapitalisation at year-end 2019 was All issued shares are ordinary shares holder, Investor AB, held 35.9 per cent SEK 46.3 billion. Over 2019, the share and carry one vote per share. (39.4) of the shares. Swedish legal entities, price fell 19.9 per cent. At year-end, the share capital was including institutions and funds, held SEK 164,599,935, distributed between 59.3 per cent (61.0) of the shares. Shares Turnover and trading locations 299,977,839 shares with a par value of held by Swedish Orphan ­Biovitrum AB The Sobi share is traded on several approximately SEK 0.55. (publ) at year-end totalled 5,678,099 exchanges and trading platforms, common shares. including Nasdaq Stockholm, Bats CXE Incentive programmes During the year 208,257 shares and Bats BXE. In 2019, trading on Nasdaq Sobi has launched several share-based were used for allotment under two Stockholm accounted for 60 per cent of incentive programmes for senior execuperformance-based long-term share the total turnover. tives and employees. Currently, there are programmes, see Note 11 for further Average daily total turnover in Sobi eight active share programmes, all vestinformation. shares was 1,579,560 in official trading. ing within three years. The programmes A daily average of 778,920 shares were represent a total maximum of 2,052,187 Dividend traded on Nasdaq Stockholm. In 2019, a shares, or 0.7 per cent of the total numThe Board proposes that no dividend total of 572.4 million shares were traded, ber of shares in the company. For more be paid for 2019. For more information corresponding to a value of approxiinformation, see note 11. about Sobi’s dividend policy, please refer mately SEK 104.1 billion. to the Corporate Governance Report. Largest shareholders at 31 December 20191 Number of Share Share SHAREHOLDERS A shares capital, % votes, % Investor AB 107,594,165 35.9 35.9 BNY Mellon NA (former Mellon), W9 29,266,145 9.8 9.8 Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC, W9 24,193,592 8.1 8.1 Swedbank Robur fonder 14,074,880 4.7 4.7 State Street Bank and Trust Co, W9 13,369,722 4.5 4.5 Fjärde AP fonden 9,512,951 3.2 3.2 AMF – Försäkring och Fonder 7,973,313 2.7 2.7 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ.) 5,678,099 1.9 1.9 Handelsbanken fonder 5,564,682 1.9 1.9 Euroclear Bank SA/NV, W8-IMY 4,895,403 1.6 1.6 Cbny-Norges Bank 4,133,805 1.4 1.4 JPM Chase NA 3,236,147 1.1 1.1 Andra AP-fonden 2,842,349 1.0 1.0 SIX SIS AG, W8IMY 2,697,456 0.9 0.9 Gladiator 2,605,000 0.9 0.9 Total 15 largest shareholders 237,637,709 79.6 79.6 Other 62,340,130 20.4 20.4 Total 299,977,839 100.0 100.0 1. The shareholders are presented as they appear in the shareholder register held by Euroclear Sweden AB. The list may therefore not show shareholders whose shares have been registered in the name of a nominee, through the trust department of a bank or similar institution. In addition to Investor AB, EdgePoint Investment Group Inc. has flagged for owning more than 10 per cent of the voting rights. Source: Euroclear 28 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 The share Average value of daily trading volume for the Sobi share Shareholders by country VOLUME ’000 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 % A shares 1,391.5 2,263.6 1,502.3 2,272.0 2,289.6 80 70 64.8 63.4 In 2019, the average daily trading volume for the Sobi share on Nasdaq 60 ­Stockholm was 778,920 shares. Source: Fidessa. 50 40 Shareholder categories 30 25.7 20.9 20 31 DECEMBER 2019 % of capital 10 6.4 Foreign shareholders 36.7 3.1 3.1 2.4 1.5 1.9 3.4 3.7 0 Swedish shareholders 63.4 Sweden US UK Belgium LuxemOther bourg whereof 2018 2019 Institutions 59.4 Source: Euroclear. Private persons 4.0 Source: Euroclear. Key data per share SEK 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Earnings/loss per share 0.31 2.99 4.27 8.97 11.29 Equity per share 17.3 19.8 24.6 33.1 56.4 Market price, Series A-share, 31 Dec., last paid price 134.6 106.7 112.3 193.0 154.5 P/E ratio 434.2 35.7 26.3 21.5 13.7 Number of shares at 31 Dec. 271,822,806 272,010,948 272,507,708 273,322,117 299,977,839 Sobi share price and trading volume 2015–2019 Number of shares SEK in thousands 300 100,000 250 80,000 200 60,000 150 40,000 100 20,000 50 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum OMX Stockholm PI OMX Stockholm Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology PI Nasdaq Biotech index Number of shares traded in thousands per month S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 29 Five year summary Five-year summary – Group development 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Income statement, SEK M Operating revenue 3,228 5,204 6,511 9,139 14,248 Gross profit 2,007 3,651 4,657 6,723 10,913 EBITDA1 465 1,574 2,086 3,607 6,121 EBITA1 433 1,543 2,053 3,571 5,933 EBIT (operating profit) 146 1,133 1,600 3,122 4,533 Profit/loss for the year 83 802 1,149 2,418 3,304 Capital, SEK M Total assets 8,315 9,974 10,903 17,183 45,658 Capital employed1 5,508 5,880 6,716 9,048 33,560 Equity 4,678 5,365 6,701 9,040 16,930 Cash and cash equivalents 904 786 1,478 2,999 737 Net debt (+)/net cash (–)1 –89 –289 –1,478 –2,999 15,404 Cash flow, SEK M Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 411 642 1,431 2,341 5,300 Cash flow from operating activities 507 343 1,333 2,090 3,634 Cash flow from investing activities –143 –158 –139 –575 –21,686 Cash flow from financing activities 22 –308 –500 –1 15,780 Change in cash and cash equivalents 386 –123 694 1,514 –2,271 Key figures, % Gross margin1 62 70 72 74 77 Return on capital employed1 2.6 19.3 23.8 34.5 13.5 Return on equity1 1.8 16.0 19.0 30.7 25.4 Equity ratio1 56 54 61 53 37 Debt/equity ratio1 77 86 63 90 170 Share ratio, SEK Earnings/loss per share 0.31 2.99 4.27 8.97 11.29 Equity per share1 17.3 19.8 24.6 33.1 56.4 Dividend — — — — 0 Cash flow per share1 1.4 –0.5 2.6 5.6 –7.8 Cash flow from operating activities per share1 1.9 1.3 5.0 7.8 12.4 1. Sobi presents certain financial measures in the annual report that are not defined according to IFRS, so-called alternative performance measures. These have been noted in the table above and further ­information on why these are considered important, and how they are calculated, can be found in Definitions at the end of this report. 30 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Reporting Contents Directors’ Report..................................................32 Note 8 Other operating income................... 66 Note 27 Borrowings.......................................... 86 Note 9 Other operating expenses................ 66 Note 28 Other liabilities, current Consolidated financial statements and non-current.................................87 Statement of comprehensive income............. 46 Note 10 Leasing..................................................67 Note 29 Post-employment benefits...............87 Balance sheet........................................................47 Note 11 Employees, personnel costs and Statement of changes in equity........................ 48 remuneration of Board members Note 30 Provisions............................................ 89 and senior executives........................ 68 Cash flow statement........................................... 49 Note 31 Accrued expenses and Note 12 Remuneration of auditors.................73 deferred income................................ 89 Parent Company financial statements Note 13 Costs according Note 32 Pledged assets and Statement of comprehensive income.............. 51 to type of cost......................................73 contingent liabilities.......................... 90 Balance sheet........................................................52 Note 14 Financial income.................................73 Note 33 Acquisition........................................... 90 Statement of changes in equity.........................54 Note 15 Financial expenses..............................73 Note 34 The share..............................................91 Cash flow statement............................................55 Note 16 Income tax...........................................74 Note 35 Related-party transactions...............91 Notes Note 17 Intangible assets and Note 36 Proposed appropriation of profit.....91 Note 1 General information.............................56 impairment testing.............................75 Note 37 Events after the Note 2 Significant accounting policies and Note 18 Tangible assets.....................................79 balance-sheet date............................91 basis of preparation for the financial Note 19 Participations in statements of the Parent Company Group companies.............................. 80 Letter from the Chairman...................................93 and the Group........................................56 Note 20 Financial assets....................................81 Corporate Governance Report......................... 94 Note 3 Financial risk management.................61 Note 21 Deferred tax assets and liabilities.....82 Note 4 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and Note 22 Inventories............................................83 assumptions...........................................63 Note 23 Account and other receivables........83 Note 5 Distribution of operating revenue......65 Note 24 Prepaid expenses and Note 6 Segment reporting................................65 accrued income................................. 84 Note 7 Depreciation/amortisation and Note 25 Cash and cash equivalents............... 84 write-downs of intangible and tangible assets............................... 66 Note 26 Financial assets and liabilities per category.........................................85 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 31 D i r e ct o r s ' r e p o r t Directors’ Report Highlights 2019 Business highlights Sobi’s operations • The acquisition of Synagis® was comFinancial highlights pleted, expanding US operations. At Sobi, we are transforming the lives of • Total revenue of SEK 14,248 M • Sobi completed the business acqusition people affected by rare diseases. As an (9,139), an increase of 56 per cent. of emapalumab. international biopharmaceutical company, • The gross margin was 77 per cent (74). • Sobi discontinued its early-phase R&D we provide innovative treatments in haema• EBITA was SEK 5,933 M (3,571). operations in order to focus on late-stage tology, immunology and niche indications. • Adjusted EBITA was SEK 6,145 M (3,571). R&D projects within the core areas of • Profit for the year totalled SEK 3,304 M haematology and immunology. In 2019, revenue was generated by: (2,418), representing earnings per share • Sobi acquired Dova Pharmaceuticals and • Sales in Europe and rest of the world of of SEK 11.29 (8.97). Adjusted earnings per created a global haematology platform. the proprietary products Elocta® and share amounted to SEK 11.89 (8.97). The acquisition gave Sobi access to Alprolix®, and royalty revenue from • Cash flow from operating activities was Doptelet®, a product used for the treatSanofi’s sales of Eloctate® and Alprolix. SEK 3,634 M (2,090). ment of thrombocytopenia. Global sales of the proprietary products • Sobi concluded an expanded agreement Kineret® and Orfadin®. with Sanofi regarding the early exercise of • Sales in the US of the proprietary products an opt-in right and acquired the developGamifant®, Synagis and Doptelet. ment and commercial rights to BIVV001 in • Sales in Europe and rest of the world of Sobi’s territories. BIVV001 is an extended products for which Sobi holds distribution half-life factor VIII product for haemoand/or licensing agreements. philia A in clinical development. • Manufacturing of the drug substance for • The first patient was dosed in the phase 3 ReFacto AF®/Xyntha® for Pfizer. study of BIVV001. • The FDA granted orphan drug designation to avatrombopag (Doptelet) for the potential treatment of chemotherapyinduced thrombocytopenia (CIT). • Sobi established operations in China. Key figures Five-year revenue trend SEK M 2019 2018 SEK M Operating revenue 14,248 9,139 8,000 Gross profit 10,913 6,723 Gross margin, %1 77 74 6,000 EBITA1 5,933 3,571 EBITA adjusted1 6,145 3,571 4,000 EBITA-margin,1 % 42 39 EBITA-margin, % adjusted1 43 39 2,000 EBIT (operating profit) 4,533 3,122 0 Profit for the year 3,304 2,418 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Earnings per share, SEK 1 11.29 8.97 Haematology Immunology Earnings per share, SEK, adjusted 11.89 8.97 Specialty Care 1. Alternative Performance Measures, see Definitions page 122. See page 30 for a five-year summary of revenue, expenses and earnings. 32 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 D i r e ct o r s ' r e p o r t Operating revenue Immunology Gross profit In 2019, revenue amounted to SEK 14,248 M Total Immunology revenue amounted to Gross profit was SEK 10,913 M (6,723), rep(9,139), an increase of 56 per cent (48 per SEK 4,706 M (1,320). Sales of Gamifant resenting a gross margin of 77 per cent (74). cent at CER). amounted to SEK 542 M. During the year, The higher gross margin was mainly driven Gamifant showed a volatile sales pattern by the addition of high-margin products, Revenue by business area from quarter to quarter, which is normal for such as Synagis and Gamifant. Haematology a product for an ultra-rare disease in launch Total Haematology revenue amounted to phase. Expenses SEK 7,755 M (6,012), an increase of 29 per Sales of Synagis amounted to SEK 2,594 M. In 2019, operating expenses increased to cent (24 per cent at CER). Elocta accounted The final quarter made a significant conSEK 6,430 M (3,601). for SEK 4,508 M (3,261) an increase of 38 per tribution to sales for the year as a result of Sales and administrative expenses before cent (34 per cent at CER). France, Germany, improved commercial effectiveness and amortisation/depreciation and write-downs Italy and the Middle East accounted for more wholesaler stocking in the fourth quarter. amounted to SEK 3,535 M (2,062). than half of this growth. Sales of Alprolix In addition a positive Gross-to-Net impact The increase was driven by Synagis and amounted to SEK 1,463 M (974) and most and a more severe respiratory syncytial virus the Gamifant operations in North America, of this growth was attributable to more (RSV) season than normal influenced the continued investments in haemophilia patients using the product in France, Italy, result positively. operations and the integration of Dova’s the Netherlands, the UK and Sweden. Sales Sales of Kineret amounted to SEK 1,571 M operations from 12 November 2019. The of Doptelet, which was acquired during (1,320), an increase of 19 per cent (12 per full-year was impacted by a non-recurring the year, amounted to SEK 34 M for the cent at CER). Kineret continued to show item – transaction costs of SEK 92 M related 12 November–31 December period. a positive trend with double-digit growth. to the acquisition of Dova. Royalty revenue amounted to SEK 1,373 M Growth was mainly driven by higher underResearch and development costs (1,341), derived from Sanofi’s sales of lying demand in all regions and the ongoing amounted to SEK 1,495 M (1,090). Expenses ­Eloctate and Alprolix. European launch of Kineret for Still’s disease. for the year reflect increased concentration At year-end, drug reimbursement had in emapalumab and an effect of the acquisibeen granted for Elocta in 27 European Specialty Care tion of Dova Pharmaceuticals. Expenses countries, and for Alprolix in 26 countries. Total Specialty Care revenue amounted to were also affected by restructuring costs ReFacto manufacturing revenue totalled SEK 1,787 M (1,807), a decline of 1 per cent of SEK 157 M. SEK 376 M (436), down 14 per cent. (–6 per cent at CER). Operating expenses also included costs The current manufacturing agreement Annual sales of Orfadin totalled SEK 827 M of SEK 81 M (113) for the long-term incentive for ReFacto AF/Xyntha is valid until 31 (899), a decrease of 8 per cent (–13 per cent programmes. Cash flow will not be affected December, 2023, with an option to extend. at CER). by the share-based programmes until they Sobi’s royalty agreements for ReFacto ended Revenues for other Specialty Care expire, and then in the form of social security in January 2018. products amounted to SEK 959 M (908), an contributions. increase of 6 per cent (2 per cent at CER). Net sales and adjusted EBITA margin Revenue by business area SEK M SEK M 2019 2018 % 15,000 14,248 50 Haematology 7,755 6,012 Immunology 4,706 1,320 12,000 40 9,139 Specialty Care 1,787 1,807 9,000 30 Total revenue 14,248 9,139 6,511 6,000 5,204 20 3,228 3,000 10 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Net sales Adjusted EBITA margin S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 33 D i r e ct o r s ' r e p o r t Other operating income and expenses Other comprehensive income amounted to SEK 50 M (0). Operating Other comprehensive income amounted Revenue by business area revenue for the year was mainly derived (net) to a loss of SEK –57 M (–124), and comfrom exchange-rate effects. prised cash-flow hedges mainly attributable SEK M 2019 2018 Change to future inflows in foreign currency, current Operating profit tax on these, exchange-rate differences, and Elocta 4,508 3,261 38% Earnings before interest, taxes and amortis­a­ remeasurment of pension commitments and Alprolix 1,463 974 50% tion (EBITA) amounted to SEK 5,933 M (3,571), deferred tax on these. Royalty 1,373 1,341 2% corresponding to a margin of 42 per cent Doptelet 34 — NA (39). Adjusted EBITA1 was SEK 6,145 M (3,571), Cash flow and investments Manufacturing corresponding to a margin of 43 per cent. Cash flow from operations before change revenue 376 436 –14% Amortisation and write-downs of intanin working capital was SEK 5,300 M (2,341). Haematology 7,755 6,012 29% gible assets amounted to SEK 1,401 M (449). Working capital had a negative impact of Kineret 1,571 1,320 19% The increase was mainly attributable to SEK –1,666 M (–250) on cash flow for the Synagis 2,594 — NA amort­isation of product and marketing rights full-year. The increase in working capital Gamifant 542 — NA related to Synagis, emapalumab and Dopwas mainly attribtable to inventory build-up Immunology 4,706 1,320 257% telet. Operating profit (EBIT) amounted and increased receivables as a result of sales to SEK 4,533 M (3,122), an increase of growth. Speciality Care 1,787 1,807 –1% 45 per cent. Cash flow from investing activities was Total revenue 14,248 9,139 56% SEK –21,686 M (–575). Sobi completed the Net financial items acquisition of Dova in the fourth quarter, Sales by region Net financial expenses were SEK –286 M which had a negative impact of SEK 7,969 M (–40), including exchange-rate losses of on cash flow, and made the payment of SEK M 2019 2018 Change SEK –31 M (17). The difference was mainly SEK 490 M for the acquisition of BIVV001. attributable to increased financing costs The largest investment in intangible assets Europe 9,059 7,367 23% related to the acquisition of the rights during the year was SEK 13,869 M for North America 4,587 1,309 250% to Synagis in the US, the acquisition of Synagis, which had a negative impact of Rest of the world 602 463 30% emapalumab with related assets, and the SEK 9,051 M on cash flow. Total 14,248 9,139 56% acquisition of Dova Pharmaceuticals. Cash flow from financing activities amounted to SEK 15,780 M (–1). The Taxes increased borrowing in 2019 was mainly Source of revenue by business area Total tax for the Group was SEK –942 M related to acquisitions carried out during (–664), of which SEK –449 M (–767) perthe year. Haematology Immunology Specialty Care tained to current tax and SEK –494 M (103) Elocta Kineret Akynzeo® to deferred tax. The Group’s effective tax rate was therefore 22.2 per cent (21.5). See also Alprolix Synagis Ammonaps® Notes 16 and 21. Doptelet Gamifant Ammonul® Royalty Deflux® Manufacturing Kepivance® Five-year summary Orfadin SEK M 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Ravicti® Operating revenue 14,248 9,139 6,511 5,204 3,228 Relistor® Cost of goods sold –3,335 –2,415 –1,854 –1,554 –1,221 Ruconest® Research and development costs –1,495 –1,090 –908 –778 –513 Xiapex® Operating profit (EBIT) 4,533 3,122 1,600 1,133 146 Other Net financial items –286 –40 –68 –85 –61 Profit for the year 3,304 2,418 1,149 802 83 Earnings per share, SEK 11.29 8.97 4.27 2.99 0.31 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 11.22 8.93 4.25 2.98 0.31 Number of shares, thousands 299,978 273,322 272,508 270,390 270,390 Equity ratio1, % 37 53 61 54 56 1. Alternative Performance Measures, see Definitions page 122. 34 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 D i r e ct o r s ' r e p o r t Financial position carries an interest expense. These liabilities Parent Company At 31 December 2019, cash and cash equivaare not included in net debt/net cash. For The Parent Company’s business model is lents and current investments amounted to contractual commitments regarding the to develop, register, distribute and market SEK 737 M (2,999). above-mentioned liabilities, see Note 17. drugs for rare diseases. In 2019, Parent ComThe Group’s credit facilities (whereof pany revenue amounted to SEK 12,991 M SEK 16,243 M has been drawn) amounts to Equity (8,221). Operating profit totalled SEK 4,536 M SEK 20,203 M and consist of credit facilities At 31 December 2019, consolidated equity (3,492). Profit for the year totalled of EUR 1,540 M and SEK 4,135 M, of which amounted to SEK 16,930 M (9,040). An issue SEK 1,118 M (2,382), including excess depreEUR 670 M and SEK 3,000 M were raised in of shares related to the Synagis acquisition ciation of SEK 400 M and Group contribu2019 to finance the acquisitions of emaincreased equity by SEK 4,513 M. Other tions of SEK 2,766 M. At 31 December 2019, palumab and Dova Pharmaceuticals. See changes in addition to profit for the year cash and cash equivalents amounted to Note 3 for more information. At 31 Decemconsist of share-programme costs, hedge SEK 431 M (2,762). At 31 December 2019, ber 2019, net debt was SEK 15,404 M (2,999). accounting and translation differences. equity amounted to SEK 13,534 M (7,731). The Group also has other non-interest The change was attributable to an issue of bearing financing liabilites that are recogshares, profit for the year, costs related to the nised at discounted value and therefore company’s share programmes, and hedge accounting. Development Sobi’s pipeline projects include developRevenues by business area ment programmes, primarily in the areas of Haematology and Immunology. Sobi is SEK M also conducting a number of projects to +24% 8,000 gather evidence for the company’s existing 7,000 products. In Haematology, R&D consists of among 6,000 +231% others expanded clinical activities to 5,000 strengthen the already extensive scientific 4,000 evidence related to Sobi’s approved hae3,000 –6% mophilia products. In collaboration with our Sales 2018 devel­opment partner, we are conducting 2,000 Sales 2019 1,000  Growth adjusted for currency the BIVV001 project, for a novel factor 0 effects compared with 2018 VIII therapy in clinical development that is Haematology Immunology Specialty Care designed to extend protection from bleeds with once-weekly prophylaxis dosing for people with haemophilia A. BIVV001 entered phase 3 during the year. In addiation, avatrombopag, which came Revenue by region with the acquisition of Dova Pharmaceuticals, is being studied in a phase 3 study for SEK M the treatment of chemotherapy-induced +18% thrombocytopenia (CIT), a common side 8,000 effect of chemotherapy. 7,000 Clinical programmes are ongoing in 6,000 the area of immunology, with the aim of +223% 5,000 studying new applications for Kineret and 4,000 emapalumab, which Sobi acquired in 2019. 3,000 The SOBI005 product candidate was Sales 2018 divested during the year. Due to Sobi’s 2,000 +22% Sales 2019 strengthened focus on immunology and 1,000  Growth adjusted for currency haematology and late-stage product devel0 effects compared with 2018 Europe North America Rest of the world opment, a decision was made to discontinue the early-phase research operations. As a S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 35 D i r e ct o r s ' r e p o r t result, Sobi explored during the year the posAnaSTILLs study terminated people with severe haemophilia A who have sibilities to divest two projects: The SOBI006 The AnaSTILLs trial was initiated to meet developed inhibitors – were also presented. ­programme in pre-clinical phase and the the regulatory requirements for an approval SOBI003 programme for potential treatment of Kineret for Still’s disease in the US. Only New study data of BIVV001 and results from of MPSIIIA. 12 of 81 patients had been recruited after a patient survey of Doptelet were presented 1.5 years. A decision was therefore made to at the 61st Annual Meeting of the American Development events during the year discontinue the recruitment and terminate Society of Hematology (ASH) in Orlando: Data for the long-term safety and efficacy the study. The study will be completed for Final data from the phase 1/2 study of of prophylactic therapy with Elocta and the recruited patients. BIVV001 to evaluate the safety and pharma­ Alprolix in adults, teenagers and children cokinetics of repeat doses in people with with haemophilia A and B was presented New study data with emapalumab was severe haemophilia A confirmed BIVV001’s at EAHAD presented at the 2019 Annual Scientific potential to further improve treatment for Analysis of the data from the A-LONG/ Congress of European League Against haemophilia A patients. Kids A-LONG/ASPIRE and B-LONG/Kids Rheumatism (EULAR)/Paediatric The results from a study evaluating the B-LONG/B-YOND studies confirm the Rheumatology European Society (PReS) relative cost efficiency of avatrombopag long-term safety and efficacy of Elocta in Madrid compared with thrombocyte transfusion or (rFVIIIFc) and Alprolix (rFVIXFc) prophylaxis The interim analysis comprised data for the treatment with lusutrombopag showed that for all types of bleeds in people of all ages first six recruited patients with macrophage the use of avatrombopag is a more effective with severe haemophilia A each B. activation syndrome (MAS), or secondary strategy than both thrombocyte transfusion HLH. MAS is one of the complications of and lusutrombopag treatment, because it Interim data from the PUPs A-LONG study systemic onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis reduces both costs and the need for prophywas presented at EAHAD (sJIA). The results showed that treatment lactic thrombocyte transfusions. Data on the incidence of inhibitors in previwith emapalumab led to rapid interferonously untreated patients (PUPs) with severe gamma (IFN) neutralisation and all six First patient dosed in the phase 3 study of haemophilia A shows that Elocta (rFVIIIFc) patients who have participated in the study BIVV001 was well-tolerated and resulted in low to date achieved a complete response. The first patient in the phase 3, open-label, bleeding rates in the PUP population. This Emapalumab also demonstrated a good interventional study of BIVV001 was dosed. interim analysis is the first data presented for safety profile. The study is designed to investigare the PUPs for a product with extended half-life. efficacy, safety and tolerability of prophy­ The study is still ongoing and the final results Data from the phase 3 study of Orfadin lactic once-weekly dosing. will be presented at a future conference. (nitisinone) for the treatment of alkaptonuria The FDA granted orphan drug designation New data for emapalumab showing Based on promising data from the phase 3 to avatrombopag treatment results after transplantation in study of Orfadin (nitisinone) for the treatThe U.S Food and Drug Administration patients with primary HLH were presented ment of alkaptonuria, Sobi decided to submit (FDA) granted orphan drug designation at the Transplantation & Cellular Therapy a marketing authorisation application to the to avatrombopag for the treatment of Meetings (TCT) EMA for this potential indication in the first chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia In the phase 2/3 study, most of the patients half of 2020. (CIT). Avatrombopag is currently being treated with emapalumab proceeded to studied for the treatment of CIT in a phase haematopoietic stem cell transplantation The results from several ongoing studies 3 study and the results are expected in the (HSCT): 64.7 per cent of all patients treated, were presented at the 27th ISTH Congress second half of 2020. and 70.4 per cent of those patients who did organised by the International Society on not respond to previous conventional HLH Thrombosis and Haemostasis in Melbourne, Other information treatment. The mean time to transplantation Australia: was 100 days for the entire patient cohort, Data from clinical studies in patients with Changes in Management and 83 days for the cohort that had not haemophilia A and B who switched from Paula Treutiger, Head of Communication & responded to previous conventional HLH on-demand treatment to prophylaxis with Investor Relations, and Sofiane Fahmy, Head treatment. Of the total patient cohort, 90.9 extended half-life (EHL) factor concentrates of Southern and Western Europe & North per cent survived the stem cell transplantashowed a positive effect in clinical outcome Africa, joined management on 1 January tion (post-HSCT). Of the cohort that did measures, such as improved quality of life 2019. In addition, Amy Pott was appointed not respond to previous conventional HLH (QoL), lower annual bleeding rates (ABR) Head of North America in 2019. Torbjörn treatment, the survival rate after transplantaand improved joint health. Hallberg also assumed responsibility for HR tion was 89.5 per cent. Positive interim results from verITI-8 – and Philip Wood assumed responsilibity for an ongoing prospective phase 4 study to Northern Eastern Europe, Middle East and investigare the efficacy of Elocta for firstRussia during the year. time Immune Tolerance Induction (ITI) in 36 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 D i r e ct o r s ' r e p o r t At 31 December 2019, the Executive Sustainability Report comprised 294,299,740, each carrying one ­Committee consisted of: The statutory Sustainability Report is found vote. At 31 December 2019, Investor AB was on pages 22–25, 40–45 and 110–119 of this Sobi’s largest single shareholder with a total Annual and Sustainability Report, and has of 107,594,165 shares, representing 35.9 CEO: Guido Oelkers been prepared using the Global Reporting per cent of the votes and 35.9 per cent of CFO: Henrik Stenqvist Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting the capital. Guidelines. General Counsel and Head of Legal Share conversions Affairs, Head of HR: Torbjörn Hallberg Corporate Governance Report The Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 9 May Head of Haematology and Head of Under the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, 2019 authorised Sobi’s Board to resolve on Northern Eastern Europe, Middle East Sobi is required to prepare a Corporate an issue of Class C shares, and to repurchase and Russia: Philip Wood Governance Report. In accordance with all Class C shares issued in order to hedge Head of Immunology: Norbert Oppitz the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Chapter the long-term incentive programmes. The 6, Section 8, Sobi has decided to prepare AGM also resolved to approve the Board’s Head of Southern and Western Europe a Corporate Governance Report that is proposed transfer of shares. & North Africa: Sofiane Fahmy separate from the Annual Report, refer to At 31 December 2019, Sobi held 5,678,099 Head of North America: Amy Pott pages 94–100. ordinary shares in treasury. All Class C shares Head of Medical and Scientific Affairs: issued in 2019 were converted to ordinary Armin Reininger Environmental permits shares during the year. For more detailed Sobi’s production facility in Stockholm, information about the total number of Head of Research & Development, Sweden, holds a permit for environmentally shares in the company, the number of diffe­ Chief Medical Officer: Milan Zdravkovic hazardous activities allowing the facility to rent classes of shares and the votes carried Head of Technical Operations: produce a maximum of 1,000 tonnes of by the company’s shares, refer to the section Anne Marie De Jonge Schuermans pharmaceuticals via industrial-scale chemion shares on page 28. cal or biological reaction, including interHead of Communication & Investor Relations: Paula Treutiger mediates, per calendar year. Compliance The Board of Directors’ proposal with the permit conditions is disclosed in an for Guidelines for Executive environmental report to the local regulator. In Solna, Sweden, the company conducts Remuneration Christian Dreger, Hege Hellström, Rami activities that are notifiable under the The members of the Executive Committee Levin and Fredrik Wetterlundh stepped down conditions for facilities that professionally of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) fall from the Executive Committee in 2019. produce organic or inorganic compounds within the provisions of these guidelines. via chemical or biological reactions in test, The guidelines also cover any remuneraRisks and uncertainties pilot or laboratory scale, or other nontion to members of the Board of Directors, For a description of Sobi’s operational risks, industrial scale. The conditions for these except fees resolved by the general meetsee the section under Sustainability Report are mainly related to effluents and include a ing1. The guidelines are forward-looking, i.e. 2019 and for financial risks see Note 3. requirement to adjust the pH of the process they are applicable to remuneration agreed, Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Sobi has water. In 2019, no breaches of the conditions and amendments to remuneration already been and will continue to focus on disease were reported by either of the facilities. agreed, after adoption of the guidelines by the patients we serve, our customers and The company also has an import permit for the Annual General Meeting 2020. These our employees. As the future spread of the animal by-products from the Swedish Board guidelines do not apply to any remuneration disease is so uncertain, there is the potential of Agriculture, and a permit for handling decided or approved by the general meeting. for this to impact our underlying business. flammable products. While adaptation to Sobi is evaluating and seeks to mitigate current regulations has not, to date, had any The guidelines’ promotion of the multiple operational risks, including but adverse impact on Sobi’s competitiveness or Company’s business strategy, long-term not limited to: workforce, product supply, operations, the company cannot predict the interests and sustainability research and development, marketing activiimpact of future regulations. At Sobi we are transforming the lives of peoties and product demand. Our workforce ple affected by rare diseases. As a ­specialised includes not only our internal employees, Share capital and ownership international biopharmaceutical company, but our external manufacturing supply At 31 December 2019, Sobi’s share capital we provide access to innovative therapies in network partners across the globe, primarily amounted to SEK 164,599,935, distributed the areas of Haematology, Immunology and in Europe. Interruptions in our product supbetween 299,977,839 shares, with a par value specialty care. We bring something rare to ply network have not yet materialized, but per share of about SEK 0.55. At 31 December rare diseases – a belief in the strength of could impact any point in the supply chain 2019, the total number of ordinary shares focus, the power of agility and the potential and distribution. outstanding, excluding shares in treassury, of the people we are dedicated to serving. 1. Any remuneration to members of the Board of Directors, except fees resolved by the general meeting, may only consist of consultancy fees. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 37 D i r e ct o r s ' r e p o r t Sobi’s vision is to be recognised as a global Fixed base pay of Directors based on a proposal from the leader in providing innovative treatments The fixed base pay of the Executive CommitCompensation and Benefit Committee. that transform lives for individuals with tee shall be based on competence, responrare diseases. sibility and performance. The Company Long-term Incentives We aim to have a strong correlation uses an international evaluation system to Long-term share-related incentive plans between Sobi’s compensation elements, evaluate the scope and responsibility of the have been implemented in the Company. the long-term strategy and sustainability. position. Such plans are proposed by the Board of To support our vision, we also have perDirectors and presented to the Annual formance measures such as growth and Variable pay General Meeting for approval and are profitability as we aim to create long-term The annual Short-Term Incentive plan shall therefore excluded from these guidelines. sustainable value for people with rare be based on the achievement of predeterThe performance criteria used to assess the diseases, shareholders, employees and other mined and measurable annual financial (75 outcome of the long-term share-related stakeholders. per cent) and non-financial objectives (25 incentive plan for the Executive Committee For more information regarding the per cent). The annual financial objectives are distinctly linked to the business strategy Company’s business strategy, please see shall be related to targets promoting growth and thereby to the Company’s long-term pages 10–11. and profitability (annual revenues and EBITA1 value creation. For more information about A prerequisite for the successful imple). The annual financial objectives are recomthe Company’s long-term share-related mentation of the Company’s business mended by the Compensation and Benefits incentive plans, including the criteria on strategy and safeguarding of its long-term Committee and approved by the Board of which the outcome depends, please see interests, including sustainability, is that the Directors. The annual non-financial objechttps://www.sobi.com/en/annual-generalcompany is able to recruit and retain highly tives are related to strategic and business meetings and note 11. qualified personnel. As an international development goals as defined and approved company, Sobi employs the majority of its according to the grandparent-manager Pension and benefits personnel outside Sweden. Remuneration principle. The preferred pension plan design is defined for the Executive Committee is designed on The objectives are determined for the contribution2. If the operating environment a total remuneration approach. The position promotion of the Company’s business requires the establishment of a defined of total remuneration should be market strategy, long-term development (including benefit pension plan under mandatory colcompetitive relative to competitors in each its sustainability), value creation and financial lective agreement provisions, law or other local market. The market comparisons growth and shall be designed in a way that regulations, such a plan may be established. should be made against a set of peer group encourages compliant behaviour. The maxiThe defined benefit level should in such companies with comparable sizes, industries mum annual Short-Term Incentive may vary cases be limited to the mandatory level. and complexity. The remuneration guidebut shall not amount to more than 100 per The pension premiums or allowance for lines shall enable international hiring and cent of the annual gross fixed base pay. To pension shall amount to not more than 40 support diversity within the Executive Comwhich extent the criteria for awarding annual per cent of the member’s pensionable salary, mittee. Employment contracts governed Short-Term Incentive has been satisfied shall which may include a capped level of the by rules other than Swedish may be duly be evaluated and determined by the Board variable pay to the extent required by manadjusted to ensure compliance with mandaof Directors upon the recommendation from datory collective agreement provisions. tory rules or established market practice, the Compensation and Benefits Committee. Other benefits may include, for example, taking into account, to the extent possible, Further variable pay may also be paid out life insurance, health insurance, medical the overall purpose of these guidelines. in extraordinary circumstances, provided insurance, and company cars. Premiums and that such arrangement is of a one-time other costs relating to such benefits shall be Types of remuneration nature and is agreed on an individual basis based on market practice but amount to no The remuneration shall be on market terms for management recruitment or retention more than 20 per cent of the annual gross and may consist of the following compopurposes or as compensation for extraordifixed base pay. nents: fixed base pay, variable pay, pension nary efforts beyond the individual’s ordinary Executives who are expatriates to or from benefits and other benefits. Additionally, the assignment. Such compensation shall be Sweden may receive additional remuneraGeneral Meeting may – irrespective of these in line with market practice and may for tion and other benefits, such as a support guidelines – resolve on, among other things, example include a one-time cash payment, package including relocation and tax filing share-related or share price-related remuretention bonus or severance payment in support, tax equalization, to the extent reaneration. The components are presented case of a change of control, or similar. The sonable in light of the special circumstances below. compensation shall not exceed the amount associated with the expat arrangement, of the gross fixed base pay for three (3) taking into account, to the extent possible, years and shall not be paid more than once the overall purpose of these guidelines. Such a year per individual. Resolutions on such benefits may not in total exceed 40 per cent compensation shall be made by the Board of the annual gross fixed base pay. 1. Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation. 2. A defined contribution pension plan defines a percentage level of the employee’s annual gross fixed base pay as contribution that will be paid into the pension plan for each employee. 38 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 D i r e ct o r s ' r e p o r t Termination of employment the application of these guidelines as well most serious complications associated with The notice period may not exceed twelve as the current remuneration structures and severe COVID-19 disease. This is in response (12) months. Fixed salary during notice compensation levels in the Company. The to a request from the National Institute for period and severance pay, including paymembers of the Compensation and Benefits Infectious Diseases, the organisation which ments for any restrictions on competition, Committee are independent of the Comis acting as the coordinating site for the shall in total not exceed an amount equivapany and the Executive Committee. The SARS-CoV-2 epidemic in Italy. lent to the gross fixed base pay for two (2) CEO and other members of the Executive years. Committee do not participate in the Board Possible impact of Covid-19 disease of Directors’ processing of and resolutions The COVID-19 “coronavirus”, a virus causConsultancy fees to the members of the regarding remuneration-related matters in ing potentially deadly respiratory tract Board of Directors so far as they are affected by such matters. infections, was identified as a pandemic in The members of the Board of Directors March 2020. The full impact of this virus is elected by the general meeting may receive Derogation from the guidelines still unknown, but it has already had a global consultancy fees for services provided to the The Board of Directors may temporarily socio-economic impact. The coronavirus Company. Such services must contribute resolve to derogate from these guidelines, did not impact Sobi’s 2019 financial reportto the Company’s business strategy and in whole or in part, if in a specific case ing and is expected to have a limited impact long-term interests, including its sustainthere is special cause for the derogation on the financial performance in the first ability, and may not relate to regular board and a derogation is necessary to serve the quarter of 2020. Sobi has strong liquidity work. Any consultancy fee shall be based on Company’s long-term interests, including reserves. At this time, the company cannot market terms and may for each member of its sustainability, or to ensure the Company’s quantify the magnitude or duration of the the Board of Directors not exceed the annual financial viability. As set out above, the business risk given the uncertainty in the remuneration for the board assignment. The Compensation and Benefits Committee’s current spread of the virus. A global manabove applies correspondingly to services tasks include preparing the Board of Direcagement response team has been set-up performed by a wholly-owned company of a tors’ resolutions in remuneration-related and the Sobi management team and the member of the Board of Directors. matters. This includes any resolutions to board of directors are continuously moniderogate from these guidelines. toring the situation. More information will be Salary and employment conditions for provided with the first quarter, 2020 results. employees Proposed appropriation of profit See further info in the key risk area section In the preparation of the Board of Directors’ on page 44. proposal for these remuneration guidelines, The following funds are at the disposal of the salary and employment conditions for Annual General Meeting: Financial outlook 20201 employees of the Company have been taken SEK 000 into account. Information on the employees’ Revenue for the full-year 2020 is expected total remuneration, the components of the Share premium reserve 8,904,692 to be in the range of SEK 15,000–16,000 M remuneration and increase and growth rate Retained earnings 2,546,893 reflecting double-digit growth in each of over time, have been included in the ComProfit for the year 1,117,739 the two core business, Haematology and pensation and Benefits Committee’s and the Total 12,569,324 Immunology. Board of Directors’ basis of decision when EBITA is expected to be in the range of evaluating whether the guidelines and the The Board of Directors proposes that no SEK 5,000–6,300 M including the developlimitations set out herein are reasonable. dividend be distributed for the 2019 fin­ ment and launch of Doptelet which will ancial year. affect EBITA negatively by around SEK 500 M The decision-making process to determine, The Board proposes that the share in 2020. review and implement the guidelines premium reserve and retained earnings at For information about Forward looking The Board of Directors has established a their disposal, SEK 12,569,324 K be carried statements, see the inside back cover. Compensation and Benefits Committee. forward. The committee’s tasks include preparing 1. At current exchange rates. The outlook was published on 13 February 2020. the Board of Directors’ decision to propose Events after the balance-sheet date guidelines for remuneration to the Executive Committee. The Board of Directors shall Sobi communicated the intention to prepare a proposal for new guidelines at initiate a clinical study to evaluate whether least every fourth year and present it to the anakinra and emapalumab may relieve Annual General Meeting. The guidelines shall complications associated with severe be in force until new guidelines are adopted COVID-19 disease by the general meeting. The CompensaSobi will begin a short-term clinical study to tion and Benefits Committee shall also evaluate the efficacy and safety of anakinra monitor and evaluate programs for variable and emapalumab in the treatment of remuneration for the Executive Committee, hyper-inflammatory syndrome, one of the S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 39 D i r e ct o r s ' r e p o r t Sustainability Report 2019 At Sobi our key contribution to sustainable Material sustainability topics through stakeholder dialogues are condevelopment is closely aligned with our misMaterial sustainability topics are areas that nected to the key areas of our sustainability sion and our operations – to provide access reflect Sobi’s most significant impact on strategy. These are: to treatment for people with rare diseases. economic, environmental and social areas. • Commitment to patients It is essential that we understand the • Safety for patients and the environment Sustainability strategy outcome of our materiality assessment • Ethical and responsible behaviour as it highlights sustainability topics that Business model and sustainable growth are important to our stakeholders and our Commitment to patients At Sobi, we are transforming the lives of strategy. In 2019, we performed a compreFor Sobi, meaningful engagement and people living with rare diseases. We provide hensive materiality assessment including cooperation with the rare disease comaccess to innovative treatments in the areas web surveys and targeted interviews with munity is key. of haematology, immunology and specialty internal and external stakeholders such as Engaging with the rare disease community care. Sobi’s business model (read more employees, internal and external experts, requires a specialised skill set and a high on page 10) spans from late-stage clinical owners, suppliers, partners and patient level of engagement. The community’s research to international commercialisation. organisations. The purpose was to identify collaborative commitment to reach comOur business model supports our key and prioritise our most important sustainmon goals is important, as rare diseases are sustainability objectives – through expanability topics. still undefined in many areas and cannot be sion we can increase reach and improve The key elements of the findings have charted in isolation. access to treatments for patients worldwide. reiterated access to treatment as the key To support Sobi’s growth strategy and If we are successful in our operations, we long-term sustainability goal, in line with the market expansion, and thereby reach more will positively impact the community we assessment performed in 2016. The evolupatients with our treatments, regulatory serve. This success must be reached in a tion of Sobi’s corporate strategy, relying on approvals are necessary for commercialis­ responsible way in order to safeguard the sourced/acquired research and geographiation in new markets. Pricing and reimbursesafety of patients, our environment and the cal expansion, has accentuated the need ment are two essential areas of patient company’s reputation. to focus on responsible partnerships and access following regulatory approval. Each sourcing strategies. In the illustration below, market has its own regulations and demands the material sustainability topics as defined regarding approval of the proposed price and the degree to which reimbursement is provided. Sobi strives to set a price that reflects the benefit that the innovation delivSobi sustainability strategy with material sustainability topics ers to patients, healthcare systems, societies and payers. In 2019, Sobi received regulatory approval – Access to treatment in countries such as United Arab Emirates, – Marketing and sales Tunisia and Chile, an example of how we aim – Medication adherence – Training and education to broaden access to treatments outside our – Impact on communities key markets. For a total review of current Commitment approval and reimbursement status, see the to patients table on pages 115–116. Safety for patients and the environment Access to The safety profile and monitoring of our treatment products is another significant sustainability area in our business. By following pharmaceutical standards we strive to provide Safety for Ethical and patients and responsible products that meet the high quality and environment behavior regulatory expectations of the pharmaceutical field. – Patient safety and product quality – Compliance and anti-corruption With a robust pharmacovigilance system – Responsible procurement practices – Research ethics in place, we continuously monitor the – Greenhouse gas emissions – Occupational health and safety – Use of input materials and chemicals – Responsible procurement practices benefit/risk profiles of our products and – Medication adherence – Diversity and inclusion – Drug residues 40 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 D i r e ct o r s ' r e p o r t ensure our alignment with the precautionary our current top 100 partners to the Code Sustainability governance principle. The pharmacovigilance system and screening over the coming year. complies with all global, national and local In December 2019, Sobi became a Management regulations. To support the increasing member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Sobi’s Board of Directors has the overall number of proprietary products for which Initiative (PSCI). responsibility for Sobi’s sustainability perforSobi is Market Authorisation Holder, our mance, which is reported each year in the pharmacovigilance system was substanEthical and responsible behaviour Annual and Sustainability Report. The CEO tially expanded in 2019. Annual training is Sobi promotes business ethics in all we do and the Executive Committee approve Sobi’s provided for all employees to ensure that all through high research standards, business sustainability strategy, ensure compliance, safety information – such as adverse events, ethics and policies. The aim is to build and decide on overall objectives and impleproduct complaints and incorrect use – in a sustainable organisation by enforcing mentation of the sustainability programme. relation to our products is reported. compliance with our corporate principles, The leadership teams in each respective Correct labelling is important to ensure and by supporting a culture that promotes area are responsible for implementation and proper use. No incidents of non-compliance an open discussion of ethics in our operafollow-up of the strategy. Risks are reported in regard to product and service information tions and among key stakeholders. to the Executive Committee and are also or labelling were reported in 2019. Our internal processes and control included in the materiality assessment. Counterfeit pharmaceuticals are a growmeasures involve scientific, regulatory and All sustainability activities are guided by ing worldwide problem. Governments all compliance training. In 2019, the organisathe Code of Conduct and other sustainover the world are introducing regulations tion did not identify any incidents of nonability related policies. The Director of and systems to detect and prevent the compliance concerning marketing commuSustainability is responsible on behalf of the distribution of counterfeit products. All nications that led to a fine, administrative or Executive Committee for communication Sobi products were serialised, given unique criminal penalty or warning by regulators. and operationalisation of the programme in identification codes, in 2019. Sobi’s products All employees are required to undergo close collaboration with the business units. have not yet been subject to falsification. annual training in our Code of Conduct. The Sobi Code of Conduct provides To ensure sustainable and responsible Topics covered in the Code of Conduct a framework for what Sobi considers to sourcing, we have introduced a Responsible include product safety and quality, combe responsible and appropriate conduct. Sourcing Programme, including the intropetition law, anti-corruption, data privacy, The Code of Conduct applies to all Sobi duction of a Partner Code of Conduct and conflicts of interest, intellectual property, employees worldwide as well as temporary sustainability screening, starting in January environmental responsibility and employpersonnel. The most important policies 2020. Sustainability screening of partners ment principles, with additional opportuniguiding Sobi’s sustainability processes are involves ensuring compliance with standards ties to focus on specific areas. In 2019, listed below. in the areas of governance, labour rights, healthcare compliance was prioritised in human rights and environmental responthe annual anti-corruption training. In 2019, sibility. Our aim is to have all new partners 95 per cent of our employees participated acknowledge and support the Partner Code in the training. of Conduct and to systematically introduce Area Environment Social Ethics and Anti-corruption Policies Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Environment Compliance Discrimination Policy Anti-corruption Policy Programme Environmental Health and Safety Policy Insider Policy Environmental Health and Safety Healthcare Interactions Policy Policy Policy on Processing Personal data Travel Policy Policy on Investigations Policy on Fair Competition Focus areas Environmental performance Child and forced labour Conflicts of interest Compliance Health and safety Transparency Discrimination and harassment Anti-corruption and antitrust Collective bargaining and freedom of association S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 41 D i r e ct o r s ' r e p o r t Important responsibilities for the goverAs part of the strategic risk management down by nature. According to existing EU nance of Sobi’s sustainability strategy are: process, the company’s critical flows are and US guidelines on environmental risk • Legal Affairs, responsible for the impleidentified and business continuity plans for assessments of medicinal products, biomentation of anti-corruption and healththese are implemented. pharmaceuticals composed of for example care interaction policies, data privacy and proteins and peptides are not considered to the compliance hotline (whistleblower Environmental impact have a significant negative environmental hotline). Sobi’s environmental impact can be broken impact. A high percentage of Sobi’s products • Technical Operations, responsible for down into direct and indirect impacts, are protein-based and are therfore considenvironmental compliance and perforthrough sourced activities and caused by our ered not to have a significant impact on the mance regarding in-house operations. own operations. environment. Technical Operations is responsible for Environmental impacts from production Sobi’s supply chain sources production monitoring suppliers’ and partners’ adherand the laboratories, either in-house or outfrom contract manufacturing organisations ence to the Partner Code of Conduct. sourced, are mainly due to the use of energy, (CMOs) in Europe and the US, with distribu• Internal Control evaluates and improves water, chemicals, generated waste and tion to over 70 markets worldwide. The processes for management, internal discharge of sewage. Our carbon footprint environmental impact of the logistics and control and risk management. arises from energy consumption, business distribution of Sobi’s therapies is determined • The Sustainability function evaluates travel, logistics within the supply chain and by the special needs of the products and materiality, creates guidelines and supthe distribution of our products. the special characteristics of rare disease ports implementation of the programme. We continuously evaluate and monitor populations, such as the low numbers and It is also responsible for maintaining a the energy and water consumption of our dispersed nature of patients and treatrelevant Code of Conduct. production facility. Sobi reports energy and ment centres. Sobi intends to increase our • Business units are required to run the busiwater consumption annually and measures awareness of the environmental impact by ness in compliance with the sustainability internal KPIs with the aim of improving mapping the supply chain and optimising strategy and the Code of Conduct. environmental performance. The impact it if possible. The safe and timely delivery of our manufacturing plant in Stockholm, of our products will always be the primary Risk management Sweden, is described in detail on pages consideration for our distribution. The Sobi group risk management process 110–112. To our knowledge, there have been In 2019, Sobi expanded the reporting is documented in the Sobi Group Risk no confirmed incidents resulting in adminscope of business travel emissions to cover Management Policy and the Sobi Group Risk istrative and judicial sanctions for failure to approximately 80 per cent of global operaManagement Instructions. comply with environmental laws and/or tions. With a comprehensive understanding Sobi applies an integrated business regulations in 2019. of the emissions, Sobi will set relevant risk-management approach that contributes We work actively to phase out chemicals related goals in 2020. to our ability to achieve set objectives, that may be harmful to the environment or and to follow the strategy adopted for the human health, in line with the precautionSocial impact operations. Each business unit works actively ary principle. Chemicals regulations are Our social impact is derived from the work to identify and address any uncertainties extensive and continuously expanding; all we do to provide access to treatment as related to our ability to achieve our objechandling of chemicals in our laboratory and described in this report, but also through tives. Identified risks are analysed using manufacturing processes therefore follows our interactions with our employees and relevant values for the operations, enabling strict instructions. We perform annual risk the work opportunities and conditions subsequent prioritisation on a commercial assessments and internal audits. The newly we provide. basis, whereby uncertainties and untapped implemented Responsible Sourcing ProSobi is a value-driven company with a opportunities around the company’s stratgramme (see page 24) will be an important scientific and patient-centric organisation. egy can be identified and managed. Sobi’s tool to influence, manage and follow up our As we continue to deliver on our strategic Risk Manager reports the current risk status supply chain. goals, high-performing teams have been to the Executive Committee, and a review The environmental hazards of a specific identified as a key success factor to meet our of this process is presented to the Board of drug refer to its inherent properties, for ambitious strategic objectives. This involves Directors on a regular basis. example toxicity and its ability to be broken developing our methods to help managers, 42 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 D i r e ct o r s ' r e p o r t leaders and colleagues facilitate continuous personal data in a responsible and secure to allow for the possibility of anonymous growth. We see strong leadership based manner. Data Privacy is part of Sobi’s Code reporting. All relevant reports are reviewed on cross-functional capabilities as crucial. of Conduct and a prioritised area across and investigated in accordance with Sobi’s Sobi’s corporate values can be found on Sobi. Sobi has implemented a data privacy Investigations Policy, and followed up page 24 and are important components programme in order to promote data privacy with appropriate remediation measures as when assessing employee performance. compliance, including appointing a Data needed. Competitive terms of employment are Protection Officer, written policies and a prerequisite for recruiting and retaining procedures, and training and education. Material topics in the value chain high-calibre people. We endeavour to offer As an example, in order to raise awareness Assessing Sobi’s material sustainability topics competitive salaries and benefits, individually and understanding of data privacy in general from a value chain perspective simplifies determined and adapted to the local labour and procedures within Sobi to protect the process of identifying risks and setting market. individuals’ integrity, all Sobi employees have strategic targets. See pages 44–45. Every employee is offered equal opporreceived online training on data protection. tunities regardless of ethnicity, age, gender, In relation to our external collaboraSustainability reporting and religion, sexual orientation or physical ability. tions and procured services, we apply the communication Our guidelines clearly prohibit any sexual principles of our Policy on Anti-Corruption Sobi’s sustainability reporting and comharassment. as well as processes for risk-based third munication aims to provide correct and All employees take part in relevant profesparty due diligence. We work regularly with relevant information regarding sustainability sional development that is supported and risk identification within the corporate risk performance, goals and strategy to investors documented by a training matrix system. management process and in detail within and stakeholders. This system also meets regulatory requireday-to-day compliance. Based on the outcome of the materiality ments in the pharmaceutical field and serves We work actively to prevent any form of assessment and the defined sustainability as a comprehensive platform for ensuring corruption. As a pharmaceutical company, strategy, Sobi has identified material topics individualised and specialised training as the most apparent risk lies within our interand their boundaries, taking into considwell as evidence of learning. All employees actions with healthcare stakeholders. We eration reporting principles such as stakeare offered regular performance and career have an established Healthcare Compliance holder inclusiveness, sustainability context, development discussions. (HCC), programme to minimise the risk of materiality and completeness. corruption; this includes policies, training Sobi reports its sustainability performance Ethics and anti-corruption for our own employees, as well as reporting on an annual basis, as part of the Annual Transparency and open dialogue about and controls. Monetary transactions with and Sustainability Report. This sustainability ethical issues form the foundation of healthcare providers and patient organisareport has been prepared in accordance with strong collaborations. All engagements are tions follow local transparency initiatives the GRI Standards: Core option, see pages governed by our Code of Conduct, while and are made public on an annual basis on 117–119. It also meets the requirements for a majority are also covered by our more our website, www.sobi.com. sustainability reporting under the Swedish specific Policy on Healthcare Interactions. Our zero-tolerance approach to bribery is Annual Accounts Act. We also promote high ethical standards described in our Code of Conduct as well as Sobi has been a signatory to the UN by supporting a corporate culture that our Policy on Anti-Corruption. All employees Global Compact since 2017 and we conduct promotes open discussions of ethics both are required to undergo annual training in our business in a manner that is consistent in our operations and among key stakeholdour Code of Conduct. In 2019, 95 per cent with the Ten Principles of the UN Global ers. To our knowledge there have been no of our employees and full-time consultants Compact. Our sustainability report serves as confirmed incidents resulting in administraparticipated in and completed the training. our UN Global Compact Communication on tive or judicial sanctions for failure to comply To our knowledge, no confirmed incidents Progress report. with laws and/or regulations in the social of corruption were reported in 2019. For questions regarding the Annual and and economic area in 2019. Sobi’s employees are encouraged to Sustainability Report, please contact info@ It is important that our customers, clinical report potential misconduct or unethical sobi.com. study subjects, employees and others we behaviour openly or by using the Sobi interact with can trust that Sobi processes Compliance Hotline, run by a third party S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 43 D i r e ct o r s ' r e p o r t Material topics in the value chain Sobi group’s risk management aims for a uniform process to value chain perspective, the process of describing risks and setidentify, analyse, evaluate and address risks and effectively embed ting strategic targets is simplified and the correlation with Sobi’s risk ­management in decision making. By assesing Sobi from a material topics is identified. Product research Contract manufacturing Sobi’s operations Market access & development Sobi’s supply chain is mainly Sobi has 1,377 number of The approval and reimburseSobi’s ambition is to bring outsourced, and all contract employees in more than ment of medical treatments new products to market that manufacturing suppliers are 30 countries. Approximately is fully dependant on external address high medical needs currently based in Europe 150 people work in our proevaluation and can thus and have strong commercial and the US. Focus lies on duction and laboratory faciliinfluence the ability to access potential, and further develop continuous monitoring of ties in Stockholm and Geneva. markets. current products. Careful high pharmaceutical standards Prioritised areas include high evaluation of candidate and estabishment of a network ethics and good working Risks: drugs allows Sobi to acquire of contractors to serve our conditions. • Obtaining authorisation promising pipeline products needs. of new products or on for further late-stage developRisks: new markets ment. Close collaboration Risks: • Batch loss due to equipment • Obtaining pricing and between Sobi and the patient • Non-compliance with malfunction or process reimbursement in each community drives relevant good practices (GxP) in the deviations market in line with national patient-centric development. pharmaceutical field • Changes in environmental guidelines • Dependence on third parties regulations • Managing policy changes Risks: for product supply • Pharmaceutical waste • Aligning with recom• An increasing com­petitive • Changes in environmental emissions to water mendations and treatment market space for l­ ate-stage regulations • Occupational health and guidelines acquisitions • Pharmaceutical waste emissafety of workers • Competition • Missed opportunity due to sions to the environment • Difficulties to recruit and delayed product develop• Occupational health and retain competent personnel Management: ment safety of workers • Strong regulatory submis• Reputational risk Management: sions Management: • Standard operating proce• Product value dossiers with Management: • GxP audits of contract dures and quality assurance clear benefit and medical • Business intelligence manufacturers to ensure • Training and leadership need • Maintain strong brand strict adherence to support to raise adherence • Country-specific strategies profile ­standards to policies • Robust due diligence • Quality management system • Promote good working Influence: Low programme for potential monitors all issues relating conditions, leadership and acquisition objects to GxP deviations, corrective competitive compensation Value driver: By making • Strong relationships with and preventive measures treatments accessible in more patient and healthcare • Implementation of ResponInfluence: Medium markets and at a sustainable stakeholders to map sible Sourcing Programme cost for society, Sobi can ­medical need including screening of Value driver: Sobi creates deliver treatments to more suppliers value for local communities patients in more countries. Influence: High by creating jobs, transferring Influence: Medium knowledge and through Value driver: By identifying, economic possibilities. Positive acquiring and developing Value driver: Strong collabor­ relationships with our employproducts with a high medical ations with specialised con­ ees support development, need, robust scientific base tractors ensures high level of wellbeing and job satisfaction and strong market potential, product quality and reliable which in turn creates pride we can expand Sobi’s portfolio supply. among employees and and serve the patient comstrengthens the Sobi brand. munity. 44 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 D i r e ct o r s ' r e p o r t Distribution & transport Use of products Logistics and distribution of The correct use of Sobi’s Sobi’s therapies is characterproducts is essential for ised by the specific storage maintaining the risk-benefit requirements of the products balance of the products. and the unique conditions Pharmaceutical products governing rare diseases, ie may have environmental few, geographically dispersed impacts, although the bulk of patients and treatment Sobi’s products are biological centres. The safe and timely and thus generally biodegraddelivery of our products able with a low environmental will always be the primary impact. consideration for efficient transportation. Risks: • Improper use leading to Risks: safety issues • CO2 emissions from trans• Environmental impact of portation products • Non-compliance with GxP • Falsification of products in the pharmaceutical field Management: Management: • Regular product safety • Evaluate effective logistic updates ­solutions • Pharmacovigilance • GxP audit to ensure stan­monitoring dards are followed • Education of healthcare • Implementation of Responprofessionals sible Sourcing Programme • Serialisation of products including screening of suppliers Influence: Medium Influence: Medium Value driver: Proper and optimal use of Sobi’s products Value driver: Expand the reach increases the likelihood of of our distribution to provide successful treatment outpatients with treatments in a comes and increases patient timely and safe manner. Sobi value. intends to include transportation in its carbon emissions reporting. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 45 F i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK M Note 2019 2018 1–4 Operating revenue Operating revenue 5–6 14,248 9,139 Cost of goods sold –3,335 –2,415 SEK M Gross profit 10,913 6,723 15,000 14,248 Selling and administrative expenses –4,935 –2,511 12,000 9,139 Research and development costs –1,495 –1,090 9,000 Other operating income 8 68 6 6,511 6,000 5,204 Other operating expenses 9 –18 –6 3,228 7, 10, 11, 12, 3,000 Operating profit 13, 17, 18, 29 4,533 3,122 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Financial income 14 5 20 Financial expenses 15 –291 –60 Operating revenue Net financial items –286 –40 Revenues for the full-year amounted to Profit before tax 4,247 3,082 SEK 14,248 M (9,139), up 56 per cent. Tax on profit for the year 16 –942 –664 Profit for the year1 3,304 2,418 Adjusted EBITA1 SEK M Other comprehensive income2 8,000 Items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss 6,145 Actuarial gains/losses on defined-benefit plan –4 0 6,000 Items that can be reclassified into profit or loss Translation differences –97 9 4,000 3,571 Cash flow hedges 55 –171 2,053 Tax effect of cash flow hedges –12 38 2,000 1,543 Other comprehensive income –57 –124 433 Comprehensive income for the year2 3,247 2,294 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Earnings per share, SEK 34 11.29 8.97 Adjusted EBITA for the year rose 72 per cent to SEK 6,145 M compared with 2018. Earnings per share, SEK, adjusted 34 11.89 8.97 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 34 11.22 8.93 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK, adjusted 34 11.81 8.93 Number of shares (ordinary) 299,977,839 273,322,117 Average number of shares 292,649,020 269,523,784 Adjusted earnings/share1 Number of ordinary shares held in treasury 5,678,099 3,423,726 SEK Number of shares after dilution 301,857,247 274,365,601 11.89 12 Average number of shares after dilution 294,528,428 270,603,665 10 8.97 1. Everything attributable to Parent Company shareholders. 2. Under the revised version of IAS 1, all changes in equity not arising from transactions with owners are recognised on the 8 consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Translation differences are wholly related to shares in foreign subsidiaries. 6 4.27 4 2.99 2 0.31 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 122. 46 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 F i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s Consolidated balance sheet SEK M Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 ASSETS 1–4 Equity/ratio1 Non-current assets % Intangible assets 17 37,412 10,159 80 Tangible assets 18 518 136 Financial assets 20 50 55 61 60 56 54 53 Deferred tax assets 21 354 231 Total non-current assets 38,335 10,581 37 40 Current assets 20 Inventories 22 1,772 1,284 Account receivables 23 3,736 1,665 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Other receivables 23 530 93 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 548 561 Cash and cash equivalents 25 737 2,999 Total current assets 26 7,323 6,602 TOTAL ASSETS 45,658 17,183 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Net debt (+)/net cash (–) Equity SEK M 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Share capital 165 150 Other contributed capital 9,697 5,069 Cash and cash Other reserves –202 –144 equivalents 904 786 1,478 2,999 737 Retained earnings 3,965 1,547 Borrowings 815 497 — — 16,141 Profit for the year 3,304 2,418 Net debt Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders 16,930 9,040 (+)/net cash (–) –89 –289 –1,478 –2,999 15,404 Liabilities Net debt increased, due to aqusitions done during Non-current liabilities the year. Deferred tax liabilities 21 3,726 664 1. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 122. Borrowings 27 16,141 — Lease liabilities 10 320 3 Provisions 29, 30 179 97 Other liabilities, non interest bearing 28 2,620 428 Total non-current liabilities 26 22,987 1,192 Current liabilities Account payables 681 487 Tax liabilities 281 395 Lease liabilities 10 99 1 Other liabilities 28 1,641 4,458 Accrued expenses and deferred income 31 3,039 1,610 Total current liabilities 26 5,741 6,951 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 45,658 17,183 Related to pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 32. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 47 F i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other contributed Other Retained Total SEK M Share capital capital reserves1 earnings equity Opening equity, 1 Jan 2018 150 5,024 –20 1,548 6,701 Equity per share4 Comprehensive income SEK Profit for the year — — — 2,418 2,418 60 56.4 Other comprehensive income 50 Cash flow hedges — — –171 — –171 Tax cash flow hedges — — 38 — 38 40 33.1 Actuarial loss/gain — — 0 — 0 30 24.6 Exchange differences — — 9 — 9 19.8 20 17.3 Total comprehensive income — — –124 2,418 2,294 10 Shareholder transactions Issue/repurchase of shares 0 — — 0 — 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Share programmes — 46 — — 46 Total shareholder transactions 0 46 — 0 46 Closing equity, 31 Dec 2018 150 5,069 –144 3,965 9,040 Return on equity4 Opening equity, 1 Jan 2019 150 5,069 –144 3,965 9,040 % Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — 3,304 3,304 40 Other comprehensive income 30.7 30 Cash flow hedges — — 55 — 55 25.4 Tax cash flow hedges — — –12 — –12 19.0 20 16.0 Actuarial loss/gain — — –4 — –4 Exchange differences — — –97 — –97 10 Total comprehensive income — — –57 3,304 3,247 1.8 Shareholder transactions 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Issue/repurchase of shares 15 4,498 — — 4,513 Share programmes — 80 — — 80 Tax deductions linked to share Return on equity programmes3 — 50 — — 50 Return on equity amounted to 25.4 per cent. Total shareholder transactions 15 4,628 — — 4,642 Closing equity, 31 Dec 2019 165 9,697 –202 7,270 16,930 4. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 122. 3. The Parent company has during the period been granted additional deductions for tax purposes related to incentive programmes vested in 2013–2018. The additional deductions relate to the difference ­between the market value of vested shares and recognised IFRS 2 cost. 1Other reserves 2Cash flow hedges SEK M 2019 2018 SEK M 2019 2018 Exchange differences –110 –12 Opening balance, cash-flow hedges –106 28 Pensions in accordance with IAS 19 –30 –26 Change in value for the year, hedging Cash flow hedges2 –62 –106 instruments 44 –133 Other 0 0 Closing balance, cash-flow hedges –62 –106 Closing balance, other reserves –202 –144 Regarding cash-flow hedges, SEK –106 M (28) was transferred to the income statement. The entry is only reclassified to profit or loss because the hedged item has affected profit or loss. The hedging reserve consists solely of ongoing hedges. 48 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 F i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s Consolidated cash flow statement SEK M Note 2019 2018 Operating activities Cash flow from operations per share 4 Profit for the year 3,304 2,418 Adjustments for non-cash items 1,995 –77 SEK M Cash flow from operating activities before 15 changes in working capital 5,300 2,341 12.4 12 Cash flow from changes in working capital 9 7.8 Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in inventories –459 –231 Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in operating receivables –2,428 –679 6 5.0 Increase (+) / Decrease (–) in operating liabilities 1,221 659 3 1.9 1.3 Cash flow from operating activities 3,634 2,090 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Investing activities Acquisition of business1 18, 33 –12,880 — Investment of intangible assets2 17 –9,709 –537 Investment of tangible assets 18 –37 –41 Disposal of intangible assets3 17 941 — Cash flow from operations 4 Disposal of tangible assets 18 — 3 Disposal of financial assets 20 — 0 SEK M Cash flow from investing activities –21,685 –575 4,000 3,634 Financing activities 3,000 Borrowings 27 15,875 — 2,090 Lease payments –94 — 2,000 1,333 Repayment of loans — –2 Cash flow from financing activities 15,780 –2 1,000 507 343 0 Change in cash and cash equivalents –2,271 1,513 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,999 1,478 Exchange differences in cash flow 9 7 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 737 2,999 4. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 122. 1. Relates to business combination acquisitions of (i) Dova and (ii) emapalumab. 2. The largest investments during the year was SEK 13,869 M related to Synagis, with a cash flow impact of SEK –9,051 M and SEK 1,817 M related to the acqusition of the development and commercial rights to BIVV001 in Sobi’s territory with a cash flow impact of SEK –490 M. 3. Disposal of intangible assets stemming from the sale of a Priority Review Voucher (PRV), acquired in the business acquisition of ­emapalumab, and the sale of SOBI005. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 49 F i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s Consolidated cash flow statement, cont. Supplemental disclosures to the consolidated cash flow statement SEK M Note 2019 2018 Interest paid and received Interest received 5 3 Interest paid –114 –12 Income tax paid –520 –507 Adjustments for non-cash items Depreciation/amortisation and write-downs of intangible assets 7, 17 1,401 449 Depreciation/amortisation and write-downs of tangible assets 7, 18 188 36 Cost of share programmes1 80 46 Deferred tax 21 411 –103 Elocta and Alprolix2 –454 –485 Translation differences 333 — Other items 37 –19 Total 1,995 –77 1. IFRS 2 expense associated with share programmes that is recognised in equity. 2. Pertains to royalty revenue with which the liability to Sanofi was settled, and to interest expense related to the liability to Sanofi. 50 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 F i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s Parent Company statement of comprehensive income SEK M Note 2019 2018 1–4 Operating revenue 5–6 12,991 8,221 Cost of goods sold –3,177 –2,349 Gross profit 9,814 5,872 Selling and administrative expenses –4,220 –1,445 Research and development costs –1,110 –932 Other operating income 8 62 5 Other operating expenses 9 –10 –7 Operating profit 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18 4,536 3,492 Financial income 14 348 35 Financial expenses 15 –287 –69 Net financial items 61 –35 Profit after financial items 4,597 3,457 Group contributions –2,766 63 Excess depreciations –400 –460 Appropriations –3,166 –398 Profit before tax 1,431 3,060 Tax on profit for the year 16 –313 –678 Profit for the year 1,118 2,382 Other comprehensive income Items that can be reclassified into profit or loss Cash flow hedges 55 –171 Tax effect of cash flow hedges –12 38 Other comprehensive income 44 –133 Comprehensive income for the year 1,161 2,248 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 51 F i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s Parent Company balance sheet SEK M Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 ASSETS 1–4 Non-current assets Intangible assets 17 5,572 3,801 Tangible assets 18 65 112 Financial assets Participations in Group companies 19 7,676 3,475 Receivables from Group companies1 18,389 — Other financial assets 20 47 52 Deferred tax assets 21 22 11 Total non-current assets 31,772 7,450 Current assets Inventories 22 1,533 1,071 Current receivables Account receivables 23 2,402 590 Other receivables 23 449 57 Receivables from Group companies 1,286 1,465 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 499 532 Cash and cash equivalents 25 431 2,762 Total current assets 6,601 6,476 TOTAL ASSETS 38,373 13,926 1. Receivables from group companies have increased as a result of the acquisitions of Synagis, emapalumab and Dova. 52 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 F i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s SEK M Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity Share capital 165 150 Statutory reserve 800 800 Total restricted equity 965 950 Unrestricted equity Share premium reserve 8,905 4,277 Retained earnings 2,547 122 Profit for the year 1,118 2,382 Total unrestricted equity 12,569 6,780 Total equity 13,534 7,731 Untaxed reserves Excess depreciations 2,984 2,584 Total untaxed reserves 2,984 2,584 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Borrowings 27 16,141 — Other liabilities, non-interest bearing 28 1,273 428 Provisions 30 84 80 Total non-current liabilities 17,499 508 Current liabilities Account payables 574 376 Liabilities to Group companies 1,358 644 Tax liabilities 230 382 Other liabilities 28 623 731 Accrued expenses and deferred income 31 1,570 969 Total current liabilities 4,356 3,103 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 38,373 13,926 Related to pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 32. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 53 F i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s Parent Company statement of changes in equity Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Retained earnings Share Statutory Share premium and profit/loss Total SEK M capital reserve reserve for the year1 equity Opening equity, 1 Jan 2018 150 800 4,231 255 5,436 Cash flow hedges — — — –171 –171 Tax effect of cash flow hedges — — — 38 38 Issue/repurchase of shares 0 — — 0 — Share programmes — — 46 — 46 Profit for the year — — — 2,382 2,382 Closing equity, 31 Dec 2018 150 800 4,277 2,503 7,731 Opening equity, 1 Jan 2019 150 800 4,277 2,503 7,731 Cash flow hedges — — — 55 55 Tax effect of cash flow hedges — — — –12 –12 Issue/repurchase of shares 15 — 4,498 — 4,513 Share programmes — — 80 — 80 Share-based compensation to employees tax effect2 — — 50 — 50 Profit for the year — — — 1,118 1,118 Total transaction with shareholders 15 — 4,628 1,161 5,804 Closing equity, 31 Dec 2019 165 800 8,905 3,665 13,534 2. The Parent company has during the period been granted additional deductions for tax purposes related to incentive programmes vested in 2013–2018. The additional deductions relate to the difference between the market value of vested shares and recognised IFRS 2 cost. 1 Cash flow hedges SEK M 2019 2018 Opening balance, cash-flow hedges –106 28 Change in value for the year, hedging instruments 44 –133 Closing balance, cash-flow hedges –62 –106 Regarding cash-flow hedges, SEK –106 M (28) was transferred to the income statement. The entry is only reclassified to profit or loss because the hedged item has affected profit or loss. The hedging reserve consists solely of ongoing hedges. At year-end, Sobi’s share capital amounted to SEK 164,560 K distributed between 299,977,839 ordinary shares with a par value of about SEK 0.55 and one voting right. At the balance-sheet date, the company held 5,678,099 ordinary shares in treasury, corresponding to 1.9 per cent of the total number of shares in the company. 54 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 F i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s Parent Company cash flow statement SEK M Note 2019 2018 Operating activities Profit for the year 1,118 2,382 Adjustments for non-cash items 510 301 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,627 2,683 Cash flow from changes in working capital Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in inventories –462 –177 Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in operating receivables –15,833 –864 Increase (+) / Decrease (–) in operating liabilities 970 400 Cash flow from operating activities –13,698 2,042 Investing activities Acqusition of business 33 –4,201 –592 Investment of intangible assets1 17 –658 –43 Investment of tangible assets 18 –15 –26 Disposal of tangible assets 17 28 — Cash flow from investing activities –4,846 –661 Financing activities Borrowings 27 16,214 — Cash flow from financing activities 16,214 — Change in cash and cash equivalents –2,331 1,381 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,762 1,381 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 431 2,762 1. Cash flow investments for the year are lower than investments in the balance sheet, the difference is because the entire acquisition of development and commercialisation rights in Sobi’s territory linked to BIV001 has not yet been paid. Supplemental disclosures to cash flow statement – Parent Company SEK M Note 2019 2018 Interest paid and received Interest received 2 21 Interest paid –117 –12 Income tax paid –435 –434 Adjustments for non-cash items Depreciation/amortisation and write-downs of assets 7, 17, 18 381 321 Restructuring reserv 88 — Deferred tax 21 –12 –21 Cost of share programmes1 129 46 Excess depreciations 400 460 Elocta and Alprolix2 –454 –485 Other items –22 –19 510 301 1. IFRS 2 expense associated with share programmes that is recognised in equity, and deductions for tax purposes, see Note 2 on previous side. 2. Pertains to royalty revenue with which the liability to Sanofi was settled, and to interest expense related to the liability to Sanofi. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 55 Notes 1 Notes 2 1 General information lease is defined as a lease that has a lease term of one year or less. A low-value lease essentially relates to computers, printers and copying machines. Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), Corporate Registration Number The lease liability is measured at the present value of outstanding lease pay556038-9321, the Parent Company and its subsidiaries, collectively the Group, ments. The weighted average discount rate (the lessee’s incremental borrois a publicly listed international pharmaceutical company dedicated to rare wing rate) applied on the date of initial transition is 1.6 per cent, based on an diseases. estimate of the borrowing rate Sobi would have received from financial instituThe Parent Company is a limited liability company headquartered in tions for corresponding maturities. Extension options are taken into account ­Stockholm, Sweden. The address of the head office is Tomtebodavägen 23A, when the Group considers it likely that the option will be exercised. Solna, Sweden. As an effect of the transition, the Group’s total assets rose SEK 397 M on the The company has been listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange, now transition date of 1 January 2019, corresponding to 2 per cent of total assets. ­Nasdaq Stockholm, since 15 September 2006 and in OMX Stockholm Large The Group’s financial liabilities rose SEK 397 M, also corresponding to 2 per Cap ­segment, since 2 January 2014. cent of total assets. In 2019, IFRS 16 had an impact of SEK 2 M on operating profit, of which a decline in other operating expenses accounted for SEK 97 M and increased depreciation expense for SEK 95 M. As such, there was no significant effect on 2 Significant accounting policies and basis operating profit or earnings per share. However, the alternative performance measure EBITDA rose SEK 97 M due to a decrease in other operating expenses of preparation for the financial statements under IFRS 16. of the Parent Company and the Group Summary of the Group’s new accounting policy due to the transition to IFRS 16: Leased assets (right-of-use assets) are capitalised on the lease commenceCompliance with standards and laws ment date, which means the date on which the underlying asset is available for The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with use. The right-of-use asset comprises the initial lease liability, including any the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s lease payments made on or before the commencement date of the lease. The recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups, Internaright-of-use asset is measured at cost less any depreciation, accumulated tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and IFRIC interpretations as adopimpairment losses and remeasurement of the lease liability. The right-of-use ted by the EU. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using asset is depreciated over the expected lease term using the straight-line method. the cost method, except for financial assets and liabilities (including derivative The lease liability is measured at the present value of fixed payments less any instruments) which are measured at fair value through profit or loss and other lease incentives receivable, and of variable lease payments that depend on an comprehensive income (hedge). The signi­ficant accounting policies applied index or rate that have not been paid on the commencement date. Lease payfor the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are presented ments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, or the lessee’s below. These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, incremental borrowing rate if the implicit rate cannot be readily determined. unless otherwise stated. The carrying amount of the lease liability is remeasured when there is a change All values in parentheses () are comparative figures for the year-earlier in the assessment of a lease term. period, unless otherwise stated. All amounts reported in the financial stateOtherwise, the same accounting policies were applied as in the preceding ments (in the comments, statements, tables and notes) are presented in SEK M year. Amendments to IFRS standards effective for reporting periods beginning (millions of Swedish kronor), unless otherwise stated. Since the financial statein or after 2019 had no significant effect on the Group’s financial statements. ments and notes in the 2018 Annual Report were presented in SEK K (thousands of Swedish kronor), the tables and notes for the comparative year have been New and amended standards and interpretations restated in SEK M. All amounts have been rounded to the nearest million. not yet adopted by the Group Within the Group, assets and liabilities are classified as either current or Updated standards and interpretations from IASB and IFRIC interpretations that ­non-current. Current receivables and liabilities fall due within one year of the came into effect during the 2019 calendar year have had no material impact on balance-sheet date. Non-current receivables and liabilities essentially consist the Group. of amounts expected to be settled later than one year from the balance-sheet date. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In 2019, the Parent Company fully adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with the which is the same accounting policy that the Group has applied since 2018. For Group’s accounting policies and include the financial statements for the Parent more information about the Parent Company’s accounting policies and where Company and all subsidiaries. When preparing Sobi’s consolidated financial these differ from the Group’s, see below. statements, intra-Group transactions, balance-sheet items and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. New and amended standards applied by the Group The new reporting standard IFRS 16 Leases came into effect on 1 January 2019 Subsidiaries and superseded IAS 17 Leases. The standard provides new accounting requireA subsidiary is a company in which the Parent Company has a controlling intements for lessees and stipulates that all leases must be recognised on the rest. A controlling influence exists when the company has control over a comlessee’s balance sheet as a lease liability and corresponding right-of-use asset. pany, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement in the comPrevious operating lease payments are replaced by depreciation and interest pany, and the ability to affect those returns through its controlling influence. expenses. Lease payments are divided into a lease liability and interest expense. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to The right-of-use asset is depreciated over the expected lease term using the the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. If a substraight-line method. sidiary uses accounting policies that are not consistent with the Group’s, the Sobi has elected to use the modified retrospective approach, with no impact appropriate adjustments are made to the subsidiary’s accounting policies. on consolidated equity at 1 January 2019. Under the modified retrospective The consolidated financial statements are prepared using the acquisition approach, right-of-use assets mainly comprising leases for premises and cars, method. A business combination is therefore considered a transaction in which are consistent with the lease liability on the transition date of 1 January 2019, the Group acquires control over the subsidiary’s assets, and assumes its liabilitaking prepaid rent into account. When transitioning to IFRS, Sobi has elected ties. The identified assets and acquired liabilities are measured at fair value on to apply the short-term lease and low-value lease exemptions. A short-term the acquisition date. 56 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes Note 2, cont. Transaction costs arising from acquisitions are recognised in the income Operating revenue ­statement as administrative expenses. Contingent consideration is classified Revenue from product sales is recognised when Sobi has satisfied its perforas a liability and measured at fair value on the acquisition date. Conditional mance obligations, which means that the customer has taken control over the consideration is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date, with the product. In practice, this arises when the goods have been delivered from the 2 change recognised in profit for the year. company’s consignment stock to the end customer. The difference between fair value of the purchase price and fair value of The performance obligations associated with the contracts between Sobi the Group’s share of the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is and its customers consist mainly of distinct goods that are transferred to the recognised as goodwill. In step acquisitions, goodwill is determined on the customer against payment. The products are not customised and can be used acquisition date when the controlling influence is obtained, and not in connecby the customers in the condition they are received. The products are thus tion with previous acquisitions. To determine goodwill in step acquisitions, the considered distinct and separately identifiable. Upon delivery, the customer previous holding of equity interests in the acquired company are included, normally assumes responsibility for the goods, depending on the shipping adjusted to fair value, and any gains or losses arising from the remeasurement terms, and the obligation to pay becomes unconditional. Standard payment are recognised in profit or loss. In every acquisition, the Group determines terms vary between 30 and 90 days, are recognised as accounts receivable. whether non-controlling interests in the acquiree are measured at fair value, The price of the goods is identified in contract. The consideration is variable or at the holding’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. to some extent before deductions are made for agreed discounts and pharmaGoodwill is not amortised according to plan, but tested annually for impairceutical taxes. Where the deductions cannot be estimated reliably, an assessment. If the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and conment is made and the amounts are reserved on the balance sheet. tingent liabilities exceeds the cost, the excess (negative goodwill) is recognised Contract manufacturing revenue (ReFacto) is recognised when the goods directly in profit or loss. Any losses are considered an indication that the transhave been delivered to the customer, meaning control of the goods has been ferred asset may be impaired. transferred to the customer. The payment terms are 90 days. Returns from customers do not generally arise within Sobi, since the return Foreign currency of expired goods does not constitute a reason for return. There are product and Functional and reporting currency quality warranties for any defective goods, and a transport warranty if the proItems included in the financial statements for each of the Group’s entities are duct is damaged during transport, provided that Sobi has arranged the transmeasured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which port. Should the latter arise, a claim is made against the insurance company. the entity operates (functional currency). The consolidated financial statements Royalty revenue is recognised according to agreement. Revenue is recog­ are presented in Swedish crowns (SEK), which is the Parent Company’s functionised over time on a monthly basis, with quarterly reconciliation and invoicing. nal currency and the Group’s reporting currency. Sobi is entitled to royalties on pre-sold goods, as per agreement. Accrued ­royalty revenue, which is also classified as contract assets under IFRS 15, is Transactions and balance-sheet items recognised on the balance sheet under prepaid expenses and accrued income. Transactions in foreign currency are translated into the functional currency The payment terms are 45 days after the end of the quarter. using the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date, or on the date when Sobi has no customer contracts where the performance obligations extend the items are remeasured. Exchange differences arising from the settlement of beyond 12 months after the balance-sheet date. such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities Revenues may also include revenue from licensing agreements, including denominated in foreign currency at the closing day rate, are recognised in proout-licensing revenue and milestone payments. Milestone payments refer to fit or loss. The exception is when the transactions are hedges that meet all partial payments received from partners triggered by the achievement of a spehedge accounting criteria. These exchange-rate differences are recognised in cific part of a partnering agreement, such as regulatory approval of a jointly other comprehensive income. Operating items are recognised as operating developed product. This type of revenue is recognised when the contracted profit, while other items are recognised as financial income or expense. event has occurred and there is reasonable assurance that payment will be ­collected. Due to various contract formulations, the initial license fee can be Translation of foreign subsidiaries recognised in two ways: either directly when the license fee is received, or alloThe assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are measured in their respective cated over its estimated useful life. In 2019 and 2018, Sobi did not recognise functional currency, meaning in the primary economic environment in which any licence fees or milestone payments. the company operates. For Sobi’s foreign subsidiaries, all assets, provisions and Service fees comprise consideration for sales and marketing services related other liabilities are translated into the Group’s presentation currency (SEK) to some Partner Products during a contractual term. Revenue is recognised using the closing day rate, and all resulting exchange differences are recogniover time. sed in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a separate line item When the Group has an obligation to carry out research and development under equity – foreign currency translation reserve. All items recognised in assignments and the consideration pertains to services provided by the Group, profit or loss are translated using the average rate for the year. the consideration is recognised over time as the services are performed. ReveGoodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign nue from research collaborations is recognised in the period in which the work entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the entity and translated at the is performed. ­closing day rate. Government grants SEGMENT REPORTING Government grants are recognised when the company fulfils the criteria Operating segments are presented using the management perspective, which attached to the grant and there is reasonable assurance that the grants will be means they are presented in the same manner as the internal reporting. The received. Grants received are recognised on the balance sheet as deferred basis for identifying reportable segments is the internal reporting system, income and recognised in profit or loss in the period when the cost associated whereby they are reported to, and monitored by, the chief operating decisionwith the grant is recognised. maker. The Group has identified its chief operating decision-maker as the CEO. Sobi mainly receives government grants in the form of reduced employer’s In the internal reporting to the CEO, only one segment is used. For more inforcontributions for research for commercial purposes, which is fully utilised, and mation, see Note 6. research grants from the EU. A minor share of Sobi projects is funded with government grants, which will cease in 2020. REVENUES The Group’s revenues are mainly generated by sales of own products, for Other operating income/expenses which Sobi holds the distribution and/or licensing agreements, and receives Other operating income and expenses are revenues and costs arising from revenue from manufacturing and royalties. activities outside the normal operations. These items include exchange-rate Revenues include invoiced gross revenue as agreed for goods sold, exclueffects on operating receivables and liabilities. Accumulated gains or losses ding VAT, discounts, pharmaceutical taxes and returns due to product or quality ­arising on cash-flow hedges in equity are reclassified to other operating warranties or transport damage, and after the elimination of intra-Group sales. income/expenses in the period in which the hedged item impacts profit or loss. Revenues are recognised as follows: For more information, see Notes 8 and 9. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 57 Notes Note 2, cont. CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAX Manufacturing relocation costs Taxes in the statement of comprehensive income comprise current and deferCosts are capitalised when the manufacturing of Sobi’s products are relocated red tax. Current tax refers to tax payable/received attributable to current/prior and are classified as intangible assets. Amortisation commences when the asset 2 years. Deferred tax refers to tax attributable to future years and is calculated on is available for use. the basis of temporary differences between the carrying amount and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is measured using the applicable/substanAmortisation of intangible assets tively enacted tax rates and tax rules for the period in which the reversal/realiAmortisation of product and marketing rights, licenses, patents and acquired sation is expected to occur. R&D is charged to selling and administrative expenses. Amortisation of capitaliDeferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences in consolidated sed costs, etc, is also charged to selling and administrative expenses. For more goodwill, nor for temporary differences attributable to participations in subsidiinformation, see Note 7. aries, since it is unlikely that such a reversal will take place in the foreseeable future. In the consolidated financial statements, untaxed reserves are divided TANGIBLE ASSETS between deferred tax liabilities and equity. Deferred tax assets for deductible Property, plant and equipment are recognised as assets on the balance sheet if temporary differences and loss carry-forwards are only recognised to the it is probable that future economic rewards will accrue to the company and the extent it is probable they will be utilised. Tax is recognised under Tax on profit/ cost of the asset can be measured reliably. loss for the year in the statement of comprehensive income except for those All tangible assets are recognised at cost less depreciation. The cost includes items recognised in other comprehensive income or equity. See Notes 16 and 21. costs directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. Additional costs are added to the carrying amount of the asset or recognised as a separate asset, INTANGIBLE ASSETS depending on which is appropriate, only when it is probable that the future Goodwill economic rewards associated with the asset is beneficial to the Group and the Goodwill arising in a business combination comprises the difference between cost of the asset can be measured reliably. All other forms of repair and main­ the cost of the business combination and the fair value of identifiable assets tenance are recognised as costs in profit or loss as incurred. acquired, liabilities assumed and contingent liabilities recognised. Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocaDepreciation of tangible assets ted to the cash-generating units and tested annually for impairment in the Tangible assets are depreciated according to plan over their estimated useful fourth quarter, or whenever there is any indication of impairment. Impairment life. They are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life, of goodwill is not reclassified. Goodwill arising from the acquisition of associawith consideration for residual value. The following depreciation periods are ted companies is included in the carrying amount of participations in associaapplied: ted companies. Plant and machinery Product and marketing rights • Laboratory equipment and other investments 3–7 years Product and marketing rights are measured at cost less accumulated amortisa• Other major investments, such as property refurbishment 5–20 years tion. They have a limited useful life and are amortised to spread the cost over this period (5 to 20 years). Straight-line amortisation is carried out over the Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings asset’s useful life, based on the expected earnings of each product and market­ • Servers and other large computer hardware 3–5 years ing right. Amortisation expenses are considered selling costs. See also Note 4. • Furniture, fixtures and fittings 5–10 years Licenses and patents Land and buildings Licence costs and amortisation expenses are treated in the same way as • Buildings  20 years ­product and marketing rights above. Cost for patents are expensed directly. • Land indefinite useful life Research and development costs The residual value and useful life of the assets are assessed at each balanceCosts for development projects are recognised as intangible assets if the comsheet date and adjusted if necessary. An asset’s carrying amount is immediately pany can demonstrate that it is technically possible to complete and profitably depreciated to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount of the asset commercialise the results, and only if the costs for the project can be measured exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. The gain or loss arising on the disreliably. In practice, this means that the costs cannot be capitalised until the US posal or retirement of tangible assets is determined by the difference between Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the European Commission have granthe selling price and the carrying amount less direct selling costs. The profit/ ted approval. Acquired development projects are capitalised on the acquisition loss item is recognised as other operating income or other operating expenses. date. Amortisation is carried out to allocate the cost of development projects over their estimated useful lives, and does not commence until the project IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS begins to generate revenue. Other research and development costs that do not Goodwill, which has an indeterminable useful life, and intangible assets not yet meet the relevant recognition criteria of IAS 38 are recognised when incurred. available for use, are not depreciated but tested annually for impairment or when there is any indication that the value of an asset has declined. Product Capitalised costs and marketing rights that are amortised are also tested annually for impairment Software and IT projects in progress since the carrying amount is significant for the Group. Other assets that are Acquired software licenses are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred depreciated/amortised are tested for impairment whenever events or changes when the relevant software is acquired and available for use. These costs are in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. amortised over the estimated useful life of the software. An asset is impaired if its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. An Costs associated with developing or maintaining software are recognised as impairment is thus the difference between the carrying amount and the recoan expense when incurred. Costs directly associated with identifiable software verable amount where the recoverable amount is defined as the higher of an products developed specifically for Sobi that are controlled by the company asset’s net realisable value and value in use. When determining the value in use, and will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one the cash flows expected to be generated by the asset are discounted at a rate year, are recognised as intangible assets. Direct costs include expenses for equivalent to Sobi’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC). employees working on software development and a reasonable proportion When assessing the goodwill impairment, this is grouped at the lowest levels of overhead costs. for which there are separately identifiable cash flows. Sobi has made the Costs to enhance the performance of software or extend its useful life assessment that the Group’s operations as a whole comprise a cash-generating (development costs) beyond the original plan are capitalised and added to unit. Any impairment of goodwill is not reversed. An impairment loss for an the initial cost of the software. asset other than goodwill is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates Amortisation according to plan for software recognised as an asset is per­ used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount. A reversal must not exceed formed using the straight-line method over its useful life up to a maximum of the carrying amount that would have been determined, less depreciation, had three years. no impairment loss been recognised. Impairment testing of goodwill, product and marketing rights, and development projects is described in Note 17. 58 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes Note 2, cont. LEASES 2. Assets measured at fair value through profit or loss The Group’s accounting policies have been changed due to the new financial (excluding derivatives) reporting standard, IFRS 16. The new reporting and disclosure requirements for Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets lessees are described above under New and amended standards applied by the that are not derivatives or that do not meet the requirements for being measu2 Group and in Note 10 and Note 18. Prior to 2018, leased assets were recognised red at amortised cost (see above). This category includes the Group’s endowin the consolidated financial statements as either a finance or operating lease. ment policies. Leased non-current assets, for which Sobi held the same risks and rewards as owning the asset, were classified as a finance lease. The asset was recognised 3. Liabilities measured at amortised cost as a non-current asset on the balance sheet. The corresponding obligation for This category includes financial liabilities not available for sale including loans, future lease payments was recognised as a current or non-current liability. The account payables and lease liabilities. Liabilities in this category are measured leased assets were depreciated according to plan, while the lease payments at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Borrowings are initially were recognised as interest and repayment of debts. Leased assets where the measured at fair value, net after transactions costs. Borrowings are subselessor essentially retained ownership of the asset were classified as operating quently measured at amortised cost and any difference between the amount leases and lease payments were expensed on a straight-line basis over the term received and the repayment amount is recognised in profit or loss over the of the lease. term of the loan, using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless there is an unconditional right to defer settlement FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS of the liability until twelve months after the balance-sheet date. A financial instrument is a contract that gives rise to a financial asset in one company, and a financial liability or equity instrument in another. 4. Liabilities measured at fair value This category includes liabilities that are not derivatives and that are not Classification of financial instruments recognised at amortised cost. Liabilities are measured both initially and in Financial instruments include contract-based rights to receive cash, such as ­subsequent periods at fair value in the balance sheet. This category includes account receivables. conditional purchase prices related acqusition of business combinations, The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories: where changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement. The 1. Assets measured at amortised cost ­components of the change in fair value relating to interest and exchange rate 2. Assets measured at fair value through profit or loss effects are recognized in net financial items and other changes in fair value 3. Liabilities measured at amortised cost are reported in operating profit or loss. 4. Liabilities measured at fair value 5. Derivatives 5. Derivatives Derivatives are only used for hedging and not for speculative purposes. Sobi The classification depends on the purpose for which the instruments were differentiates between derivatives included in an effective hedging relationship acquired and the type of financial instrument. Management determines how and other derivatives held for sale. Derivatives are measured at fair value on the the instruments will be classified in connection with initial recognition and balance sheet, both initially and in subsequent remeasurements, and recognireviews this decision on each reporting date. Assets expected to mature or be sed as either an asset or a liability, depending on whether their fair value is posisold within twelve months, and liabilities with no unconditional right to defer tive or negative. settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance-sheet date, Derivatives that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are recogniare classified as current assets or current liabilities. Other assets and liabilities sed in profit or loss. Derivatives held to manage risk in the financial operations are classified as non-current assets or non-current liabilities. are recognised in net financial items, while derivatives held to manage risk in Financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit or loss are the operational results are recognised in other income/expenses. See below measured at fair value on the transaction date, including transaction costs on for accounting of derivatives that meet the criteria for hedge accounting. the balance sheet. Financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss are initially measured at fair value, while related transaction costs are Hedge accounting recognised in profit or loss. The Group applies hedge accounting for currency risk and uses derivative Financial instruments recognised on the balance sheet include such assets as instruments and loans in these hedging relationships. The method for recog­ cash and cash equivalents, account receivables and endowment policies. Finannising the resulting gains or losses from the remeasurement of loans or deri­ cial liabilities mainly include borrowings, account payables and other liabilities. vatives in hedge accounting depends on whether the instrument has been identified as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge, fair value hedge or 1. Assets measured at amortised cost net investment hedge. Assets are classified in this category if both of the following criteria can be met: 1. The business model objective for the financial asset is to collect its contCash flow hedges ractual cash flows The effective portion of changes in fair value of a derivative instrument identi2. The terms of the financial asset give rise to fixed or determinable payfied as a cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. The ments and these are solely payments of interest and principal amounts gain or loss pertaining to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. Accumulated gains or losses in equity are reclassified to profit or The Group’s assets in this category consist of account receivables, other receiloss in the periods in which the hedged item affects the results. If a hedging vables, cash and cash equivalents. These are measured at amortised cost less instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for any impairment. The maturities of account receivables are mainly short, which hedge accounting and there are accumulated gains or losses from hedging in is why they are initially measured at nominal value without discounting. Any equity, these gains or losses remain in equity and are transferred to the income impairment of account receivables in the Group will use a model based on statement when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss. If a loan is expected future losses, which have been calculated using historical losses and designated as a hedging instrument for foreign-exchange risk, the effective forward-looking estimates. Any impairment of account receivables based on portion of the remeasurement effects pertaining to exchange rate fluctuations expected future losses, which are assessed individually like account receivais recognised in the same way as for derivatives, while other parts of the loan bles, is recognised in operating expenses. are recognised as a loan not included in a hedge relationship. Fair value hedges Fair value hedges are only made with derivative instruments. When hedging fair value, derivatives are recognised in profit or loss together with changes in the fair value of the hedged item pertaining to the portion that is exposed to the hedged risk and included in the hedging relationship. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 59 Notes Note 2, cont. Net investment hedge Recognition of defined-contribution pension plans and management Hedging of net investments is done using financial liabilities denominated in by Alecta foreign currency. The accounting for the liability is analogous with a loan in The CEO and management are mainly covered by defined-contribution plans. 2 cash flow hedge. A defined-contribution pension plan provides a contribution to a pension plan, determined as a percentage of the pensionable salary. The level of pension INVENTORIES benefits at retirement is determined by premiums paid and the return on Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is investments, less management costs. calculated using the first in, first out principle (FIFO). Net realisable value is the Pension expenses for the defined-contribution plans are reported in the expected selling price in the ordinary course of business less selling costs. income statement as earned. The obligations are calculated without discounObsolescence risk and confirmed obsolescence have been taken into account ting, since the payments for these plans fall due within 12 months. in the measurement. Obligations for retirement pensions and family pensions for white-collar employees in Sweden are insured through Alecta. According to the Financial CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Reporting Board’s statement UFR 10 Accounting for ITP 2 plans financed by The cash and cash equivalents of the Parent Company and the Group include insurance in Alecta, this is a defined-benefit plan covering multiple employers. the balances of the consolidated accounts and other bank accounts, and investFor the financial years of 2005–2019, the company did not have access to the ments with a maturity of less than three months from the acquisition date. information required to recognise this plan as a defined-benefit plan, which is why the ITP pension plan insured through Alecta is recognised as a definedEQUITY contribution plan. Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Transaction costs directly attributable A special employer’s contribution is calculated on pension premiums. to the issue of new shares or options are recognised in equity, net after tax, as a deduction from the proceeds. Recognition of defined-benefit pension plans In defined-benefit plans, the pension is determined as a percentage of the penPROVISIONS sionable final salary, based on the employee’s length of service and average Provisions are recognised on the balance sheet when Sobi has a legal or confinal salary. The Group is responsible for ensuring that the established benefits structive obligation as a result of an event that has occurred and where it is are paid out. ­probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. The defined-benefit pension obligations are recognised on the balance It must also be possible to make a reliable estimate of the amount. Provisions sheet as the net total of the estimated present value of the obligations and are recognised in the amount corresponding to the best estimate of the paythe fair value of the plan assets, which are recognised as a provision or a nonment required to settle the obligation. If the outflow of resources is expected current financial receivable. to take place at a point far in the future, the expected future cash flow is disFor defined-benefit plans, pension expense and commitments are calculacounted and the provision is recognised at its present value. The discount rate ted using the applicable principles of IAS 19. This calculation is performed corresponds with the market rate before tax, and the risks associated with the annually by independent actuaries. liability. Provisions are recognised on the balance sheet under other current The company’s obligations are measured at the present value of expected and non-current liabilities. future payments. When discounting obligations in Sweden, a discount rate Provisions for restructuring which substantially change the way in which equal to the interest on mortgage bonds with a maturity corresponding to the Sobi works are recognised when a detailed and formal restructuring plan has relevant obligations is applied. The most important actuarial assumptions are been established and publicly announced, at which point clear expectations described in Note 29. are created that the plan will be implemented. Provisions for restructuring often Actuarial gains and losses may arise in connection with the determination of include benefits at termination, which can be either voluntary or involuntary. the present value of the obligations and the fair value of plan assets. These arise Termination benefits are recognised as described above, except in those cases either because the fair value differs from the previous assumption, or the in which a requirement for service is linked to the benefit, in which case costs assumptions change. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comare distributed over the period in which the services are carried out. Restructurprehensive income in the period in which they arise. ing provisions entail estimates of the time and cost of planned future activities. Interest expense, less the estimated return on plan assets, is classified as a The most significant estimates relate to those costs required for severance pay financial expense. Other cost items in the pension expense are charged to or other obligations in connection with termination of employment, as well as ­operating profit. costs for the termination of agreements and other costs for withdrawal. Such The accounting principle for defined-benefit pension plans described above estimates are based on the actual situation in negotiations with the affected applies only to the consolidated financial statements. parties and/or their representatives. Salaries relating to periods following the termination of duty to work are expensed when the decision is made and comDirect pensions municated. For some senior executives, their pension plan has been supplemented with Sobi recognises endowment policies gross on the balance sheet as a finandirect pension obligations. In these cases, the Parent Company, over time, has cial asset and a provision. Cash-based programmes for employees are treated taken out endowment policies pledged to the employee as collateral for the as a provision until the programme expires, refer to the section on direct penagreement. Endowment policies taken out by the Parent Company are classisions under Remuneration of employees. fied as a financial asset on the balance sheet, since they are a long-term holSobi has a provision for site restoration related to restoration of the leased ding, and measured at fair value, while the pension obligation to the employee property Paradiset 14 when the lease expires. The company recognises this is recognised under provisions for pensions. A provision for special payroll tax is item as a provision on the balance sheet. also recognised for the endowment policies. Premiums paid into the endowment policies are not deductible. However, the payment to the beneficiary is EMPLOYEE BENEFITS deductible. Pensions Sobi has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans, and the Long-term incentive programmes vast majority of employees are covered by and recognised in the defined-conSobi currently has five active share programmes and one share option protribution pension plans. At 31 December 2019, employees in the Norwegian gramme for senior executives. The fair value of the allotted share programmes subsidiary, in the Swedish Parent Company, and all employees in the company is estimated on the issue date using a generally accepted modelling technique, in Switzerland that was acquired during the year were covered by definedthe Monte Carlo simulation model, and taking market conditions into account, benefit plans. All other employees were covered by defined-contribution and the fair value of the employee option programme is estimated on the issue ­pension plans. See Note 29 for more information. date using the Black & Scholes model. The 2019 Share Programme, which covers the CEO, senior executives and managers, includes a revenue component 60 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes Note 2, cont. whereby the fair value of the allotted shares may fluctuate, depending on the tax deductibility. The most significant differences compared with the rules for assumptions of target achievement. The total amount to be expensed is based IAS 19 are how the discount rate is determined, that the calculation of the defion the fair value of the shares allotted. ned-benefit obligation is based on current salary levels without assumptions The total amount is recognised as a personnel cost in profit or loss, allocated on future salary increases, and that all actuarial gains and losses are recogni2 over the vesting period, and corresponding adjustments are made in equity. At sed in other comprehensive income as they arise. See Note 29 for more the end of every quarter, the Group reviews its assessments of how many sha­information. 3 res are expected to be vested based on the service condition. The shares are delivered to the employee when vested under the framework of the programmes. Right-of-use assets The Group also has three long-term cash-based incentive programmes, All of the Parent Company’s leases are recognised according to the rules for which are not classified as share-based payment awards, covering all employoperating leases. ees in the US and Canada. Since awards under these programmes are contingent upon continued employment at the company, the costs are recognised Group contributions continuously over the vesting period. A liability is calculated on each balanceThe Parent Company applies the alternative approach and, consequently, sheet date based on the market value, renewed assessments of target fulfilreports all Group contributions received/provided as appropriations. ment and how much has been vested. The net of these effects is recognised as a personnel cost in the consolidated income statement. Taxes The social security contributions are remeasured at the end of every quarter Untaxed reserves including deferred tax liabilities are recognised for legal entities. until settlement takes place, and allocated using the same principles as the cost for shares. Subsidiaries A more detailed description of the long-term incentive programmes can be Participations in subsidiaries are recognised using the cost method. The value found in Note 11. of subsidiaries is tested when there is an indication of a decline in value. ­Dividends received from subsidiaries are recognised as revenue. Transaction Compensation for termination costs associated with the acquisition of companies are expensed. Contingent A provision for the termination of employees is only recognised if the company considerations are recognised as part of the cost if it is probable that they will is demonstrably obliged to terminate a position before the normal period of be realised. If the initial assessment needs to be revised in subsequent periods, service has ended, or if compensation is offered to encourage voluntary resigthe cost must be adjusted. nation, such as a retirement package. In cases where the company terminates employment, a detailed plan is prepared that, at a minimum, contains information about the workplace, positions and approximate number of individuals concerned, as well as the compensation for each employee category or posi3 Financial risk management tion and the schedule for the plan’s implementation. Financial risks and risk management Contingent liabilities Through its operations, Sobi is exposed to various kinds of risks that may impact Contingent liabilities are recognised when there is a possible commitment arithe company’s earnings, cash flow and financial position. The risks can be divising from past events and whose existence is confirmed by only one or more ded into operational risk and financial risk. Financial risk refers to a potentially uncertain future events, or when there is a commitment that is not recognised negative impact resulting from changes in the financial risk factors. Below is a as a liability or a provision because it is unlikely that an outflow of resources will description of the financial risk factors deemed most significant for Sobi, and be required. how they are managed. Operational risks are also described in a separate ­section of the Directors’ Report. THE PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING POLICIES Financial risk is managed at central level by Sobi’s treasury function, which in The Parent Company, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), has prepared its addition, is responsible for the Group’s financing, ensures that solutions are in Annual Report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the place for liquidity monitoring and payments, continuously monitoring financial Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for risk and supporting the business operations in treasury-related issues. Legal Entities, and applicable statements for listed companies. According to The Treasury Policy, which is adopted by the Board, establishes the division RFR 2, the Parent Company is to prepare its annual financial statements using of responsibilities and control of treasury matters between the Board, CEO, all of the IFRSs and statements adopted by the EU as far as possible within the CFO and the treasury function. The Board has appointed an Audit Committee framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Pension Obligations Vestto monitor the structure of the Treasury Policy and, if necessary, suggest chaning Act, and with consideration for the relationship between accounting and ges to the Board. The main objective of the Treasury Policy is to maintain a low taxation. The recommendation sets out the exemptions from, and amendlevel of financial risk and to manage risk safely. ments to, IFRS that must be made. In 2019, the Parent Company changed its accounting policies and transitioFinancial risk factors ned to the full adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. The Group has applied Currency risk – Commercial transaction risk IFRS 9 since 2018. At 31 December 2019, the transition to IFRS 9 affected a liaTransaction risk arises when sales and purchasing transactions are denominability to Sanofi which, after the transition, was measured at fair value and due to ted in different currencies, which may affect the company’s profitability, cash that decreased in value. It also meant that the ntangible asset is affected to the flow and financial position. This risk is limited in the subsidiaries as their comsame extent as the liability. Since both of these transactions arose during the mercial flows are denominated in their local currencies. This risk is significant financial year, the accounting policy change in this respect did not have any for the Parent Company, since the company has considerable flows of foreign effect on prior years. Otherwise, the transition to IFRS 9 did not have any signicurrencies, primarily EUR and USD. The currency surplus in EUR is most signifificant effect on the amounts recognised in the Parent Company’s financial stacant as the vast majority of sales is denominated in EUR while purchasing is tements compared with prior years. spread between several currencies. In the event of a depreciation of SEK As in prior years, the Parent Company has assets and liabilities that are meaagainst other currencies of 1 per cent, sales in 2019 would have increased by sured at historical cost, except for some financial assets and liabilities that are SEK 135 M (85) and EBITA by SEK 85 M (56). measured at fair value. The Parent Company applies the same accounting poliFinancial instruments, such as currency forwards, are used to manage the cies as the Group with the following exceptions: transaction exposure. Sobi also applies hedge accounting and uses cash flow hedges to reduce some of the transaction risk in EUR and USD. These flows are Employee benefits/defined-benefit plans primarily related to the products Synagis, Elocta and Alprolix. This means that The Parent Company applies the provisions of the Pension Obligations Vesting the currency revaluation component from the remeasurement of liabilities are Act when calculating defined-benefit pension plans, which is a prerequisite for recognised in other comprehensive income, and accumulated gains or losses S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 61 Notes Note 3, cont. from these remeasurements are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged Credit facilities, maturity structure inflows affect profit or loss. See Notes 17 and 28 for more information about GROUP 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Total these liabilities. The currencies with the largest net exposures are shown Credit facilities, in the diagram below. undrawn 1,135 103 2,595 0 126 3,959 3 Credit facilities; drawn 0 6,053 900 3,495 5,795 16,243 Commercial transaction exposure, yearly volume Credit facilities, total 1,135 6,156 3,495 3,495 5,921 20,203 SEK M The following table shows the contractual, non-discounted cash flows from 5,000 the Group’s financial liabilities, divided according to the time remaining on the 4,142 balance-sheet date until the contractual maturity date. 4,000 2,795 Maturity analysis 3,000 AT 31 DECEMBER 2019, Less than Between Between More than 2,000 GROUP 1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years 5 years 1,000 849 630 Derivatives1 60 — — — 150 299 2019 0 Borrowings — 6,953 9,290 — EUR USD Other 2018 Account payables 681 — — — Lease liabilities 99 320 — — Currency risk – translation exposure Translation risk is the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will have a negative Other liabilities2 1,124 1,218 2,430 — impact on equity when the Group’s net assets denominated in foreign currency Total 1,964 8,491 11,721 — are translated into SEK. In 2019, translation risk increased for Sobi as a result of the acquisitions that were made. The changes in equity are considered accepAT 31 DECEMBER 2018, Less than Between Between More than table and not managed by using currency derivatives. The risk is partly manaGROUP 1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years 5 years ged by limiting the net assets by raising loans in foreign currency. The diagram of translation risk shows the Group’s sensitivity to this risk. The diagram shows Derivatives1 8 — — — that the translation effect on the Group’s equity would be positive if SEK depreAccount payables1 487 — — — ciated, and vice versa. If SEK, for example, were to depricate 2 per cent against Other liabilities2 3,640 1,130 1 — all currencies, the translation effect on consolidated equity would be Total 4,136 1,130 1 — SEK –99 M (18). 1. Part of other liabilities in balance sheet. 2. Other liabilities primarily relate to liabilities to Sanofi and AstraZeneca. The liabilities in the table Translation risk are presented at nominal value according to an assessment of the contracts at 31 December 2019. For information in the balance sheet, see Note 26. Currency change in SEK % Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that Sobi would be adversely impacted by changes in 5 4 interest rates, either in earnings resulting from increased interest costs, or from 3 adverse effects on market value on instruments with fixed interest rates. Chan2 ges in market values are considered acceptable since Sobi’s general principle is 1 to minimise its earnings volatility. Sobi’s exposure to interest rate risk mainly 0 occurs through external loans and cash. -1 -2 Sobi’s financing sources primarily consist of equity, cash flow from operating -3 SEK M, activities and borrowings. In the case of interest-bearing borrowings, the -4 Effect on Group is exposed to interest rate risk. Borrowings are normally done with fixed -5 equity -249 -199 -149 -99 -50 0 -50 99 149 199 249 interest period of three months. At the end of the year, the average fixed interest period was one month. The liabilities to Sanofi and AstraZeneca are non-interest bearing by agreeLiquidity risk ment, but are discounted in the accounts and therefore incur an interest Liquidity risk is the risk that Sobi cannot raise financing on acceptable terms, or expense. meet its payment obligations due to factors beyond Sobi’s control. How the There were no outstanding interest rate derivatives on the balance sheet liquidity risk should be managed is described in the Treasury Policy. Both shortdate. term and long-term forecasts of the Group’s liquidity are regularly compiled to The sensitivity to interest rate changes in earnings is measured by assuming ensure there is sufficient cash and undrawn credit facilities to meet the needs a lasting interest rate change of 1 percentage point. At 31 December 2019, such of the day-to-day operations. According to the poliy, Sobi shall maintain an a change would have had an annual impact of SEK 161 M (0) on net financial appropriate liquidity reserve. The liquidity reserve comprises bank balances, items excluding effects from changes in fair value. At 31 December 2019, Sobi’s current investments and undrawn committed credit facilities. At 31 December interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 16,141 M (4). The loans ­raised are 2019, the company’s undrawn committed credit facilities totalled SEK 3,959 M managed with variable interest, which is deemed most favourable for Sobi. (10,075). At 31 December 2019, SEK 16,243 M of the facilities had been drawn. See the distribution in the table in the next column. 62 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes Note 3, cont. Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk of loss if a counterparty is unable to meet its obliga4 Significant accounting judgements, estimates tions. Credit risk can be divided into credit risk arising from account receivables, and assumptions and financial credit risk. The Group makes estimates and assumptions about the future, and accounting Sobi’s credit risk is mainly related to account receivables. At the balancejudgements. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions sheet date, these amounted to SEK 3,736 M (1,665), of which SEK 685 M (518) 3 entailing a considerable risk of material adjustments in the carrying amounts were overdue, see Note 23 for information about overdue account receivables. of assets and liabilities in the upcoming financial year are presented below. 4 Sobi’s customers are mainly large distribitours with low risk, hospitals and For significant accounting judgements regarding fair value, see Note 26. government administrations, which means that these are largely funded by the government of each respective country. If Sobi judges that a receivable will not ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS be paid, a provision is made for an expected credit loss in accordance with the Revenues principles described in Note 2. At 31 December 2019, these amounted to The Group assesses the likelihood of future economic rewards accruing to the SEK 69 M (70). Only a small portion of the account receivables are secured Group on the basis of several factors, including a customer’s payment history with trade finance solutions. and credit rating. If Sobi judges that a receivable will not be paid, a provision is Credit rating reports are obtained for both distribution agreements and made for an expected credit loss in accordance with the principles described ­larger individual transactions, when the customer is not previously known in Note 2. or when other circumstances give rise to uncertainty regarding credit worthiWhen revenue is recognised, each agreement is interpreted separately and ness. The credit ratings must be obtained from a reputable credit rating orga­ the company makes an assessment of any obligations. Revenue is recognised nisation. A credit limit is set for every customer, and continuously monitored when control has been transferred to the buyer, depending on the shipping and evaluated. terms. Revenues are calculated as invoiced gross revenue according to agreeIn its Treasury Policy, Sobi has established principles that limit the amount of ment less variable pay corresponding to actual and estimated discounts to exposure to financial credit risk per counterparty. To further limit financial crepublic and private customers, pharmaceutical taxes. dit risk, financial transactions are primarily conducted with counterparts with Since actual and final conditions for discounts and pharmaceutical taxes on a high credit rating. Any investment of surplus liquidity is done in instruments sales in the current period are not always known on the balance-sheet date, with a low level of credit risk and a high level of liquidity. Investments are only some of the deductions from gross revenue are based on estimates. See also permitted in instruments issued by the Swedish Government and municipaliNote 2 on revenue recognition of license fees and milestone revenue. ties, or by banks, financial institutions and companies with a minimum credit rating of A from Standard & Poor’s, or an equivalent rating from another rating Inventories agency. A high level of liquidity means that investments can be converted into Production costs cash at any given time. Costs for production consist of direct production costs, such as raw materials, consumables, media and manpower, as well as indirect costs, such as personCapital risk nel costs, depreciation and maintenance. The goal of Sobi’s capital structure is to generate high shareholder returns, Calculation of indirect production costs is based on a method for calculating value for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure in standard costs. This method is regularly revised in order to ensure reasonable order to keep capital costs at a reasonable level. The capital structure can be calculation of the utilisation rate, lead times and other relevant factors. Changes adapted to the needs that arise by, for example, paying dividends to shareholin the method may have an impact on gross margins and the overall valuation ders, repaying capital to shareholders, issuing new shares or repaying debts. of inventories. The Group’s equity/assets ratio forms the basis of the Group’s capital structure assessment. At 31 December 2019, the equity/assets ratio was as follows: Research and development costs The company conducts research and development as internal projects and GROUP 2019 2018 with external partners. In cases where the company carries out projects with an Equity 16,930 9,040 external partner and both parties share certain costs, the costs are estimated when the project commences. This cost is then used as a basis for settlement Total assets 45,658 17,183 with the external partner. The calculation is assessed and updated regularly. Equity/assets ratio, % 37.1 52.6 In some collaboration agreements, the company agrees to make milestone payments. These payments are capitalised as research and development, and amortisation does not commence until the project has reached the commercialisation phase and meets the requirements of IAS 38 Intangible Assets. Evaluation of a project’s progress and impairment testing are performed regularly, at least annually. During 2019 one of the early-phase clinical programmes were written down with M 18 SEK. Costs for internal development and payments for projects and substances under agreement with third parties are expensed when incurred if they do not meet the requirements of IAS 38. Rules and uncertainty usually mean that the criteria are not fulfilled. However, in cases where the requirements are met, intangible assets are capitalised and amortised according to plan. Capitalisation commences when the company can demonstrate that it is technically feasible and profitable to commercialise the results. For a sensitivity analysis, see Note 17. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 63 Notes Note 4, cont. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Taxes Intangible assets Deferred tax is estimated and measured according to the principles described The Group’s intangible assets are essentially attributable to goodwill, developin Note 2. Under Swedish tax rules, any future tax losses may be carried forward ment projects and licence, product and marketing rights. Goodwill arose from indefinitely. Deferred tax assets on losses are recognised when it is probable the acquisition of Swedish Orphan, Dova and emapalumab that were acquired they can be utilised against future taxable profit. Previously recognised deferred during 2019. Annual impairment testing of goodwill, development projects, tax assets on losses that are not likely to be of benefit to the Group are reduced. product and marketing rights is based on their recoverable amounts, including Foreign tax rates were used for measurement. key assumptions such as sales growth, margins and discount rates. See below 4 and Note 17. Assumptions for the calculation of pension benefits The actuarial calculation of pension commitments and pension expenses is Goodwill based on the actuarial assumptions specified in Notes 2 and 29. The Group conducts regular goodwill impairment testing, in accordance with the policy described in Note 2. The recoverable amount of the cash-generating Inventory unit is determined by calculating the value in use. This calculation requires cerObsolescence tain estimates to be made, see Note 17. At 31 December 2019, Sobi’s goodwill Sobi operates within the pharmaceuticals industry, an industry regulated and amounted to SEK 6,678 M (1,554). The testing showed no indication of impaircontrolled by several authorities within Sweden and internationally. The comment. pany also cooperates with external parties within Sweden and internationally which monitor and evaluate its operations. All stocks of finished products are Acquired development projects evaluated continuously in terms of product shelf life. Inventories consist of raw The Group makes annual impairment assessments of acquired development materials for production, drug substance and finished product for stocks of projects in accordance with the principle described in Note 2. When testing for Alprolix, Ammonaps, Doptelet, Elocta, Gamifant, Kepivance, Kineret, Orfadin, impairment, a number of assumptions are made. These assumptions are speciSynagis and other products. No provision is made for obsolescence of these fied in Note 17. stocks. The shelf life of inventory stocks can vary over time. This can lead to an increased risk of obsolescence: significant changes in demand for a product or Product and marketing rights changes to shelf life can potentially lead to an impairment. Products that are not Product and marketing rights have a limited useful life and amortisation is used approved by Quality Control are written off immediately. The remainder of the to spread the cost over this period. The amortisation period ranges from 5 to 20 inventory is largely comprised of Refacto. Production of Refacto is carried out in years, and is adapted to the expected earnings of each product right. two stages: cultivation and purification. If a proportion of the inventory is not As the carrying amounts of these product and marketing rights are highly approved by either Sobi’s or Pfizer’s Quality teams, the material is written down significant for the Group, they are tested annually for impairment. The comimmediately. Assessments of obsolescence are adjusted regularly based on hispany has determined that most of the amortisation is attributable to selling torical figures and sales forecasts. costs, as the intangible assets classified as product rights are primarily related to marketing rights. The product and licensing rights are not related to any inventory cycle or production, nor is it necessary to otherwise bring the product to its current location and condition. The rights enable Sobi to market and sell certain products. The use of rights is not consumed in a manufacturing process but over a useful life that corresponds to the related product’s length of relevance on the market. The assumption that has the greatest impact on the future value is projected sales growth. It is based on assumptions about underlying growth and future product development, and expanded applications for the drug. If the company’s assumptions regarding product development and expanded applications for any drugs prove incorrect, this could indicate that the product right is impaired. The other assumptions made when testing product rights for impairment are presented in Note 17. 64 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes 5 Distribution of operating revenue GROUP 2019 2018 GROUP 2019 2018 Operating revenue by major revenue type Operating revenue per Business Area Product sales 12,441 7,362 Elocta 4,508 3,261 Manufacturing 376 436 Alprolix 1,463 974 5 Royalties1 1,373 1,341 Royalties 1,373 1,341 Service fees 58 — Doptelet 34 — 6 Total 14,248 9,139 Manufacturing 376 436 Haematology 7,755 6,012 GROUP 2019 2018 Kineret 1,571 1,320 Revenues by geographic market2 Synagis 2,594 — France 2,004 1,503 Gamifant 542 — Germany 1,254 999 Immunology 4,706 1,320 Italy 793 555 Specialty Care 1,787 1,807 Rest of Europe 3,636 2,969 Total revenues 14,248 9,139 Europe 3 7,686 6,026 GROUP 2019 2018 North America 4,587 1,309 Rest of the world 602 462 Gross to Net Royalties1 1,373 1,341 Product revenue, gross 17,192 8,933 Total 14,248 9,139 Mandatory and contractual price reductions –4,750 –1,571 Product revenue, net 12,441 7,362 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Manufacturing 376 436 Royalty 1,373 1,341 Operating revenue by major revenue type Service fee 58 — Product sales 11,198 6,444 Manufacturing 376 436 Operating revenue 14,248 9,139 Royalties1 1,373 1,341 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Service fees 45 — Total 12,991 8,221 Gross to Net Product sale, gross 14,050 6,795 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Mandatory and contractual price reductions –2,852 –351 Revenues by geographic market2 Product sale, net 11,198 6,444 France 1,815 1,354 Manufacturing 376 436 Germany 1,002 866 Royalty 1,373 1,341 Italy 703 438 Service fee 45 — Rest of Europe 3,377 2,860 Operating revenue 12,991 8,221 Europe 3 6,897 5,518 North America 4,266 1,021 Rest of the world 455 341 6 Segment reporting Total 11,618 6,880 Royalties1 1,373 1,341 The Group reports one operating segment, sales of pharmaceuticals. The basis Total 12,991 8,221 for identifying reportable segments is the internal reporting system, whereby they are reported to, and monitored by, the chief operating decision-maker. 1. Royalty revenue includes royalties related to our haemophilia products that are not attributable to a specific region according to the distribution above. All royalty refer to Sanofi sale of Eloctate and The Group has identified its chief operating decision-maker as the CEO. Sobi Alprolix. reports revenue by geographic area. See Note 5 for more information about 2. The geographic distribution is based on where end-customers are located. the distribution of revenues per revenue type and geographic area. 3. Sales in Sweden amounted to SEK 240 M (199). In 2019, Sobi’s largest customers are MedImmune LLC (Synagis), with revenue of SEK 2,843 M (0) and Sanofi (Alprolix/Eloctate), with revenue of SEK 1,049 The accounts of the Group and the Parent Company do not include revenues M (825), corresponding to 20 and 7 per cent, respectively, of the company’s for 2019 or 2018 relating to performance obligations in previous years. Furthertotal revenues. more, there are no customer contracts with performance obligations that are Of the fixed assets, 51 per cent (59) are found in Sweden, 31 per cent (0) in recognised as contract liabilities. the US and 14 per cent (41) in Switzerland. In 2019, revenues for the Parent Company, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), amounted to SEK 12,991 M (8,221) of which SEK 6,154 M (4,554) pertained to sales to Group companies. Estimated, unbilled accrued royalty revenue is to be classified as a contract asset under IFRS 15. see Note 2 and 24. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 65 Notes 7 Depreciation/amortisation and write-downs of intangible and tangible assets1 GROUP 2019 2018 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Depreciation/amortisation according to plan Depreciation/amortisation according to plan by type of asset by type of asset Licenses and patents –38 –39 Licenses and patents –3 –6 Product and marketing rights –1,305 –387 Product and marketing rights –262 –262 Capitalised costs –39 –23 Capitalised costs –39 –23 Plant and machinery –22 –19 Plant and machinery –19 –19 7 Equipment, tools and fixtures and fittings –7 –10 Equipment, tools and fixtures and fittings –13 –15 8 Other intangible and tangible assets –2 –2 Other intangible and tangible assets –1 –1 Right-of-use-assets –89 — Total –331 –321 9 Total –1,508 –485 Write-downs by type of asset2 Write-downs by type of asset2 Licenses and patents –18 — Licenses and patents –18 — Plant and machinery –32 — Plant and machinery –32 — Total –50 — Right-of-use-assets –30 — Total depreciations, amortisations and ­write-downs by type of assets –381 –321 Total –80 — Total depreciations, amortisations and Depreciation/amortisation according to plan write-downs by type of asset –1,588 –485 by type of function Cost of goods sold –11 –13 Depreciation/amortisation according to plan by type of function Selling and administrative expenses –312 –299 Cost of goods sold –34 –13 Development costs –8 –9 Selling and administrative expenses –1,445 –463 Total –331 –321 Development costs –28 –9 Write-downs by type of function2 Total –1,508 –485 Cost of goods sold –16 — Write-downs by type of function2 Selling and administrative expenses –18 — Cost of goods sold –16 — Development costs –17 — Selling and administrative expenses –18 — Total –50 — Utvecklingskostnader –47 — Total depreciations, amortisations and write-down by type of function –381 –321 Total –80 — 1. See Note 17 and 18 for further information. Total depreciations, amortisations and 2. Refers to one of the clinical programmes in early stage as well as tangible assets and right-of-use write-downs by type of function –1,588 –485 assets for premisis used in early research that were discontinued 2019 8 Other operating income 9 Other operating expenses GROUP 2019 2018 GROUP 2019 2018 Re-invoiced costs to partners 8 5 Exchange-rate losses on operating Disposal of clinical program in early stage 46 — receivables/liabilities — –2 Other 14 1 Exchange-rate losses1 –1 — Total 68 6 Scrapping/disposal of non-current assets –12 –4 Other –6 0 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Total –18 –6 Re-invoiced costs to partners 8 5 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Exchange-rate gains1 8 — Disposal of clinical program in early stage 46 — Exchange-rate losses on operating receivables/liabilities — –5 Other — — Scrapping/disposal of non-current assets –10 –3 Total 62 5 Total –10 –7 1. Exchange-rate effects are recognised net and in 2019 constituted a small loss for the group and a gain for the parent company, see Note 9. 1. . Exchange-rate effects are recognised net and in 2019 constituted a small loss for the group and a gain for the parent company, see Note 8. 66 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes IFRS 10 Leasing GROUP 31 Dec 2018 adjustment 1 Jan 2019 As of 1 January, 2019, Sobi has applied IFRS 16 leases. For a description of the ASSETS Group’s accounting policy, as applied in 2019, see further in Note 2. The Group Non-current assets reports right-of-use assets, linked to lease agreements, in the balance sheet Intangible assets 10,159 — 10,159 under the heading tangible assets, see Note 18. The Group recognises lease ­liabilities in the balance sheet under separate headings. For maturity analysis, Tangible assets 136 412 548 see Note 3. Financial assets 286 — 286 The Group mainly leases offices and cars. The contract length for premises Total non-current assets 10,581 412 10,993 is usually about 2–10 years, for cars 36–48 months. Extension options are in many cases entered into contracts for premises. Every quarter, an assessment Current assets is made of whether it is reasonable and likely that the agreements will be extenCurrent assets 6,602 –15 6,587 ded and whether any index clauses are activated for future rents. Invoiced Total current assets 6,602 –15 6,587 ­service is not included in capitalised amounts under IFRS 16. Total assets 17,183 397 17,580 Reported amounts in the balance sheet related to lease agreement EQUITY AND LIABILITIES GROUP 2019 Equity 9,040 — 9,040 10 Right-of-use assets Non-current liabilities Premises 364 Lease liabilities 3 320 323 Vehicles 31 Non-current liabilities, Total Right-of-use assets 395 non-interest bearing 1,189 –2 1,187 Lease liabilities Total non-current liabilities 1,192 318 1,510 Short term 99 Current liabilities Long term 320 Lease liabilities 1 81 82 Total lease liabilities 419 Current liabilities, non-interest bearing 6,950 –2 6,948 Reported amounts in the income statement Total current liabilities 6,951 79 7,030 Total equity and liabilities 17,183 397 17,580 GROUP 2019 Depreciation and write-down of right-of-use assets LEASE PAYMENT FOR OPERATING LEASES Premises1 –110 Vehicles –9 Contracted future rental payments for premises related to non-terminable contracts fall due: Total –119 Parent Company Group Interest expenses –6 2019 2018 2018 Short term leases and assets of low values (in administration) –7 Within one year 60 61 81 Total amount recognised in profit for the year –132 Between 1–5 years 226 222 293 Reported amounts in the cash flow statement Later than 5 years — 15 24 Lease payments –94 Total 286 298 399 1. Write-down of SEK 30 M relates to right-of-use premises used for early-phase clinical programRental costs premises mes, terminated during the year. for the year 61 58 76 Previous year lease assets and lease liabilities attributable to financial leases were reported in accordance with IAS 17 Leases. The assets were presented Other contracted future minimum lease payments related as part of tangible fixed assets and the liabilities as part of the Group’s liabilities to non-terminable contracts fall due: to credit institutions. For adjustments reported at the transition to IFRS 16 as of Parent Company Group 1 January, 2019, see Note 28. 2019 2018 2018 Additional right-of-use assets in 2019 amounted to SEK 102 M, of which SEK 10 M was acquired through acquisitions. Within one year 0 0 12 Between 1–5 years — 0 15 Changes in accounting policies Later than 5 years — — — GROUP 2019 Total 0 0 27 Operating lease commitments disclosed Rental costs other as at 31 December 20181 426 for the year 0 0 11 Reassessments –4 Discounted using the group’s incremental borrowing rate of 1.5% –19 Short-term leases recognised as expense –6 Lease liability, 1 January 2019 397 1. Total leasing fees for operating leases reported in 2018 in table “Lease payment for operating leases”. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 67 Notes 11 Employees, personnel costs and remuneration of Board members and senior executives No. of employees1 Salaries, other remuneration and social security costs of whom of whom of whom of whom 2019 2018 women, men, women, men, GROUP 2019 % % 2018 % % Salaries and Social Salaries and Social GROUP AND remune­ security remune­ security Sweden2 435 66 34 468 64 36 PARENT COMPANY ration costs ration costs Denmark 15 67 33 15 60 40 Parent Company 577 273 444 281 Finland/Baltics 8 50 50 9 56 44 (of which pension expense) — (103) — (89) Norway 5 80 20 5 80 20 Subsidiaries 1,171 202 647 125 UK 47 44 56 45 56 44 (of which pension expense) — (58) — (30) France 55 64 36 54 61 39 Group, total 1,748 475 1,092 406 Germany 51 59 41 45 64 36 (of which pension expense) — (161) — (119) Italy 46 54 46 44 55 45 Greece 4 75 25 4 75 25 Salaries and other remuneration divided between Board members, Spain 37 63 37 35 60 40 the CEO and other employees 11 2019 2018 Belgium 22 45 55 22 45 55 Board Other Board Other Russia 4 75 25 5 60 40 and CEO employees and CEO employees Switzerland 3 128 66 34 13 48 52 Parent Company Austria 6 46 54 6 67 33 Salaries and other Central and remuneration 24 553 20 424 Eastern Europe 25 49 51 21 52 48 (of which bonus) (8) (67) (6) (69) US3 414 58 42 80 54 46 Subsidiaries Canada 6 33 67 5 40 60 Salaries and other United Arab remuneration — 1,171 — 647 Emirates 27 22 78 26 15 85 (of which bonus) — (239) — (145) Total 1,335 60 40 902 59 41 Group, total 24 1,724 20 1,071 1. At 31 December 2019, the number of full-time employees was 1,335 people, while the number of employees at the same date was 1,377. (of which bonus) (8) (306) (6) (214) 2. During the year, the early-phase R&D operations that were based in Sweden were discontinued. 3. Companies were acquired in the US and Switzerland during the year, which is the reason for the increase in staff in these countries. For further information see Note 33. Guidelines and remuneration 2019 The 2019 Annual General Meeting (AGM) resolved on remuneration guideGender composition of the Board and management lines for the company’s senior executives as set forth below, that will apply The information in the table does not include the employee representatives. until the 2020 AGM. Senior executives refer to the Chief Executive Officer The information refers to the conditions on the balance-sheet date. of ­Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) and the managers who report to the Chief ­Executive Officer and are members of the Executive Committee. GROUP 2019 2018 Board Objective The objective of the guidelines is to ensure that the company can attract and Men 5 5 retain the best people in order to support the vision and strategy of the comWomen 3 3 pany. The remuneration of senior executives is based on a total remuneration Total 8 8 approach. The total remuneration should be market based, but not leading in relation to competitors in each local market. The peer comparisons should CEO and senior executives be made against a group of companies of similar size, that operate in a similar Men 8 9 industry, and with similar complexity. The guidelines should enable internatioWomen 3 2 nal hiring and support diversity amongst the senior executives. The remuneration may consist of the following components: Total 11 11 • A, Base salary • B, Variable pay (short-term incentives) • C, Long-term incentives • D, Pensions GENDER COMPOSITION EMPLOYEES • E, Other benefits 60% 40% To the extent a member of the Board performs assignments on behalf of the company or another Group company, in addition to Board duties, consulting fees and/or other remuneration for such work shall be payable. 68 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes Note 11, cont. Remuneration and other benefits to the Board, CEO and other senior executives1, SEK K 2019 Base salary/fees Bonus Pension expense Other benefits Share programmes Total Chair of the Board Håkan Björklund 1,542 1,542 Other Board members David Allsop 585 585 Annette Clancy 632 632 Matthew Gantz 677 677 Lennart Johansson 630 630 Helena Saxon 627 627 Hans GCP Schikan 677 677 Elisabeth Svanberg 585 585 Executive Committee, 2019 Guido Oelkers, Chief Executive Officer 9,524 8,385 2,781 0 12,7223 33,412 Other senior executives (10–12 people)2 43,840 18,225 5,796 5,7014 8,1623 81,724 11 Total 59,319 26,610 8,577 5,701 20,884 121,092 1. Other senior executives refers to Sobi’s Executive Committee, consisting of ten individuals in addition to the CEO, at 31 December 2019. Additional people were included in the management team during the year. Their remuneration is included in the table. For information on changes in management, see the Directors’ Report. The table shows the company’s costs (excluding social security contributions). For more information about Board fees, see the Corporate Governance Report. 2. Base salary and other benefits include agreed severance pay of SEK 4,951 K. 3. See also allotment and fulfilment of long-term incentive programmes for the 2016 share programme, the year’s cost for Sobi is not to be equated with remuneration to employee. 4. Other benefits includes cost for relocation. Remuneration and other benefits to the Board, CEO and other senior executives1, SEK K 2018 Base salary/fees Bonus Pension expense Other benefits Share programmes Total Chair of the Board Håkan Björklund 1,388 1,388 Other Board members David Allsop2 367 367 Annette Clancy 592 592 Matthew Gantz 610 610 Lennart Johansson 577 577 Helena Saxon 567 567 Hans GCP Schikan 627 627 Elisabeth Svanberg2 377 377 Executive Committee, 2018 Guido Oelkers, Chief Executive Officer 9,107 6,278 2,516 0 7,8143 25,714 Other senior executives (10 people)3 31,6034 16,519 3,235 1,7014 3,5813 56,639 Total 45,815 22,797 5,751 1,701 11,395 87,458 1. Other senior executives refers to Sobi’s Executive Committee, consisting of ten individuals in addition to the CEO, at 31 December 2018. The table shows the company’s costs (excluding social security contributions). For more information about Board fees, see the Corporate Governance Report. 2. David Allsop and Elisabeth Svanberg were elected new Board members at the AGM on 9 May 2018. 3. See also allotment and fulfilment of long-term incentive programmes for the 2015 share programme. 4. Base salary and other benefits include agreed severance pay of SEK 4,463 K. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 69 Notes Note 11, cont. Base salary Fixed salary The base salary of senior executives shall be based on competence, responsi­ Each senior executive’s area of responsibility, experience and performance bility and performance. The company uses an international evaluation system is taken into account when determining the fixed salary. The fixed salary is to assess the scope and responsibilities of the various positions. reviewed every year. Variable pay Short-term variable pay The annual short-term incentive programme is based on the fulfilment of For the CEO, short-term variable pay in 2019 was capped at 100 per cent of annual performance objectives (company-specific and individual). Payment is annual gross salary. Variable pay was based on Group targets and individual based on the fulfilment of pre-determined objectives. The annual performance targets established by the Board. For other senior executives, short-term objectives are defined in advance by the Compensation & Benefits Committee variable pay was capped at 60 per cent of fixed salary and based on Group and and approved by the Board of Directors. individual targets. The expected outcome is reviewed continuously throughout These objectives are determined for the promotion of the company’s longthe year and reserves are adjusted monthly. The outcome of variable pay is term development, value creation and financial growth and shall be designed in assessed on each reporting date. a way that does not encourage an excessive risk-taking. Short-term incentives are limited to 100 per cent of annual gross salary for the CEO, and 60 per cent Retirement benefits of fixed annual salary for other senior executives. The CEO is entitled to a defined-contribution pension solution amounting to 30 per cent of base salary. In 2019, Sobi paid out a premium of SEK 2,781 K. Long-term incentives The retirement age is 65 years. The company may introduce long-term incentive programmes for all or Other senior executives employed in Sweden are covered by the ITP some of its employees. The aims of such a programme should be to align the plan with a retirement age at 65. They are also covered by a supplementary 11 employees’ interests with those of the shareholders, to create a long-term ­defined-contribution pension obligation of 27 per cent of pensionable salary, commitment to the company, to be a tool to retain and attract managers and including ITP. top talent, to enable the participants to share the company’s long-term success and value creation, and to contribute to competitive total remuneration. Incentive programmes At the balance-sheet date, Sobi had five (five) active share programmes. Pensions To ­participate in the share programmes, employees must be permanently The preferred pension plan design is defined-contribution. Defined-benefit employed. All programmes run for three years. The company also has three pension plans may be established if required by law or other regulations. In active cash-based programmes for employees in the US. The programmes such cases, the defined-benefit level shall be limited to the mandatory level. have a four-year vesting period. Other benefits Long-term incentive programmes Fixed salary during notice periods and severance pay, including payments for The 2016–2019 AGMs adopted the Board’s proposal to establish long-term any restrictions on competition, shall in total not exceed an amount equivalent incentive programmes. The aim has been to create long-term commitment to to the base salary for two years. In addition to this restriction, the total seveSobi, to offer participants the opportunity to share in Sobi’s long-term success rance payment shall be limited to the current monthly salary for the remaining and value creation, and to enable the company to attract and retain senior months up to the age of 65. executives and senior managers. The company’s long-term share-based Other remuneration may also be paid in extraordinary circumstances, provi­remuneration programmes are described below. ded that such arrangements are one-off and only concluded on a case by case The share programmes for 2016–2019 are structured according to similar basis for the purpose of recruiting or retaining senior executives, or as compenprinciples. sation for extraordinary efforts in addition to the person’s ordinary duties. Such • The programmes have a three-year vesting period. remuneration shall be market-based and may, for example, include a one-time • The programmes for the employees require a personal investment in Sobi cash payment, a support package including relocation and tax filing support, a shares, and matching shares may be allotted free of consideration. retention bonus or severance payment in the event of a change in ownership, • The Management Programmes requires no personal investment in Sobi or similar. The remuneration shall not exceed an amount corresponding to the shares, but performance shares are only allotted if the programme criteria base salary for three years and not be paid more than once per year per indiviare met. dual. Decisions on such remuneration shall be made by the Board based on a • The number of performance shares that employees are entitled to receive proposal from the Compensation & Benefits Committee. differs according to the organisational level. • One requirement for all programmes is that the employee must be perDeviations from the guidelines manently employed throughout the entire vesting period and, in the case The Board may decide to deviate from the above guidelines if there are special of investment shares, that these are retained throughout the entire vesting reasons to justify such a decision in an individual case. period. • The performance targets for the Management Programme are that the share Senior executives’ employment terms and remuneration price increases by a certain rate over a three-year period, and that actual Sobi aims to offer market-based terms, which enables the company to recruit annual sales during the vesting period must meet or exceed the budget for and retain competent personnel (for a proposal for the complete guidelines for annual sales. 2020, see the Director’s Report). Remuneration to the Board members elected by the AGM is paid in accorIn 2019, the AGM resolved to introduce a share option programme for senior dance with a resolution adopted by the 2019 AGM. No pensions are paid to the executives. The performance targets for the share option programme are a Board. strike price of 105 per cent and that actual average sales must meet or exceed The CEO’s remuneration is reviewed and proposed by the Chair of the Board the budgets for the financial years during the vesting period. together with the Compensation & Benefits Committee and approved by the The relevant employees and how performance targets are formulated differ Board. Remuneration to other members of the Executive Committee is propobetween programmes. sed by the CEO in close cooperation with the Compensation & Benefits Committee and approved by the Board. Remuneration to the CEO and other senior executives consists of fixed salary, variable pay in the short and long term, other benefits and pensions. Other senior executives refers to those individuals who together with the CEO form the Executive Committee. 70 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes Note 11, cont. 2016 Share Programme (paid in 2019) 2017 Share Programme The 2016 share programmes expired in 2019. For 2016, the Board resolved that the following performance conditions and other vesting terms were fully met Number of Number of performance matching Value when the 2016 share programme was redeemed on 28 October 2019. In the shares shares in SEK K Management Programme, 153,250 shares with a market value of SEK 23.5 M were allotted. In the All Employee Programme, 55,007 shares with a market CEO and other senior executives value of SEK 8.4 M were allotted. The performance target was a 15–75 per cent in the Group (5) 228,130 — 7,521 increase in the share price from the volume-weighted share price ten days Total 228,130 — 7,521 prior to roll-out of the programme. The performance outcome is 0 if the share price is below 15 per cent, with a straight-line allotment for 15–75 per cent. When Sobi’s 2016 share programme was introduced, a number of employ2018 Share Programme ees, including former CEOs and other senior executives in the Group, were The 2018 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the CEO, legally prohibited from participating in the programme as they had access to senior executives and managers, and a programme for other employees. Parinsider information at that particular time. In view of the legal obstacles and ticipation in the programme for other employees requires personal investment to safeguard Sobi’s ability to attract and retain senior executives, the Board in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred to as “saving shares” in the programme. decided to establish a long-term cash-based incentive programme instead, After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the Management Proeffective from 1 January 2017. The programme expired on 31 December 2019 gramme are allotted performance shares contingent upon a certain share price and the targets for 2017, 2018 and 2019 were fully met. performance. For a maximum allotment of 60 per cent of performance shares, the price of Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must increase by 2016 Cash-Based Programme (paid in 2019) at least 50 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, has increased The 2016 AGM approved a long-term cash-based programme for all employby 15–50 per cent, the programme participants will receive a straight-line 11 ees in the US and Canada. The programme consists of two components: a allotment of performance shares. For a maximum allotment of the remaining time-based component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component 40 per cent of performance shares, actual annual revenues during the vesting (50 per cent) based on two performance targets. The first performance target period must meet or exceed the budget for annual revenues. The performance (50 per cent) is that the share price must increase by at least 10 per cent over target was achieved for 2018 and 2019. The maximum possible allotment of a four-year period. The second performance target (50 per cent) is that sales shares is 715,346. Participants in the All Employee Programme are allotted two in North America must be at least 95 per cent in relation to the budget over a matching shares for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching four-year period. The programme expired in 2019 and the outcome for share shares, programme participants must have retained the saving shares they have price performance was 100 per cent, the outcome for sales was also achieved acquired. The maximum possible allotment of shares is 38,490. in full. During the roll-out of the 2018 share programme, a number of employees were insiders and not therefore eligible to participate in the programme. In light 2017 Share Programme of this, the Board approved the roll-out of LTI 2018B for these employees and The 2017 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the CEO, for new employees since the roll-out of LTI 2018A. The maximum allotment senior executives and managers, and one programme for other employees. of shares in LTI 2018B programme is 31,944 for mangement and 3,838 for Participation in the programme for other employees requires personal investemployees. ment in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred to as “saving shares” in the programme. After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the Management Pro2018 Cash-Based Programme gramme are allotted performance shares contingent upon a certain share price The 2018 AGM adopted a long-term cash-based programme to cover all performance. For a maximum allotment of 60 per cent of performance shares, employees in the US and Canada, of which one senior executive participates in the price of Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must increase by the programme. The programme consists of two components: a time-based at least 50 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, has increased component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component (50 per cent) by 15–50 per cent, the programme participants will receive a straight-line based on two performance targets. The first performance target (50 per cent) allotment of performance shares. For a maximum allotment of the remaining is that the share price must increase by at least 10 per cent over a four-year 40 per cent of performance shares, actual annual revenues during the vesting period. The second performance target (50 per cent) is that sales in North period must meet or exceed the budget for annual revenues. The performance America must be at least 95 per cent in relation to the budget over a four-year target was achieved for 2017, 2018 and 2019. The maximum possible allotment period. of shares is 740,059. Participants in the All Employee Programme are allotted two matching shares for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of 2018 Share Programme matching shares, programme participants must have retained the saving shares Number of Number of they have acquired. The maximum possible allotment of shares is 41,668. performance matching Value shares shares in SEK K 2017 Cash-Based Programme CEO and other senior executives The 2017 AGM adopted a long-term cash-based programme to cover all in the Group (9) 238,523 — 11,317 employees in the US and Canada, of which one senior executive participates in the programme. The programme consists of two components: a time-based Total 238,523 — 11,314 component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component (50 per cent) based on two performance targets. The first performance target (50 per cent) is that the share price must increase by at least 10 per cent over a four-year period. The second performance target (50 per cent) is that sales in North America must be at least 95 per cent in relation to the budget over a four-year period. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 71 Notes Note 11, cont. 2019 Share Programme The maximum value per share that may be obtained through the redemption of The 2019 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the CEO, share options is limited to an amount that is five times the strike price. Should senior executives and managers, and a programme for other employees. Parthe share value exceed this level, the conditions must be recalculated. In the ticipation in the programme for other employees requires personal investment programme, those employees qualifying for options in Sweden may request in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred to as “saving shares” in the programme. that their share options be settled by the company making a cash payment After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the Management Procorresponding to the excess amount of the closing price for the shareholders, gramme are allotted performance shares contingent upon a certain share price compared with the strike price on the redemption date less any administrative performance. For a maximum allotment of 60 per cent of performance shares, expenses. Due to the possibility of such a choice for employees in Sweden, the price of Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must increase by share options are classified as settled in cash for accounting purposes, in at least 50 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, has increased accordance with IFRS 2. by 15–50 per cent, the programme participants will receive a straight-line allotment of performance shares. For a maximum allotment of the remaining 40 per 2019 Cash-Based Programme cent of performance shares, actual annual revenues during the vesting period The 2019 AGM adopted a long-term cash-based programme to cover all must meet or exceed the budget for annual revenues. 100 per cent of the peremployees in the US and Canada, of which one senior executive participates in formance target for 2019 was achieved. The maximum possible allotment of the programme. The programme consists of two components: a time-based shares is 807,824. Participants in the All Employee Programme are allotted two component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component (50 per cent) matching shares for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching based on two performance targets. shares, programme participants must have retained the saving shares they have The first performance target (50 per cent) is that the share price must acquired. The maximum possible allotment of shares is 41,726. increase by at least 10 per cent over a four-year period. The second performance target (50 per cent) is that sales in North America must be at least 11 2019 Employee Option Programme 95 per cent in relation to the budget over a four-year period. In May 2019, the AGM resolved that, in addition to the right to a long-term share programme, a share option programme would be launched in accordance with 2019 Share Programme the Board’s proposal covering the CEO and a maximum of 15 members of the Number of Number of Sobi Group’s Executive Committee, and 15 pre-selected key individuals in the performance matching Value in shares ­shares SEK K Sobi Group. The programme comprises 25 people. The total number of options issued was 1,420,154. The vesting period is three years, followed by a two-year CEO and other senior executives redemption period. One condition for the granting of options is a strike price in the Group (10) 210,891 — 8,573 of SEK 180.65, corresponding to 105 per cent of the volume-weighted average Total 210,891 — 8,573 price for the Sobi share (SEK 172.05). In addition, the performance target must be met – that the Sobi Group’s actual average sales meet or exceed the Sobi Group’s target for average sales in the budget determined by the Board during the vesting period. Expensing of the 2017–2019 Share Programmes is calculated using the following parameters: Number of Number of Fair value of Fair value of Fair value of Expected Max. Forfeited matching performance Service, matching performance performance employee allotment shares Start date End date shares shares in months share share 1 share2 turnover, % of shares 2019 2017 Share Programme:1 All Employee 9 May 2017 9 May 2020 41,668 n/a 36 136.85 n/a n/a 5 41,668 2,598 2017 Share Programme:2 Management 19 May 2017 19 May 2020 n/a 740,059 36 n/a 54.95 136.85 6 740,059 26,470 2018 Share Programme:1 All Employee 11 May 2018 11 May 2021 38,490 n/a 36 184.32 n/a n/a 7 38,490 2,460 2018 Share Programme:2 Management 11 May 2018 11 May 2021 n/a 715,346 36 n/a 79.75 184.32 7 715,346 26,686 2018B Share Programme: All Employee 1 Nov. 2018 1 Nov. 2021 3,838 n/a 36 185.6 n/a n/a 7 3,838 152 2018B Share Programme: Management 1 Nov. 2018 1 Nov. 2021 n/a 31,944 36 n/a 66.92 185.6 7 31,944 1,817 2019 Share Programme:1 All Employee 28 May 2019 28 May 2022 41,726 n/a 36 179.26 n/a n/a 7 41,726 560 2019 Share Programme:2 Management 28 May 2019 28 May 2022 n/a 807,824 36 n/a 67.75 173.5 7 807,824 18,963 1. Fair value of performance shares linked to share price development, see 2017, 2018 and 2019 Share Programmes above. 2. Fair value of performance shares linked to revenues, see 2017, 2018 and 2019 Share Programmes above. Volatility is measured as the standard deviation of the expected return on the share price, based on a statistical analysis of daily share prices for Sobi’s ordinary share over the past three years. 72 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes 12 Remuneration of auditors 14 Financial income GROUP 2019 2018 GROUP 2019 2018 EY Interest income1 5 3 Auditing assignments1 –9 –5 Exchange-rate gains2 — 17 Audit activities in addition to the auditing Total 5 20 assignment –1 –1 Tax consultancy 0 0 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Other services 0 0 Interest income, Group companies 346 20 Total EY –10 –6 Interest income, other 2 1 Exchange-rate gains2 — 13 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Total 348 35 EY 1. According to effective interest method. Auditing assignments1 –4 –2 2. Exchange-rate effects are recognised net and amounted to a loss in 2019, and a gain in 2018. See Note 15. For 2019, SEK 0 M (–48) is attributable to derivatives measured at fair value through Audit activities in addition to the auditing profit or loss. Other items are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. assignment –1 –1 Tax consultancy 0 0 12 Other services 0 –1 Total EY –5 –4 15 Financial expenses 13 1. Auditing assignment refers to the statutory audit in order to submit an auditor’s report and provide audit advice. 14 GROUP 2019 2018 15 Interest expense, borrowings1 –182 –16 Interest expense, other2 –59 –40 13 Costs according to type of cost Exchange-rate losses3 –31 — Management costs1 –18 –2 GROUP 2019 2018 Other –1 –1 Raw materials and consumables –2,962 –2,056 Total –291 –60 Other external costs –2,763 –1,860 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Costs for remuneration of employees –2,452 –1,616 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment1 –1,588 –485 Interest expense, Group companies –11 –11 Other operating expenses –18 –6 Interest expense, borrowings1 –184 –16 Total –9,783 –6,023 Interest expense, other2 –30 –40 Exchange-rate losses3 –42 — PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Management costs1 –18 –2 Raw materials and consumables –2,831 –1,995 Other –1 –1 Other external costs –4,404 –1,646 Total –287 –69 Costs for remuneration of employees –891 –765 1. According to effective interest method. 2. Refers to interest expense on loans from Sanofi and AstraZeneca. Depreciation/amortisation and impairment1 –381 –321 3. Includes realised and unrealised exchange-rate effects of SEK –42 M (0) from derivatives in 2019. Other operating expenses –10 –7 Total –8,517 –4,734 1. Increase in depreciation during the year is explained by acquired assets. The above costs correspond to: Cost of goods sold, selling and administrative expenses, research and development costs and other operating expenses in the income statement classified by function of expense. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 73 Notes 16 Income tax Tax expense (–) / tax income (+) in earnings Reconciliation of effective tax GROUP 2019 2018 GROUP 2019 2018 Current tax Profit before tax 4,247 3,082 Current tax on profit for the year1 –449 –765 Tax at applicable tax rate for the Adjustment of tax prior years1 1 –1 Parent Company4 –909 –678 Total current tax reported for the Group –449 –767 Tax effect from non-deductable/non-taxable items Deferred tax Utilisation of non-capitalised tax losses carry Excess depreciation2 –805 –65 forward 49 — Inventories 137 65 Non-capitalised tax losses carry forward –73 — Sale of PRV (priority review voucher)3 125 — Changed tax rate in Sweden4 31 41 Acquired product rights 81 –10 Difference foreign tax rates 0 –11 Other intangible assets –8 –8 Non-deductible expenses –49 –24 Tax loss carry-forwards –43 84 Adjustment of tax prior years 1 –1 Pharmaceutical tax 11 3 Other 8 10 Change in depreciation method — 20 Total recognised effective tax for the Group –942 –664 Other 7 13 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Total deferred tax reported for the Group –494 103 Total tax reported for the Group –942 –664 Profit before tax 1,431 3,060 Tax at applicable tax rate for the PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Parent Company4 –306 –673 16 Tax effect from non-deductable/non-taxable Current tax items Current tax on profit for the year1 –318 –698 Changed tax rate in Sweden4 0 –1 Adjustment of tax prior years1 2 –1 Controlled Foreign Company taxation –2 –2 Total current tax reported for Non-deductible expenses –7 –5 the Parent Company –316 –700 Adjustment of tax prior years 2 –1 Deferred tax Other 1 4 Change in depreciation method — 20 Total recognised effective tax for the Other 4 2 Parent Company –313 –678 Total deferred tax reported for 1. In addition to current tax recognised in earnings, current tax of SEK –12 M (38) has been recognithe Parent Company 4 22 sed in other comprehensive income, related to exchange rate effects on the Parent Company’s liabilities/derivates in other comprehensive income. Additionally, current tax of SEK 42 M (–) Total tax reported for the Parent Company –313 –678 has been recognised directly in equity, related to the Parent Company’s long-term incentive programme (deferred tax of SEK 8 M has also been recognised directly in equity, see note 21 for other deferred tax items). 2. The increase in excess depreciation compared to 2018 relates to products aquired during the year. 3. See also note 33. 4. The current tax rate for the Swedish Parent Company amounts to 21.4 per cent (22), but is reduced to 20.6 per cent from 2021. Deferred tax has been valued using the applicable tax rate for the period that reversal/resolution is expected to occur. Non capitalised tax loss carry-forwards GROUP 2019 2018 Tax loss carry-forwards for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised 2,212 — Potential tax benefit 480 — Of non-capitalised tax loss carry-forwards, SEK 1,246 M are due within the next seven years and the other tax loss carry-forwards have an unlimited life. A deferred tax asset has not been recognised as it is considered uncertain if the tax loss carry-forwards, attributable to subsidaries and previous years, have a tax value to the Group. 74 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes 17 Intangible assets and impairment testing Ongoing Licenses Product and Capitalised capitalised GROUP Goodwill and patents marketing rights costs5 costs5 Total 1 January–31 December 2018 Opening accumulated cost 1,554 561 6,797 139 51 9,102 Investments1 — — 4,186 16 27 4,229 Disposals2 — –11 — — — –11 Reclassification — — –75 72 –2 –5 Exchange differences — 0 –59 0 — –59 Closing cost 1,554 550 10,850 227 76 13,256 Opening accumulated amortisation and write-downs — –388 –2,172 –97 — –2,657 Amortisation — –39 –387 –23 — –449 Disposals2 — 8 — — — 8 Exchange differences — 0 — 0 — 0 Closing accumulated amortisation and write-downs — –418 –2,559 –120 — –3,097 Closing carrying amount 1,554 132 8,291 106 76 10,159 1 January–31 December 2019 Opening accumulated cost 1,554 550 10,850 227 76 13,256 Investments1 — 3 15,686 74 260 16,023 Acquisition of business3 5,293 35 7,555 11 — 12,895 Disposals2 — –16 — –58 — –74 Reclassification — — — 3 0 3 Exchange differences –169 0 –88 0 — –257 17 Closing cost 6,678 572 34,003 258 336 41,846 Opening accumulated amortisation and write-downs — –418 –2,559 –120 — –3,097 Amortisation — –38 –1,305 –39 — –1,382 Write-downs4 — –18 — — — –18 Disposals2 — 7 — 57 — 65 Exchange differences — 0 0 0 — 0 Closing accumulated amortisation and write-downs — –467 –3,864 –102 — –4,434 Closing carrying amount 6,678 104 30,139 155 336 37,412 1. Investments 2019 refer to the acqusition of Synagis SEK 13,689 M, BIVV001 rights of SEK 1,817 M and capitalised IT costs. Investments 2018 were mainly related to investments in emapalumab. 2. Disposals 2019 refer to licences and various IT projects. Disposals 2018 referred to terminated contracts. 3. Acquisition of business 2019 refers to goodwill, SEK 4,391 M related to the acquisition of Dova and SEK 902 M related to the acquisition of emapalumab. (Priority Review Voucher (PRV) was not classified as intangible asset). Acquired product and marketing rights refers to Doptelet, SEK 7,555 M, see Note 33. 4. Refers to write-down of one of the early-phase clinical programmes. 5. Capitalised costs comprises IT projects and costs to relocate manufacturing of active substance. Items under capitalised costs are amortised according to plan. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 75 Notes Note 17, cont. Ongoing Licenses Product and Capitalised capitalised PARENT COMPANY and patents marketing rights costs1 costs1 Total 1 January–31 December 2018 Opening accumulated cost 65 4,851 132 50 5,099 Investments2 — — 16 27 43 Disposals3 –11 — — — –11 Reclassification — –75 72 –2 –5 Closing cost 54 4,776 220 75 5,125 Opening accumulated amortisation and write-downs –25 –923 –93 — –1,041 Amortisation –6 –262 –23 — –292 Disposals 8 — — — 8 Closing accumulated amortisation and write-downs –23 –1,185 –116 — —1,325 Closing carrying amount 30 3,591 104 75 3,801 1 January–31 December 2019 Opening accumulated cost 54 4,776 220 75 5,125 Investments2 3 1,817 74 207 2,101 Disposals3 –16 — –58 — –74 Reclassification — — 3 0 3 Closing cost 40 6,593 240 282 7,155 Opening accumulated amortisation and write-downs –23 –1,185 –116 — –1,325 Amortisation –3 –262 –39 — –304 Write-downs4 –18 — — — –18 Disposals3 7 — 57 — 65 17 Closing accumulated amortisation and write-downs –37 –1,447 –98 — –1,583 Closing carrying amount 3 5,146 141 282 5,572 1. Capitalised costs comprises IT projects and costs to relocate manufacturing of active substance. Items under capitalised costs are amortised according to plan. 2. Investments 2019 mainly refer to the acqusition of product and marketing rights, BIVV001 of SEK 1,817 M and capitalised IT costs. Investments 2018 were mainly IT related. 3. Disposals 2019 refer to licences and various IT projects. Disposals 2018 referred to terminated contracts. 4. Refers to write-downs of one of the early-phase clinical programmes. IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS • Interest expense: according to Sobi’s borrowing cost. Goodwill • Tax rate: according to the tax rate in Sweden, except where revenues are The assessment of the value of the Group’s goodwill is based on value in use for taxed in another country. the smallest cash-generating unit, which for Sobi is deemed to be the Group Sobi has conducted a sensitivity analysis for the following variables in the (excluding ReFacto). impairment testing of goodwill: the discount rate, margin, sales volume and Cash flows are based on financial plans established by management and eternal growth rate. The sensitivity analysis indicates that there are good marcover a five-year period. The financial plans have been established on the basis gins in the calculation. of past performance, experiences and market expectations. The plans includes assumptions about the current product development and future product Product and marketing rights launches. The financial plans also include assumptions of price trends, sales Significant product and marketing rights and their related development projects performance and cost trends. Cash flows beyond the five-year period have are tested annually for impairment. Products were reviewed for impairment indibeen extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 2 per cent. At 31 Decemvidually. The assessment of the value of product and marketing rights is based on ber 2019, Sobi’s goodwill amounted to SEK 6,678 M (1,554). There is no indicathe value in use of each individual asset. The value in use is based on cash tion of goodwill impairment at Group level. flows that are expected to be generated over the remaining life of the asset. The following table shows the growth rate and discount rate used before When discounting future cash flows, the discount rate is used as described and after tax: in the table. PARAMETER, % 2019 2018 When product and marketing rights are tested for impairment, a number of assumptions are made. These refer to forecasts of future sales revenue, costs Growth rate beyond the initial five-year period 2 2 attributable to each individual product, the life of the products and the discount Discount rate before tax 10.2 11.5 rate. The review of product and marketing rights showed no indication of impairment. Discount rate after tax 8.0 9.0 When testing development projects for impairment in relation to product or marketing rights, the key parameters are future cash flows from the individual Assumptions regarding Sobi’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC): asset, the likelihood of achieving positive outcomes in clinical trials and • Risk-free interest rate: ten-year treasury bills or comparable financial investassumptions of the best commercial outcomes. Future cash flows are estiment with the lowest possible risk. mated with regard to the long and short-term development of the project and • Market risk premium: 6.6 per cent (6.3). adjusted for the likelihood that the project will be commercialised. The earlier • Beta coefficient: Sobi’s beta coefficient is 1.26 (1.31). 76 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes Note 17, cont. in the chain of development the project is, the higher the risk. As it passes Liability arising from development programmes through the defined phases of development, the likelihood of reaching the On taking over commercialisation and the regulatory process, Sobi became liamarket increases. The likelihood of a project passing through the relevant ble to reimburse Sanofi for 50 per cent of the development and production development phase successfully is assessed on the basis of the project’s sciencosts arising for each programme from 1 October 2009. tific potential to demonstrate positive results in the individual phase of the Sobi reimbursed 100 per cent of the development activities that only benedevelopment process. A best-case assumption is made on the basis of the fited Sobi’s territory. parameters with the greatest effect on whether the project will develop into a drug with the highest possible commercial potential, and on the basis of what is Debt settlement reasonable to assume about the project’s scientific profile using the informaSobi’s reimbursement to Sanofi for each development programme takes the tion that is currently available. The forecast period is based on the product’s following three forms: estimated market life. • When regulatory approval was granted in the EU, a deposit of USD 10 M per product was transferred to Sanofi and offset against Sobi’s liability. Write-downs in 2019 • With the first commercial sales of each of its products, Sobi was able to In 2019, write-down of SEK 18 M was recognised for one of the early-phase credit retroactive royalty revenue corresponding to the difference between clinical programmes. The write-down had a negative impact on intangible the base rate and the 2 per cent Sobi had already received on Sanofi’s sales. assets. There were no write-downs in 2018. This amount was offset against the liability and generated non-recurring revenue that did not affect cash flow. CONTRACTUAL COMMITMENTS RELATED TO INTANGIBLE ASSETS • From Sobi’s first commercial sales, the royalty rates between the companies Sobi has undertaken to make additional payments under certain acquisition are adjusted until the liability has been repaid in full (see the table). and licensing agreements (often referred to as milestone payments) linked to • If full payment has not been made within six years of Sanofi’s first commerthe achievement of certain defined targets. The most significant agreements cial sales for each programme, Sanofi is entitled to request that Sobi pay the are listed below. remaining amount within 90 days of the sixth anniversary of the date of Sanofi’s first commercial sales. AGREEMENT WITH SANOFI, FORMERLY BIOVERATIV Under the agreement between Sobi and Sanofi regarding the development Elocta and commercialisation of Elocta and Alprolix, Sanofi took full responsibility for On 24 November 2015, Sobi and Sanofi announced that the European Comdevelopment and production, plus associated costs, until Sobi exercised its mission approved Elocta for the treatment of haemophilia A in all 28 EU memopt-in right to the programmes. There are similar arrangements in place with ber states as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. The liability for the Sanofi for programmes BIVV001 and BIVV002. Sobi exercised its opt-in rights development and commercialisation of Elocta was repaid in full in the third to BIVV001 in 2019. quarter of 2019. Under Sobi’s opt-in rights to the development and commercialisation of the programmes, Sobi obtained the commercial rights for Europe, North Africa, Alprolix 17 Russia and certain countries in the Middle East (Sobi’s territory). Sanofi has The total liability for the development and commercialisation of Alprolix is commercialisation rights for North America (Sanofi’s North American territory) USD 185 M. On 13 May 2016, Sobi and Sanofi announced that the European and for the rest of the world excluding Sobi’s territory (Sanofi’s direct territory Commission approved Alprolix for the treatment of haemophilia B in all 28 EU and Sanofi’s distribution territory). Sobi and Sanofi receive a royalty on each member states, plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. In connection with the other’s sales of Elocta/Eloctate and Alprolix in the respective company’s terriapproval, the deposit was transferred to Sanofi and offset against the liability. In tory according to the royalty rates set out in the table below. connection with its first commercial sales in June 2016, Sobi credited a retroSobi elected to assume responsibility for the final regulatory process and active royalty revenue of SEK 386 M against the liability. At 31 December 2019, other commercialisation activities in Sobi’s territory by paying a deposit of USD the remaining liability was SEK 475 M (USD 51 M), corresponding to the dis10 M per programme – for Elocta in 2014, and Alprolix in 2015. counted value of the nominal liability, which amounted to USD 52 M. Percentage rates for royalties and reimbursement between the companies Percentage rates after initial commercial sales in Sobi’s territory if Sobi exercises its opt-in right1 Adjusted royalty rate during repayNet royalty payment during Method Base rate1, % ment period1 the repayment period2, % From Sobi to Sanofi based on Royalty on sales net sales in Sobi’s territory 12 Base rate plus 5% 17 Sanofi to Sobi based on net sales Royalty on sales in North America 12 Base rate minus 5% 7 Sanofi to Sobi based on net sales Royalty on sales in Sanofi’s territories outside North America 17 Base rate minus 5% 12 Sanofi to Sobi based on net profit3 Royalty on net profit from Sanofi’s distribution territory4 50 Base rate minus 15% 35 1. Base rate impacts earnings. Repayment of the liability comprises the difference between the base rate and the adjusted royalty. 2. Actual payments that impact cash flow. 3. Net profit relates to Sanofi’s revenue before tax from distributors (third parties), less costs incurred by Sanofi for supporting this sale. 4. Sanofi’s distribution territory pertains to the territory in which sales are conducted through a third party. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 77 Notes Note 17, cont. BIVV001 (rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN) Synagis and MEDI8897 In September 2014, Sobi decided to include the preclinical development proOn 23 January 2019, Sobi completed the acquisition of the rights to Synagis gramme for the potentially long-acting haemophilia A treatment BIVV001 (palivizumab) in the US from AstraZeneca, as well as the rights to 50 per cent of (rFVII-IFc-VWF-XTEN) in the agreement with Sanofi. Under the agreement future earnings from the candidate drug MEDI8897 (Nirsevimab) in the US mar­between Sobi and Sanofi, Sobi has an exclusive opt-in right to the programme, ket. The upfront consideration was approximately USD 1,500 M (SEK 13.5 biland the possibility of obtaining the commercial rights in Sobi’s territory accordlion). In addition, Sobi will pay USD 20 M (approx. SEK 186 M) in cash per year ing to the principles described above. for 2020 and 2021 at the end of each year. These obligations are recognised as This right was exercised in autumn 2019 through a contract with Sanofi for financial liabilities on the balance sheet. BIVV001 where Sobi, conditional upon marketing authorisation from the EuroProvided that some terms related to sales of Synagis are met, sales-related pean Commission, will pay a milestone payment corresponding to 50 per cent milestones of up to USD 470 M (approximately SEK 4.4 billion) may be paid as of the total development costs, estimated to be USD 280–290 M less USD 50 M of 2026. Sobi may also pay USD 175 M (approximately SEK 1.6 billion) when a that has already been paid. For 2019, Sobi recognised SEK 1,817 M as an intangiBiologics License Application (BLA) for MEDI8897 is submitted to the FDA. The ble asset and corresponding liability, less SEK 490 M (USD 50 M) that was paid in agreement also includes possible net payments of about USD 110 M (approx. 2019. Fair value of the liability amounted to SEK 1,273 M at 31 December 2019. SEK 1.0 billion) on achievement of other MEDI8897 profit and developmentrelated milestones. If payable, these are expected from 2023 onwards. BIVV002 (rFIXFc-XTEN) In February 2017, Sobi decided to include the preclinical development proEmapalumab gramme for the potentially long-acting haemophilia B treatment BIVV002 On 18 July 2019, Sobi completed the acquisition of a newly established com(rFIXFc-XTEN) in the agreement with Sanofi. Under the agreement between pany that owned emapalumab and related assets. Due to the acquisition, the Sobi and Sanofi, Sobi will therefore have an exclusive opt-in right to the propreviously announced license agreement with Novimmune was replaced by gramme, and the possibility of obtaining the commercial rights in Sobi’s territhis agreement. At 31 December 2019, there were no other obligations remaintory according to the principles described above. ing from previous agreements. OTHER AGREEMENTS Doptelet On 12 November 2019, Sobi acquired all of the outstanding shares in Dova Pharmaceuticals. Through the acquisition, Sobi received access to Dova’s commercial product Doptelet. After the acquisition, Sobi’s commitments in relation to Doptelet were as follows: • Under a contract with Eisai, Sobi will pay up to USD 135 M (approximately SEK 1.3 billion) based on annual net sales of Doptelet, calculated per calen17 dar year. This obligation is recognised as a financial liability in Sobi’s balance sheet. • Under the license agreement with Astellas, Sobi will make additional milestone payments of up to USD 3 M (approximately SEK 28 M) to Astellas if certain regulatory milestones are achieved. In addition, Sobi will pay royalties to Astellas based on net sales of Doptelet in the corresponding mid-to-high single-digit percentage range. • Under a contract with Eisai regarding commercial sales of Doptelet, Sobi will place some binding orders in the coming period. The minimum possible purchasing requirement is about USD 13 M (approximately SEK 123 M). 78 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes 18 Tangible assets Equipment, Other Plant and tools, fixtures non-current Construction Right-of-use GROUP machinery and fittings assets in progress assets Total 1 January–31 December 2018 Opening accumulated cost 463 234 15 21 — 733 Investments 2 10 2 26 — 41 Reclassification 33 6 — –39 — 1 Disposals –33 –6 –6 — — –45 Exchange differences 0 1 — — — 1 Closing cost 466 245 12 9 — 731 Opening accumulated depreciation and write-downs –392 –202 –5 — — –599 Depreciation –19 –15 –2 — — –36 Reclassification — –1 — — — –1 Disposals 33 6 3 — — 42 Exchange differences 0 –1 — — — –1 Closing accumulated depreciation and write-downs –377 –212 –5 — — –594 Closing carrying amount 88 33 7 9 — 136 1 January–31 December 2019 Opening accumulated cost 466 245 12 9 — 731 Changed accounting principle — — — — 412 412 Investments 18 16 — 3 92 129 Acquisition of business 19 3 3 — 10 35 Disposals –19 –85 –2 — –2 –108 Reclassification –1 –2 4 –3 — –2 18 Exchange differences 0 1 — — 2 3 Closing cost 483 178 16 8 515 1,200 Opening accumulated depreciation and write-downs –378 –212 –5 — — –594 Depreciation –22 –13 –2 — –90 –128 Write-downs1 –32 — — — –30 –62 Acquisition of business — 0 –1 — 0 –1 Disposals 18 84 1 — 0 104 Reclassification — 1 –1 — — — Exchange differences –5 5 0 — 0 0 Closing accumulated depreciation and write-downs –418 –135 –8 — –120 –682 Closing carrying amount 65 43 8 8 395 518 1. Write-downs 2019 refer to write-down of plant and machinery and right-of-use assets related to premises used for early-phase clinical programmes terminated during the year. As defined in the table above, property, plant and equipment also includes right-of-use assets, i.e. leased assets prior to the adoption of IFRS 16, which came into effect on 1 January 2019. Associated lease liabilities are presented in Note 28 and additional information regarding leases in Note 10. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 79 Notes Note 18, cont. Equipment, Other Plant and tools, fixtures non-current Construction PARENT COMPANY machinery and fittings assets in progress Total 1 January–31 December 2018 Opening accumulated cost 458 202 5 21 686 Investments — — — 26 26 Disposals –33 –6 — — –39 Reclassification 33 6 — –39 — Closing cost 458 202 5 9 674 Opening accumulated depreciation and write-downs –385 –185 –2 — –572 Depreciation –19 –10 –1 — –29 Disposals 33 6 — — 39 Closing accumulated depreciation and write-downs –371 –189 –3 — –562 Closing carrying amount 87 14 3 9 112 1 January–31 December 2019 Opening accumulated cost 458 202 5 9 674 Investments 11 1 — 3 15 Reclassification –18 –83 — — –101 Disposals — 0 — –3 –3 Closing cost 451 121 5 8 585 Opening accumulated depreciation and write-downs –371 –189 –3 — –562 Depreciation –19 –7 –1 — –27 Write-downs1 –32 — — — –32 Disposals 18 83 — — 101 18 Closing accumulated depreciation and write-downs –404 –113 –3 — –520 19 Closing carrying amount 47 8 2 8 65 1. Write-downs 2019 refer to write-down of plant and machinery used for early-phase clinical programmes terminated during the year. 19 Participations in Group companies PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Accumulated cost At beginning of year 4,652 4,060 Investment1 4,201 592 Total 8,853 4,652 Closing book value Accumulated impairment At beginning of year –1,177 –1,177 Total –1,177 –1,177 Carrying amount at end of period 7,676 3,475 1. Investment for the year, SEK 4,201 M, relates to the acquisition of Dova and the investment in Sobi US Holding Corp. made up of three legal entities shown in the following specification. In the sub-group, the parent company Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB has created two new subsidiaries, Sobi Pharma (Guangzhou) Company Limited, in China, and Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Unipessoal Lda, in Portugal. Last years investment of SEK 592 M referred to the acqusition of the rights to emapalumab, made through the swiss subsidiary. Through an internal restructuring in 2019, this subsidiary is now a subsidiary company to Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB. 80 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes Note 19, cont. Specification of Parent Company and Group holdings of participations in Group companies Number of SUBSIDIARY/CORP. REG. NO./REGISTERED OFFICE participations Participations, %1 Carrying amount 3 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB, 556329-5624, Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 3,248,584 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum A/S, 19179079, Copenhagen, Denmark Swedish Orphan Biovitrum SARL, 490259405, Paris, France Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.o, 28171276, Prague, Czech Republic Oy Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB, 1024811, Turku, Finland Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.l, 5288990962, Parma, Italy OOO Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, 5087746194520, Moscow, Russia Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AS, 976313682, Trollåsen, Norway Swedish Orphan Biovitrum S.L., B84710623, Madrid, Spain Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Ltd, 4369760, Cambridgeshire, UK Swedish Orphan Biovitrum GmbH, HRB 226770, Martinsried, Germany Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AG, 284.917.678, Basel, Switzerland Novimmune B.V. 27278836, Amsterdam, Netherlands Florio GMBH, HRB 249347, Munich, Germany Sobi Pharma (Guangzhou) Company Limited, 91440101MA5D2D0A6G, Guangzhou, China Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Unipessoal Lda, 980 670 152, Lisbon, Portugal SOBI Middle East FZ-LLC, 91193, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 1,000 100 132 Arexis AB, 556573-5130, Stockholm, Sweden 1,000 100 225,137 Sobi, Inc EIN 68-0682244, Delaware, US 1,000 100 7 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.o, 28171276, Prague, Czech Republic2 1 1 8 BVBA Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, 0536.217.087, Brussels, Belgium 100 100 166 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum GmbH, 416986, Vienna, Austria 100 100 313 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (SOBI) Canada, Inc. 949375-1, Oakville, Canada 10,000 100 65 Sobi Single Member I.K.E, 142300401000, Athens, Greece 20,000 100 195 19 Sobi US Holding Corp., 7626060, Delaware, US 1,000 100 4,201,329 Dova Pharmaceuticals Inc., 5997129, Delaware, US 20 AKaRx, Inc., 20-1990243, Delaware, US Dova Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited, 610709, Dublin, Ireland Total 7,675,935 1. The participation refers to the ownership of capital, which also corresponds to the proportion of the votes. 2. The remaining portion is owned by Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB. 3. Book value i SEK K. 20 Financial assets GROUP 2019 2018 Accumulated cost At beginning of year 55 35 Endowment insurance1 0 14 Financial receivables 2 2 Returned deposit –3 –1 Fair value hedges –5 5 Accumulated cost 50 55 Carrying amount at end of period 50 55 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Accumulated cost At beginning of year 52 32 Endowment insurance1 0 14 Fair value hedges –5 5 Accumulated cost 47 52 Carrying amount at end of period 47 52 1. Endowment insurance amounts to SEK 47 M as per dec 2019, for corresponding debt see Note 30. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 81 Notes 21 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax GROUP 2019 assets liabilities Net GROUP 2018 assets liabilities Net Excess depreciation — –1,338 –1,338 Excess depreciation — –532 –532 Inventories 318 — 318 Inventories 181 — 181 Acquired productand marketAcquired product rights — –263 –263 rights — –2,524 –2,524 Other intangible assets 61 — 61 Other intangible assets 53 — 53 Tax loss carry-forwards 86 — 86 Tax loss carry-forwards 47 — 47 Pharmaceutical tax 6 — 6 Pharmaceutical tax 17 — 17 Other 28 — 28 Other 54 — 54 Total 362 –795 –433 Total 489 –3,862 –3,372 Offsetting –131 131 — Offsetting –136 136 — Tax assets/liabilities, net 231 –664 –433 Tax assets/liabilities, net 354 –3,726 –3,372 The Parent Company’s total deferred tax asset amounted to SEK 22 M (11), mainly comprising a deferred tax asset of SEK 13 M (12) related to pension ­provisions and a deferred tax asset of SEK 8 M (–) related to long-term incentive programmes. Deferred tax has been valued at enacted future tax rate in Sweden, see Notes 2 and 16. Change in deferred tax Recognised Amount at in other Recognised Increase through beginning Recognised comprehensive directly through acqusition Amount at GROUP 2019 of year in profit or loss income equity of business end of year Excess depreciation –532 –805 — — — –1,338 Inventories 181 137 — — — 318 Sale of PRV (priority review voucher) — 125 0 — –125 0 21 Acquired product rights1 –263 81 –54 — –2,288 –2,524 Other intangible assets 61 –8 — — — 53 Tax loss carry-forwards2 86 –43 3 — — 47 Pharmaceutical tax 6 11 0 — — 17 Other 28 7 0 9 10 54 Total –433 –494 –51 9 –2,404 –3,372 1. The increase in acquired product rights compared to 2018 refer to product rights acquired during the year. 2. This year's deferred tax on loss carry-forwards relates to foreign losses accumulated during the year expected to be utilised as well as resolution of last year's deferred tax on loss carry-forwards, that has either been utilised or deemed to no longer have any value, see also Note 4. Recognised Amount at in other Recognised Increase through beginning Recognised comprehensive directly through acqusition Amount GROUP 2018 of year in profit or loss income equity of business at end of year Excess depreciation –467 –65 — — — –532 Inventories 116 65 — — — 181 Acquired product rights –252 –10 –1 — — –263 Other intangible assets 69 –8 — — — 61 Tax loss carry-forwards — 84 2 — — 86 Pharmaceutical tax 3 3 0 — — 6 Change in depreciation method –20 20 — — — — Other 15 13 0 — — 28 Total –536 103 1 — — –433 82 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes 22 Inventories Changes in the provisions for expected credit losses are as follows: GROUP 2019 2018 Expected credit losses Raw materials and consumables 13 17 GROUP 2019 2018 Work in progress 775 581 At beginning of year –70 –35 Finished goods and goods for resale 985 686 Provision for expected credit losses –24 –41 Total 1,772 1,284 Reversed provisions 25 6 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense is included in cost of goods At end of year –69 –70 sold and amounted to SEK 2,962 M (2,056). PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 At beginning of year –8 –8 Raw materials and consumables 13 17 Provisions for expected credit losses –22 –2 Work in progress 775 581 Reversed provisions 22 2 Finished goods and goods for resale 745 472 At end of year –8 –8 Total 1,533 1,071 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense is included in cost of goods Maturity analysis sold and amounted to SEK 2,831 M (1,995). GROUP 2019 2018 Not past due 3,051 1,147 Past due 1–30 days 459 371 23 Account and other receivables Past due 31–90 days 130 80 Past due 91–120 days 53 10 GROUP 2019 2018 Past due > 121 days 43 56 Account receivables 3,804 1,735 Total 3,736 1,665 Minus: Provision for expected credit losses –69 –70 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Account receivables, net 3,736 1,665 Not past due 2,246 439 Tax assets 35 15 Past due 1–30 days 141 142 Other receivables 495 78 Past due 31–90 days 13 6 Total other receivables 530 93 Past due 91–120 days 2 2 22 Total account and other receivables 4,266 1,758 Past due > 121 days 0 1 Total 2,402 590 23 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Account receivables 2,410 598 Minus: Provision for expected credit losses –8 –8 Account receivables, net 2,402 590 Tax assets 27 1 Other receivables 422 56 Total other receivables 449 57 Total account and other receivables 2,851 647 Sobi’s single largest customers are MedImmune LLC and Sanofi, in addition to these, Sobi largest customers are primarily large distributors, hospitals and government authorities. The large customer base has a wide geographic spread, with no specific concentration of receivables. The Group’s exposure to future credit losses is continuously monitored by country and by type of counterparty. If Sobi judges that a receivable will not be paid, a provision is made for an expected credit loss in accordance with the principles described in Note 2. This Note also includes information about customers’ payment terms. At 31 December 2019, overdue customer receivables for the Group amounted to SEK 685 M (518), on which SEK 69 M (70) are included in the provision for future credit losses. Actual credit losses of SEK 751 K were charged to profit for the year, of which SEK 275 K was attributable to the Parent Company. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 83 Notes Note 23, cont. Recognised amount per currency for account receivables and other 24 Prepaid expenses and accrued income receivables GROUP 2019 2018 GROUP 2019 2018 CHF 136 44 Accrued royalty revenue1 358 364 CZK 9 2 Prepaid rents 15 22 DKK 10 34 Prepaid insurance expenses 22 1 EUR 1,003 1,134 Accrued interest income 1 43 GBP 117 122 Prepaid IT licenses 25 18 NOK 36 38 Prepaid fees, regulatory authorities — 19 RON 7 10 Other prepaid expenses 127 94 SEK 807 191 Total 548 561 USD 2,138 162 Other currencies 2 20 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Total 4,266 1,758 Accrued royalty revenue1 358 364 Prepaid rents 20 16 PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Prepaid insurance expenses 10 — CHF 85 38 Accrued interest income — 43 CZK 9 1 Prepaid IT licenses 25 18 DKK 10 34 Prepaid fees, regulatory authorities — 19 EUR 238 294 Other prepaid expenses 86 71 GBP 0 — Total 499 532 NOK 36 38 1. These are to be classified as contract assets under IFRS 15, no significant changes between the years. RON 7 10 SEK 807 192 USD 1,662 26 Other currencies –1 14 25 Cash and cash equivalents Total 2,851 647 2019 2018 Carrying Carrying GROUP Fair value amount Fair value amount Cash and cash equivalents 737 737 2,999 2,999 Total 737 737 2,999 2,999 23 2019 2018 24 PARENT Carrying Carrying COMPANY Fair value amount Fair value amount 25 Cash and cash equivalents 431 431 2,762 2,762 Total 431 431 2,762 2,762 Cash and cash equivalents refer to funds held in bank accounts. 84 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes 26 Financial assets and liabilities per category Assets measured at Assets measured at fair value through amortised cost profit or loss Derivatives Total 31 December 2019 Assets on the balance sheet Account receivables 3,736 — — 3,736 Endowment insurance — 47 — 47 Derivatives1 — — 57 57 Cash and cash equivalents 737 — — 737 Total 4,473 47 57 4,577 31 December 2018 Assets on the balance sheet Account receivables 1,665 — — 1,665 Endowment insurance — 47 — 47 Derivatives1 — — 15 15 Fair value hedges — 5 — 5 Cash and cash equivalents 2,999 — — 2,999 Total 4,664 52 15 4,731 Liabilities at Liabilities measured amortised cost at fair value Derivatives Total 31 December 2019 Liabilities on the balance sheet Borrowings 16,141 — — 16,141 Lease liabilities 419 — — 419 Derivatives2 — — 60 60 Account payables 681 — — 681 Liability Sanofi — 1,273 — 1,273 Contingent consideration — 388 — 388 Milestone obligation 1,177 — — 1,177 Other liabilities 1,363 — — 1,363 Total 19,782 1,661 60 21,503 31 December 2018 Liabilities on the balance sheet Lease liabilities 4 — — 4 Derivatives2 — — 8 8 26 Account payables 487 — — 487 Other liabilities 4,887 — — 4,887 Total 5,378 — 8 5,386 See Note 2 for more information about what is included in the various categories. 1. Of the 2019 derivatives, SEK 57 M (8) is measured at fair value through profit or loss, and SEK 0 M (7) is included in cash-flow hedges. Classified as other liabilities in the balance sheet. 2. Of the derivative liabilities 2019, SEK 60 M (5) is a fair value hedge and SEK 0 M (3) is included in cash-flow hedges. Classified as other liabilities in the balance sheet. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 85 Notes Note 26, cont. Financial instruments measured at fair value 27 Borrowings The following table shows financial instruments measured at fair value, based on their classification in the fair value hierarchy. During 2019, Sobi raised new credit facilities to finance the company’s acqui­ The different levels are defined as follows: sitions of emapalumab and Dova. The loan agreement of EUR 390 M raised in July matures in 2021. In November, loans of additional EUR 280 M and • Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. SEK 3,000 M with a term of five years were raised. The company has since ear• Level 2: Observable data for the asset or liability other than the quoted prices lier one loan agreement of EUR 870 M from 2018, as well as SEK 1,000 M that included in Level 1. was originally raised in 2016. For time of expiry, see further under Note 3. The • Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable acqusition of Synagis in January 2019 was partly financed through the loan ­market data. agreement of EUR 870 M from 2018. Sobi also has an overdraft facility of SEK 135 M with a term of up to three months. Fair value using significant, non-observable data (level 3) The table below shows the significant, non-observable data used for determinGROUP 2019 2018 ing fair value in level 3 instruments. Debt to banks and credit institution 16,141 — Fair value Effect on fair value if Total 16,141 — Notional Espected Discount Discount cash flow 2019 2018 cash flow rate rate +1% +10% PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Contingent Debt to banks and credit institution 16,141 — consideration 388 0 417 5% –5 39 Total 16,141 — Liability to Sanofi 1,273 0 1,473 4% –51 127 Specification per currency, converted to SEK M AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at fair GROUP 2019 2018 value through profit or loss Derivatives held for sale — –4 — –4 Currency Endowment insurances — — 47 — EUR 7,669 — Liabilities — — –1,661 — SEK 5,398 — Total assets — –4 –1,614 –4 USD 3,074 — Total 16,141 — AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 Level 2 Level 3 Total PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss Currency Derivatives held for sale 2 — 2 EUR 7,669 — Derivative instruments used for SEK 5,398 — hedging purposes 4 — 4 USD 3,074 — Total assets 7 — 7 Total 16,141 — All derivatives are measured at fair value based on market data in accordance with IFRS. At 31 December 2019, the carrying net amount of derivatives on the balance sheet was SEK –4 M (7). 26 27 86 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes 28 Other liabilities, current and non-current 29 Post-employment benefits Group employees have various forms of pension benefits, either defined-conGROUP 2019 2018 tribution or defined-benefit plans. In Sweden, post-employment benefits are Non-current mainly funded by defined-contribution plans. At 31 December 2019, five people in the Norwegian subsidiary, two people in the Swedish Parent Company Liability to Sanofi 1,273 428 and 114 people in the Swiss company acquired during the year were covered by Liability to AstraZeneca 170 — defined-benefit plans, while all other employees were covered by definedMilestone obligation1 1,177 — contribution pension plans. Total 2,620 428 Defined-contribution plan by Alecta and pension benefits Current For white-collar employees in Sweden, the ITP 2 plan’s defined-benefit penLiability to Sanofi 475 677 sion obligations for retirement and family pensions are insured through Alecta. Liability to AstraZeneca 178 — According to the Financial Reporting Board’s statement UFR 10 Accounting for ITP 2 Plans Financed by Insurance with Alecta, this is a multi-employer definedLiability to Novimmune — 3,640 benefit plan. For the 2019 financial year, the company did not have access to Unbilled goods received 77 29 sufficient information to report its proportionate share of the plan’s obligations, Contingent consideration Dova2 388 — plan assets and expenses, which meant that it has not been possible to report the plan as a defined-benefit plan. The ITP 2 pension plan is therefore reported Other 523 114 as a defined-contribution plan. The premium for the defined-benefit retireTotal 1,641 4,459 ment and family pension is calculated individually, and is based on factors that include salary, previously earned pension and expected remaining period of PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 service. In the next reporting period, expected contributions for ITP 2 plans insured through Alecta amount to SEK 24 M (25). The Group’s share of the total Non-current plan contributions and the Group’s share of the total number of active memLiability to Sanofi 1,273 428 bers in the plan are insignificant. Total 1,273 428 The collective funding ratio is the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance obligations calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial Current methods and assumptions, which are not consistent with IAS 19. The collective Liability to Sanofi 475 677 funding ratio is normally allowed to vary between 125 and 155 per cent. If Alecta’s collective funding ratio falls below 125 per cent or exceeds 155 per cent, Unbilled goods received 77 29 measures should be taken to create the right conditions for the ratio to return Other 72 26 to the normal range. If the ratio is low, an appropriate measure could be to raise Total 623 731 the agreed price for new policies and extensions of existing benefits. If the ratio 1. Under a contract with Eisai, Sobi will pay up to USD 135 M (approximately SEK 1.3 billion) based on is high, premium reductions could be introduced. At the end of 2019, Alecta’s annual net sales of Doptelet, calculated per calendar year. This obligation is reported as a financial surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio was 148 per cent (142). liability of SEK 1,177 million in the balance sheet. Some current and former executives are not covered by the premium, so 2. Contigent Value Right (CVR), see Note 33 for more information. a direct pension is used for that part of the premium which is not deductible. The acquisition of the rights to Synagis included a contract for Sobi to pay A direct pension is secured by the company undertaking an endowment insurUSD 20 M to AstraZeneca at the end of 2020 and 2021. These liabilities are ance policy which is credited to the executive. measured at amortised cost on the balance sheet. In autumn 2019, Sobi entered into a contract with Sanofi for BIVV001, see Defined-benefit pension plan further Note 17, where Sobi, conditional upon marketing authorisation from the The defined-benefit pension obligations are calculated annually on the balEuropean Medicines Agency (EMA), will pay a milestone payment correspondance-sheet date, based on actuarial principles. Sobi has a defined-benefit pening to 50 per cent of the total development costs, estimated to be USD 280– sion plan for the subsidiaries in Norway, Switzerland and for two persons in the 290 M less USD 50 M that has already been paid. For 2019, Sobi recognised Parent Company in Sweden. SEK 1,817 M as an intangible asset and corresponding liability, less SEK 490 M The present value of the obligation includes special payroll tax, in accord(USD 50 M) that was paid in 2019. The liability corresponds to expected disance with IAS 19, for the Swedish, Norwegian and Swiss pension plans. counted liability until payment is received, and fair value amounted to Pension expenses are recognised under the items of selling costs, adminisSEK 1,273 M at 31 December 2019. trative expenses and research and development costs. Following EU approval of Elocta and Alprolix, Sobi acquired the rights to market the products in certain markets. The cost of marketing rights correRisks connected to defined-benefit pension plans 28 sponds to 50 per cent of Sanofi’s development costs for each product. After Through its defined-benefit pension plans for post-employment benefits, the Group is exposed to a number of risks. The most significant risks are: 29 revision, the original nominal amounts were USD 211 M for Elocta and USD 185 M for Alprolix. As these liabilities will be repaid over a number of years, it is Life expectancy assumption: Most of the pension commitments entail that the discounted values after the repayments that are reflected on the balance the employees covered by the plan will receive life-long benefits and, accordsheet, USD 0 M for Elocta and USD 51 M for Alprolix. Alprolix is now recognised ingly, the longer life expectancy assumptions will result in higher pension liabilas a current liability of SEK 475 M, and Elocta was repaid in full in the third quarities. This is particularly significant in the Swedish plan, in which inflation ter of 2019. The right to market the products in certain markets, recorded as increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy assumptions. intangible assets, is initially recognised at the same value as the liabilities. If full Inflation risk: Some of the plan’s pension commitments are linked to inflapayment has not been made within six years of the first commercial sale of tion. Higher inflation leads to higher liabilities (although, in most cases, a ceiling each product, Sanofi is entitled to request that Sobi pay the remaining amount has been set for the level of inflation to protect the plan against exceptional within 90 days of the sixth anniversary of Sanofi’s first commercial sale. increases in inflation). Most of the plan assets are either unaffected by (fixedrate bonds), or weakly correlated with (shares) inflation, which means that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 87 Notes Note 29, cont. Discount rate: A decrease in the interest rate on corporate bonds will increase Net obligation per country the liabilities of the plan, although this will partially be offset by an increase in 2019 2018 the value of the bond holdings. The Norwegian pension plan is covered by the Norwegian Corporate Sweden –1 1 ­Pension Act (Foretagspenjonsloven), the Swiss pension plan is covered by The Norway –10 –8 Swiss Federal Act on Occupational Retirement, Survivor’s and Disability Pension Plans (BVG), and the Swedish plan is covered by the Pension Obligations VestSwitzerland –72 — ing Act and the consortium agreement. Under the con­sortium agreement, Sobi Total –83 –7 is required to allocate the funds required to ensure that the pension assets correspond to Sobi’s share of the pension liability. The Swedish, Norwegian and Swiss plans are based on final salary. Actuarial assumptions on the balance-sheet date SWEDISH PENSION PLAN 2019 2018 Changes in the defined-benefit pension obligations during Discount rate, % 1.2 2.3 the year are as follows: Expected annual inflation, % 2.0 2.0 1 JANUARYPresent value of Fair value of 31 DECEMBER 2019 obligations plan assets Total Remaining life expectancy after retirement age, male, years 20.8 20.8 At beginning of year –39 32 –7 Remaining life expectancy after retirement age, Acquired pension liability female, years 23.4 23.4 Switzerland 20191 –174 104 –69 Current service cost –6 — –6 NORWEGIAN PENSION PLAN 2019 2018 Interest expense –1 — –1 Discount rate, % 2.6 2.6 Remeasurements: Expected annual inflation, % 1.5 1.5 Return on plan assets, excl. amounts included in interest Remaining life expectancy expense — 1 1 after retirement age, male, years 21.3 21.3 Changed financial Remaining life expectancy ­assumptions –5 — –5 after retirement age, female, years 24.4 24.4 Experience-based assumptions –3 2 –2 SWISS PENSION PLAN 2019 2018 Contributions: Discount rate, % 0.2 — Employer — 6 6 Expected annual inflation, % 0.7 — Settlements — — — Remaining life expectancy Exchange differences 1 –1 — after retirement age, male, years 22.6 — At end of year –227 145 –83 Remaining life expectancy 1. Related to business acquisition of emapamulab, see Note 33. after retirement age, female, years 24.7 — 1 JANUARYPresent value of Fair value of 31 DECEMBER 2018 obligations plan assets Total Demographic assumptions Mortality assumptions for the Swedish plans correspond to the Swedish FinanAt beginning of year –41 33 –9 cial Supervisory Authority’s recommendations, which came into force on 31 Current service cost –2 — –2 December 2007 for the Swedish pension plan, while assumptions for the NorInterest expense –1 — –1 wegian plan are based on the K2013 BE mortality table, and the assumptions for the Swiss plan are based on the BVG2015 mortality table. On the balance-sheet Remeasurements: date, Norway had five active employees and Sweden had no active employees Return on plan assets, excl. and two retired employees. The retirement age is set at 65 years. amounts included in interest expense — 1 1 Distribution by plan assets Changed financial assumptions –1 0 –1 2019 Quoted, % 2018 Quoted, % Experience-based Equity funds1 19 100 12 100 29 assumptions 5 –2 4 Interest-bearing securities 64 100 17 100 Contributions: Properties 19 — 1 — Employer 1 0 1 Other funds 43 — 3 — Settlements — 0 0 Other — — 0 — Exchange differences 0 0 0 Total 145 32 At end of year –39 32 –7 1. The pension and its assets are managed by Procordias Pensionsstiftelse. Some of their selected equity funds, such as AMF Aktiefond Sverige, have shareholdings in Sobi. 88 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes Note 29, cont. Sensitivity analysis 31 Accrued expenses and deferred income 2019 2018 Pension commitments under current GROUP 2019 2018 assumptions 227 39 Provision for vacation pay and Discount rate –0.5% 249 43 bonuses, incl. social security contributions 426 322 Discount rate +0.5% 205 36 Accrued social security contributions 155 139 Inflation +0.5% 235 43 Accrued royalty expense 230 184 Inflation –0.5% 220 39 Accrued manufacturing costs 152 107 Life expectancy after retirement –1 year 221 36 Accrued R&D costs 181 129 Life expectancy after retirement +1 year 231 41 Accrued interest expense 98 4 Accrued consulting and travel costs 72 59 The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in one assumption, with Accrued discounts 650 260 all other assumptions remaining constant. In practice, this is highly unlikely to occur and some of the changes Pharmaceutical tax 108 140 in the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the Accrued costs for audit and Annual Report1 24 3 defined-benefit obligations to significant actuarial assumptions, the same Accrued costs of items sold 36 23 method (present value of the defined-benefit obligation applying the projected Co-Promotion 277 77 unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised on the balance sheet. Other accrued expenses 632 163 Total 3,039 1,610 Other information 1. Accrued audit costs for 2019 includes audit costs related to aquisitions during the year. For the 2020 financial year, contributions to plans for post-employment benefits are expected to be SEK 1,641 K (1,439). The weighted average maturity of PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 the obligation is an estimated 33.5 years. Provision for vacation pay and bonuses, incl. social security contributions 171 182 Accrued social security contributions 94 83 30 Provisions Accrued royalty expense 226 184 Accrued manufacturing costs 152 107 Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Accrued R&D costs 172 99 Accrued interest expense 70 4 Provision at beginning of year 97 98 80 82 Accrued consulting and travel costs 15 29 Endowment insurance1 0 14 — 14 Accrued discounts 83 66 Cash-based incentive Pharmaceutical tax 74 53 programme2 0 –17 0 –17 Accrued costs for audit and Annual Report1 5 1 Commitments, leases 0 0 0 — Accrued costs of items sold 5 4 Restoration reserve3 — 0 0 0 Co-Promotion 277 76 Changes in pension commitments 79 –2 4 — Other accrued expenses 227 81 Other 2 4 0 — Total 1,570 969 Provisions at 31 December 179 97 84 80 1. On the balance-sheet date in 2019, endowment insurance amounted to SEK 47 M. For corresponding assets, see Note 20. 2. The Long-Term Cash-Based Incentive Programme in 2018 referred to programmes expired in 2019 and was therefore reclassified during 2018. See Note 11 for further information. 3. Sobi will restore the rented property Paradiset 14 to an acceptable condition with consideration for the operations conducted by the company, in accordance with the Rental Agreement (IAS 16). At 31 December 2019, the company recognised a provision of SEK 34 M on the balance sheet. 29 Group Parent Company 30 2019 2018 2019 2018 31 Non-current portion 177 96 84 80 Current portion 2 2 — — Total provisions 179 97 84 80 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 89 Notes GROUP Final PPA 32 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Goodwill1 4,391 GROUP 2019 2018 Consideration transferred 8,818 Pledged assets Analysis of cash flows in asqusition Endowment insurance 47 47 Contingent consideration purchase price2 –404 Other pledged assets 1 1 Net cash acquired with the business –444 Total 48 48 Acquisition of business, net of cash 7,969 1. Recognised goodwill is mainly attributable to securing know-how and employees with cuttingedge expertise for future development, and earning potential related to follow-up indications for PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Doptelet. Pledged assets 2. Contingent Value Right (CVR). Endowment insurance 47 47 Emapalumab Other pledged assets 0 0 18 July 2019, Sobi completed the acquisition of emapalumab and related assets Total 47 47 and liabilities. As part of the acquisition of emapalumab, Sobi obtained: • All emapalumab-related assets, including intellectual property (IP), patent PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 rights, data and know-how. Contingent liabilities • All employees involved in the clinical and biopharmaceutical development of emapalumab. Guarantee commitment 24 96 • Options for the shared financial rights of the immuno-oncology product Total 24 96 candidates NI-1701 and NI-1801. • A priority review voucher (PRV) in the FDA’s expedited review programme for Guarantees for 2019 for subsidiaries relate to general guarantees up to a specicompanies investing in orphan drugs, which reduces application fees for fied amount and relate to all types of credit, such as rental guarantees, credit future products and shortens the review period. In September 2019, the PRV cards, etc., that the subsidiary in question may hold. was sold for a total consideration of USD 95 M. TAX AND LEGAL DISPUTES The acquisition consideration amounted to CHF 515 M (SEK 4,911 M), of which Legal disputes CHF 400 M was already committed under the exclusive license agreement for Sobi is involved in a number of disputes, a not-uncommon situation for emapalumab. ­pharmaceutical companies. None of these is currently considered material. GROUP Final PPA Agreed purchase price 4,914 Redemtion of previous commitment1 –3,802 33 Acquisitions Deferred tax 469 Dova Consideration transferred 1,581 Sobi completed the acquisition of Dova 12 November 2019. Following the completion of Sobi’s tender offer to purchase all of the outstanding shares of Assets Dova for USD 27.50 per share plus one non-transferable contingent value right Intangible assets 88 (CVR) entitling Dova’s previous shareholders to an additional USD 1.50 per Tangible assets 19 share, conditional upon the FDA’s approval of Doptelet for the treatment of Inventories 34 chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia (CIT). Through the acquisition, Sobi received access to Dova’s commercial product Doptelet. Dova became an Priority Review Voucher (PRV)2 892 indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Sobi through the aqusition. Cash 3 If Dova had been included in the Group throughout 2019, sales would have Total assets 1,037 increased by SEK 121 M and EBITA decreased by SEK 472 M. Transaction costs of SEK 92 M were paid and are included under administrative expenses in the Liabilities income statement, and are part of operating cash flow on the cash flow stateOther liabilities and provisions –245 ment. Deferred tax –113 GROUP Final PPA Total liabilities –358 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 679 Agreed purchase price 8,414 Contingent Value Right (CVR) 404 Goodwill3 902 32 Consideration transferred 8,818 Consideration transferred 1,581 33 Assets Analysis of cash flows in acquisition Intangible assets 7,555 Net cash acquired with the business –3 Other assets 61 Cash paid 4,914 Cash 444 Acquisition of business, net of cash 4,911 Total assets 8,060 1. Refers to a prior commitment of 400 MCH under the exclusive license agreement for emapalumab and was recognised as a current liability. Other liabilites and provisions –1,687 2. The PRV was sold in September 2019. 3. Recognised goodwill is mainly attributable to securing know-how and employees with cuttingDeferred tax –1,946 edge expertise for future development, and earning potential related to follow-up indications for Total liabilities –3,633 emapalumab. Total identifiable net assets at fair value 4,427 90 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Notes Note 33, cont. Sobi’s costs did not increase after the acquisition of emapalumab and related 35 Related-party transactions assets and liabilities, compared with the periods after the acquisition of the global rights. Apart from what is stated in the Notes on remuneration of senior executives Transaction costs of SEK 18 M were expensed and are included in adminisand intra-group transactions, there have been no related party transactions. trative expenses in profit or loss and are part of operating cash flow on the cash See Note 5 for internal transactions between the Group’s subsidiaries. flow statement. GROUP Dova Emapalumab Total Compilation of acquired assets 36 Proposed appropriation of profit and liabilities Goodwill 4,391 902 5,293 The following funds are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting: Other intangible assets 7,555 88 7,643 SEK 000S Priority Review Voucher (PRV) — 892 892 Share premium reserve 8,904,692 Other assets 61 53 114 Retained earnings 2,546,893 Cash 444 3 447 Profit for the year 1,117,739 Total assets 12,451 1,938 14,389 Total 12,569,324 Other liabilites and provisions –2,091 –3,557 –1,466 Deferred tax –1,946 582 2,528 The Board of Directors proposes no dividend for the 2019 financial year. The Board proposes that the share premium reserve and retained earnings of Total liabilities –4,037 –2,975 1,062 SEK 12,569,324 K be carried forward. Total acquired assets and liabilities 8,414 4,913 3,327 Net cash acquired with the business –444 –3 –447 37 Events after the balance-sheet date Acquisition of business net of cash 7,969 4,911 12,880 A clinical study to evaluate whether anakinra and emapalumab may relieve complications associated with severe COVID-19 disease was initiated. See the Directors’ report for more information relating to COVID-19. 34 The share At year-end, Sobi’s share capital was SEK 165 M, distributed between 299,977,839 shares with a par value of about SEK 0.55. The issue of 24,193,092 shares related to the Synagis acquisition has increased equity by SEK 4,513 M. All shares issued on the balance-sheet date were ordinary shares. Ordinary shares carry one vote per share. The company held 5,678,099 ordinary shares in treasury on the balance-sheet date. The own shares item corresponds to 1.9 per cent of the total number of shares in the company. Earnings per share Earnings per share before dilution is calculated by dividing earnings attributable to Parent Company shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, excluding shares held in treasury. To calculate earnings per share after dilution, the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding is adjusted for the dilutive effect of all potential ordinary shares. 2019 2018 Earnings attributable to Parent Company shareholders (in SEK K) 3,304,479 2,417,795 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (000s) 292,649 269,524 Weighted average numbers of ordinary shares outstanding exclusive the issue regarding the acquisition of Synagis (000s) 269,980 — 33 Undiluted earnings per share (SEK per share) 11.29 8.97 34 Undiluted earnings per share, adjusted (SEK per share) 11.89 8.97 35 Diluted earnings per share (SEK per share) 11.22 8.93 36 Diluted earnings per share, adjusted 37 (SEK per share) 11.81 8.93 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 91 Notes The Board and CEO confirm that the consolidated financial statements have The Director’s Report for the Group and the Parent Company provides a fair been prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards view of the development of the Group and the Parent Company’s operations, (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and results and describes the material risks and uncertainties financial position and results. The Annual Report has been prepared in accordfaced by the Parent Company and the companies in the Group. ance with generally accepted accounting principles and provides a true and fair The income statements and balance sheets will be presented to the view of the Parent Company’s financial position and results. Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2020 for adoption. Stockholm, 25 March 2020 Håkan Björklund David Allsop Annette Clancy Chairman Board member Board member Matthew Gantz Lennart Johansson Helena Saxon Board member Board member Board member Hans GCP Schikan Elisabeth Svanberg Board member Board member Pia Axelson Kristin Strandberg Employee representative Employee representative Guido Oelkers Chief Executive Officer Our auditor’s report was submitted on 25 March 2020 Ernst & Young AB Björn Ohlsson Authorised Public Accountant 92 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 L e tt e r f r o m t h e C h a i r m a n Letter from the Chairman The transformation of Sobi continued during 2019, preparing the company for long-term growth and value creation. By providing a clear governance structure, the Board supports Sobi on its growth journey. Sobi is undergoing a transformation, repayment of debt, strengthening the balSobi made significant progress during 2019 reshaping the company in order to provide ance sheet and allowing for further expanin the area of Sustainability, a key area of long-term growth and value generation. This sion organically and through continued interest for the Board. The implementation transformation is an essential step in achievacquisitions. of the Responsible Sourcing Programme ing the vision of being recognised as a global As Sobi’s governance body, the Board also will allow Sobi to ensure compliance with leader in rare diseases. plays an important role in managing risk. A the highest standards across the value chain, The Board’s role in this transformation certain level of risk is necessary as a company while expanded reporting on key perforincludes providing advice so the company evolves – for example moving into new mance indicators in line with Sobi’s commit­ can pursue opportunities that move it markets, taking on debt, and acquiring comments under the UN Global Compact and towards this vision. During 2019, one of panies or products – and such risks must be the Global Reporting Initiative are improving the most important steps was the decision well managed and balanced. We continue to transparency. to discontinue early-stage research and work with the Executive Committee to assess I am confident that Sobi is well placed for increase focus on late-stage R&D and comand monitor risk, and find the right balance. continued growth during 2020. mercialisation. That move, together with the The composition of the Board is a major acquisition of additional assets that allow the asset in this respect. The majority of Board creation of two strong, balanced therapeutic members have expertise from the medical areas, will power future growth. sector, and this deep and broad knowledge These acquisitions were largely debtis an advantage both in terms of good cor­ financed, but the Board is confident that the porate governance and for identifying and strong operating cash flow will allow the assessing new avenues for value creation. Håkan Björklund Chairman of the Board S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 93 C o r p o r at e G o v e r n a n c e R e p o r t Corporate Governance Report Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) (“Sobi”) The Articles of Association state that the AGM largest shareholder, with 35.9 per cent (39.4) is a Swedish public limited liability company is to be held in Stockholm or Solna. Sobi has of the share capital and 35.9 per cent (39.4) with its registered office in Solna, Sweden. presently not found that the composition of of the votes. The 15 largest shareholders Sobi is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. In addishareholders justifies any special measures accounted jointly for 78.1 per cent (73.3) of tion to the rules under laws or other regulafor shareholders being able to follow the the share capital and 78.1 per cent (73.3) of tions, Sobi applies the Swedish Corporate AGM remotely. Notice of the AGM is pub­ the votes. No shareholders other than InvesGovernance Code (www.bolagsstyrning.se) lished in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar and on tor AB and EdgePoint Investment Group Inc. without any deviations. This report for the the company’s website. When this has been have a direct or indirect shareholding that 2019 financial year is part of Sobi’s Director’s done, an announcement to this effect is represents one-tenth or more of the votes Report and has been audited. published in Svenska Dagbladet. for all shares in the company. Sobi’s Articles of Association do not con1. General meeting 2019 AGM tain any restrictions on how many votes each Sobi’s highest decision-making body is the The AGM was held on 9 May 2019 in Stockshareholder may cast at a general meeting. General Meeting through which shareholders holm. The Meeting was attended by 385 Nor do they contain any specific provisions have the right to make decisions on the comshareholders (264), in person or by proxy, on the appointment and dismissal of Board pany’s affairs. The Annual General Meet­ing representing 64.6 per cent (69.6) of the total members or on amendments to the Articles (AGM) must be held within six months of the number of votes. Lawyer Eva Hägg was of Association. end of the financial year, and Extraordinary elected to chair the meeting. General Meetings (EGM) may be held if the The full minutes and information from Conversion of shares and authorisations for Board of Directors deems it necessary, or at the 2019 AGM are available at www.sobi. the Board of Directors the request of Sobi’s auditors or shareholders com. In order to secure commitments under longholding at least 10 per cent of all shares in term incentive programmes, the AGM on the company. The AGM adopts the income 2020 AGM 9 May 2019 adopted (i) a private placement statement and balance sheet, resolves on The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 13 May of redeemable and convertible C shares, the appropriation of profits and elects Board 2020 at Biomedicum, Solna, Sweden. (ii) authorisation for Sobi’s Board to make members, the Chair and auditors. For more information about the AGM, decisions regarding the repurchase of issued The company does not apply any special see page 120. C shares, and (iii) the transfer of Sobi’s own arrangements with regard to the function of shares to participants in the programme. the general meeting, either on the basis of Shareholders, share capital, the share The AGM also resolved to transfer a provisions in the Articles of Association or, to and voting rights maximum of 85,775 of Sobi’s own shares in the extent they are known to the company, At year-end, Sobi had a total of 25,227 order to cover some expenses, mainly social shareholder agreements. (23,435) shareholders. Investor AB was the security contributions, that may arise due to 2 NOMINATION COMMITTEE 1 GENERAL MEETING 8 AUDITORS 6 3 4 CHAIR SCIENTIFIC OF THE BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE AND THE BOARD 7 PRESIDENT AND CEO 5 COMPENSATION & BENEFITS COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 94 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 C o r p o r at e G o v e r n a n c e R e p o r t the 2016 Incentive Programme. The AGM 2. Nomination Committee experience from marketing and research in also resolved to authorise the Board of DirecThe Nomination Committee represents the pharmaceutical industry, as well as solid tors to make decisions regarding the issue of Sobi’s shareholders and is tasked with prefinancial expertise. The Board is responsible shares and/or convertibles and/or warrants. paring the AGM’s resolutions on election and for the Group’s organisation and manageAt 31 December 2019, Sobi held 5,678,099 remuneration matters. ment. The Board also decides on overall ordinary shares in treasury. In 2019, all previAccording to the instructions and statutes objectives, strategies, the financial structure, ously issued C shares were converted into adopted by the AGM on 9 May 2019, the policies, appointment of the CEO, remuneraordinary shares. For more detailed informaNomination Committee shall consist of tion of the Executive Committee, acquisition about the total number of shares in the four members: the Chair of the Board and tions, divestments and major investments. company, the number of different classes one representative from each of the three The Board produces annual and interim of shares and the votes carried by the comlargest shareholders in terms of votes in the reports and proposes dividends to the AGM. pany’s shares, refer to the section on shares company on the last banking day of August, The Board’s work is based on its charter, the on page 28. based on the shareholder register maintained CEO instructions and the principles for the by Euroclear Sweden AB. The composition division of work between the CEO, Chair of Dividend policy of the Nomination Committee is to be the Board, Board members and committees One of Sobi’s most important business announced at least six months before the established by the Board. The Board Charter objectives is to create long-term shareholder AGM. The Nomination Committee observes and the CEO instructions are revised and value. Sobi’s Board bases its evaluation of the rules on the independence of Board updated once a year. future dividends on several factors, including: members according to the Swedish Corpo• The company’s sustainable earnings trend rate Governance Code. Composition of the Board • The company’s expansion potential and In the period up to the 2020 AGM, the The company’s Board shall comprise a access to capital Nomination Committee has had the followminimum of three and a maximum of twelve • The company’s operational risk, and ing composition: Petra Hedengran (Investor members. The Nomination Committee • The dividend’s impact on liquidity AB), Chair of the Nomination Committee, represents the shareholders and is responLennart Francke (Swedbank Robur Fonder sible for preparing the AGM’s decisions on The Board proposes that no dividend be paid AB), Anders Oscarsson (AMF and AMF Funds) matters related to election and remuneration for 2019. In the short term, the company and Håkan Björklund, Chair of the Board of and, when applicable, procedural matters intends to use accrued profits to finance the Sobi. Prior to the 2020 AGM, the Nomination for the next Nomination Committee. The continued development and expansion of its Committee held three minuted meetings Nomination Committee has applied rule 4.1 operations. with telephone contact between these of the Swedish Corporate Governance Code meetings. As a basis for its work, the Nominaas diversity policy. The objective of the policy Important internal regulations tion Committee has taken note of the Chair’s is that the Board shall have an appropriate • Articles of Association account of the Board’s work. The Nominacomposition with regard to the company’s • Charter of the Board tion Committee has prepared proposals business, stage of development and situation • CEO Instructions for the AGM, including proposals for Board in general, characterised by versatility and • Policy documents, including the Sobi members, the remuneration of Board and breadth in respect of the competence, expeCode of Conduct and Ethics Committee members, an auditor and auditor rience and background of members elected • Charters of the Board’s committees fees, and the Chair of the AGM. by the AGM, and that efforts shall be made to achieve an even gender distribution. As set Important external regulations 3. Board/Chair of the Board out in the Nomination Committee’s moti• Swedish Companies Act Sobi is a biopharmaceutical company with a vated opinion to the 2019 AGM, the Nomina• Swedish and international accounting law focus on marketing, developing and production Committee has taken into account the • Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book ing pharmaceutical products to treat rare importance of a well-functioning Board in • Swedish Corporate Governance Code diseases. The product portfolio contains both terms of diversity, including sex, nationality, marketed products as well as products in professional experience and experience of various development phases. It is therefore sustainability work, with the aim of achieving crucial that Board members have relevant and maintaining an even gender distribution. Nomination Committee prior to the 2020 AGM Votes Votes Name/Representing 31 Dec 2019, % 31 Aug 2019, % Petra Hedengran (Chair of the Nomination Committee) Investor AB 35.9 36.2 Lennart Francke Swedbank Robur Fonder AB 4.7 4.8 Anders Oscarsson AMF & AMF Funds 2.7 2.9 Håkan Björklund Chair of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 0.0 0.0 Total 43.3 43.9 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 95 C o r p o r at e G o v e r n a n c e R e p o r t The current composition of the Board is Chair of the Board meetings or teleconferences are convened the result of the Nomination Committee’s In addition to leading the Board’s work, the as necessary. The Board conducts an inwork prior to the 2019 AGM. The 2019 AGM Chair of the Board’s duties include monitordepth strategic review of operations during adopted the Nomination Committee’s ing the company’s performance and ensurat least one of the Board meetings each year. proposal that, as of the 2019 AGM, the ing that any important matters are addressed In 2020, the Board has planned a total of nine Board would consist of eight AGM-elected if required, in addition to those already on the meetings. members (eight re-elected at the 2019 AGM) agenda. The Chair shall consult with the CEO and two employee representatives appointed on strategic matters, participate in important Board work in 2019 by the trade union organisations (plus two external relationships and represent the In 2019, the Board held a total of 13 meetdeputies for the employee representatives). company in ownership issues. The Chair is ings, of which nine were scheduled and four Three of the eight AGM-elected members also responsible for ensuring that the Board’s extra meetings. Sobi’s CEO and President are women. work is regularly evaluated and that new attends Board meetings, as does Sobi’s For more information about the Board, Board members receive adequate training. General Counsel, who serves as secretary at refer to pages 102–103. the meetings. Other Sobi employees have Independence attended in a reporting capacity. The number Resolutions 2019 AGM The company meets the Swedish Corporate of extra Board meetings was motivated by The following resolutions were adopted by Governance Code’s independence requirediscussions concerning business developthe 2019 AGM: ments in that a majority of the AGM-elected ment projects. The matters addressed are • Re-election of eight Board members Board members are independent of the shown in the illustration below. • Re-election of the Chair company and its management, and at least • Re-election of EY as auditor two of them are independent of major Board fees • Remuneration of the Board shareholders. The table on page 97 shows At the AGM on 9 May 2019, the Board and auditors the independence of Board members on the resolved that for the period until the next • Remuneration guidelines for senior execupublication date of this report. AGM, a fee of SEK 490 K would be paid to tives each of the AGM-elected Board members • Discharge from liability for the Board and Number of meetings except for the Chair, who would be paid a fee CEO for the 2018 financial year The Board shall meet at least four to six times of SEK 1,500 K. The fees for Audit Committee • Instructions and Charter for the Nominaper year, generally in connection with the work would be SEK 160 K to the Chair and tion Committee publication of interim, year-end and annual SEK 100 K to each of the other members. financial statements and the AGM. Additional Fees for the Compensation & Benefits Important events in Board work in 2019 BOARD MEETING BOARD MEETING • Complete the acquisition of Synagis • Adoption of AUDIT COMMITTEE 2020 budget • Final audit report for third quarter 2019 AUDIT COMMITTEE BOARD MEETING • Review of internal control • 2018 year-end report • Discussion around business and impairment testing • Audit report development project • Review of Q4 report for 2018 • Adoption of Q4 report and year-end report for 2018 • Adoption of 2019 STI programme and remuneration guidelines for Sobi’s senior executives BOARD MEETING AUDIT COMMITTEE • Adoption of Q3 BOARD MEETING • Review of Sobi’s financial report for 2019 • Discussion around busipolicies, and statutes and ness development project instructions for the Audit • Adoption of Committee 2018 Annual Report • 2018 Annual Report 2 BOARD MEETINGS AUDIT COMMITTEE • Discussion around • Review of Q3 report business developfor 2019 ment project, Dova AUDIT COMMITTEE BOARD MEETING • Review of Q1 report • Discussion around business for 2019 development project, ­emapalumab • Adoption of Q1 report for 2019 BOARD MEETING • Discussion around business development project BOARD MEETING BOARD MEETING • Adoption of Q2 report • Discussion around business for 2019 development project • AGM AUDIT COMMITTEE 2 BOARD MEETINGS • Review of Q2 report • Acquisition of emapalumab and for 2019 related assets • Strategy meeting 96 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 C o r p o r at e G o v e r n a n c e R e p o r t Committee’s work would be SEK 110 K to 4. Audit Committee remuneration of the company’s employees. the Chair and SEK 60 K to each of the other The Audit Committee’s main task is to Sobi’s Compensation & Benefits Committee members. Fees for Scientific Committee address issues related to the company’s consists of four members who are all indework would be SEK 110 K to the Chair and accounting, auditing and financial reporting, pendent of management: SEK 60 K to each of the other members. In and matters related to internal governance • Håkan Björklund (Chair) 2019, Board fees of SEK 5,955 K were paid, and control. Sobi’s Audit Committee consists • Helena Saxon including remuneration for committee work. of three members, all of whom are inde• David Allsop It was further resolved that for each physical pendent of management: • Matthew Gantz Board meeting, a fee of SEK 10 K would be • Lennart Johansson (Chair) paid to Board members residing in Europe • Hans GCP Schikan Sobi’s Head of HR serves as secretary of the but outside the Nordic region, and USD 3 K • Helena Saxon Committee, but is not a member. The Comto Board members residing outside Europe. pensation & Benefits Committee met seven For more information about the remuneraSobi’s CFO serves as secretary of the Comtimes during the year. At these meetings, the tion of Board members, see Note 11 and the mittee, but is not a member. Sobi’s CEO Committee discussed and monitored annual table below. attended the meetings but is not a formal salary revisions and bonus outcomes for the member. The Committee held six meetings CEO and senior executives, and proposed Evaluation of the Board’s work during the year. Sobi’s auditor attended five guidelines and allotments for the long-term The Board conducts an annual evaluation of the meetings. The matters addressed incentive programme. The Committee of its work. The evaluation covers working are presented in the illustration on page reports regularly to the Board about its work. methods and climate, and the main focus 96. The Committee reports regularly to the The proposed remuneration guidelines for of the Board’s work. This evaluation also Board about its work. The Board members’ the CEO and senior executives will be prefocuses on access to, and the need for, attendance and remuneration for Committee sented at the AGM in May 2020 for approval specific skills on the Board. The evaluation meetings is presented in the table below. by the shareholders. The Board members’ is used as a tool for developing the Board’s attendance and remuneration for Committee work, and serves as input for the Nomination 5. Compensation & Benefits meetings is presented in the table below. For Committee’s work. Every year, the Chair initi­Committee information about salaries and remuneration ates and leads the evaluation of the Board’s The Compensation & Benefits Committee’s of the CEO and senior executives, see Note 11. work. In 2019, the evaluation took the form of task is to recommend guidelines and prinindividual discussions between the Chair and ciples for Sobi’s remuneration programmes. individual Board members. The evaluation This includes a review of and proposals was discussed at a Board meeting. The Chair for the remuneration of senior executives, presented the results of the evaluation for the the long-term incentive programmes, Nomination Committee. pension plans and other issues related to Remuneration, (SEK 000s) Attendance1 Comp­ Comp­ ensation ensation Audit & Benefits Scientific Audit & Benefits Scientific Independence Fees Committee Committee Committee Other4 Total Board Committee Committee Committee David Allsop x 482 — 53 — 50 585 12/13 — 7/7 — Håkan Björklund x 1,442 — 100 — — 1,542 13/13 — 7/7 — Annette Clancy x 482 — — 100 50 632 11/13 — — 4/4 Matthew Gantz x 482 — 53 — 142 677 13/13 — 6/7 — Lennart Johansson 2 482 148 — — — 630 13/13 6/6 — — Helena Saxon 2 482 92 53 — — 627 12/13 6/6 7/7 — Hans GCP Schikan x 482 92 — 53 50 677 12/13 6/6 — 4/4 Elisabeth Svanberg x 482 — — 53 50 585 13/13 — — 4/4 Pia Axelson 3 — — — — — — 7/13 — — — Emily Chamberlain 3 — — — — — — 4/13 — — — Kristin Strandberg 3 — — — — — — 2/13 — — — Bo-Gunnar Rosenbrand 3 — — — — — — 10/13 — — — 1. The figures in the table show the totals for attendance/meetings. In 2019, the Board held a total of 13 meetings, of which nine were scheduled and four extra meetings. In 2019, the Audit Committee held six meetings, the Compensation & Benefits Committee held seven meetings and the Scientific Committee held four meetings. 2. Board member does not qualify as independent in relation to major shareholders. 3. Employee representatives. Emily Chamberlain was appointed ordinary employee representative at the AGM on 9 May 2019. Pia Axelson was appointed deputy employee representative at the same meeting. In October 2019, Pia Axelson and Kristin Strandberg were appointed ordinary members when Emily Chamberlain and Bo-Gunnar Rosenbrand ended their employment. 4. For each physical Board meeting, a fee of SEK 10 K is paid to members who live in Europe but outside the Nordic region, and of USD 3 K to each member who lives outside Europe. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 97 C o r p o r at e G o v e r n a n c e R e p o r t 6. Scientific Committee 7. CEO/Executive Committee 8. Auditors The Scientific Committee’s task is to provide Sobi’s Executive Committee consists of the Sobi’s auditor is the auditing firm Ernst & advice on scientific matters, to evaluate the CEO and managers of the most important Young (EY), with Authorised Public Accountcompany’s R&D strategies and to monitor functions and regions. The Executive Comant Björn Ohlsson as chief auditor. EY was and report to the Board on scientific trends mittee has a broad composition of members elected as Sobi’s auditor until the end of and new fields of R&D. The Scientific Comwith extensive experience in R&D, the marthe 2020 AGM and has been Sobi’s auditor mittee consists of three members who are kets in which Sobi operates and the producsince the 2014 AGM. The external auditors all independent of management: tion and sale of drugs. In addition, members discuss the external audit plan and risk • Annette Clancy (Chair) of the Executive Committee hold the management with the Audit Committee. The • Hans GCP Schikan required competence in accounting, finance, auditor conducts a review of the Q3 interim • Elisabeth Svanberg law and HR. In 2019, the Executive Commitreport and an audit of the annual accounts tee held one meeting every month For more and consolidated financial statements. The Sobi’s CEO and Chief Medical Officer/Head detailed information about the Executive auditor also expresses an opinion on whether of Research & Development attended the Committee, refer to pages 104–105 this Corporate Governance Report has been meetings, but are not formal members. Each year, the Board defines the division of prepared, and whether certain disclosures Chief Medical Officer/Head of Research work between the Board, the Chair and the herein are consistent with the annual & Development served as secretary of the CEO. Operational management is based on accounts and consolidated financial stateCommittee. During the year, the Committee the decision-making procedure adopted by ments. The auditor reports the results of their held four meetings. The following issues the Board, which is reflected in the organisaaudit of the annual accounts and consoliwere discussed at these meetings: tional form and business model that govern dated financial statements and their review • Development of the company’s Sobi and how the company works. of the Corporate Governance Report in the R&D portfolio auditor’s report, with a separate opinion on • The R&D organisation Remuneration of senior executives the Corporate Governance Report, which • Review of individual projects To attract and retain talented and motivated they present to the AGM. In addition, the • Review and follow-up of the employees, Sobi has established long-term auditor presents detailed findings from their organisation’s targets incentive programmes. All employees receive reviews to the Audit Committee three times • Budget fixed and variable pay. The variable compoa year, and to the full Board once a year. • Business development opportunities nent, derived from a system adopted by the For information about remuneration of Board, is based on both company goals and the company’s auditors, see Note 12. The Committee reports regularly to the individual goals. The maximum outcome of Board about its work. the variable component is 100 per cent of Internal control and risk management in The Board members’ attendance and gross annual salary for the CEO, and 60 per relation to financial reporting remuneration for Committee meetings is cent of fixed annual salary for other senior The Board is responsible for internal control presented in the table on page 97. executives. For more information, see in accordance with the Swedish Companies Note 11. Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. The Board presents the most important elements of Sobi’s internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process below. Sobi has had one employee with responsibility for strengthening the Group’s internal control since 2017. The function reports to the CFO and prepares an annual internal control plan, which is approved and monitored by the CFO. Björn Ohlsson Authorised Public Accountant 98 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 C o r p o r at e G o v e r n a n c e R e p o r t COSO framework structure, decision-making channels, powers is to help the company create profitable Sobi’s internal control environment follows and responsibilities that are documented and business opportunities combined with good the established COSO1 framework, compriscommunicated in governing documents. control over risk taking, and to secure and ing the following five components: The guidelines for Sobi’s business activistrengthen stakeholder confidence in Sobi, 1. Control environment ties have been compiled on the company’s thereby supporting the implementation 2. Risk assessment intranet and include the following: of the business strategy adopted by the 3. Control activities • The Group’s mission, vision, strategies, company. The risk management process 4. Information and communication objectives and values contributes with structures and systems 5. Supervision including monitoring and • Sobi’s Code of Conduct and Ethics to proactively identify and manage risks evaluation • Organisational structure and descriptions that could have a negative impact on the of positions company’s ability to achieve its set targets. The description below shows how the five • Administrative processes, guidelines and Material risks identified by Sobi are described components of the COSO model work instructions such as authorities, authorion pages 44–45. together to improve the operations’ ability sation instructions, risk management As part of risk management, annual risk to achieve set targets. policy, purchasing and investment policy, assessments are carried out to determine workplace health and safety policy, and measures for ensuring good control of 1. Control environment accounting and reporting instructions identified risks and, if necessary, to take The control environment constitutes the • Information about the company’s ethics measures to reduce risk. In regard to financial basis of Sobi’s internal control. The control and core values, expertise matters and reporting, the operational units perform risk environment mainly comprises the culture the regulatory environment in which the assessments together with the responsible on which the Board and management base company operates controllers to identify, analyse and ensure their work and communication. It is the control over risks in the accounting and foundation for all other internal governance 2. Risk assessment reporting processes. and control components, bringing order and Effective risk assessment aligns Sobi’s busistructure in the form of manuals, processes ness opportunities and profits with shareand policies. holders’ and other stakeholders’ demands for The basis for internal control over financial stable, long-term value growth and control. reporting consists of a clear organisational The aim of Sobi’s risk management process Sobi’s COSO framework Corporate culture Governing documents Management’s behaviour is Overall framework and important policies are in place and implemented 1 Control environment Evaluation, monitoring and follow-up 1. Identify and analyse risks that 1. I mplement a process for ongoing follow-up 2. E valuation and reporting of identified deviations 5 2 may impede target achievement 2. Identify the risks with a material effect on operations Risk 3. D ecide on measures and the Monitoring ADOPTED OBJECTIVES assessment people responsible Internal Clearly functioning two-way commu­ 4 3 Implement control activities that nication between management and Information and Control reduce, eliminate or monitor material ­operations ­communication activities risks identified. External Correct information to external stakeholders within the prescribed time 1 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 99 C o r p o r at e G o v e r n a n c e R e p o r t 3. Control activities Financial information is presented regularly • Creation of a Partner Code of Conduct The aim of the control activities is to prevent in the form of: • Establishment of a process for incorporatand detect errors and deviations, and to pro• Year-end and interim reports ing the finance functions of acquired pose corrective actions for identified control • Annual report operations efficiently deficiencies. These activities include analyti• Press releases about important news and • Mapping of processes for functions outcal monitoring and comparison of earnings events that could significantly affect the side the finance function performance, reconciliation of accounts, valuation of the company and the share monitoring, reconciliation of Board deciprice Activities in focus for 2020 to further sions, approval and accounting of business • Presentations and telephone conferences strengthen internal control transactions and collaboration agreements, for financial analysts, investors and media • Implementation of a new process for proxy and authorisation instructions, and representatives on the publication date for analysing Sobi’s partners recognition and measurement principles. year-end and interim reports and in con• Implementation of the Partner Code of The controls are carried out manually nection with the release of other important Conduct or are incorporated into the systems used information • Implementation of a new contract man(IFS, Cognos, Business Intelligence etc.). • Meetings with investors and financial agement system Controllers are responsible for maintaining analysts • Continued efforts to map processes for internal control in each area and ensuring • All reports, presentations and press functions outside the finance function that this is developed as necessary. They releases are simultaneously published on • Implementation of control activities for the follow up activities using a variety of control the Group’s website www.sobi.com when management of material risks identified measures, such as forecasting and monitorcommunicated to the market • Local visits by the internal control function ing budgets, analysing earnings and balanceto selected subsidiaries to provide supsheets, reconciliations, trend analyses and 5. Supervision, including monitoring port for the development of their internal market intelligence. The results of this work and evaluation control processes are reported back to the management of Forms of supervision for internal control are each business area, and to management and determined by the Board and the Audit ComInternal audit the Board. mittee. Sobi’s CFO is responsible for ensuring Sobi does not have a separate internal internal control is conducted in accordance audit function, but has chosen to conduct 4. Information and communication with the Board’s decisions. Group-wide monitoring and the annual evaluation of Sobi has internal information and communimonitoring takes place at various levels. compliance with the internal control and risk cation channels aimed at ensuring effective The Board deals with all interim reports management related to financial reporting and accurate information disclosure with and annual report prior to publication, and through the existing organisation. The Board respect to financial reporting. Effective commonitors the review of internal control and the Audit Committee regularly examine munication is important for all the company’s through the Audit Committee. The informathe issue of whether an internal audit funcemployees. Guidelines for financial reporting tion that is published is evaluated on a regular tion should be established. are set out in the communication policy, basis. The company’s external auditor reports which are communicated to employees and their observations and their assessment of Breaches are available on the company’s intranet. the internal control to the Audit Committee. Sobi did not breach any rules or generally Meetings are held within the company accepted market practices of the trading at Executive Committee level, and at the Activities in 2019 that strengthened venue on which its shares are traded. level that each department head considers internal control appropriate. There are also a number of large • Implementation of a new risk-managemeetings which all employees attend. ment process for the Group and an update The Board receives regular financial of the Group’s risk management policy reports on the Group’s position and • Update of the Group’s crisis management ­performance. process, crisis plan and crisis policy Procedures for external information • Local visits by the internal control function disclosure aim to provide the market with relto selected subsidiaries to provide support evant, reliable and correct information about for the development of their internal Sobi’s performance and financial position. control processes Sobi has a communication policy that meets • Development of a process for analysing the requirements for a listed company. Sobi’s partners from an ethical perspective 100 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Auditor’s report Auditor’s report on the corporate governance statement To the general meeting of the shareholders of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556038-9321 Engagement and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the corporate governance statement for the year 2019 on pages 94–100 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Opinions A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2–6 the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Stockholm, March 25 2020 Ernst & Young AB Björn Ohlsson Authorised Public Accountant S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 101 The Board Hans GCP Schikan Kristin Sandberg Håkan Björklund Elisabeth Svanberg Lennart Johansson Born 1958. Born 1989. Born 1956. Born 1961. Born 1955. Board member since 2011. Employee representative Chair. Board member Board member since 2018. Board member since 2010. Member of the Audit CommitBoard member since 2019. since 2016. Member of the Scientific Member of the Audit tee and Scientific Committee. Deputy board member Member of the Compensation ­Committee. ­Committee (Chair). Pharm D, Utrecht University. since December 2018. and Benefits Committee MD and PhD from the UniverMBA from Stockholm School Other assignments: Chair of Deputy representative of (Chair). sity of Gothenburg, Sweden, of ­Economics. the Board of Directors of the council for negotiation and Ph.D. from ­Karolinska I­nstitutet, Associate P ­ rofessor of surgery. Other assignments: Member InteRNA, The Netherlands, and cooperation. Stockholm. Other assignments: Chief of the management team and Complix, Belgium. Member of MSc Biotechnology. Other assignments: Industry Development Officer at Ixaltis Senior Advisor at Patricia the Board of Directors of PharGlobal regulatory affairs mana­Executive at Avista Capital SA in France since 2016. MemIndustries (division of Investor varis, The Netherlands, Vicore ger. Partners. ber of the Board of Directors AB). Chair of the Board of Pharma, Sweden, VectivBio, Previous positions: CEO of of PledPharma AB. Bone­support AB, board memShares: 368 Switzerland as well as of the Nycomed. Extensive internaPrevious positions: Board ber of Vectura Fastigheter AB, Dutch Top Sector Life Sciences tional background in the lifemember of Follicum AB and of HI3G, Atlas Antibodies AB, & Health, The Netherlands. science industry, from both the Swedish American ChamChalmers Ventures and Chair of the Investor Board of R&D and sales and marketing. ber of Commerce New York. Fastighets AB Tingshuset 13. Swanbridge Capital, The Member of the Board of DirecHead of the Established Previous positions: Chair of Netherlands. tors of several international ­Products Group at Janssen the Board of Vectura Fastig­ Previous positions: CEO of life-science companies includPharmaceuticals, Development heter AB, CEO in b-business Prosensa, Director of the ing Alere, Coloplast, Danisco, Leader and Head of Medical partners and E ­ merging TechSupervisory Board of Prosensa, and Lundbeck. Member of the Affairs (Intercon) at Bristol nologies AB. Board member Member of the Board of DirecBoard of Directors for Myers Squibb. Various senior of SAAB AB, IBX Group AB tors of Hansa Medical, Wilson ­Biovitrum 2001–2007. R&D management roles at and Gambro Holding AB. Therapeutics and Asceneuron. Shares: 15,800 Serono International, Shares: 21,200 Various senior management ­Switzerland. positions within former Shares: 1,550 ­Organon and Genzyme. Shares: 4,000 102 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 David Allsop Pia Axelson Annette Clancy Matthew Gantz Helena Saxon Born 1963. Born 1962. Born 1954. Born 1965. Born 1970. Board member since 2018. Employee representative. Board member since 2014. Board member since 2012. Board member since 2011. Member of the Compensation Board member since 2019. Member of the Scientific Member of the Compensation Member of the Audit­ and Benefits Committee. Deputy Board member 2019. Committee (Chair). and Benefits Committee. ­Committee and Compensation BSc Hons Chemistry from Board member 2017. BSc Hons Pharmacology BA Princeton University and and Benefits Committee. Coventry University, UK. ­Deputy board member 2009. from Bath University UK. MBA from Harvard Business MSc from Stockholm School Other assignments: Director Representative of the council Other assignments: Non-­ School. of ­Economics. U-R-NOT Ltd. for negotiation and executive Chair of the Board, Other assignments: CEO of Other assignments: CFO at Previous positions: Head of ­cooperation. Enyo SA. Member of the Board ­OxThera AB. Member of the Investor AB. Board member International in Amicus Medical laboratory scientist. of Directors, Obseva SA. Board for Pennsylvania Life of SEB. ­Therapeutics Ltd. A number Laboratory engineer. ­Investor at Jeito Capital, France. Sciences Association and Previous positions: CFO of of senior positions in Biogen Shares: 7,021 Previous positions: Senior Marine Corps Scholarship ­Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, Vice 1998–2015. ­Advisor, Biopharmaceutical Foundation. President at Investor AB and Shares: 1,314 Team of Frazier Healthcare. Previous positions: Executive financial analyst at Goldman Chair of the Board of Directors, Vice President of BTG Plc, Sachs. Board member of Aleris Genable T ­ herapeutics and Founder and previously CEO and Mölnlycke Health Care. Lysogene SA. Non-Executive of Acureon P ­ harmaceuticals, Shares: 15,500 Board Director, Silence TheraPresident and CEO of Hydra­ peutics plc. and Clavis Pharma. biosciences Inc., VP Europe Head of Trans­action and for Chiron’s Biopharmaceutical ­Alliance Management at Division and General Manager Glaxo­SmithKline. for P ­ athoGenesis Europe. Shares: 3,414 Prior to ­Chiron/PathoGenesis, a variety of US sales and ­marketing roles at Abbott Laboratories Diagnostic Division. Shares: 0 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 103 E x e c u t i v e c o m m i tt e e Executive committee SOFIANE FAHMY ANNE MARIE DE JONGE SCHUERMANS GUIDO OELKERS TORBJÖRN HALLBERG NORBERT OPPITZ Guido Oelkers Sofiane Fahmy Anne Marie de Jonge Schuermans Chief Executive Officer Head of Southern and Western Europe Head of Technical Operations Born 1965 & North Africa Born 1972 Employed since 2017 Born 1972 Employed since 2018 PhD in Strategic Management, ­University of South Employed since 2013 PhD from Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Australia, Master of Economics, South Bank UniverDegree in Marketing, University of Paris XI France, Zurich (ETHZ); MSc. degrees in Agriculture & Natural sity, London, Complementary ­studies in Economics, Degree in Pharmacy University of Poitiers, France Environment from Wageningen Agricultural UniverLondon School of Economics and Political Science. Previous positions: General Manager Sobi France sity in the Netherlands and in Environmental Other assignments: Chair of the Advisory Committee and North Africa, Managerial roles at Pfizer, Com­Management & Technology from the Ecole Polyof Zentiva Group, Industrial Advisor EQT, Member of mercial roles at GSK, Brand Manager Hospital technique Féderale Lausanne (EPFL) in Switzerland. the Board of Directors at Sartorius AG. ­Products Roche. Previous positions: Vice President Global Supply Previous positions: CEO BSN Medical, President Shares: 0 Chain Operations & Strategic Partnerships, Vice & CEO Gambro, EVP Commercial Operations ­President Global Manufacturing, Executive Board Nycomed, CEO Invida, Global Head of Healthcare Member of Biogen International GmbH; more than Torbjörn Hallberg 20 years of experience in the life-sciences industry DKSH, previous managerial roles at Aventis and ­preceding entities, member of the Board of Directors General Counsel and Head of Legal Affairs, Head of from Biogen, Stryker and Novartis. at Meda. Human Resources Shares: 0 Shares: 49,000 Born 1969 Employed since 2018 Norbert Oppitz Master of Laws from ­University of Lund, Sweden. Head of Immunology Previous positions: Vice President, General Counsel, Born 1967 Emerging Markets at Takeda Pharmaceuticals. ­Corporate Counsel, Nycomed Pharma. Corporate Employed since 2017 Counsel, Ferring Pharmaceuticals. Senior Associate/ Dipl. BW (FH)/Business Administrator, FH Rhenania Lawyer, Advokatfirman Lindahl. Palatina/Mainz, Germany Shares: 8,500 Previous positions: Member of the Executive Committee of BSN Medical in charge of Latin America. Member of the Executive Committee of Endo ­Pharmaceuticals, Emerging Markets. Head of Latin America, Takeda/Nycomed as well as country ­management roles at Roche Pharmaceuticals and Aventis Pharma. Shares: 12,000 104 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 E x e c u t i v e c o m m i tt e e AMY POTT HENRIK STENQVIST PHILIP WOOD ARMIN REININGER PAULA TREUTIGER MILAN ZDRAVKOVIC Amy Pott Henrik Stenqvist Philip Wood Head of North America Chief Financial Officer Head of Haematology, Head of North Eastern Born 1976 Born 1967 Europe, Middle East and Russia. Employed since 2019 Employed since 2018 Born 1968 Master of Science, European Policy & Intl Relations, Degree in Finance and Business Administration from Employed since 2012 London School of Economics & BA (Hons), History, the University of Linköping, Sweden. BSc Joint Honours degree in G ­ eology and Physical University of Bristol, UK. Other assignments: Board member of Midsona AB. ­Geo­graphy, Chartered Institute of Marketing Other assignments: Board Member Wave Life Previous positions: CFO Recipharm, CFO Meda, ­certification, UK. ­Sciences. Regional Finance Director AstraZeneca, Finance Previous positions: Head of European Strategic Asset Previous positions: Group Vice President, US Director Astra Export &Trading. Board member of team, Haemophilia, and Business Unit Head ­Franchise Head Internal Medicine & Oncology as MedCap AB ­Haemophilia, UK, Pfizer. well as Head of Commericial Operations at Shire. Shares: 28,000 Shares: 29,014 Vice President, Global Market Access, & Vice ­President, Strategy, Planning & Analytics at Baxalta, Paula Treutiger Milan Zdravkovic Several managerial roles at Baxter Healthcare. Shares: 0 Head of Corporate Communication & Investor Head of Research & Development, ­Relations Chief Medical Officer Born 1967 Born 1970 Armin Reininger Employed since 2019 Employed since 2016 Head of Medical and Scientific Affairs MD, PhD University of Aarhus, Denmark, MSc Degree in Finance and Business Administration, Born 1957 Stockholm University, Sweden. ­Pharmaceutical Medicine, University of Surrey, UK. Employed since 2017 Previous positions: Director Corporate CommunicaOther assignments: Board member of Selma MD, PhD, Ludwig-Maximilians University Munich, tions & Investor Relations Medicover, Corporate ­Diagnostics Aps and Empros Pharma. Germany; certified specialist in Trans­fusion M ­ edicine. Communications, IR and Sustainability Meda, Previous positions: Corporate Vice President, Previous positions: Head of Medical Affairs EMEA ­Portfolio Manager Swedbank, VP Corporate ComNovo Nordisk. 18 years in R&D organisation, Novo Haemophilia, Baxter. Head of Global Medical Affairs munications Gambro, Financial Analyst Carnegie Nordisk, responsible for diabetes, devices, growth Haematology, Baxalta. Head of Medical Affairs EMEA and Alfred Berg. hormone deficiency, obesity and immunology. Haematology, Baxalta/Shire. Senior Physician UniverShares: 2,500 Shares: 8,820 sity Clinic Munich. Harvard Medical School & Mass. General Hospital, ­Boston, MA. The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA. Professor of ­Anatomy at the Ludwig Maximilians-University Munich, Germany. Shares: 0 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 105 Auditor´s report Auditor’s report TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS OF SWEDISH ORPHAN BIOVITRUM AB, CORPORATE IDENTITY NUMBER 556038-9321 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Opinions We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) for the year 2019. The annual accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in on pages 32–92 in this document. accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material Basis for Opinions respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 DecemWe conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards ber 2019 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parAct and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of ent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics the group as of 31 December 2019 and their financial performance for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with International responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administration report is consistent services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders company or its controlled companies within the EU. adopts the statement of comprehensive income and balance sheet for We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and the parent company and the group. appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profesWe have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual sibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion matter is provided in that context. on the accompanying financial statements. Valuation of product and marketing rights and goodwill Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter Per 31 December 2019 the majority of (80 per cent or SEK 36,511 M) the Group’s Our audit was conducted together with our valuation specialists and included (below referred to as the Company) total assets consist of productand marketbut was not limited to the following audit procedures: ing rights as well as goodwill (hereafter referred to as “the assets”). The Company • obtained an understanding of the Company’s process for identifying performs an impairment test of the assets on an annual basis and when events ­indicators of impairment, or changes in conditions indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may • evaluation of methods used by management when performing the fall below the recoverable amount. Testing of impairment for the assets involve ­impairment test including the sensitivity analysis, and a number of significant assumptions and assessments, among other assessing • review of the assessments made by the Company when testing the the value in use through identifying cash generating units, estimating expected ­impairment with our focus on assumptions for which the result of future cash flows including the growth rate and calculating weighted average ­impairment testing is most sensitive to, cost of capital (“WACC”) used to discount future cash flows. The Company’s • we have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report. process for assessing impairment requirements also includes the use of management’s and the board of director’s business plans and forecasts. For additional information refer to the Group’s accounting principles in Note 2, significant assessments and assumptions in Note 4 as well as information about the product and marketing rights and goodwill in Note 17. We focused on this area as the book value of the assets are significant and the impairment test is sensitive to changes in assumptions. Therefore, we considered this a key audit matter in our audit. 106 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Auditor´s report Revenue – Claw back tax and discount adjustments Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter The Group (below referred to as the Company) operates in a number of countries We have in our audit obtained an understanding of the Company’s process to where sales to customers take place under various commercial and governmenidentify and assess the unsettled revenue adjustments. We have also evaluated tal contracts and regulations where pharmaceutical taxes and discounts exist as the Company’s previous accuracy in preparing forecasts and the Company’s conditions for certain products. Net sales are reported after deductions from calculation of liabilities for the revenue adjustment and assessed the reasonapharmaceutical taxes and discounts. Therefore, an estimate of the unsettled revbleness of the assumptions and data that the Company used in its assessment. enue adjustments for pharmaceutical taxes and discounts needs to be made at In certain countries we have also been supported by our internal specialists in year end. our audit. The unsettled revenue adjustments recorded at 31 December 2019 are based We have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report. on the Company’s best assessment of the expected outcome of future settlement of the commitments at year end. The assessment is complex and often requires access to both internal and external market and sales data that may be limited at the time of assessment. Refer to Note 2, 4 and 31 in the annual report for a detailed description of the revenue adjustments and the liabilities reported. Due to the significant amount that the revenue adjustments represent in relation to the Company’s comprehensive income for the period and the complex assessments, revenue adjustments is a key audit matter in our audit. Business combinations and asset deals Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter The Company and the Group (below referred to as the Company) has during Our review has included, among other things, the following audit procedures; 2019 made two business combinations through acquisition of all shares in Dova • Review of significant acquisition agreements including any contingent Pharmaceuticals Inc. and EmaCo SA. As described in Note 2, the Company’s considerations. acquisition values are determined through a purchase price allocation in con• Evaluation of management’s process for preparing purchase price allocations nection with the acquisition. Contingent consideration is included in the acquisiand valuation of acquired assets and liabilities. tions values and is reported at fair value at the time of acquisition. Subsequent • Evaluation of management’s assessments and valuation of identified assets effects of revaluations of contingent consideration are recognised in the stateand liabilities assumed, including contingent considerations. ment of comprehensive income. Acquired identifiable assets and liabilities • Reconciliation of purchase price allocation to accounting records. assumed are initially recognised at fair value at the time of acquisition and the dif• Evaluating, using valuation experts, used valuation methods and manageference between the acquisition value and the fair value of identifiable assets and ment assessments and assumptions. liabilities assumed is recognised as Goodwill. • We have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report. In addition to the business combinations, the Company has made two for the Company large asset deals in the form of the marketing rights and related assets to Synagis in the US and the future marketing rights in Europe for BIVV001. As described in Note 2, asset deals are initially recorded at cost which represents the fair value of the paid purchase price and if applicable contingent considerations. Subsequent effects of revaluations of contingent considerations are recognised against the value of the asset excluding foreign exchange movements and interest expenses. As described in Note 4 and 33, management is required to make assessments and assumptions in order to estimate the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities, especially when identifying and valuing intangible assets and accounting for contingent consideration. In some cases, the contingent consideration is determined on the basis of the financial performance of the acquired business or asset over a predetermined period. The fair value measurement attributable to business combinations and contingent considerations involves, to a large extent management’s judgment based on the company’s own assumptions and therefore constitutes a key audit matter in our audit. Established fair values for the Company’s acquisitions are reported in Note 26, 28 and 33. Important assumptions used in the determination of fair value are described in Note 4, 26, 28 and 33. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 107 Auditor´s report Other Information than the annual accounts • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual and consolidated accounts accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or This document also contains other information than the annual error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 2–31, 93 risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to and 102–105 and 121–124. The Board of Directors and the Managing provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material Director are responsible for this other information. misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional does not cover this other information and we do not express any form omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolito our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropridated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified ate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this proce• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the dure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. materially misstated. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informain preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We tion, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, this regard. as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attenthe preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts tion in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordinadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and ance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual future events or conditions may cause a company and a group to accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material cease to continue as a going concern. misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going manner that achieves fair presentation. concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of financial information of the entities or business activities within the Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the comgroup to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are pany, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company’s financial reporting process. We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of Auditor’s responsibility significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the deficiencies in internal control that we identified. annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurindependence, and to communicate with them all relationships and ance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our indeconducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing pendence, and where applicable, related safeguards. standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considdetermine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of ered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise profesreport unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter. sional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: 108 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Auditor´s report Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions Auditor’s responsibility In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence Directors and the Managing Director of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any memAB (publ) for the year 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the ber of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material company’s profit or loss. respect: We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statucan give rise to liability to the company, or tory administration report and that the members of the Board of • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. the financial year. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations Basis for opinions of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those is in accordance with the Companies Act. standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities secReasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a tion. We are independent of the parent company and the group in guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the these requirements. proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient accordance with the Companies Act. and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and mainResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director tain professional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriaof the administration and the proposed appropriations of the comtions of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this pany’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considAdditional audit procedures performed are based on our professional ering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and that are material for the operations and where deviations and violaposition in general. tions would have particular importance for the company’s situation. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organizaWe examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, tion and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of profit or loss we examined whether the proposal is in accordance assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in with the Companies Act. a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoErnst & Young AB, Box 7850, 103 99 Stockholm with Björn ­Ohlsson ing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and as auditor in charge was appointed auditor of Swedish Orphan instructions and among other matters take measures that are necesBiovitrum AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on the sary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and 9th of May 2019 and has been the company’s auditor since the 8th of handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. May 2014. Stockholm, March 25, 2020 Ernst & Young AB Björn Ohlsson Authorized Public Accountant S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 109 S u s ta i n a b i l i ty ­n o t e s Sustainability Notes Sobi performed a materiality assessment of sustainability issues Environmental performance during the autumn of 2019. For a detailed description of stakeholder The scope of Sobi’s environmental impact reporting is limited to its biological groups and outcomes of the assessment see page 40. The assessmanufacturing operations and headquarters in Sweden, and business travel. ment has defined the scope of Sobi’s sustainability reporting. Reporting for 2019 includes more environmental data than has been available in previous reports. Economic performance During 2019, Sobi acquired emapalumab and a laboratory operation in Total revenue for 2019 was SEK 14,248 M, up 56 per cent year-on-year. The ­Switzerland. In 2020, reporting will include data from all Sobi-owned pro­ Immunology business was strengthened by the business acquisitions of the duction and laboratory operations. US rights for Synagis and of emapalumab. Sobi also expanded into Haema­ Sobi’s Responsible Sourcing Programme will report on management of tology with the business acquisition of Doptelet. The growth of the portfolio environmental impact in the contract manufacturing supply chain as of 2020. directly contributes to our key sustainability commitment – enabling access to treatments to more patients in more markets. E1. GHG Emissions Scope 1 and 2 include data from Sobi’s biological manufacturing operations Direct economic value generated and headquarters in Sweden. Reported Scope 1 emissions have reduced due to fewer cars in the Swedish fleet. Scope 2 emissions have over time reduced due SEK M 2019 2018 to more effective use of energy at the production site in Stockholm as well as lower production volumes. Revenue 14,248 9,139 The reporting base for Scope 3 was expanded in 2019 to include travel covOperating costs 6,430 3,601 ering approximately 80 per cent of Sobi’s operations. Scope 3 has increased in Employee wages & benefits 1,748 1,092 correlation with the increasing size of the organisation as well as a more comPayments to providers of capital 86 12 prehensive data reporting base. Travel emissions originating from Sweden Payments to government1 520 507 remain relatively constant compared with previous years (963 tonnes). Community investments2 23 19 Greenhouse gas emissions (CO2) (tonnes) Calculation is based on the consolidated statement of comprehensive 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 income. 1. Includes corporate income tax (CIT) payments (i.e. no special payroll tax on pensions, Own activities VAT or social security contributions). Does not include other taxes such as pharmaceutical, (direct and indirect) environmental and individual employee’s income tax. 2. Community investments are based on costs for financial ­support to patient organisations. Total 4,326 1,323 1,204 1,334 1,097 The largest recipients are the World Federation of Hemophilia and the European Haemophilia Consortium. Patient organisations receiving support are made public on www.sobi.com. Scope 1Direct­ ­emissions Indirect economic impact Facilities’ energy use 2 — 3 — — Sobi reports on the humanitarian aid donation of haemophilia factor treatFleet vehicles1 98 129 156 167 — ments as a significant indirect economic impact in the stakeholder community Total 100 129 159 167 — and developing countries. Sobi and Sanofi have pledged to donate up to 1 billion IUs of coagulation Scope 2Indirect factor to humanitarian aid between 2015–2025. Of this, 500 million IUs have ­emissions been allocated over five years in support of the World Federation of HemophilDistrict heating 155 213 221 222 236 ia’s (WFH) Humanitarian Aid Program. Sobi’s impact is reported in accordance with the WFH’s progress report for Cooling 0 0 0 0 0 this programme and is the result of Sobi’s and Sanofi’s contribution to the proElectricity 0.02 0.02 — — — gramme. Total 155 213 221 222 236 Number 2019 2018 2017 Scope 3Indirect ­emissions Total MIUs1 delivered 449 362 262 Business travel 4,0702 9813 8303 9453 8613 Total patients treated (cumulative) 17,223 16,885 15,072 Total 4,070 981 830 945 861 Acute bleeds treated 42,881 37,896 40,557 1. Includes fleet vehicles in Sweden. Surgeries 355 461 709 2. Includes business travel data for flight originating in Germany (DACH), Sweden (incl train and taxi), Paediatric patients, % 37 39 39 US, UAE, France, UK, Denmark, Belgium, Russia, Finland, Norway and Poland in falling order of contribution. 1. International units 3. Includes business travel data for flight and taxi originating in Sweden. 110 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 S u s ta i n a b i l i ty ­n o t e s Emission factors used E3.1 Total amount of energy directly consumed The direct energy produced on-site and consumed is generated by an emerAspect Emission factor Source gency generator that is tested each month. 2019 is the first year the generator’s A mix of certified renewable fuel consumption at the production facilities is reported upon. Electricity, Sweden 0.003 g CO2/kWh energy sources Annual environmental report, E3.2 Total amount of energy indirectly consumed Cooling, Sweden 0 g CO2/kWh District heating supplier Energy consumption is regularly followed up in relation to internal perforAnnual environmental report, mance indicators. Heating, Sweden 77.3 g CO2/kWh District heating supplier Energy-saving possibilities are regularly evaluated at the production facilities in Stockholm, Sweden. During 2019, ventilation adjustments were made which Heating values Emission factors and heating led to lower consumption of electricity. Increased use of district cooling is due fossil fuel con­values 2020, Swedish Environsumption in ­ mental Protection Agency to warmer weather over the past two years. facility, Sweden 35.82 GJ/m3 (Naturvårdsverket) E4. Energy intensity Emission factor Emission factors and heating valTotal direct energy usage for in-house manufacturing per output scaling factor. fossil fuel conues 2020, Swedish Environmensumption in ­ tal Protection Agency facility, Sweden 74.26 kg CO2/GJ (Naturvårdsverket) Total direct energy usage (MWh/SEK M) Emission factors provided by 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 flight operators and US EnvironEnergy (MWh) 5,867 6,313 6,480 6,425 5,135 Air travel — mental Protection Agency Revenue manufacturing Individual factors depending on (SEK M) 376 436 559 569 504 Car travel — type of car MWh/SEK M 15.6 14.5 11.6 11.3 10.2 Emission factors provided by Rail travel — different train operators E5. Energy mix Energy consumption by source of origin and the proportion that is renewable E2. Emissions intensity are reported in note E3. Emissions intensity is not considered material to Sobi and is thus not reported on. E3. Energy usage Energy consumption refers to operations in Sweden which includes contract manufacturing, in-house manufacturing and office space. The laboratory facility in Switzerland acquired in 2019 has not yet been included. Energy consumption (facilities’ energy use) (MWh) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Electricity 7,518 7,694 7,852 7,687 7,048 of which renewable 7,518 7,694 7,852 7,687 7,048 District heating 2,550 2,596 2,690 2,713 2,879 of which renewable 2,015 2,051 1,991 2,116 2,130 Fossil fuel (oil)1 0.0072 Cooling 3,059 3,167 2,793 2,745 2,232 Total 13,127 13,457 13,335 13,145 12,159 1. Direct energy Energy consumption MWh 15,000 12,000 9,000 6,000 3,000 0 Electricity District Fossil Cooling Total renewable heating fuel (oil) of which renewable 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Of which renewable S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 111 S u s ta i n a b i l i ty ­n o t e s E6. Water usage E11. Waste Water consumption refers to Sobi’s head office, production and research faciliWaste reporting is based on Sobi’s head office, production and research facilities in Solna and Stockholm, Sweden. Water consumption is regularly followed ties in Solna and Stockholm, Sweden. Waste data does not include waste from up in relation to internal performance indicators. marketing and sales offices outside Sweden. Water in the production facilities is not reclaimed but warm water is recycled As of 2019, reporting of waste includes a breakdown of different waste types from the production of steam to extract heating and cooling. and final treatment. It can be noted that the amount of non-hazardous waste Water consumption increased in 2018 due to a technical issue but has stabihas decreased in recent years as a result of several measures, including digitalilised to a normal level during 2019. sation of deviation management and change of available archive spaces. Water consumption Office and production sites waste (tonnes) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Purchased water 31,776 57,374 45,913 40,491 34,988 Total amount of waste 40 42 72 61 82 Reclaimed water — — — — — Non-hazardous waste Total 31,766 57,374 45,913 40,491 34,988 Recycling 6 Combustion with E7. Environmental operations energy recovery 12.9 The EHS policy emphasises the importance of EHS management and states the Other treatment 0.6 basic overall principles and guidelines for managing Environment, Health and Landfill1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.021 1.6 Safety (EHS) issues within Sobi. To our knowledge, there have been no confirmed incidents resulting in administrative and judicial sanctions for failure to Total 20 24 50 46 69 comply with environmental laws and/or regulations in 2019. Hazardous waste Management of water and energy consumption, chemicals, waste and emissions has high priority in our production and research facilities. More Recycling 12 ­specific and detailed environmental guidance for the facilities is given in Combustion with ­specific standard operating principles and in the environment compliance energy recovery — ­programme, which aims to support control of the environmental impact Other treatment 9.1 of the production. Landfill — In an effort to reduce energy and water consumption by half at the StockTotal 21 18 22 16 13 holm production site a number of initiatives in 2014 reduced energy use by 45 per cent and water use by 60 per cent over a two-year period. The reduc1. A limited amount of Sobi’s waste cannot be recycled and is therefore sent to landfill. The waste tions achieved in 2014 remain to a great extent despite increased production is non-hazardous and consists for example of insulation, bricks, ceramics and tiles. All waste is disposed of and treated by authorised companies. volumes (see Sobi’s Annual Report 2016 and 2017 for details). E8–9. Climate oversight Sobi’s operations are not substantially impacted by climate-related risks. Related partners in the value chain with high impact are monitored within the risk analysis regarding climate-related risk. E10. Climate risk mitigation No investment has been made in climate-related infrastructure, resilience or product development. Water consumption Office and production sites waste m3 Tonnes 60,000 100 50,000 80 40,000 60 30,000 40 20,000 20 10,000 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste 112 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 S u s ta i n a b i l i ty ­n o t e s Social performance S7. Injury rate During 2019, Sobi’s commercial operations were based in Europe, North Total number of accidents includes reports that have not led to a lost workday, ­America, northern Africa and the Middle East with manufacturing and laborabut can include accidents that need medical treatment. Statistics include the tory operations in Sweden and laboratories Switzerland. In terms of number of Swedish operations and some contractors in Sweden. employees, Sobi has grown organically as well as through acquisitions in 2019. Investigating and identifying the cause(s) of an accident, dangerous situation The social data reported below reflects employees with a high level of educaor near miss makes it possible to take action to prevent a similar occurrence in tion, career opportunities and fair and respectful working conditions. In 2020, the future. All employees are required to report EHS-related incidents to their we will continue to monitor employee satisfaction and support organisational employer; this is done through an electronic system. Managers are required to growth and further internationalisation. report serious incidents and significant EHS risks and ensure that regulatory requirements and internal procedures for reporting of incidents are followed. S1. CEO Pay Ratio See note 11 for further details on CEO remuneration. Injury rate Incidents: 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 S2. Gender pay ratio In Sweden, our annual salary survey allows us to carry out a gender equality No. of accidents 26 28 23 22 15 analysis, designed to prevent discrimination and promote equal rights and Lost workday injury (LWI) 0 1 0 0 0 opportunities. We carefully evaluate the results in collaboration with trade unions, and take action when needed. We also map roles and responsibilities Lost time incident rate (LTIR) 0 0.39 0 0 0 proactively to ensure that salaries and development opportunities are provided LWI – Accidents that led to sick leave (in addition to the day of the accident) in an equitable manner. LTIR – Lost time incident rate per million hours worked S3. Employee turnover S8. Global Health & Safety In 2019, the business acquisition and integration of emapalumab, the Synagis Sobi enforces a global environmental health and safety policy. EHS manageUS franchise, and Dova has added 371 new employees. The expanded franment is integrated in overall activities and operational control as an ordinary chises and markets have also increased the need for additional personnel. part of daily work. EHS should be regularly addressed at meetings and any EHS ­During 2019, early-stage research at the Stockholm office was discontinued aspects regarding activities considered. All employees should be included and to increase focus on and investment in late-stage development. participate in day-to-day EHS work. Managers are responsible for addressing any concerns raised. S4. Gender diversity The joint management-worker health and safety committee operates from Every employee is offered equal opportunities regardless of ethnicity, age, the head office and includes representatives from all operations. The commit­gender, religion, sexual orientation or physical ability. tee meets quarterly and reports to the Executive Committee. Gender diversity S9. Child & Forced Labour 2019 2018 2017 Sobi’s statement against child and forced labour is described in the Code of % Female Male Female Male Female Male Conduct and, specifically addressing the supply chain, in the Partner Code of Conduct, both of which are publicly available on www.sobi.com. Board 38 62 38 62 38 62 Executive S10. Human rights ­management 27 73 18 82 22 78 Sobi’s human rights statement is described in the Code of Conduct and, specifAll employees 60 40 59 41 59 41 ically addressing the supply chain, in the Partner Code of Conduct, both of which are publicly available on www.sobi.com. S5. Temporary worker ratio S11. Training and education Typically, Sobi does not have part-time positions. Employees may be granted All Sobi employees have access to the Sobi Learning Management system and voluntary part-time equivalent employment for personal needs such as child are assigned training based on role. The system also lists available business, care. management and product training. Sobi applies a 70:20:10 learning and development model. Training opportunities are offered as part of the role (70), Employees, contract type through interactions with others (20), and formal educational events (10). Other Total A strong connection between Sobi’s corporate goals and individual goals is Employees1 Male Female Sweden Regions 2019 important. All Sobi’s employees receive regular performance and career Employees 532 803 435 900 1,335 develop­ment reviews. Training documentation and performance management is digitalised. 97 per cent completed their performance management process Permanent contract 470 758 418 891 1,309 (PMP) in 2019. Fixed-term contract 7 19 17 9 26 1. Employee numbers are expressed as full-time equivalents (FTE). S6. Non-discrimination Sobi enforces a open and respectful workplace. Sobi’s statement against sexual harassment and non-discrimination is described in the Code of Conduct and outlined in the Discrimination policy and Global EHS Policy. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 113 S u s ta i n a b i l i ty ­n o t e s Governance performance G5. Suppier Code of Conduct In 2020, we will expand the scope of our monitoring to include partners and In 2019, Sobi introduced a Partner Code of Conduct for vendors, ­suppliers and suppliers within the scope of the Responsible Sourcing Programme. partners. The Code is made publicly available on www.sobi.com. The Partner Code of Conduct is being implemented starting January 2020. G1. Board diversity The percentage of suppliers who have formally certified their compliance with The Nomination Committee applies Clause 4.1 of the Rules for Corporate the Code as well as the number of suppliers who have agreed to sustainability ­Governance in Swedish Corporate Governance Code in regard to diversity screening will be reported from 2020 onwards. of the Board. G6. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Board diversity Sobi’s ethical standards are described in the Code of Conduct and, specifically 2019 2018 2017 regarding the supply chain, in the Partner Code of Conduct. Sobi’s anti-corruption policy applies to all employees. Male 5 5 4 95 per cent of Sobi’s workforce has formally certified its compliance with the Female 3 3 2 Code of Conduct. Due to recent integration of acquired companies, this numNationalities 4 4 4 ber does not take into account those employees. To our knowledge, no confirmed incidents of corruption were reported 30–50 years 1 1 1 in 2019. Over 50 years 7 7 5 G7. Data privacy Committee chairs Sobi follows a Data Privacy policy made available through training. Data Privacy Male 2 (3) 2 (3) 2 (3) is also covered in Sobi’s Code of Conduct and is a prioritised area across Sobi. Female 1 (3) 1 (3) 1 (3) Sobi has implemented a data privacy programme in order to promote data privacy compliance, including appointing a Data Protection Officer, ­written policies and procedures, and training and education. G2. Board Independence In 2019, 15 personal data breach incidents were reported and resolved. See Corporate Governance Report. The incidents were identified and handled within the scope of internal reviThe company fulfils the Swedish Corporate Governance Code’s independence sions. No external actions were needed. requirements in that a majority of the Board members elected at the Annual General Meeting are independent of the company and its management, and G8. ESG Reporting at least two of them are independent in relation to the Company’s major Sobi publishes an annual sustainability report in accordance with the Annual ­shareholders. Accounts Act. The report is available on www.sobi.com. Sustainability data is included in Sobi’s regulatory filings. G3. Incentivised Pay Executives are formally incentivised to perform on sustainability in accordance G9. Disclosure practices to Renumeration guidelines in Note 11. Sobi provides sustainability data to GRI Standards: Core option and UN Global Compact Communication on Progress. See GRI Index on pages 117–119. G4. Collective bargaining Reports and links are available on www.sobi.com. All Sobi employees are free to form, join or refrain from joining organisations Sobi focuses on UN Sustainable Development Goals 3: Good health and which represent their interests as employees. All employees are also allowed to well-being, 12: Responsible consumption and production and 17: Partnerships bargain collectively. 48 per cent of Sobi’s employees (Sweden, Austria, France, for the goals. See page 23. Italy, Spain) are covered by collective agreements. Sobi has begun to report progress on the UN SDGs, see pages 117–119. Employees covered by collective bargaining G10. External assurances Region 2019 Sobi’s Sustainability Report has not been subject to external assurance. The Legal sustainability report has been approved by Sobi’s auditors in line with Sweden 100 % requirements in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Europe1 28 % North America2 0 Rest of the world 0 Total 48 % 1. Excluding Sweden 2. US and Canada 114 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 S u s ta i n a b i l i ty ­n o t e s Regulatory approval and availability of Sobi products The regulatory approvals and indications for Sobi’s products vary Sobi commercialises the following proprietary products: Alprolix, depending on geographical region. As well as regulatory approval, Elocta, Doptelet, Synagis, Gamifant, Kineret and Orfadin. Sobi only local agreement must be reached on pricing and reimbursement. has rights to Synagis in the US and it is therefore not included in The table below shows in which countries Sobi has marketing the table. authorisation approval (MAA), including for which indication, as See Glossary on page 123 for definitions of listed indications. well as pricing and/or reimbursement in place (marked with x), thereby showing in which countries Sobi’s products are available through the regular healthcare pathways. Access to Sobi’s products – *new in 2019 Region Alprolix1 Elocta1 Doptelet Kineret Gamifant Orfadin EU and EFTA states Haemophilia B Haemophilia A CLD* RA, CAPS, Still’s MAA submitted HT-1 Austria x x x x Belgium x x x x Bulgaria x x x x Croatia x* x x x Cyprus x Czech Republic x* x x x Denmark x x x x Estonia x* x x Finland x* x x x France x x x x Germany x x x x Greece x x x x Hungary x x x x Iceland x Ireland x x x x Italy x x x x Latvia x Liechtenstein x x x x Lithuania x Luxembourg x x x x Malta Netherlands x x x x Norway x x x x Poland x* x x x Portugal x* x x x Romania x* x x Slovakia x x x x Slovenia x x x x Spain x x x Sweden x x x x UK2 x x x x 1. Sobi has final development and commercialisation rights in Europe, most Middle Eastern markets, North Africa and Russia. 2. Sobi has applied for local regulatory approval of products to secure market authorisation approval after formal exit from the EU. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 115 S u s ta i n a b i l i ty ­n o t e s Regulatory approval and availability of Sobi products, cont. Access to Sobi’s products – *new in 2019 Region Alprolix1 Elocta1 Doptelet Kineret Gamifant Orfadin Europe – other Haemophilia B Haemophilia A RA, CAPS HT-1 Russia x x Switzerland x x x x Turkey Ukraine x North America Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory HT-1 Canada RA, NOMID x x Mexico x US CLD, ITP* RA, NOMID pHLH x x x x Asia HT-1 China Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory Out-licensed Kuwait x x Israel Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory x x Japan Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory x Palestine x* Saudi Arabia x x x* x United Arab Emirates x* x* x* (named-patient use) Africa HT-1 Algeria x Jordan x Tunisia x* x*,3 South America Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory HT-1 Argentina Chile x*,4 Australia Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory RA, CAPS, Still’s x x*,4 1. Sobi has final development and commercialisation rights in Europe, most Middle Eastern markets, North Africa and Russia. 2. Sobi has applied for local regulatory approval of products to secure market authorisation approval after formal exit from the EU. 3. Additional approvals of capsule strength 20 mg. 4. Additional approvals of oral formulation and capsule strength 20 mg. 116 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 GRI i n d e x Global Reporting Initiative Index Sobi’s Sustainability Report 2019 is defined in the GRI Index below. Sobi reports its sustainability performance on an annual basis, as part Its main components are found in the following sections of the of the Annual and Sustainability Report. The indicators below have Annual and Sustainability Report 2019: been selected on the basis of a materiality analysis, which is ­further • Business Model is found on page 10. described on page 40. All page references below refer to pages in • Description of sustainability approach, activities and performance Sobi’s 2019 Annual and Sustainability Report or at www.sobi.com. 2019 are found on pages 22–25, 40–43 and 110–114. Our sustainability report serves as our UN Global Compact Commu• Information on performance is reported in the Sustainability notes nication on Progress report. section, on pages 110–114. For questions regarding the Annual and Sustainability Report, please contact info@sobi.com. This ­sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. It also fulfils the requirements on ­sustainability reporting in the Annual Accounts Act. Page UN Global ­ GRI Standard Disclosure reference Comment Compact Principle GENERAL DISCLOSURES – 102 Organisational Profile 102-1 Name of the organisation 56, 94 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10, 32–35, 56 102-3 Location of headquarters 56, 94 102-4 Location of operations 18–19, 81 102-5 Ownership and legal form 28–29, 56, 94–95 102-6 Markets served 18–19, 32–35, 65 102-7 Scale of the organisation, including total number of employees, 2–3, 5, 30, 32–35 operations, net sales, and capitalisation 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 68 6 102-9 Supply chain 18, 44–45 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation 4, 32 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 40–43 102-12 External initiatives 40–45 102-13 Membership of associations www.sobi.com Strategy and analysis 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6–7, 93 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, 24, 41 10 and norms of behaviour Governance 102-18 Governance structure 41–43, 94–100 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 28, 40 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 114 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 40 3 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 40–41 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 40 Reporting methodology 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statement 56–61 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 40, 50–61 102-47 List of material topics 40, 117 102-48 Restatements of information 42–43, 110–114 102-49 Changes in reporting 40 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 117 GRI i n d e x Page UN Global ­ GRI Standard Disclosure reference Comment Compact Principle 102-50 Reporting period 94 102-51 Date of most recent report April 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle 94, 114 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 43 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 22, 43, 114 102-55 GRI content index 117–119 102-56 External assurance 120 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 41–43 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 103-2 The management approach and its components 41–45 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 110–114 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES – GRI 200: ECONOMIC GRI 200: Economic performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 110 GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 110 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 114 10 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 24, 41, 43, 114 10 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 43, 114 10 GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 41, 43 SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES – GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 110–111 302-3 Energy intensity 111 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 112 GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 112 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 110 7, 8 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 110 7, 8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 110 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 110 GRI 306: Effluents and waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 112 8 GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 42, 112 GRI 306: Supplier environmental assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 114 118 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 GRI i n d e x Page UN Global ­ GRI Standard Disclosure reference Comment Compact Principle SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES– GRI 400: SOCIAL GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 113 6 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 113 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 113 6 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 113 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 6 and career development reviews 42–43, 113 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 113, 114 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 113 6 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 1 ­assessments, and development programs 110 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 114 2 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 40–41 GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling 40–41 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labelling 41 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing ­communications 41 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer ­privacy and losses of customer data 114 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and ­economic area 43 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 119 Auditor’s report Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability statement To the general meeting of the shareholders of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556038-9321 Engagement and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability statement for the year 2019 on pages 22–25, 40–45 and 110–119 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Opinions A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared. Stockholm, 25 March 2020 Ernst & Young AB Björn Ohlsson Authorized Public Accountant 120 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Annual General Meeting 2020 Annual General Meeting 2020 Annual General Meeting Proxy Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) will hold its Annual General Shareholders who intend to be represented by proxy must issue a Meeting on Wednesday, 13 May 2020 at Norra Latin, written and dated power of attorney for the proxy. If the power of Drottninggatan 71B, Stockholm, Sweden. attorney is issued by a legal entity, a certified copy of the registration certificate or equivalent for the legal entity must be attached. The To participate power of attorney is valid for one year from the date of issuance, or Shareholders who wish to participate in the Meeting must be until the date of expiry shown on the power of attorney, but not later recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB than five years. The registration certificate shall state the circumon Thursday, 7 May 2020. Shareholders must notify the company of stances prevailing at the date of the meeting and should not be older their intention to participate no later than Thursday, 7 May 2020 in than one year on the date of the meeting. The original power of one of the ­following ways: attorney and any registration certificate should be sent to the com• On Sobi’s website: www.sobi.com pany by mail at the address indicated below well in advance of the • By phone: +46 (0)8-697 31 91, Monday to Friday 9:00–16:00 meeting. A proxy form is available on the company’s website, • By mail: Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), www.sobi.com, and can also be sent to shareholders upon request. “Annual General Meeting”, SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden Financial calendar 2020 The notification should include the shareholder’s: January–March Interim Report 29 April • Name Annual General Meeting 13 May • Personal/corporate identity January–June Interim Report 16 July • Address and telephone number (daytime) January–September Interim Report 22 October • Number of shares held • Where applicable, information about any The Annual Report can be downloaded in PDF format from representatives/advisors www.sobi.com, as well as previous annual reports, interim reports and press releases. Nominee shares Shareholders who have registered their shares with a bank or another Contact details nominee must, to be entitled to participate in the Annual General Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) Meeting, register their shares in their own name, so that the person SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden concerned is recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear Visiting address: Tomtebodavägen 23A, Solna Sweden AB on Thursday, 7 May 2020. Shareholders wishing to regisPhone: +46 (0)8697 20 00 ter their shares in their own name should inform the nominee in good Email: info@sobi.com time before this date. Such registration may be temporary. Website: www.sobi.com S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 121 Definitions Definitions CER EBITA Constant exchange rate. Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation. Earnings per share EBITA adjusted Profit/loss divided by the average number of shares. EBITA less non-recurring items. EBIT EBITA margin, % Earnings before interest and tax (operating income). EBITA as a percentage of total revenue. Full-time equivalent (FTE) EBITA margin adjusted, % A unit that indicates the number of hours worked by an employee on EBITA adjusted as a percentage of total revenue. a full-time basis, used to make workloads comparable across various contexts. EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. Gross profit Operating revenue less cost of goods sold. EPS, SEK adjusted Profit for the period, adjusted, divided by average number of ordinary Gross margin shares. Gross profit as a percentage of total revenue. EPS after dilution, SEK adjusted Gross to net Profit for the period, adjusted, divided by average number of ordinary Operating revenue less mandatory and contractual price reductions shares after dilution. IFRIC Equity per share International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee. Equity divided by the number of ordinary shares. Equity ratio Alternative performance measures Shareholders’ equity as a proportion of total assets. Financial measures not defined according to IFRS Sobi uses certain financial measures in the interim report that are Net debt (+)/Net cash (-) not defined according to IFRS. The company considers that these Borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. measures provide valuable supplementary information for investors and company management, as they enable an assessment and Organic growth, % CER benchmarking of the company’s reporting. Since not all companies Total revenue adjusted for Synagis and Doptelet measured at CER calculate financial measures in the same way, these are not always compared with previous period. comparable to measures used by other companies. These financial measures should therefore not be regarded as substitutes for Return on capital employed measures defined according to IFRS. The following key ratios are Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT)/­Capital Employed. not defined according to IFRS. Return on equity Capital employed Profit/loss after tax as a percentage of ­average equity. Total assets less non-interest-bearing ­liabilities. Return on total capital Cash flow from operating activities per share Profit/loss after financial items plus financial income as a percentage Cash flow from operating activities divided by the weighted average of average total assets. number of outstanding shares. Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) Cash flow per share Risk-free interest rate plus Beta multiplied with a risk premium. Changes in cash and cash equivalents divided by the weighted The risk-free rate is an average of 10-year ­Treasury bill over the last average number of outstanding shares. five years. Beta is the correlation between Sobis share and stock exchange index. Risk premium is calculated as an average over five Debt-to equity ratio years of the market expectations of growth and return. A flat rate tax Relative proportion of shareholders equity and debt used to finance of 21.4 per cent has been used. the company’s assets. 122 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 G lo s s a r y Glossary Alprolix (eftrenonacog alfa) Elocta (efmoroctocog alfa) A recombinant, EHL clotting factor IX therapy approved in the EU, A recombinant, EHL clotting factor VIII therapy approved in the EU, Iceland, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Norway, Saudi Arabia and Switzerland, Iceland, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Norway, Saudi Arabia and Switzerland as well as in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, the United for the treatment of haemophilia A. It is also approved in Australia, States and other countries, for the treatment of haemophilia B. Brazil, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, the United States and other countries, where it is known as ELOCTATE®. BIVV001 A novel, investigational factor VIII therapy designed to extend pro­ EMA tection from bleeds with prophylaxis dosing of once weekly or longer European Medicines Agency. for people with haemophilia A. Builds on the Fc fusion technology by adding a region of von Willebrand factor and XTEN polypeptides to FDA potentially extend its time in circulation. The US Food and Drug Administration. CAPS Gamifant (emapalumab) Cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes, constitutes a group of An anti-interferon-gamma (IFN)monoclonal antibody (mAb), rare autoinflammatory diseases with an incidence estimated to approved by the FDA and currently under EMA review for the treatbe 1:1,000,000 worldwide. CAPS is characterised by uncontrolled ment of primary haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), a ­overproduction of interleukin-1 (IL-1) which induces a number of life-threatening syndrome of immune activation. inflammatory responses such as fevers, rash, joint pain, headaches, conjunctivitis and many other symptoms. Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) A rare and life-threatening syndrome of extreme immune activation. Chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia (CIT) The primary form (inherited) of the disease mainly occurs in infants A common side effect of chemotherapy that results in a low number and young children and the secondary form (acquired) of the of platelets. disease is acquired from or associated with autoimmune diseases or malignancy. Chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) A rare autoimmune bleeding disorder characterised by a low number Haemophilia of platelets, affecting approximately 60,000 adults in the United A rare, genetic disorder in which the ability of a person’s blood to States. clot is impaired. Haemophilia A occurs in about one in 5,000 male births annually, and haemophilia B occurs in about one in 25,000 Chronic liver disease (CLD) male births annually. Both occur more rarely in females. People Liver disease becomes chronic when it has been present for more with haemophilia experience bleeding episodes that may cause than 6–12 months without signs of resolution. Chronic liver disease pain, limited mobility, irreversible joint damage and life-threatening can be inherited (genetic) or caused by a variety of factors such as haemorrhages. viruses, auto-immunity, obesity and alcohol use. Hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1) Doptelet People with HT-1 have problems breaking down an amino acid called A second generation small-molecule thrombopoietin receptor (TPO) tyrosine. Toxic by-products are formed and accumulate in the body, agonist used in the treatment of thrombocytopenia by increasing which can cause liver, renal and neurological complications. platelet count. IL-1 EHL Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a key mediator of inflammation and driver of Extended half-life, which means that the circulation in the body is autoinflammatory diseases. prolonged. Sobi’s haemophilia treatments, Elocta and Alprolix, are EHL products. ITI – Immune tolerance induction A therapy used when haemophilia patients develop inhibitors to treatment. Factor concentrate is given regularly and at high doses over a period of time until the body is trained to recognise the treatment product without reacting to it. S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 123 G lo s s a r y Kineret (anakinra) Real world evidence A recombinant protein drug that blocks the biological activity of Real world evidence is gained by examining how approved medicines interleukin-1 a and b (IL-1 and IL -1 ) by binding to IL-1 type 1 recepand treatments are working in the healthcare system. Real-world tors (IL-R 1), expressed in a variety of tissues and organs, thereby evidence studies use observational data such as electronic medical blocking the IL-1 signalling. IL-1 is a key mediator of inflammation records, insurance claims information and patient surveys. Real-­ and a significant contributor to autoinflammatory diseases. world analyses can assess how various treatments impact actual patient outcomes. LRTI Lower respiratory tract infections. ReITIrate An open-label, multicentre study designed to investigate the MAH – Marketing authorisation holder immune tolerance induction (ITI) potential of Elocta in patients with The company in whose name the marketing authorisation has been haemophilia A who have developed inhibitors which have failed to granted and who is responsible for all aspects of the product. be resolved with other therapies. MEDI8897 (nirsevimab) RSV A single dose extended half-life anti-RSV F monoclonal antibody Respiratory syncytial virus. A common virus and the most common (mAb) being developed for the prevention of lower respiratory tract cause of lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI) in young children. infections (LRTI) caused by RS-virus in all infants entering their first The RSV season usually occurs from early fall until late spring and RSV season and children with chronic lung disease or congenital peaks during the winter. heart disease entering their first and second RSV season. MEDI8897 is being developed for passive immunisation of a broad infant popuSOBI003 lation, and engineered to have a long half-life so that only one dose A product candidate and a chemically modified variant of a recomwill be needed for the entire RSV season, . binant human sulfamidase, intended as an enzyme-replacement therapy in the lysosomal storage disease MPS IIIA, aimed at reducing Mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) type IIIA (Sanfilippo A syndrome) heparan sulfate storage materials in affected cells. A progressive, life-threatening and rare inherited metabolic disorder affecting children from a young age. Belongs to a group of diseases Still’s disease called lysosomal storage disorders (LSDs). An autoinflammatory disease that affects both children and adults, characterised by persistent high spiking fevers, recurring rashes NOMID and arthritis. Still’s disease is also known as systemic-onset juvenile Neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease, the most severe idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) or adult-onset Still’s disease (AOSD). form of CAPS, also associated with chronic meningitis, hearing loss, craniofacial abnormalities, bone lesions and increased mortality. Synagis (palivizumab) Indicated for the prevention of serious lower respiratory tract Orfadin (nitisinone) infections (LTRI) caused by RS-virus in infants and young children A drug used to treat hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1). It blocks at high risk of RSV disease. RSV is the most prevalent cause of LRTI the breakdown of tyrosine, thereby reducing the amount of toxic among infants and young children. Synagis is a RSV F protein inhibitor tyrosine by-products in the body. Patients must maintain a special monoclonal antibody (mAb) that acts as a prophylaxis against serious diet in combination with Orfadin treatment as tyrosine is not RSV disease. It is the only medicine approved for the prevention of ­adequately broken down. serious RSV disease. Orphan drugs WFH Medicinal products targeting rare, life-threatening diseases or World Federation of Hemophilia, an international not-for-profit dis­orders in very small patient populations. They are called “orphan organisation. drugs” because, under normal market conditions, there is little incentive for the pharmaceutical industry to develop a treatment for XTEN such a small patient population. Revenues would not be expected XTEN is a technique used to extend the half-life of ­proteins. to meet the extremely high costs of bringing such a treatment to market. Governments often provide economic incentives to encourage companies to develop and market medicines for rare diseases. 124 S O B I A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 Forward-looking statements This report includes forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ from those stated. Internal factors such as the successful management of research programmes and intellectual property rights may affect future results. There are also external conditions such as the economic climate, political changes and competing research programmes that may affect Sobi’s results. Sobi, Elocta, Alprolix, Kepivance, Kineret, Orfadin and Gamifant are ­trademarks of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ). All third party trademarks are the property of their respective owners. ©2020 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ). All rights reserved. Production: Sobi in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet. Photos: Martin Botvidsson, Paulina Westerlind, Morten Lasskogen/Kunde & Co, Stock images/Getty, Sobi. Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: Tomtebodavägen 23A, Solna Telephone: +46 8 697 20 00 www.sobi.com Email: info@sobi.com
