CSR Report 2019 Communication on progress Letter to our stakeholders It’s all about power efficiency 3 4 Letter to our stakeholders How we work with CSR 6 CASE: Terra-Gen gains 2% efficiency and offsets 413 ton CO2-e – every year 8 Fortifying the base, while preparing for the next steps 10 CASE: Fjord Line reduces fuel consumption by 2-5% and saves 2,300 ton CO2-e per year 12 Since the foundation of DEIF in 1933, our overall goal has been to develop the company’s long-term value based on business ethics and responsibility towards our employees, business partners and CASE: Battery hybrid solution saves 12-13% on fuel – 3,000 ton CO2-e 13 society as a whole. DEIF is a value-based and motivating place to work 14 Safety first 16 In recent years, the realisation that we need to The SDGs enable us to be part of a global movement Green at heart 18 harness our consumption of valuable natural that directs our efforts towards the areas, where CASE: Triple-win at high school: 70% savings on the energy bill, more education, less CO2 20 resources and curb climate change has added a new DEIF can make the biggest impact with our solutions dimension to our business. As a leading company in and the way we do business. This also includes a Green at home 22 power management, we can play an important role in continued focus on our employee’s safety, well-being Zero tolerance for corruption 23 greening our society; first and foremost by increasing and motivation and care for the communities that we CASE: Enabling reliable, renewable power supply on off-grid islands 24 the energy efficiency of power installations and by are part of. supporting the electrification of our society powered by renewable energy sources. In my mind, there is no doubt that high business ethics and a strong focus on sustainable solutions go To underline our role in this transition, we introduced hand in hand with good business. We look forward to a new company purpose in 2019, stating that we are continuing our exploration of next generation power in business to make the planet greener by offering the management solutions that can pave the way for a world’s best and most reliable control solutions that greener future. can improve the global energy efficiency. While we continue our strong commitment to the UN Global Compact, we are also ready to take the next step in our sustainability work by integrating the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the company’s long-term strategy and in our core business activities. Toke Foss CEO 3 It’s all about power efficiency About the DEIF Group – Purpose, business model and core values Company structure Our business DEIF develops and manufactures green, safe Our purpose is to supply the world’s DEIF A/S and reliable control solutions and products for best and most reliable control solutions. Skive, Denmark decentralised power production – at land, at sea and for wind systems. We make our planet greener by improving global energy efficiency. We focus on providing technology that improves DEIF Inc. DEIF do Brazil energy efficiency for all fuel types and applications. Americas USA Brazil Furthermore, we specialise in control solutions for renewables, notably wind power and advanced Our ambition hybrid systems that integrate different energy forms, The overall goal of DEIF is to develop the company’s DEIF Mexico DEIF Norge including solar and batteries. value in the long term, always based on high ethics Mexico Norway in relation to our employees, business partners and By means of our products and services, DEIF society as a whole. ENEA supports the transition towards greener and more DEIF GmbH DEIF Mediterranea energy efficient solutions for decentralised power/ It is our ambition to be the preferred supplier of Germany France co-generation plants and ships. sustainable power efficiency. At the same time, we want to reduce the company’s footprint and engage Our approach in development of people and communities, where DEIF Middle East DEIF Korea As a company with global activities, we need to we do business. navigate different cultures, practices, ethics and Dubai Rep. of Korea moral standards. We do this by operating as one Asia company with shared values and based on the DEIF DEIF Asia Pacific DEIF India Code of Conduct from our headquarters in Denmark to our sites in Asia, Americas and Europe. Singapore India Since the foundation of the company in 1933, DEIF DEIF Electrical DEIF WPT Shanghai China has been a family-owned, value-based company. We protect this heritage and want to be recognised for China China (Joint venture) our responsibility, honesty and integrity in everything we do. DEIF business areas Land Power Marine & Offshore Wind Power Persp Revenue 567 mDKK. (2019) ec t Founded in 1933 and headquartered in Denmark EBIT 29.5 mDKK (2019) ive it Amb ion Corporate values: Ambition, Respect, Perspective Re t 546 employees 11% of revenue invested in new product development ec sp 4 5 How we work with CSR DEIF Code of Conduct Organisation of the CSR work Since 2016, DEIF has been a member of the UN The Code of Conduct is part of DEIF employment The CSR work at DEIF is governed by the CEO, while All managers are responsible for continuous follow-up Global Compact, and our CSR work is based on the contracts or local Employee Handbook and is a cross-functional CSR Steering Committee advises and improvements within their areas of responsibility ten principles of the Global Compact. introduced to all new hires in the global organisation on ambitions, coordinates activities and follows-up to make sure that the CSR mind-set is embedded through the onboarding programme. on progress. The Steering Committee meets six and kept alive in all parts of the organisation. The mainstay of our CSR activities is the DEIF Code times a year. The Health, Safety, Environment (HSE) of Conduct, which reflects the ten principles of the We expect suppliers and their sub-suppliers and other organisation is heavily involved in the work, and work Global Compact and guides leaders and employees cooperation partners to live up to our principles of groups are set up for specific tasks on ad hoc basis. in daily decisions, actions and behaviour. ethical business practices and to deliver sustainable solutions. We carry out audits of all new suppliers; in Executive Board All employees have been instructed in the Code 2019, four audits/assessments were conducted. of Conduct. We conduct regular training by use of dilemma cases, where teams and individuals can Legal Matters Safety & Environmental Mgmt. practice how to handle difficult situations in topics like corruption, discrimination, safety and environmental issues. Human & Labour Rights CSR Steering Committee Sales & Business Areas Communication & Reporting System Management CSR in Subsidaries Applying the UN Sustainable Development Goals In 2019, we started a process to investigate how we can best integrate the UN SDGs in our core business and long-term strategy. The process involved the following steps: Systematic CSR assessments • SDG Master class: The CSR Steering • SDG Workshop with executive Board: Based Each year, internal assessors conduct an in-depth So far, assessments have been carried out at Committee took part in a master class on the on learning and findings from the master class, review of CSR compliance following the guidelines the headquarters in Denmark and in the biggest SDGs co-developed with the local business the CSR Steering Committee facilitated a set up by the UN in the Global Compact Selfsubsidiaries in China, Singapore, Brazil, and India. academy with a view to educating ourselves as workshop with the Executive Board in order to Assessment Tool. The assessments are used to Next up is South Korea in 2020. well as developing a master class prototype that discuss the application of the SDGs in our core monitor compliance and progress as well as to can be used in other companies. The master business and strategy processes. The workshop identify areas of improvement class comprised 3.5 days of class-room training, included a preliminary value scan exercise to workshops and visits to other companies to identify the most relevant SDGs, where DEIF share best practice. can make the biggest impact. The SDGs will be incorporated in the strategy work and cascaded to the organisation to get everybody on board. 6 7 è Read the full case study CASE Terra-Gen gains 2% efficiency and offsets 413 ton CO2-e – every year A DEIF control retrofit of 20 wind turbines improved Based on the positive results from the first 20 wind turbine performance by 2% and decreased downtime. turbines, Terra-Gen contemplates a retrofit of the For Terra-Gen, the retrofit increased revenue and remaining 50 turbines at the Pacific Crest wind farm. “We strive to run our turbines efficiently – at the lowest reduced operating costs, while the efficiency gains This would mean CO2-e savings of 1100 ton per year. cost. The Pacific Crest Wind Farm is a high wind site, offset the carbon footprint of energy production in and the cost of downtime is critical. So, having reduced California by 413 ton CO2-e every year. Terra-Gen is a leading US-based renewable energy developer that operates over 1.3 GW of wind, solar downtime and increased productivity with 2% in only six Ward Scobee and geothermal facilities. months tells me that we were right to go with DEIF.” Senior Vice President Terra-Gen, LLC. 8 9 Fortifying the base, while preparing for the next steps CSR Management In 2019, the CSR Steering Committee and the Executive Board have prioritised activities to gain in-depth understanding of the UN Sustainable Development Goals and how these can be integrated in our core business and strategic development. Furthermore, we worked to strengthen our activities in two areas identified in the 2018 CSR assessment, i.e. our risk management and anti-corruption training. Major activities and results in 2019 include: • Risk management: Annual review of the risk, • New whistle-blower system: In 2019, we Next steps in 2020 opportunity and impact of our business operations developed and implemented a global whistle• Implement UN SDGs in core business and and activities, based on a review of sound data blower system, enabling all employees long-term strategy: Continue the strategic and a deep understanding of emerging trends. throughout the DEIF Group to report any process and include relevant SDGs in the The overall risk evaluations showed no major suspected criminal act. The system also long-term strategy as well as in core business and/or severe CSR risks related to our business. ensures that appropriate steps are taken in activities of DEIF. Communicate and involve Implementation of risk screening tool for relation to matters reported via the system. employees across DEIF in implementing the projects. In 2019, 559 projects were screened. The implementation of this system included sustainable development goals. DEIF CEO is vice chairman in national Climate guidelines for both managers and employees. • Ensure focus on what is most important in the Partnership for production companies • Anti-corruption: The risk of corruption was CSR work: Carry out a materiality assessment In 2019, the Danish government set up the ambitious again in 2019 mapped for all countries where with internal and external stakeholders in order goal that Denmark would reduce the carbon emissions DEIF is active. DEIF’s subsidiary managers and to ensure that we prioritise areas where DEIF by 70% in 2030. In order to find ways to reach the goal, the sales management at DEIF headquarters can make the biggest difference. the government established 13 climate partnerships with reviewed both the general risk in their area and the CSR performance of DEIF’s worldwide • Review of whistle-blower system: A general the private sector. DEIF CEO Toke Foss was appointed network of over 40 dealers, service partners review of reports made in DEIF’s whistle-blower vice chairman for the Climate Partnership for production and other DEIF partners in their geographic system during 2020 will be made in December companies. area. We also developed and implemented anti2020. corruption training for relevant functions, notably sales and procurement in Denmark. 10 11 è Read the full case study è Read the full case study “We have aimed at reducing the fuel consumption, but it “The crew is happy with the solution. As they become is the first time ever we have reached this level. It is crazy, familiar and gain confidence in the upgraded system, and even though the weather has a large impact, the drop operational savings will improve even more. It has been Kristoffer Morgenstern Alf Magne Simonsen Tech Superintendent in fuel consumption is not solely a result of good weather a pleasure working with DEIF, and we now have a wellProject Manager Fjord Line Eidesvik but also due to the implementation of Blueflow.” functioning solution for a complex installation.” CASE CASE Fjord Line reduces fuel consumption Battery hybrid solution saves by 2-5 % and saves 2,300 ton CO2-e per year 12-13% on fuel – 3,000 ton CO2-e By installing Blueflow, an eco-driving system for Blueflow by DEIF is an aid to the crew on the bridge, To ensure continued compliance with customer After the first months of operation, the hybrid solution ships, the Norwegian ferry line Fjord Line reduces in the engine room and at the head office to ensure contracts, Norwegian shipping company Eidesvik has returned fuel savings of 12-13% corresponding fuel consumption by 2-5% depending on weather, optimum manoeuvring, speed, acceleration and the installed a new battery hybrid solution onboard their to more than 3,000 ton CO2-e every year. current and load conditions. Each ferry in Fjord number of engines used. inspection, maintenance and repair vessel Seven Line’s fleet sails 21 hours per day all year. Fuel Viking. Following the installation of the new power Eidesvik owns and operates ships within the savings of just a few percent therefore amounts to Fjord Line operates four ferries in Scandinavia solution, the existing DEIF Delomatic 4 control business areas Supply, Seismic, Offshore Wind considerable savings on the energy bill and on CO2 transporting 1.4 million passengers, goods and system was upgraded with new hardware/software and Subsea, primarily on the Norwegian continental emissions. trucks annually. and an increased number of controllers. shelf. Eidesvik owns and operates 22 vessels. 12 13 DEIF is a value-based and motivating place to work Human and labour rights We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure that we • Reuse of IT equipment: In Denmark, we collect do not in any way contribute to the violation of these rights.We strive to secure equal rights. Therefore, and sponsor IT equipment for ReDI School, an we commit to group-wide targets and efforts to increase the number of women at all management levels organization that prepares female immigrants and to provide job opportunities for marginalised groups and people with reduced ability to work. We to enter the job market faster. We also provided want to offer a safe and inspiring work environment with opportunities for personal and professional IT equipment to secondary schools and development to all our employees. universities in Malawi through the NGO FAIR. Activities and results in 2019 • Women in leadership: Despite our continued • Involving employees in continuous developNext steps in 2020 focus on increasing the number of women at ment of the workplace: For the last couple of all levels in the organisation, the number of years, we have conducted roundtable meetings • Increase number of women at all management women in management decreased compared to with people from across the organisation to get levels: Prepare new recruitment strategy with a 2018. In 2019, 20% of managers were women feedback and input on how we can improve special focus on employing more women at all levels. compared to 21.9% in 2018. The decrease the workplace. The roundtable meetings Strengthen the branding of DEIF as a workplace, Team building in Singapore was caused by an organisational restructuring are facilitated by top management. In 2019, which is also attractive to women. Establish a mentor at the end of 2018, which also affected about 60 people in Denmark and Germany network within DEIF to encourage more women to female managers. Two out of six members participated in smaller cross-functional groups. choose the leadership path in their career. of the DEIF Executive Board are women. The outcome is a number of actions, which were communicated and kick-started in 2019. • Employee engagement: Communicate and discuss insert poster with actionshrom MGR’s office? Or local results from the employee engagement survey • Creating jobs for marginalised young in all departments in order to improve where needed. people: DEIF actively supports Code of Care Skive, an NGO that seeks to create job opportunities for marginalised young • Employee engagement survey: At regular people. In 2019, we hosted a visit for a group intervals, we carry out employee engagement of young people, established a number of surveys across the whole DEIF Group to monitor traineeships and offered mentor training. Next satisfaction, motivation and loyalty. The last step is to find opportunities for part time jobs in Team building in Korea survey was carried out in 2017, and in 2019 we our accounting department and production. did the groundwork for a new, updated version. The new survey was carried out at the beginning of 2020 with a response rate of 97%. DEIF scores top-in-class on seven out of eight parameters in international employee engagement benchmark 76 84 86 79 80 81 81 [-1] 77 78 [-1] 79 78 [-3] [-2] 76 [-1] 75 71 72 72 [-1] 69 /100 [-2] [-1] [-1] 83 Satisfaction / Motivation index /100 Loyalty index 97% DEIF co-sponsors equipment at local mechanical engineering school. Reputation Executive Immediate Co-operation Working Job content Remuneration Learning & Response rate Board Manager conditions Development DEIF A/S GELx Global Top in Class’ definition: 25% best companies with 300-2.000 employees. 15 Safety first Next steps in 2020 At DEIF, we put our people’s safety first, and we aim for zero work-related accidents. We demand the same from our • Onsite service safety: During the year, special • Towards zero accidents: Continue the systematic suppliers and other cooperation partners. When working on project sites, we work together with our customers effort was put into safety measures for onsite work to prevent work-related accidents by regular to provide a safe work environment that prevent accidents and do not expose our employees to health and safety services, i.e. when our employees perform retrofit safety walks and careful registration of incidents and risks. We provide safety training, instruction and supervision for all colleagues and we only allow people, who or maintenance on remote sites, e.g. wind turbines near-accidents. have been instructed in safety measure to carry out the tasks. All DEIF service engineers are trained to make or ships. We started implementation of RAMS (Risk • On-site safety: Continue the effort to establish on-site health & safety assessments, and it is the duty of every employee to refuse any work that may compromise Assessment & Method Statement), which is applied a common platform for onsite service safety, safety. We carry out annual audits to make sure that we comply with our safety policy at all times. in connection with service jobs. No onsite accidents applicable to all DEIF business units with shared were reported during 2019. DEIF employees tools and reflecting both national and international travelled to onsite service jobs 865 times in 2019 legislation. Activities and results in 2019 with an average time of 5 days spent onsite. The number of service jobs is expected to rise in the • Chemical management: Build up new system for • Work-related accidents: In 2019, we had one coming years, driven by the potential of efficiency chemical management fulfilling the requirements of accident causing absence from work. This is one gains by wind turbine retrofit. new legislation. too many, and our goal remains zero work-related accidents. We recorded 11 near-accidents and continue to encourage our employees to register near-accidents as an effective means to prevent accidents. The rate of sick-leave was 2.9 in 2019, more or less on level with the previous years. 16 17 Green at heart Environment, energy and climate As a leading provider of power management solutions, DEIF plays an important role in fighting global climate New knowledge-sharing blog changes. For decades, DEIF has developed and produced products and solutions that enhance energy • In 2019, DEIF introduced a new free forum efficiency in onshore and offshore applications. We have also encouraged the uptake of renewable energy for knowledge sharing on topics ranging from by providing advanced power management systems for wind, solar and hybrid installations and grids. efficient power management and optimisation of power production to digitalisation. The We call it Green at Heart. The sustainability of the world is our concern and responsibility and a vital part of DEIF’s blog supplements the existing channels for DNA. We do our utmost to make an honest and continuously positive impact targeting a more sustainable world. knowledge-sharing in webinars and whitepapers. Every day, DEIF products and solutions affect the environment positively by reducing the environmental impact of Visit the blog: è www.deif.com/blog our customers. Activities and results in 2019 Examples of clean solutions from DEIF Next steps in 2020 • Clean revenue 2019: Based on the Corporate • Wind turbine controller retrofit: Replacement • Create a robust strategic framework for Knights’ methodology and taxonomy used to of the original control setup with DEIF’s control target setting and reporting on sustainability. classify corporate sustainability performance, retrofit solution, resulting in significant energy The framework will be part of DEIF’s long-term 41% of DEIF’s revenue in 2019 can be ascribed efficiency improvements. strategy, ensuring that we use our resources to to products and services which have a clear make the most significant impact on sustainable • Retrofit of critical power stations: Highly environmental impact. development. energy efficient solutions for hospitals, data centres, industrial process control, • Focus on selling green and clean technology 60 0 telecommunications, and media broadcast • Utilise the unique potential in retrofitting systems ensuring uninterrupted power supplies wind parks to optimise energy production 0 in case of mains failure. and thus save CO2. 50 • ASC solar hybrid controller that interfaces • Leverage the opportunities in Blueflow for to photovoltaic (PV) solar inverters, battery energy optimisation on ships. 0 40 inverters and, e.g. fuel-based generators for • Push solutions for microgrids with seamless off-peak power production. The ASC controller integration of renewable energy sources MDKK 30 0 uses data from sky imager solutions to predict and energy storage. weather and PV production to ensure constant • Continue to support implementation of 0 energy production. battery hybrid solutions, e.g. in marine 20 applications. • Battery hybrid solutions for marine vessels: 0 Clean energy Reducing emissions and climate impact by 10 ensuring seamless integration of battery hybrid solutions in the power management solution. 2016 2017 2018 2019 • Blueflow energy management system, Clean energy which improves the fuel economy of any kind of Green energy Additional clean energy Not categorised vessel. Blueflow assists the crew in optimising navigation, routes and speed while promoting eco-driving to save a minimum of 10% on fuel consumption and reduce emissions. Definitions • Green revenue comes from sustainable power production such as wind and solar energy • Additional clean revenue covers products that optimise power management and reduce fuel consumption • Not categorised refers to revenue from sales of components, where we do not know the final application of the product. We expect a number of these components will be used in clean energy solutions. 18 19 è Read the full case study “DEIF is the brains of this operation. Without DEIF we would have no way to strategically manage the energy and the demand output that’s being created Arash Habibi-Soureh onsite that could be intelligently used by Distributed Energy Resources Managert the school.” Johnson Melloh Solutions CASE Triple-win at high school: 70% savings on the energy bill, more education, less CO2 The Ben Davis High School in Indiana, USA, expects to save 70% on the energy bill with the new solar and DEIF’s Automatic Sustainable Controller (ASC) series natural gas generator hybrid system. The savings The ASC series is designed to support efficient operation allow the school to invest more in school programs of renewable microgrids. The ASC is scalable, flexible and teachers rather than power supply. At the same and modular, supporting off-grid, grid-tied and hybrid time, the 2 MW solar field significantly reduces the solutions. carbon footprint of the school. The ASC interfaces to photovoltaic inverters and weather The DEIF microgrid control solution ensures reliable stations and automatically controls electricity supply in all power supply at all times and loads, switching load situations. seamlessly between the solar field and the natural gas generators. 20 21 Green at home Zero tolerance for corruption Through systematic energy and environmental management, we continuously work to reduce the DEIF has zero tolerance for corruption, bribery, extortion and use of other methods that may create footprint in our own operations, i.e. save on energy and other resources, recycle waste and protect the conflicts of interest related to our business. environment. A significant part of the energy consumption of DEIF takes place at the headquarters and production in Skive, DEIF employees are only allowed to accept minor gifts and attend meetings or events within the scope of normal Denmark. For the last couple of years, the location in Skive has been supplied by a comprehensive green energy business practice. Any decisions, actions or behaviour compromising DEIF’s stance on anti-corruption will have system that includes an Aqua Thermal Energy Storage (ATES) system, a micro CHP plant combined with an consequences for the employee(s) involved. Our contracts are always prepared in accordance with existing laws advanced Energy Optimisation System. Extension of the system with a solar powered absorption heat pump is now and regulation, and we take care to make sure that our contracts with suppliers, consultants and other cooperation being investigated to increase the cooling capacity. partners include sections on anti-corruption. Activities and results in 2019 Activities and results in 2019 • CO2 emissions from energy consumption: • Environmental and energy management: An • Mapping of risk of corruption: The risk of • Anti-corruption e-learning: 94 employees from The carbon footprint of DEIF’s Danish activities external audit from Lloyds concluded that DEIF’s corruption was mapped for all countries where the Sales and Purchase departments at DEIF’s was reduced by 21% compared to the previous Quality and Environmental management system DEIF is active. DEIF’s subsidiary managers and headquarters completed an e-learning course on year. The reduction was achieved by changing the is compliant with ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 the sales management at DEIF headquarters anti-corruption in 2019. energy mix in favour of more electricity, less gas. and ISO 50001:2018, section 6.3 (energy review). reviewed both the general risk in their area and the performance of our worldwide network of • DEIF in India recycles electronic waste more than 40 dealers, service partners and other 0.0 0 0 DEIF partners in their geographic area. 40 • Increasing awareness of special risk 0 .00 30 0 countries: An updated list of “Most corrupt Kg CO2 countries”, i.e. countries with a corruption index 0.0 00 score of ≤40 where DEIF is active, as well as 20 Transparency International’s world map 2018 Next steps in 2020 showing the corruption perception index for each • Global anti-corruption guideline: To emphasise 00 10 0.0 country, were published on DEIF’s Intranet. our commitment to working against corruption in all its forms, we will prepare and implement a anti-corruption 0 guideline applicable to the entire DEIF Group. 2017 2018 2019 • Global implementation of anti-corruption training Next steps in 2020 and e-learning: We want to prevent any employee in • Waste management: In 2019, 59% of waste from • Energy management: Map and prioritise most sales and purchase functions in the global DEIF Group DEIF’s activities in Denmark was reused/recycled, important measure points for CO2 emissions from engaging in corrupt activities. Train-the-trainer up from 53% in 2018. 0.1% of waste was sent to (scope 1/direct emissions and scope 2/indirect workshops on anti-corruption will also be extended landfill, and 0.003% required special treatment. emissions) and implement measures to reduce to the global DEIF Group. Besides, all managers and relevant employees in sales and purchase functions in The remaining waste was incinerated and used emissions. all DEIF subsidiaries will be required to complete an for district heating. • Waste management: Increase amount of e-learning course on anti-corruption in 2020. 2019 recycled waste from 59% to 64%. Investigate Kg. total 58.230 possibilities to prevent waste on incoming goods • Anti-corruption training: Two internal train-thein cooperation with suppliers. trainer workshops on anti-corruption were held Incineration/ at DEIF Headquarters: one for sales managers, heat production and one for all sourcing and purchase managers 40,67% and employees. At subsequent departmental Reuse/ meetings, the sales managers trained their staff. Recycling 59,20% Landfill 0,10% Special treatment 0,03% 22 23 è Read the full case study “When everything is running as it should, you forget that the controllers are there. When something goes wrong, you are thankful that you have all these control Martin Olsen options at your disposal!” Forest Guard on the isle of Livø CASE Enabling reliable, renewable power supply on off-grid islands The off-grid solutions from DEIF help islands become self-sufficient with renewable energy. For islands in Denmark and South Korea, DEIF has supplied control solutions for renewable microgrids based on solar, wind and energy storage systems combined with gensets as back-up. The control solution automatically switches between The off-grid island experiments prove the feasibility of the energy sources to get maximum input and creating consistent power quality and uninterrupted reliable output with minimum CO2 emissions at all power generation in off-grid systems based on times regardless of weather and load conditions. renewables. 24 25 In 2019, the DEIF Social Staff Club invited all employees to give children’s clothes and toys to the local branch of the Danish charity organisation Mødrehjælpen. The organisation supports pregnant women, parents and children. Pictured: Kirsten Wæhrens, Mødrehjælpen (left) and Pia M. Kalms, DEIF (right) DEIF A/S Frisenborgvej 33, 7800 Skive, Denmark Tel. +45 9614 9614 DEIF.com/About/Corporate-Social-Responsibility
