Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind — 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PCH Innovation Hub, San Francisco Welcome — PCH is guided by our values of teamwork, integrity and passion as well and wasteful elements in their product journey. When approached as the principles of transparency and accountability. early, sustainable materials, packaging, adhesives, chemicals, manufacturing partners and supply chain design choices can be made Operating sustainably is key to providing our customers peace of mind without adversely impacting industrial design, speed-to-market, the and has been part of our culture since our company inception. We are customer experience and total cost of materials. Most importantly, best in class and share our best practices with the industry, supplier we help our customers by providing visibility across their global supply partners, customers and sustainability experts. We are open about our chain, which helps them reduce the risk of wasteful overproduction, yearly improvement goals and areas where we want to make progress. while maximizing revenue opportunities. We believe that being transparent builds trust and that adhering to stringent, high standards of operation make us a better company. With our Highway1 companies, who are part of our hardware accelerator located in Shenzhen, we made the decision to implement To develop and deliver the best products in a sustainable way, we new guidelines to accept only companies willing to make sustainability maintain strong and mutually beneficial relationships with our integral to their business. This is our effort to put a focus on customers and suppliers whom we seek to influence positively. We sustainability and to help companies who wish to make this part of also continually educate our own people about the importance of their brand offering. sustainability because our success depends on embedding sustainable practices into every step of the product journey, while demonstrating This report discusses our sustainability activities in 2018. In addition to its benefits to our stakeholders. educating our stakeholders about our best practices, this report helps us measure against our sustainability goals and anticipate challenges We outline for our customers and suppliers sustainable alternatives to our business. and methodologies. With global brands, sustainability is important to their business success and consumer affinity. Our customers look PCH is a privately held company with headquarters in Cork, Ireland, to us to help them improve their sustainability practices based on and Innovation Hubs in San Francisco and Shenzhen, China. our experience. We partner with our customers at key junctures in the product journey – from the initial concept to development, manufacturing, supply chain management and reverse logistics. At the concept phase, we educate our customers about how to reduce harmful Cover: Andrew Windler, Jessica Gilbertson and Vinesh Narayan Bill Hanafin, Jaco Franken, Allan J Russell and Raymond Tan Table of Contents — Our Purpose Operations Supply Network Looking Ahead Message from Liam Casey 5 Our Key Operations 34 Partnering with 54 Our Sustainability Progress 78 Our Suppliers in 2018 Sustainability and Making 7 PCH Operations in 35 a Positive Impact in Shenzhen, China The PCH Supply Network 55 2019 Sustainability Goals 79 the World PCH Operations in 35 Suppliers PCH Transacted 58 Sustainability Focus at PCH 9 San Francisco With in 2018 About This Report PCH in 2018 10 Sustainability Initiatives 36 Our Supplier Audits 59 Our Reporting Guidelines 82 Our Environmental Impact 38 Supplier Facilities Health 60 Information in this Report 82 About PCH and Safety Resource Use 39 Glossary of Terms 83 Our Company Goals 14 Product GRI Index 86 What We Do 14 People Life Cycle Analysis 65 2018 Company Update 15 About Our People 42 Our Policy on 68 The PCH Platform 16 Worker Health and Safety 43 Conflict Minerals Meeting the Demands 26 Career Enhancement 45 Managing Chemicals Safely 69 of Global Markets Opportunities PCH Flo 360 30 Developing and 46 Materiality and Engaging Our People Stakeholder Management Our Customer Base 31 Diversity 48 Materiality Matrix 72 Where We Ship 31 Overtime 49 How We Communicate 73 Grievances 50 With Stakeholders Sustainability Governance 74 Our Purpose — Andrew Windler, Jon-William Murphy, Courtney Cavenaugh and Jeff Mayo OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 2 Message from Sustainability Focus Liam Casey at PCH Sustainability and PCH in 2018 Making a Positive Impact in the World OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 3 “ The global brands we work with largely share our values around transparency, health and safety and environmental responsibility. – Liam Casey OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 4 Message from Liam Casey Chief Executive Officer — PCH focuses on maintaining or exceeding the highest standards in cost items with a lower volume of shipments. This project mix is also visible sustainability. Operating sustainably is not only the right thing to do, it’s in the decreased number of total suppliers we used in 2018 versus 2017. also good for business. We are fortunate that the global brands we work We also saw a concentration in the percentage of markets we serve. This with largely share our values around transparency, health and safety and is reflective of the number of component parts in the products we made environmental responsibility. and the location of the consumers to which we delivered. It is key that we remain agile to respond quickly and efficiently to our customers and We are honored to be recognized as a leader in our industry. We are deeply market opportunities. committed to sustainability at all levels of our organization, which spans product development (including material selection, packaging and sourcing PCH reduced the total square footage of our operations to achieve and auditing suppliers), supply chain services (including reducing wasteful efficiencies. For this reason, we achieved water and energy savings as well over-production) and logistics. Over the past year we have continued to as savings in business resources. reduce our environmental footprint, while protecting the health and safety of our direct employees and those who work for our supplier partners. In 2018, our Highway1 program continued to be reimagined. We plan to give priority in the future to startups that embrace sustainability as part of In 2018, we saw a variety of changes in our organization as a result of their core brand, operations and business model. Although our large and continued consolidation of our facilities, refinement in our operations and established brand customers embrace sustainability, our role is to suggest teams and new customers each with a different project mix. From 2017 and encourage the best sustainability solutions. We see an opportunity to 2018 we decreased the total number of employees (from 516 to 428) within our Highway1 program to help them fully embrace sustainability and total number of engineers (from 125 to 82). Our employee teams, as a key component of their market differentiation and to build consumer locations, configuration and size continues to evolve to reflect the nature loyalty through this differentiation. We expect to have an update on this of our customer projects. New projects can vary in location, volume, program and its focus in 2019. complexity and type of work performed. For example, some projects are more engineering focused, while others require our manufacturing As we expand into new geographic regions, we will manage risk carefully management expertise, intelligent supply chain services, postponement and add to our processes to ensure that sustainability remains at the and fulfillment and after-sales services. Our workforce numbers and teams core of our operations. We will continue to invest in sustainability to will continue to change as we bring on new customers and see new market remain leaders, see step-change improvements and deliver meaningful opportunities with different work requirements. new impact. While the size of our employee base was smaller in 2018 versus 2017, we We are honored to share our best practices with our community and to increased the total number of units shipped. Our volumes change based learn from our partners. on the types of products we ship. For example, some years we ship higher volume units that are lower cost items. Other years, we may ship higher Liam OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 5 XiaoZhong Chen, Carols Li, LynnZeng and GuiDong Wu 2018 Trends Across Our Business Industry Trends > Fast-paced new product introductions (shorter time from > Dilution of consumer brand power as a result of powerful product concept to consumer delivery) e-commerce platforms > Growth in IoT devices by sectors in ‘non-tech’ industries such > Commoditization of manufacturing services as beauty, software and fashion > Venture capital investment in “last-mile” delivery solutions > Increased demand for high mix/low volume manufacturing > Growth of hardware development opportunities in the UK and solutions European Union > Increased demand for supply chain predictability, agility, > UK political uncertainty and supply chain disruption caused by Brexit velocity and sustainability > Investment in technology to keep up with rapid technology > Consumer awareness of sustainability as a key element in disruption brand loyalty > Supply chain complexity and disruption caused by China/US trade > Complex IoT devices requiring integrated, end-to-end new uncertainty product solutions > US shift towards isolationism > Demand for customization and personalization of off-the-shelf products > Opportunity for increased product innovation spend as a result of US corporate tax rate (21 percent flat tax rate and lowered tax on > Mix of go-to-market channel solutions requiring agile supply repatriated foreign earnings) chain solutions OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 6 Sustainability and Making a Positive Impact in the World — We aspire to be a strong and positive force in how products (e.g., Our Responsibility consumer packaged goods and consumer electronics) are produced today while minimizing wasteful practices that result in excess production. We recognize the enormous environmental and societal Where we and our suppliers have the greatest footprint pressures facing us all today. As leaders, we seek to exceed industry We are responsible for helping our customers and suppliers make standards when it comes to corporate social responsibility, health new products in the most environmentally and socially responsible and safety, supplier qualification and audits and protecting the manner. There are a variety of decisions our clients make that we environment. We set yearly economic, environmental and social impact influence by discussing sustainability early in the product development improvement goals and share our progress openly. process when it is most cost effective to make changes. These decisions can involve: material selection, eco-friendly packaging, We concentrate many of our sustainability programs in China, where chemical management and replacement of harmful chemicals, LEAN we have the greatest number of employees and our environmental manufacturing and inventory management (to reduce overproduction footprint is the greatest. We focus our programs on our employees who and waste) and product life cycle management. work directly for PCH and those who work for our supplier partners. Our Focus We integrate sustainability into our business operations because it is We are responsible for helping our the right way to do business, and it results in both positive shortand customers make new products in long-term performance. We focus on three main operational categories: the most environmentally and 1. People socially responsible manner. 2. Supplier Partners 3. Products OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 7 Reynaldo Consunji OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 8 Sustainability Focus at PCH — People Supply Network Products Our highest priority is looking after those Our purpose is developing partnerships We take products from concept to who work for PCH, both directly and to deliver peace of mind; collaborating consumer, balancing cost, quality indirectly. Our people are key to our success. with our supply network partners is key and sustainability at every step. to delivering on this promise. FOCUS AREAS FOCUS AREAS FOCUS AREAS Employee development Chemical and safety management Chemicals and engagement Energy management Materials Diversity Supplier qualification Manufacturing processes Health and safety and development Sustainable product Waste minimization and packaging design End of life OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 9 PCH in 2018 — GLOBAL WORKFORCE (at Dec. 31, 2018) SIZE OF OPERATIONS ft2 428 332,304 sq ft PERCENTAGE OF WORKFORCE IN CHINA ENGINEERS GLOBALLY SUPPLIERS TRANSACTED WITH GLOBALLY 82% 82 151 OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 10 SUPPLIERS IN OUR NETWORK 1,000+ UNITS SHIPPED 5.41M Our shipments are up 267% over last year Louise Huang and Mike Li OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 11 About PCH — LuTong Yang and Francois Papendorf OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 12 PCH is at the forefront of new product introductions for the next generation of consumers. We continually stay ahead of global manufacturing, technology and business trends. We provide speed-tomarket, eco-friendly solutions, unique customer experiences and supply chain services. We help our partners deliver brand intimacy, which is key to brand affinity. Our customers value our open, collaborative and can-do culture. We seek to understand thoroughly our customers’ business goals and requirements, and to align ourselves with them to maximize results. Our customers come to us seeking to bring innovative products to market (products that have never been realized before), because we are uniquely experienced in developing specialized solutions. Additionally, many of our customers are new to hardware (beauty, software, health and wellness, home, etc.) and trust PCH to bring their products to market efficiently, sustainably and with exceptional supply chain velocity and end-to-end intelligence and visibility. Our Company Meeting the Goals Demands of Global Markets What We Do PCH Flo 360 2018 Company Update Our Customer Base The PCH Platform Where We Ship OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 13 Our Company Goals What We Do — — 1. Be a world-class leader in product development, For more than two decades, PCH has worked with the world’s best new product introduction, post-production and supply brands and innovative startups to create and deliver breakthrough chain orchestration for the world’s best brands consumer products. Our expertise spans the entire product journey and startups from product concept to the out-of-the-box consumer experience. We power an end-to-end, intelligent product development and supply chain 2. Align with our customers’ goals and requirements, and service that enable our customers to bring new products to market provide superior service and deliver ‘peace of mind’ quickly, efficiently and with supply chain velocity, sustainability and 3. Stay results-focused while retaining our can-do, consumer engagement. high-integrity and collaborative culture 4. Remain a special, progressive and rewarding place to work 5. Increase diversity within our employee base 6. Operate profitably and sustainably “ To be effective, we integrate sustainability practices at all levels of our organization and make it part of our DNA.” – Alan Cuddihy, vice president, sustainability OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 14 2018 Company Update — In 2018, PCH continued to expand our customer portfolio, adding and sustainable. In manufacturing, post-production and assembly, we additional brands to our client roster. Our customers are some of the help our customers manage their supply chain to reduce waste while best-known and fastest-growing brands in the world. They choose PCH delivering a great customer experience. We provide our brand partners because of our rigorous and efficient product development services, real-time visibility and insight into their supply chain – how much they and our intelligent, end-to-end supply chain service that manage have on hand, and where it is at any given time, as well as a variety of products from manufacturing to consumer delivery. Our customers other metrics key to optimizing their business. value PCH’s 23 years of experience and expertise, as well as our These critical phases – preand post-production – can often pose customer-focused, collaborative, high-integrity culture that aligns our the most risk to brands and startups in the form of missed deliveries, objectives with their business needs. product recalls and over-production. These problems adversely impact We are pleased with our unique “asset-light” business model, which financials and lead to waste. continues to differentiate PCH in our industry. We have invested in PCH has stayed ahead of technology, manufacturing and retail trends elements of the product life cycle – preand post-production – that by working closely with innovative startups, global brand leaders and drive value back to our brand partners. For example, instead of owning world-class industrial design studios. Our customers are passionate vast amounts of manufacturing supply (factories around the world), about their design, their brand and the consumer experience. As PCH has a trusted network of over 1,000 suppliers that we engage, more consumer brands operate direct-to-consumer channels, they oversee and manage based on customer needs and demands. increasingly see PCH as the best partner – most aligned with their PCH invests in our highly differentiated pre-production services business objectives. We help them navigate the many complexities (product development, packaging design, material selection and of bringing products to market sustainably, transparently and with strategic sourcing, production planning and production validation) and high customer engagement. Today’s consumers require brands to be post-production services (manufacturing management, supply chain responsive and engaged. This requires an agile, responsive, transparent services, final assembly, personalization, pack out, postponement, and sustainable supply chain. PCH supports brands that are creating fulfillment and delivery B2B and B2C). In the pre-production phase, limited edition and one-of-a-kind products at scale, and we deliver we help companies develop products rapidly and sustainably to finished products world-wide direct to consumers from our facilities in meet their customer needs. We ensure the products are engineered Shenzhen. In many cases, we deliver within two days of receiving an for manufacturing, identifying the most sustainable materials and order. PCH is well positioned for the future both in our supply chain methods so that the production cycle is efficient, of high-quality architecture and our emphasis on sustainability. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 15 The PCH Platform — I n te l l i g e n c e ainability Su s t Product Manufacturing Development Management Explore/Architect/Engineer Strategic Sourcing, Planning, Proof of Concept, Quality Control, Qualified Prototyping, Supplier Management, DFM Certification, Tooling, Program Management, Testing, Packaging, NPI Account Management Postponement, Inspection, Customization, Personalization, Pack out, Fulfillment, Vendor Managed Inventory, Logistics B2B/B2C Fulfillment, After Sales (RMA), Logistics OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 16 Greg Verissimo, Jason Willis, Jonathan Downing and Benjamin White OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 17 The PCH Platform: Intelligent, Delivering Tangible Benefits End-to-End Product Development to Our Customers and Supply Chain Services Platform There has never been a better time for PCH’s intelligent end-to-end product development and supply chain services platform. Rather Our product development and supply chain services platform than focus vertically on one element of the product journey, is unique in the industry, delivering products seamlessly from PCH has optimized our services horizontally – end-to-end – from concept to consumer for companies that are passionate about rapid product development, to strategic sourcing and managing design, brand and the consumer experience. PCH creates manufacturing suppliers, to fulfilling product orders based on premium products on demand – both at scale and in small demand. We eliminate silos that are inefficient. Our model batches – and provides a fully transparent supply chain platform provides tangible benefits, allowing customers to: 1) get products that reduces unnecessary inventory. We enable real-time data to market faster, more efficiently and cost effectively; 2) increase and tracking, which allows our customers to optimize their their supply chain velocity, agility and efficiency; 3) manage their business and reduce the capital risks associated with hardware. brand narrative with key offerings such as direct-to-consumer and PCH is distinguished in the marketplace by fully embracing personalized products; 4) have greater visibility and predictability sustainability. We have candid conversations with our customers when it comes to their supply chain operations; and 5) operate and suppliers, and the options we bring forward are appreciated more sustainably. and generally implemented by our customers. We partner with tried and trusted suppliers to achieve the best results and provide our customers with ‘peace of mind.’ Because we work with our customers and industrial design studios at the earliest stage of product development (concept phase), PCH can help identify sustainable solutions early. The optimal time to bring suggestions forward is at the beginning of product development when we can optimize the supply chain with the least impact to the industrial design intent, speed-to-market and overall cost structure. Our engineers design for manufacturing (DFM) and select vetted suppliers for component parts as well as final assembly production. We look for the best, most sustainable solutions at every phase of the product journey. Brian Younkin OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 18 Phase I: Product Development meets our customers’ design, cost and user experience criteria. We also discuss sustainability opportunities such as material selection and efficient In the product development phase, we define, explore, architect, eco-friendly packaging. Changes can be made most cost-effectively at this integrate, prototype and source the product, getting it manufacturing stage of product development. ready. We identify and estimate the cost of materials to bring the product in line with our customers’ business model. At the architect stage our goal is to conceive a completely feasible product solution with considerations for every feature and to optimize We follow a rigorous product development process that increases speedfor eco-friendly solutions. We begin work streams to address high-risk to-market and reduces risk. Our team includes 82 engineers spanning elements and build numerous consecutive integrated prototypes, or a wide range of disciplines, including mechanical, system architecture “builds,” to evaluate solutions in the lab. Our goal is to demonstrate that (electrical, firmware and software), manufacturing integration and the design meets all the product performance specifications. We test and packaging engineers. We also have system integrators and program collect data to drive the best decision-making to move forward. We build managers on staff, among other experts in bringing products to market. fully featured and operable prototypes (that include electrical, mechanical and firmware solutions) and test these both in the lab and with users. At the define stage we review with our client the project objectives, value proposition and use case, and we create a development strategy, resource At this time we detail all components, sub-assemblies and assembly steps plan and statement of work (SOW). We identify high-risk product features required for production. We deliver the preliminary estimate of an initial and hard constraints that could impact industrial design, functionality, Bill of Materials (BOM) and the Cost of Goods Sold (COGS) assessment. speed-to-market and cost. We source suitable suppliers, tooling requirements and configure the At the explore phase we examine the competitive landscape and marketsupply chain before moving to the manufacturing phase. The final leading products to identify the most efficient approach to development. assembly process is refined over successive builds (EVT-PVT) to optimize We evaluate alternative solutions with our clients and present our for cost, quality and yield in the final saleable product. Minor design recommended development approach. We explore high-risk product adjustments are made as reliability testing and failure analyses reveal features and develop prototypes to demonstrate the product performance opportunities for improvement. and associated cost drivers. At this time, we assess the minimal mechanical envelope rationale, create mock-ups and deliver the initial Product Requirement Definition (PRD). This exploration results in a clear understanding of what it takes to develop a fully integrated product that OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 19 “ Having engineering and operational teams on the ground in China allows us to solve problems quickly and efficiently. We are representing “ PCH reduces the risks associated with manufacturing and excess inventory. Our development rigor, experienced strategic sourcing and hands-on our customers every step of the management ensures an efficient way, we understand where the transition from development risks are and how to mitigate to manufacturing. At the same them. This is not just from time, our real-time proprietary a sustainability perspective, software dashboard enables but across the product our customers to optimize their development, manufacturing business every step of the way.” and logistics life cycle” – Sean O Herlihy, director program management – Robert Andris, vice president, customer success and global supply chain solutions OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 20 Phase II: Manufacturing Management During the DVT phase, the production line design is close to final production. We test and finalize fixture and assembly procedures. PCH refines the manufacturing process to optimize for cost The working instructions and quality control plans are finalized. improvements, quality requirements, reliability, volume and scalability. We confirm capacity, cycle time and line yield, and conduct necessary In PVT, we establish review processes for factories, suppliers and certifications (e.g., FCC and CE). We make final adjustments and distribution. We integrate packaging and labels and manage and optimize implement necessary quality control checkpoints. the supply chain. In addition, PCH secures all regulatory certifications. As we manage all stages from development to manufacturing, we Our capabilities include: supplier technical analysis, regulatory and follow a process that includes Engineering Validation and Testing compliance management, design for manufacturing (DFM), tooling, (EVT), Design Validation and Testing (DVT) and Production industrial engineering, strategic sourcing, procurement, capacity Validation and Testing (PVT). Each phase addresses manageable steps management, material utilization, supply chain management, quality to ensure a smooth transfer from engineering to manufacturing, and control, planning, continuous improvement and end-of-life planning. that the product is delivered as design engineered. Capital investment is required at the manufacturing stage to pay for EVT is the first pilot run, or the production design performed in a custom tooling, procure components and develop the manufacturing prototype assembly by the operators, engineers and technicians assembly line. PCH reduces the associated risks to our customers assigned to the project. because of the rigor we provide at all stages of the product journey. PCH Innovation Hub, San Francisco OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 21 Phase III: Postponement, Fulfillment, a hardware product destined for France will have appropriate branding, a unique power adapter and instructions in French. Our pack out Logistics system is capable of assembling orders on demand and customizing these orders for different geographies. Packing out only based on PCH operates its own postponement, fulfillment and logistics specific orders reduces the potential of inventory risk, waste and excess operation. We ship products for B2B and B2C and deliver worldwide warehousing costs. to over 150 countries. Fulfillment is the process of managing orders and the supply chain that PCH offers postponement services that allow products to be modified supports them. Fulfillment occurs when we receive a specific order and just prior to shipment to the consumer. The product components are pack out products for this shipment. Products and their accessories are held at the PCH facilities and assembled, packed out, customized (for kept at PCH’s facilities until orders are received via our online order and specific regions) and/or personalized with high-quality monogramming, tracking system. Once the order is received, PCH customizes the order etching and printing on demand. This enables our customers to (pack out) and ships direct from our facilities. design built-to-order experiences for their consumers. Additionally, customizing and personalizing only when an order is received reduces the risks associated with excess inventory. Postponement optimizes our customers’ supply chain by keeping the product at PCH until demand Today’s consumers demand affordable and quick results in a shipment being created, customized, personalized, packed shipping. PCH is fully automated (providing real-time out and shipped. tracking and order taking) and offers efficient shipping During pack out, individual items – which are separate or related and logistics. PCH has facilities in the Futian Free Trade products included in one order – are grouped and packaged into Zone and experience and relationships with all major one unit for shipping. These units can be destined for an individual shipping companies. We integrate our software platform customer (B2C), or a retailer or geographic market (B2B). During B2C with all major carriers, providing real-time, timely pack out, for example, a consumer may order a product and related tracking services. PCH is often relied upon to help our accessories that will be sent together in one customized package. This customers enter new markets fast to gain market share package is assembled at the PCH facilities within the Futian Free Trade Zone. Items are also packed out for specific geographic markets, e.g., quickly, while reducing inventory risk. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 22 “ PCH has provided post-production services for global brands and startups for over 20 years. Our partners depend on us to deliver premium products to consumers worldwide.” – Valerie Chen, vice president, packaging and logistics solutions Certifications and Regulations Dangerous Goods Regulations PCH has a variety of international certifications, At times, PCH is required to handle “dangerous goods” as determined by including: the International Air Transport Association (IATA). These include lithium ion or lithium polymer cells and batteries, for example. To ship such goods, > ISO9001 (international standard for quality consignors are required to prepare a form certifying that the cargo has been management system) packed, labeled and declared according to the IATA. > ISO13485 (medical device quality management system) PCH strictly adheres to these regulations, and we have robust guidelines in place to ensure appropriate handling of these items during production. We hold IATA > C-TPAT (trade security) Dangerous Goods Certification and have a dedicated, trained team responsible > ISO27000 (information security) for handling dangerous goods. > ISO14001 (international standard for PCH is also AEO (Authorized Economic Operator) certified and has been environmental management system) approved as compliant with WCO (World Customs Organization) or equivalent supply chain security standards. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 23 Case Study AliveCor PCH Solution Because PCH and AliveCor had worked together on two previous EKG KardiaMobile 6L devices, PCH had a good understanding of AliveCor’s expectations and workstyle. PCH worked to realize the product’s functionality and enhance its Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States, reliability and manufacturability – all the while adhering to the claiming more lives than all forms of cancer combined. AliveCor is a industrial design intent. global leader in transforming cardiac care. The Company’s medical grade electrocardiogram (EKG) products detect normal heart rhythm or In approaching the design of KardiaMobile 6L, AliveCor sought to atrial fibrillation (AFib) anywhere, anytime in just 30 seconds – all in a create an inspired, new-to-the-world solution — a timeless new portable, affordable device. hardware product. AliveCor envisioned using high-quality materials coupled with innovative assembly methods to create a discreet, With AliveCor devices, patients can analyze and manage heart premium medical device. The design was conceptualized with the belief conditions quickly, conveniently and cost-effectively. The KardiaMobile that simplification and purity in materials and assembly were key to 6L, AliveCor’s newest product, takes its advanced technology to the providing users moments of joy in daily use. next level, providing the most detailed insights on a patient’s heart ever seen in a mobile, pocketable device. At the early stages of the project, PCH and AliveCor consulted with PCH’s manufacturing engineering team regarding sourcing, tooling and The Challenge assembly requirements. PCH’s guidance regarding the manufacturing feasibility and risks associated with each design option was crucial As the first cost-effective, non-invasive, smartphone brand-agnostic in choosing the design direction, enabling AliveCor to choose an solution that achieves 6-lead EKG recordings, the KardiaMobile 6L optimal design while being certain that it could be engineered and needed to instill patient confidence in the product’s accuracy, reliability manufactured at scale. Once the design options were narrowed, PCH and effectiveness. The product design also had to be manufacturable began prototyping the device. at scale, using the highest quality materials and components, while meeting globally recognized (including FDA and FCC) standards. PCH engineers built, iterated on and tested the primary design concept In addition, the product would need to meet cost targets and at PCH’s state-of-the-art prototyping labs in San Francisco. Functional sustainability requirements. builds were made to understand and test the primary industrial design concept, assembly process, total part count, features, functionality AliveCor’s product vision was brought to life by AliveCor’s R&D team and reliability. and PCH’s world-class engineering and manufacturing expertise. PCH worked closely with AliveCor to realize KardiaMobile 6L’s robust During the prototyping phase, PCH found that the industrial design, technical and user experience requirements. which called for a height of 7.0 millimeter (mm), would not fit the necessary components and battery. With very little internal body space, OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 24 the device had to enclose a removable gasketed battery door. Ultimately, PCH found a solution that slightly enhanced the device height to 7.15mm. It was also critical to streamline assembly for mass production while adhering to global guidelines (such as the FCC in the United States) for medical wireless products. The Result Throughout the project, PCH brought its in-depth knowledge and deep experience in engineering, product development, manufacturing at scale and supply chain management to deliver a robust solution for AliveCor. AliveCor recognized the value of establishing strong partnerships between design, engineering and manufacturing experts at the earliest product concept phase. This close working relationship proved essential in not only delivering AliveCor’s product vision and robust technical and user experience requirements, but also in creating a beautiful, high-quality product that meets global standards and cost target for a consumer product. Kardia 6L industrial design by level design SF “ We are thrilled to work with innovative companies such as AliveCor who are empowering patients around the world.” – Hugo Ortiz, principal mechanical engineer and PCH Innovation Lab manager OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 25 Meeting the Demands of Global Markets — PCH has unparalleled skill in inventory management, utilizing real-time When it comes to reducing cost and waste, other key considerations are data to help our customers optimize their business. We have the ability industrial packaging (PCH has its own packaging engineering team), to deliver a unique out-of-the-box customer experience that involves palletization, postponement, transportation dynamics and right-sizing. personalization and customization. When inventory is well-managed PCH manages these factors to optimize capital, reduce costs, lower and tracked, the right product is in the right market at the right time to waste and increase efficiency. All of this while protecting the product maximize sales, and reduce the risks of overproduction and waste. during transit and delivering a delightful customer experience. PCH combines our automated real-time inventory management system Our postponement model allows our partners to design and produce with manufacturing management, postponement, pack out, fulfillment a built-to-order personalized (laser etching, dye-sublimation and and logistics platform, to provide our customers the maximum product/packaging UV printing) experience for customers around the flexibility when it comes to product orders that meet the demands of world. Late stage customization optimizes efficiency throughout the global markets. Based on real-time data, our customers oversee their production process, reduces supplier cost and inventory waste and on-hand inventory as well as inventory in their channel. This gives our removes complexity in forecasting and planning. customers control over the amount of product produced, when best to PCH’s professional pack out services have contributed to the success of reorder and which markets to send product to fill demand. numerous Fortune 500 companies and innovative startups. We operate PCH utilizes a pull system to manufacture products on demand, multiple production lines at our pack out facility to improve efficiency increasing efficiency and reducing waste by eliminating unnecessary and account for fluctuating demand. Our flexible configuration production. We move products fast and efficiently at our Shenzhen supports high-volume efficiency and high-mix, low-volume orders. operations located in the Futian Free Trade Zone, where we have six Customized, automated technologies such as auto-labeling machines, loading bays with daily outgoing international shipments. H-shape sealing machines and auto-scaling machines deliver additional efficiencies, while a comprehensive serial number control process simplifies inventory management. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 26 Raymond Tan “ Real-time data and insight are critical to We operate a rigorous five-stage quality control system during pack out, from vendor incoming batch orders to outgoing optimizing operations. We provide visibility shipments, supported by our Shop Floor Control intelligent tracking system. This to our customers across their supply chain. process includes: Our customers know that the more days of 1. Incoming article inspection inventory in the channel, the more potential 2. In-process quality control risk of overproduction and waste.” 3. First article inspection – Liam Casey, CEO 4. Final inspection 5. Out-of-the-box audits OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 27 Unique Add-On Services Provided by PCH > Packaging development: PCH develops eco-friendly product > Software Loading, Firmware Refreshing and Device Pairing: packaging to ensure quality handling during shipment, Software/firmware device loading delivers improved supply chain maximum efficiency, lowest cost and the best out-of-the-box efficiencies and limits Internet Protocol exposure. customer experience. > Hardware Function Testing: Hardware tests allow for final product > Personalization services: functionality assurances across a range of simulated use cases. PCH makes sure all final product specifications are met. > Laser Etching: Etching messages and images (which can be personalized to individual requests) on hardware or soft goods. > Vendor-Managed Inventory (VMI) Service: PCH ensures that our customers maintain inventory based on delivery to MPS > Dye-Sublimation: Allows for high-quality image transfer using (Mass Production Schedule), optimizing inventory and leading to PCH’s proprietary dye-sublimation process (with water-based inks) easy access and fast turnaround on orders while reducing labor, to ensure high-image fidelity and maximum product reliability. emissions and transportation costs. > Device/Package Printing: Ultraviolet (UV) cured printing on devices or accessories for high-quality personalized image finishes with excellent reliability properties. “ PCH optimizes our customers’ supply chain and helps them increase consumer engagement, while reducing emissions, energy, storage and transportation costs.” – Robert Andris, vice president, customer success and global supply chain solutions OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 28 Case Study Chaos Fashion Sustainability Overproduction causes unnecessary waste product that overwhelms landfills and wastes precious natural resources. It also hurts the balance sheet of companies – especially adversely impacting startups who cannot afford unnecessary inventory, which stifles innovation. But solving this problem has been difficult for many companies because they often don’t have a clear sense of their sales forecast. Direct-to-consumer online sales has helped put companies directly in touch with their customers (versus selling via retail outlets) and has enabled them to track sales, engage customers in loyalty programs and create products on demand. Key to this formula is the ability to deliver direct-to-consumer, create unique one-of-a-kind products at scale, and deliver in a timely fashion – all while guaranteeing a great, high-quality consumer experience. This is where PCH has been able to help consumer product companies that have a direct-to-consumer online channel. PCH’s unique design engineering, manufacturing and fulfillment model enables companies such as Chaos Fashion to produce unique products (luxury phone, tablet and travel accessories) on demand (personalized products) and to deliver them worldwide within 2-4 days. Huge proportions of returned products end up in landfill, and the reality is By partnering with PCH, Chaos is able to focus on marketing, creative that the majority of plastics are not recyclable. This leads us to a position design and new products, while PCH manages all logistics and provides that limiting production to precisely meet demand is a critical problem to invaluable visibility into their supply chain operations, which helps them solve. PCH is using Life Cycle Analysis technologies to accurately calculate avoid overproduction. Via PCH’s proprietary software, Chaos knows where the environmental impact of products we develop, and drive decisions their product is from the moment it is ordered (and made on demand at that minimize overall negative environmental impact. PCH) to the moment it is delivered to their customer. Chaos has utilized PCH’s end-to-end, intelligent supply chain orchestration Although we are fully aware of the environmental impact of air shipments platform since 2016. Chaos only makes products that are already sold to of these products, we endeavor to negate this impact by reducing excess individual customers, reducing unnecessary waste and saving valuable inventory leading to significant reduction in manufacturing and supply resources. And because the products are personalized, they are less likely chain carbon emissions. to be returned. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 29 “ We invest in software and other key technology that give our customers visibility, predictability, control and flexibility over their supply PCH Flo 360 — Inventory management is key to running a healthy business. PCH offers chain. These tools are essential a suite of software modules to our customers that provide anytime/ to managing day-to-day anywhere real-time end-to-end visibility for every product that PCH touches. PCH has developed a proprietary software suite – PCH Flo 360 business operations.” – to help our customers better manage daily business with real-time data. Our customers have supply chain visibility, including real-time – Bill Hanafin, vice president, order and shipping status traceability. As soon as an order is placed, the chief digital information officer details are printed on a packaging label, and the status of the package is logged electronically. In addition, PCH Flo 360 is integrated with major international carrier systems such as UPS, FedEx, DHL and USPS, which provides maximum insight and flexibility. PCH Flo 360’s second-by-second data includes information on delivery orders, purchase orders, inventory management, production schedules, finance, demand forecast, report generation and product catalogues. Our software developers work with customers to provide: > System integration with customer processes and partners > Development of application tools and dashboards > IT product line setup according to customer requirements > Online system support for daily production OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 30 Our Customer Where We Ship Base (2018) — — Our customers come from a variety of sectors including beauty, fashion, retail and consumer packaged goods, audio, consumer services, health CUSTOMERS BY REGION 2017 2018 and wellness, home and entertainment, financial technology and payments, and consumer electronics and peripherals. 59% Our customer base includes many of the best brands in the world. We work with both seasoned technology companies (hardware and 43% software and service enterprise), as well as companies that are new to hardware and rely on us because of our vast experience bringing 35% 34% products, including IoT, to market. Our commitment to sustainability is a positive factor in selecting and trusting PCH. 22% We seek to have long-term, trusted relationships with our customers. Sustainability is a key part of these relationships and the trust we engender. We share our commitment to protecting workers, minimizing 6% harmful chemicals and materials, reducing energy consumption, 0% 1% reducing wasteful packaging and auditing suppliers for compliance North Asia Europe Other with internationally recognized sustainability standards. We uphold the America highest sustainability standards in all of our operations. Customer Satisfaction % CUSTOMERS WHO UTILIZED AIR FREIGHT UNITS SHIPPED Keeping our customers satisfied is central to our success, and we 70% 5,408,979 continually strive to provide the best customer service in our industry. We discuss satisfaction levels with our customers and suppliers on a 2018 project basis regularly, and we conduct broader surveys to determine the overall satisfaction level of our customers, including how we can improve our services. 2017 72% 2,024,548 OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 31 Operations — Tan Zhen OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 32 PCH is a global company with key innovation hubs in San Francisco and Shenzhen, China; software development in Cape Town, South Africa; HR, finance and IT in Cork, Ireland and international business development teams. Our Key Sustainability Operations Initiatives PCH Operations Our in Shenzhen, Environmental China Impact PCH Operations Resource Use in San Francisco OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 33 Our Key Operations HQ — Cork, Ireland Global Headquarters Shenzhen, China PCH Operational Headquarters, PCH Innovation Hub, and Highway1 Cape Town, South Africa Software San Francisco Development PCH Innovation Hub WHO WE WORK WITH SECTOR EXPERTISE MARKETS SERVED (BY SHIPMENTS DELIVERED) Health and Wellness Retail and CPG 33% 34% Beauty Consumer Services 43% Asia Global brands Audio Europe Home and Entertainment 67% Smallto medium-sized Consumer Electronics, companies (including accessories and peripherals 22% 1% startups and design studios) North Other Fashion America FinTech and Payments OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 34 PCH Operations in PCH Operations in Shenzhen, China San Francisco — — PCH has been operating in China since 1996, where we provide In 2012, PCH opened the PCH Innovation Hub in San Francisco to serve engineering and development (DFM), manufacturing management global clients, many of whom are located in Silicon Valley or come to and post-production services for product categories, including: FDAthe San Francisco Bay Area seeking innovative partners. With over approved medical devices, IoT hardware, consumer electronics, soft 35,000 square feet of office and lab space, our Hub houses state-ofgoods, beauty products, accessories and other goods. the-art prototyping labs, teams of engineers (mechanical, firmware, electrical and packaging), system integrators, program managers, The PCH Innovation Hub is located in the Futian Free Trade Zone, which business development and support operations. allows our customers to benefit from favorable labor rates, without paying export duty on finished goods bound for global markets. PCH packs out hundreds of thousands of units per day and ships B2B State-of-the-Art Prototyping Lab (parcel and bulk shipments) and B2C direct from China. Our direct to Our prototyping labs (machine shop, electrical engineering, wet lab, retail and consumer shipping as well as real-time tracking increases soft goods, packaging, 3D rapid prototyping and testing) and expert inventory efficiency and reduces waste. We run two employee shifts lab personnel allow us to work efficiently and iteratively with our daily, six days a week, and expand production depending on demand. clients (and their industrial design teams) to accelerate time-to-market, We have internal planners who schedule production according to our enable efficiencies and mitigate technical risk. Once a project is kicked clients’ shipment requests. At the same time, we adhere to local laws off, our team reviews the product objectives, timelines, constraints, and regulations when it comes to protecting workers. business case, desired user experience, feature set and design intent. In addition, PCH has corporate offices and research and development We explore feature set variations, research comparable products, source operations in China, and we operate our Highway1 hardware components, develop a preliminary cost of goods estimate and create accelerator in this facility. a development recommendation. We integrate and refine the product by building working units (design validation units or DVUs), assembling subsystem models, conducting tests, developing schematic and layout designs and designing early packaging concepts. Our teams always design with manufacturing requirements in mind (DFM), and we work closely with our manufacturing team to develop initial tooling plans, to source components for pilot builds and to design the ideal supply chain. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 35 Sustainability Small Energy-Saving Program that Saves Big Initiatives Air conditioners — In 2018, in looking for all energy savings, we evaluated the four large air conditioner units in our Shenzhen offices for their efficiency. It was determined that one unit should be replaced for a higher efficiency unit, theorizing that we would see 30 percent in energy savings. In fact, we saw 47.11 percent year-over-year in energy savings compared to Most of our sustainability impact occurs in China, where our the same time period, July to November 2017, (excluding temperature supplier partners have the greatest environmental footprint. factors) equating to a total of 24,818.8 kW-h in energy savings. Consolidating our facilities in Shenzhen into one campus allowed us to conserve resources and operate more efficiently. We also Small-Power Air Conditioners developed an online energy management dashboard to track In areas where we have fewer than 10 people working at one time, it energy use on a real-time basis. was determined that we could save energy by replacing large 44kW air conditioners with small, removable but just as effective 1.1kW air conditioners that use less power. These smaller units keep workers cool, Conserving Water and save energy. During times when more workers are present in this As a result of consolidating our facilities in 2016, we continue to area, we can switch to the large backup unit for employee comfort. We see reduction in water use. Water use at our China operations went anticipated saving 54,549 kW-h of energy but actually saved 25,971.1 from 8,903 tons in 2017 to 5,125 tons in 2018, a decrease of almost kW-h year-over-year during the same period, July to December 2017. 43 percent. Afternoon Lights Out We saw a decrease in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and electricity use in 2018. During lunch time, when office workers are resting or taking their lunch, PCH turns off the 400 overhead lights in our main office in Shenzhen. Electricity decreased to 602,771 kWh in 2018, compared to In 2018, by turning off the lights when employees were not working, we 920,347 kWh in 2017. were able to realize a total of 1,044 kW-h in energy savings. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions decreased from 1,390 metric tons of CO2 in 2017 to 862 metric tons of CO2 in 2018. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 36 PCH Innovation Hub, Shenzhen, China “ We invest in technology that allows us to monitor our energy use on an hourly basis and optimize our operations. We are committed to reducing waste throughout our organization.” – Erick Wu, senior industrial engineer Photo caption here OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 37 Our Environmental Impact1 2018 — OUR FACILITIES CHINA One building This facility has a low risk for occupational hazards and The PCH Innovation Hub in China environmental pollution. We have environmental data for includes office space, manufacturing, pack out, fulfillment and distribution 267,730 sq ft facilities, a loading dock, a product Electricity is the only significant form design engineering and development of energy consumed in our facilities. lab and an R&D center. It is used for air conditioning, lighting of our reported operations and operating machinery associated with pack out and fulfillment. (91.9% of the total) 267,730 sq ft Our facilities do not utilize heat or steam. U.S. One building Natural gas is used for heating and hot water. PCH Innovation Hub 28,500 sq ft Electricity is used for all other needs, including to power our state-of-the-art prototyping and systems integration lab. OTHER These offices are home to Fab.com, Three buildings2 finance, sales, marketing, IT and One office each in Cape Town, global operations. South Africa; Cork, Ireland; Hong Kong These offices use electricity, domestic 26,074 sq ft water and materials (environmental data not provided by landlord). 1. All information for our U.S. sites is obtained from third parties. 2. Environmental data is unavailable for our Cork, Hong Kong and Cape Town offices. We expect to include these locations in our measurements in 2019. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 38 Resource Use3 2018 — ELECTRICITY USE WATER USE GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS 1,022,453 kWh global total 5,645 tons global total 862 metric tons of CO2 U.S. U.S. China U.S. China 309 metric tons CO 2 419,682 kWh 602,771 kWh 520 tons 5,125 tons China 553 metric tons CO 2 GAS USE WASTE PRODUCED4 GLOBAL TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED IN CHINA 3,718 therms U.S. 237,765 lbs. U.S. & China total 182 lbs. (0.7‰) Waste water mixed with lubricant oil: 1 lb. Landfill U.S. 24,184 lbs. (10%) U.S. China Waste lubricant oil: 44 lbs. 0 lbs. 182 lbs. Recycling U.S. 22,972 lbs. (9.9%) Light tubes: 8.75 lbs. (0%) (100%) Recycling China 190,337 lbs. (80%) Hazardous chemical container: 8.5 lbs. > Waste plastic China 66,768 lbs. (from Jan. to Dec.) Used batteries: 8.75 lbs. > Waste paper/carton China 123,569 lbs. (from June. to Dec. 2018) Waste organic solvent: 66 lbs. Compost U.S. 0 lbs. (0%) Cloth mixed with solvent: 1 lb. Ribbons: 44 lb. Recycled electronic waste U.S. 272 lbs. (.1%) 3. U.S. data: All information was received from third parties. The water consumption information was received from the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission through the property management (CBRE) and Godtland Enterprises. The waste information was received from Recology (Waste Management Co.). The gas and electric usage was received from Pacific Gas & Electric accounts. 4. All waste is disposed of by licensed operators. Hazardous waste generated in our owned facilities is the only available waste data for our operations in China. All non-hazardous waste (scraps) generated in PCH facilities are owned by our customers and are disposed of according to our clients’ wishes using licensed operators. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 39 People — Josa Leung and Jeff Huang OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 40 The well-being and safety of the people who work for PCH directly and indirectly (through suppliers) is our greatest priority. Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program focuses on: health and safety training, mentorship, education, social and cultural activities and open communications. We support a variety of communication channels – town hall meetings, one-on-one meetings, a telephone hotline, Microsoft Sharepoint/Messaging and WeChat. We also have a management open-door policy, which encourages employees to speak with managers at any time they feel necessary. These vehicles and policy create a positive work environment by fostering open and trusted communications at all levels of the organization. We also encourage mutual respect, collaboration and teamwork, which are fundamental to our company values and result in positive, trusted relationships. Individuals and teams are empowered and encouraged to help improve workplace safety, among other areas of possible improvement. Most importantly, we promote an open culture where employees feel comfortable talking to each other, managers and senior leadership about opportunities for improvement as well as concerns they may have. About Our Developing People and Engaging Our People Worker Health and Safety Diversity Career Overtime Enhancement Opportunities Grievances OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 41 About Our People — TOTAL WORKFORCE WORKFORCE COMPOSITION Employees Supervised Total % of total 428 Region Operators Office workers 5 workforce workforce staff U.S. 0 47 7 54 13% China 141 205 4 350 82% Ireland 0 10 5 15 3% South Africa 0 7 0 7 2% India 0 2 0 2 0% Total 141 271 16 428 100% 5. Supervised workers are all non-employees: workers hired through dispatch agencies or contractors, consultants and interns. EMPLOYEE GENDER 60% Female employees 40% Male employees 33% Female senior leadership OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 42 Worker Health and Safety — We continue to promote a safe work environment and safe work practices. In addition to providing ongoing safety training to our Training + Awareness = Results employees, PCH regularly reviews and monitors our health and safety Educating employees is the key to enhancing workplace health and management systems and policies to comply with, and in many cases safety, and worker satisfaction and retention. Training and open exceed, industry requirements. communication empower our workforce to continue to enhance their skills and grow professionally. Our employees know that their opinions In China, PCH has a Social and Environmental Committee comprised and voice are important. When it comes to safety, training helps to of 53 employees. Management, engineers and line operators sit on this encourage employees to report factory issues that might otherwise committee and are responsible for factory labor, environment, ethics be overlooked. By training and educating employees, we drive high and health and safety management. standards and help grow our organization in a responsible manner that At our factory facilities, we monitor potential hazards related to fire safety, adheres to our sustainability commitment. chemical use, equipment safety and occupational health. We promote safety programs across our communication channels and supplier base. PCH in China health and safety data 2016 2017 2018 Our employees enjoy regular breaks in their work schedule. They are encouraged to socialize and simply enjoy downtime with a book, Injuries 0 1 0 boardgame, ping pong or other activities of their choosing. In China, PCH has a well-stocked library, relaxation areas and a fresh food Fatalities /occupational diseases 0 0 0 cafeteria that serves lunch daily. Other PCH global locations feature Lost days 0 3 0 daily snacks, game rooms and other on-campus relaxation areas. “ Safety is our highest priority, and we are proud of our safety record. We continue to review and monitor our safety systems and policies to make sure they meet, or in many cases exceed, industry standards.” – Christie Ma, director of human resources OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 43 Chen XueLin 19% of our factory workforce participates in the Health and Safety Committee Lu GenHong and Xu ZhiHui OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 44 Career Enhancement Opportunities — Mentorships and Classes Motivate Employees All PCH employees receive on-the-job training and career enhancement opportunities. We encourage our employees to grow through career development programs. In 2018, our staff participated in a variety of training and development sessions such as: > One hundred and eighty-five participants were provided 899 hours of training on customer service, office software, management skills, technical skills, labor law and Social and Environmental Responsibility. Forty-three new hires were provided new hire orientation. > Factory workers attended over 2,508 hours of training, including CSR/EHS/AEO/ISO as well as courses on health and safety. > Factory workforce engagement programs were offered via the Little Bird programs. > PCH project managers attended project management training. > PCH Supply Base Management Team attended supply chain management training. Celine Zhai OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 45 Developing and Engaging Our People — Little Bird Partnership In 2018, Little Bird initiated a promotion onsite at PCH to increase awareness of their services and the hotline. They distributed Little Bird is an independent, non-governmental organization promotional items such as 200 key chains, 320 fans, 130 cultural established in 1999 to assist migrant workers in China by knowing shirts, over 240 Rubik’s Cubes and badminton rackets, as well as over their rights. 1,200 daily necessity items such as toothbrushes and combs. Their objective was to engender a strong relationship with the organization, We value our long-term partnership with Little Bird and continue to listen to and learn from employees, encourage outdoor social activities see the organization as a valuable partner in developing our workforce and promote the hotline and WeChat channels. culture and encouraging open communication. Little Bird conducts onsite visits to the PCH library (where employees can read and check out books, play board games and relax) and 98 learning lab every Friday, which is located near the cafeteria. During this time, Little Bird staff are available to meet face-to-face with workers. hotline calls In addition to meeting with workers, the organization runs a confidential and anonymous hotline where employees can discuss their 14,315 concerns or requests candidly. Our employees are encouraged to use the hotline for any issues they feel need to be addressed. Little Bird also operates a popular PCH WeChat channel where employees can openly discuss what’s on their mind. These channels are valuable tools WeChat messages for gathering insights about our workforce. In addition, we continue to partner with Little Bird to provide a variety of services to workers, including career counseling, opinion collection, dispute mediation, cultural development and occupational safety training. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 46 Bin HongYun “ Little Bird is a valuable partner in providing social and human rights services to our workers in China. Organizational representatives visit PCH each Friday, and they meet face-to-face with our workers to listen, discuss and advise on anything that may be on their minds. Little Bird also offers a variety of social services and team activities (both indoor and outdoor) that our employees enjoy.” – Christie Ma, director of HR OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 47 Diversity — Having a company culture that values diversity is particularly important Employee category at PCH because we have a diverse employee base, as well as a global by gender and age M F <30 30-50 >50 customer base. We believe diversity is good for business and the right thing to do. We also place great emphasis on gender equality because Senior leadership 66.7% 33.3% 0.0% 66.7% 33.3% women are often underrepresented in the hardware and technology sectors. In 2018, 33.3 percent of the PCH senior leadership team Senior management 54.6% 45.4% 4.5% 86.4% 9.1% was female and we saw a small increase to 45.4 percent in senior management roles held by women, vs 44.8 percent in 2017. Middle management 60.0% 40.0% 0.0% 93.3% 6.7% 33.3% 40% 45.4% Individual contributor 52.0% 48.0% 23.7% 70.3% 6.0% Factory staff 29.5% 70.5% 23.0% 75.4% 1.6% of senior leadership of middle management of senior management team is female is female is female “ Gender equality and employee diversity are essential to our company. We believe in an open and inclusive environment where individuals feel represented, respected and supported. We are proud of the progress we are making, especially in improving gender equality across the company and at the senior leadership level.” – Liam Casey, CEO OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 48 Overtime — “ Our standard workweek is A standard work schedule at PCH, including China, is 40 hours over five days per week. Our Supplier Code of Conduct (CoC) requires that factory workers work no more than 20 hours per week of overtime 40 hours. All overtime is and no more than 36 hours per month, except in emergency or strictly voluntary. We monitor unusual situations. overtime and adhere to The opportunity to work overtime is a priority for our workforce and if it is not available, many workers will seek alternative employment. All industry standards.” overtime is voluntary and workers are entitled to at least one day off – Jason Yu, director of operations per seven-day week. Workweeks exceeding 60 hours are deemed excessive by industry associations and at PCH we share this view. Overtime 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Average workweek (hours) 51 52 44 49 49 Compliance with Code of Conduct6 99% 100% 91% 91% 99% Breaches of 60-hour workweek (number of weeks) 8 0 17 4 3 Average rest days per month 5 6 5 5 5 Breaches of one rest day per week 6 0 3 1 0 OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 49 “ We have a variety of communication channels available to employees to express their grievances confidentially, anonymously Grievances — We expect there will always be some grievances reported by employees, and we see this as healthy because employees feel comfortable reporting issues that are important to them. The most important or openly. We take grievances solution to grievances is to have a process to address grievances quickly seriously and address them and fairly, and for all employees to know that their concerns are taken seriously. During 2018 at PCH in China, we saw a large increase in the quickly and fairly.” number of grievances submitted. – Christie Ma, head of HR in China Employees reported 94 grievances in 2018, compared to 39 in 2017. Most of the grievances – 79 percent – were complaints about the food service, which was disrupted while transitioning to a new food supplier. Other grievances addressed factory management (12 percent) and miscellaneous (nine percent). There were no grievances associated with pay/welfare. Miscellaneous grievances include employee relationships, training, leave and personal issues (related to employee families). OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 50 Grievance Mechanisms 3. Employee Forum – Held once per quarter, this gathering is attended by employee representatives, factory general All of our grievance mechanisms comply with local laws and managers, HR managers and the internal audit team. Human regulations and promote an atmosphere of open communication. Resources will supervise the implementation of improvements At our corporate offices, human resources (HR) and management from the forum. Responses and improvements are posted on a are trained to foster an open-door culture, where grievances can be notice board within three months. expressed formally or informally. In our factories, we have a formal 4. Little Bird – Little Bird sends employee concerns/suggestions to grievance program so that factory workers know their concerns will be HR once a week. Most issues are resolved within one month, or resolved in a fair and timely manner. if a more serious concern arises, it is addressed immediately. Open communication among employees drives continuous Since our partnership with Little Bird in 2012, this platform improvement. The Little Bird partnership reinforces open dialogue has become increasingly popular among our staff to express between PCH management and our workforce. concerns/suggestions in the workplace and it continues to be We operate multiple grievance mechanisms and most are available our most popular grievance mechanism among factory workers. to our workforce 24 hours a day, six days a week. For factory workers, Management strives to close all grievances within three months, we have four specific grievance systems. and address and close serious grievances promptly. Human Resources or Factory Management Can Be Reached Via: 1. Direct contact with factory line leaders, supervisors or managers. 2. Suggestion box – Employees can express their concerns or We operate multiple grievance suggest improvements anonymously through suggestion boxes. mechanisms and most are These boxes are checked every Monday and action is usually taken within 15 days of the concern/suggestion being submitted. available to our workforce This may take longer in certain situations, for example, where 24 hours a day, six days a week. a worker survey is required to get wider employee feedback, or more time is needed to fully investigate the case. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 51 Supply Network — Xiao XueQin and Li MingZhu OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 52 Partnerships are the cornerstone of PCH. We foster trusted and long-term partnerships with our customers and our supplier partners to align interests, maximize opportunities and solve problems together. When we work together, we get the best results, and we must do this in an atmosphere of mutual trust and benefit. Partnering with Our Supplier Our Suppliers Audits The PCH Supply Supplier Facilities Network Health and Safety Suppliers PCH Transacted With in 2018 OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 53 Partnering with Our Suppliers — Strong and positive relationships with suppliers enable us to have greater 4. The PCH Audit Team conducts an onsite Corporate Social Responsibility influence across our supply network and to incorporate sustainable (CSR) risk assessment. The team rates supplier performance and practices where we see opportunity. Our suppliers must sign our Supplier management systems and identifies areas for improvement. Suppliers Code of Conduct (CoC) agreement and comply with all applicable local have three months to follow up on action items. laws and regulations. 5. Once the supplier is admitted to the PCH network, the Sustainability In 2018, PCH transacted with 151 suppliers globally. This does not Team conducts supplier development programs, including health and include suppliers that worked with our San Francisco-based engineering safety, system building, energy monitoring, chemical mapping and team. The majority of our company spend is focused on customersocial programs. selected suppliers; however, most of our sustainability programs focus on The supplier initial evaluation stage is designed to evaluate whether the PCH-selected suppliers because we believe this is where we can have the supplier is likely to meet audit requirements. When it is clear the supplier greatest impact. will not pass an audit or be suitable for a given project, we move quickly to We utilize the following five-step process to admit suppliers into our other supplier opportunities. Suppliers are evaluated on engineering and sustainability network: technical ability, quality management, project management and supplybased management. The supplier must score at least 60 out of 100 to be 1. Based on supplier capability, the PCH Procurement Team or our eligible for a PCH audit. customer identifies the best supplier. At PCH we have two types of suppliers: 1) those selected by PCH, and 2) 2. We conduct an initial supplier evaluation. This involves a factory those selected by our customers. For customer-selected suppliers, we do not inspection by a member of each of the following PCH teams: project conduct our own audits but work with our customers to conduct audits that management (PM), supply base management (SBM), client quality meet their specifications. management (CQM) and engineering. 3. To determine if the supplier meets PCH and/or our customer audit We encourage and expect our network of suppliers to adhere to our requirements, the PCH Sustainability Team conducts a factory Supplier CoC and to operate to the highest standards of social and readiness assessment. environmental compliance, even beyond what is mandated. We continue to audit our supplier factories and influence our supply network to raise the bar on social and environmental compliance. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 54 The PCH To create products, multiple factories are often required. In turn, these factories utilize other factories to produce materials and components. The diagram below represents the possible Supply Network complexity of the supply network for a product, as well as the influences and controls that PCH has over each link in the chain. — Pack out Fulfillment Raw materials Development Logistics Components Supplier PCH Network customers Delivery Manufacturing Parts PCH controlled Highway1* PCH influenced * PCH controls these programs, but we are only positioned to influence the participating companies/startups involved. “ Because we’ve operated in China for over two decades, we have fostered trusted and long-term relationships with our supplier partners. We emphasize the importance of sustainability with our customers, and we guide our suppliers regarding best practices, guidelines and policies that we must adhere to.” – Alan Cuddihy, vice president, sustainability OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 55 How We Manage Our Supplier Network We follow industry best practices and consider the issues of social, environmental, health and safety impact and business risk when determining which suppliers to audit. Audits set a baseline; they cover quality, sustainability, chemical management practices, as well as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) issues. We cannot audit every supplier as this would require substantial resources. We focus on areas of the supply chain that pose the most risk. Annual audits identify preferred suppliers, with scores weighted at 50 percent for quality, 35 percent for social and environmental practices and 15 percent for chemical management. Audit Discoveries When we review potential manufacturing partners, it is not only important that they pass our capabilities and quality criteria, but that they pass all Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) and Corporate Social Sustainability (CSR) standards. When we find during an audit that a partner fails to meet these key standards, they are not qualified to be included on our AVL (Approved Vendor List). PCH does not allow engagements with partners outside of our AVL. Wu Hui OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 56 Example of a Manufacturing Partner Who Failed Our Audit Hazardous Materials (Chemical Materials) Management We found upon auditing a potential partner in 2018 that 30 percent > No record of chemical leakage drills of their dispatch workers (temporary workers) did not have social > Fire drill records were not complete (final count of assembled insurance and they were unable to provide adequate salary records for people was not done) their workers. Additionally, other key required EHS and CSR criteria were not met. For reasons below, this supplier failed our audit. > Time to evacuate was too long (22 minutes) > There were not defined places for storing chemicals safely or Wage Irregularities Personal Protective Equipment and no Material Safety Data Sheet > Sick leave was not fully defined (salary for sick leave and (MSDS) other allowances) > No required signage for chemicals in production areas (no MSDS) > Workers who quit were not paid within three days of their departure General Management of Occupational Health and Safety: There was > Uniforms, as required, were not changed every six months no occupational health check recorded in 2017, and the 2018 report was not finished. Freedom of Association Violations: No labor union or employee representation was found. Dormitory and Canteen: There was no fire evacuation plan; no emergency exits; no masks being used during food preparation. Environmental Management System Violations: environmental regulations require water to be recycled. We found the factory was Medical Emergency: There was no qualified first aid personnel onsite discharging water directly into the land. and no information recorded on regarding processes and procedures in the event of an emergency. Emergency Preparedness Violations PCH has a zero-tolerance policy towards child labor in our own or in > Chinese government regulation requires that a qualified thirdsupplier facilities. Child labor refers to any worker under the age of party agency must check the fire equipment once per month 16. All new hires to PCH have their identity and age verified by our HR > The factory, as required, did not have written plans or procedures team. For our suppliers, we follow industry recommendations and we to prepare for such possible dangers as fire, chemical spills, check for child labor during our audit process. All 43 audits (including earthquakes or hurricanes. There was also no definition for when existing and new suppliers) conducted in 2018 included a check for workers could resume production child labor and prevention systems as well as factory floor spot checks. The audits showed no incidents of child labor. > There were an inadequate number of emergency evacuation exits OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 57 Suppliers PCH Transacted With in 2018 — 37 7% New Service Items 56% and Consulting Hardware 8% Final Assembly, Supplier Test and Pack spend by industry 187 16% Printing and Packaging 1% 12% Total suppliers Electrical 150 Engineering Mechanical Existing Engineering 67% China 4% Europe 1,000+ Number of suppliers in our network*,** 22% Asia-Pacific^ Supplier spend by location * AVL (Approved Vendor List), active and inactive suppliers who PCH has fully qualified at some point. Active indicates they have been audited or re-audited within 12 months. 7% U.S. and Australia If suppliers go inactive we re-audit them as needed to re-activate. ** Non-AVL, suppliers from numerous categories and companies that have waivers as per our RBA guidelines. ^ Excludes suppliers in China. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 58 Our Supplier Audits — 118 PCH-selected suppliers 187 Standard compliance programs 43 suppliers audited Total suppliers 2 suppliers failed 69 Customer-selected suppliers Training 598 Total active and inactive AVL 525 Hours on Employee Health and Safety (EHS) assessment and staff training Audits are conducted in PCH-selected factories only. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 59 Supplier Facilities Health and Safety — One of our greatest challenges is the health and safety of workers in Pre-startup Safety Review our supplier network who don’t work directly for PCH. We place great emphasis on making sure health and safety come first. It is the right For high-risk safety situations, we conduct pre-startup safety thing to do in all cases. We recognize that quality products and services reviews covering eight key areas: general safety, life safety, chemical are dependent on safety in the workplace and adherence to social and management, occupational health, machine safety, electrical safety, environmental industry standards, guidelines and mandates. environment management and emergency response. During the review process, engineering, production, program management and the Employee Health and Safety (EHS) teams get involved. By involving all Strategies for Supplier Health and Safety project teams at an early stage, we ensure that everyone is aware of our safety standards and criteria. This early awareness and full team Health and safety management programs at supplier facilities include support minimizes accidents and improves overall safety. For low safety chemical management, fire safety, ventilation and electrical safety. risk issues, our EHS team evaluates how any risk will be managed for all Audits and daily spot checks cover emergency exits, equipment safety, projects at the beginning (including supplier qualification on CSR issues). chemical labels and other potential hazards. On an ongoing basis, we work with our suppliers to help them integrate health and safety procedures into their daily operations. This includes providing training Pre-production Safety Considerations and resources as well as identifying targets for continuous improvement. The best way to engage suppliers on EHS management is by starting at When procedures are not in place, PCH establishes health and safety the design engineering phase early in the project. PCH evaluates safety procedures at supplier factories, and PCH sets up Key Performance considerations and industry guidelines before each project begins, and Indicators (KPIs), which measure how well the factory meets its targets. before moving to production, we assess health, safety and environmental The intent is to integrate health and safety methods into the supplier’s factors to identify and prevent EHS risk. day-to-day operations. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 60 “ We help our suppliers integrate health and safety procedures into their daily operations. We provide training and resources, and identify targets for “ We have a zero-tolerance policy towards child labor. During our audits we conduct spot checks on suppliers. There were no incidents continuous improvement.” of child labor during – Jason Yu, operations director 2018 audits.” – James Kong, quality director OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 61 Product — Reynaldo Consunji and Brian Younkin OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 62 Product sustainability addresses materials, chemicals, conflict minerals, packaging, shipping, inventory management and lifecycle analysis. We seize the opportunity to educate our customers about the impact of products at the exploration and engineering concept stage, all the way through to manufacturing, distribution and end-of-life. We also strive to influence industrial designers to consider sustainability early in their process. Life Cycle Analysis Our Policy on Conflict Minerals Managing Chemicals Safely OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 63 Ed Pataky and Jason Willis OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 64 Life Cycle Analysis — Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) is now available to all PCH customers. LCA is the systematic approach to assessing the environmental impact of a product’s entire life cycle, from raw materials to end-of-life disposal. Packaging LCA integrates sustainability into design to reduce packaging size and environmental impact and improve the customer experience. We conduct packaging reviews with customers to help them make the best decisions about quality, cost and sustainability impact. We strive to design, develop and produce beautiful, sustainable solutions that have the maximum positive impact on the consumer experience and the least impact on the environment. Aling Rao OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 65 Smarter, Sustainable Packaging Before After PCH helped one of our customers in the consumer goods industry scale their business by re-engineering their product packaging, which had been heavy, complex to assemble, large and off brand. The goal was to reduce the per unit shipping cost by reducing the weight and volume of the packaging while simplifying assembly, enhancing the out-of-box customer experience and increasing sustainability. The original packaging was costly to ship and consumed excessive energy and resources. PCH achieved these savings by re-envisioning the packaging design to eliminate unnecessary internal package volume and using lighter, more sustainable packaging materials that reduced the unit weight and increased the product protection and matched their consumer branding elements. PCH trimmed the overall volume of the shipper box by 36 percent, while increasing the product protection elements and reducing fossil fuel consumption by 19 percent and GHG emissions by 50.4 percent. PCH achieved significant shipping cost savings (23 percent reduction in overall shipping costs) and met other key goals, including reducing the product’s environmental impact, simplifying assembly (and thus reducing fulfillment cost), increasing the customer out-of-box experience and protecting the product during transit. The end result was an enhanced consumer experience (smooth and premium box opening feel) that was easy to assemble, less expensive to ship and more 36% environmentally sustainable. reduction OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 66 Sustainable Packaging Design Percentage Impact by project scale Old design New design Unit change x 500000 units Size 140 x 279 x 320mm 119 x 225 x 299mm Millimeters Volume 12,499,200mm3 8,005,725mm3 Millimeters cubed (mm3)/unit -36% -2,246.737m3 Cost of shipping USD $42.65 USD $32.52 USD$/pc from China to UK -23.36% USD $5,065,000 Fossil fuel consumption ~32MJ ~26MJ Megajoules (MJ) -19% -3,000GJ Greenhouse gas kg of GHG emissions ~0.353kg CO2e ~0.178kg CO2e -50.4% ~87,500kg CO2e CO2e equivalent OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 67 Our Policy on Anti-Corruption and Business Ethics Conflict Minerals PCH has clear and consistent guidelines around Anti-Corruption and Business Ethics. Our procedures are documented for all employees and mandate a CoC for all — supplier partners, which includes guidelines that are in accordance with RBA (Responsible Business Alliance) and CoC standards, and reflect our commitment to anticorruption. These include: It is a requirement in our Supplier Code of Conduct (CoC) that > Business integrity no conflict minerals be procured or used by PCH suppliers in the production of our customers’ products. We welcome the advent of > No improper advantage conflict minerals mapping as it encourages suppliers to be transparent > Disclosure of information and track potential use of minerals that are mined in areas of the world > Intellectual property where there are armed conflicts and human rights abuses. > Fair business, advertising and competition Most electronic manufacturers have a mapping system in place in accordance with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and > Protection of identity and non-retaliation Development (OECD) Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of > Prevention of use of conflict minerals Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. > Privacy “ Our customers are concerned about which chemicals are used in their products and that they are safe for workers and consumers. We help our clients test for chemicals and prepare their chemical compliance documentation.” – Sunny Zhu, sustainability program manager OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 68 Managing Chemicals Safely — Proper chemical use within PCH facilities and our supplier factories Our Chemical Safety Policy is a health and safety priority. Hazardous chemicals are those that are poisonous, corrosive, explosive or ignitable and which may pose a It is important that PCH factory facilities and supplier partners hazard for people, equipment or the environment. Hazardous agents maintain a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for each product get into the body by inhalation more than any other route. Therefore, being manufactured. An MSDS contains pertinent information about chemical exposure on the factory line is a critical concern and chemical ingredients, physical characteristics, proper handling, carefully monitored. fire safety and emergency handling. When we examine chemicals, we consider both sacrificial materials that are used during the Careful use and monitoring of chemicals is critical, and we spend manufacturing process (that do not form part of the final product, considerable effort and resources to identify and manage chemicals. as well as those that are part of the final product. These chemicals In addition, our customers are increasingly interested in monitoring are used in processes such as coating, gluing, laminating, cleaning, the chemicals that are being used in their products. To date, over electroplating, printing, screen-printing and painting. 1,300 chemicals have been mapped and documented by the PCH Sustainability Team. How we address chemical management: 1. Possible elimination Testing for Hazardous Substances 2. Substitution at concept phase and compliance documentation 3. Proper ventilation We work with our customers to ensure that the chemicals used in their 4. Establishing a safe (according to guidelines) distance between products are compliant with chemical directives and regulations. We the chemical and worker also help our clients with chemical testing and preparation of required 5. Providing personal protective equipment (PPE) chemical compliance documentation, which is necessary for product registration and customs clearance. When gathering chemical information, the strength of our relationship with suppliers is essential to our ability to secure accurate data and enforce protocols. Some suppliers, particularly sub-tier, are cautious about disclosing the chemicals they use. For this reason, we provide training on safe chemical selection and management, and work with them to be transparent, which is essential to our customers. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 69 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement — Ed Pataky OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 70 We conducted a formal materiality study and stakeholder analysis in 2015. We found that our materiality study and stakeholder analysis is still widely valid for 2018. However, we made some minor adjustments in certain areas to ensure the greatest accuracy. We did this by increasing our focus on sustainable product and packaging design. Despite it ranking low on the materiality index, it’s increasingly being requested by customers. Understanding the material issues for our different stakeholders is essential for our business and in setting priorities. We will continue to review our material issues on an annual basis. Materiality Matrix How We Communicate With Stakeholders Sustainability Governance OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 71 Materiality Matrix — 4.70 Management and Governance Environmental Management Very High 6 7 1 Business integrity and ethics 17 Safe manufacturing 8 2 Transparency and accountability 18 Waste reduction through 4.60 inventory management 3 Risk and reputation management 1 19 Alternative materials/chemicals 4 Economic impacts 20 Supplier environmental 5 Internal communication performance 4.50 14 11 and knowledge transfer 12 9 21 Sustainable packaging 2 Business Practices 22 Sustainable design 4.40 23 6 Human rights protection/ External Stakeholders 15 17 prevention of child labor Suppliers 24 7 Client privacy and intellectual 23 Health and safety for all 4.30 4 25 property protection PCH employees 26 3 27 10 8 Compliance 24 Supplier audits/code of conduct 13 compliance 29 9 Non-discriminatory pay 25 Anti-corruption 4.20 10 Fair business practices 26 Supply network traceability 30 Industry Collaboration 27 Responsible procurement practices 31 18 4.10 19 20 11 Customer satisfaction 28 Grievance mechanisms 16 5 21 12 Product compliance 32 28 22 Employees/Labor Practices 13 Accurate production planning 33 4.00 29 Fair wages and working hours Product/Service Delivery 30 Training/career development opportunities High 14 Time, cost, price competitiveness 31 Diversity and equal opportunity 15 Product innovation to solve 3.90 4.00 4.10 4.20 4.30 4.40 4.50 4.60 social/environmental problems 32 Recruitment and retention High Internal Stakeholders Very High 16 Accurate product and service labeling 33 Labor management relations OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 72 How We Communicate With Stakeholders — ALL -HA AG EN AU DI T ND SM AU C I E S DI CO NF S EE T IN G CO T S NF EV EN E REN C S E V EREN EN CE FAC T SEE S FAC T S E-T S L I T TO FA TLE B CE LIT TL O-F MI E BI R E AC MI C R IR D CR ME O BEN D ME O BEN DI EFI DI A EFI NE A WS L E TS NE PO WS L ET TS PO S T E T T ER ST R EC ER S T ER R EC R S RU IT SU RU I TM SU RV M EN RV SU E Y S EN TF SU E Y S STA TF A IR S STA T H IN A B A IR S T H IN A B RO U GH IL I T YR RO TO U G H IT Y RI L TO WN H CLI EP E N O RT TR WN H CLI EP E N O RT TR A IN A L L S TS A IN A L L S I TS W E IN G BS WE BS G WO I T E N WO I T E Stakeholder Group Location Stakeholder Group Location RD OF -M RD OF -M OU TH OU TH PCH Factory Employees China Media and Social Media Global PCH Corporate Employees Prospective Workforce Global Global (Global) Factory Landlords China PCH Office Employees China Supplier Dispatch Workers China in Factory Dispatch Agencies China Large Clients Global Peer Companies Global Medium Clients Global Academia Global Small Clients (Startups) Global End-of-life Recycling Asia /U.S./ Pro-social Entrepreneurs Global Plants Europe Industrial Service PCH-selected Suppliers China China Providers Investors and Board Asia /U.S./ Global Direct Consumers of Directors Europe Factory Owners China Other Consumers Asia /U.S./ (End-product) Europe Supplier Employees China Trade Unions China PCH Dispatch Agency Hires China Industry Associations Global Non-governmental Retail Stores Global Global Organizations Prospective Customers Global Logistics Companies Global and Freight Forwarders Customer-selected Global Agencies and Consultants Global Suppliers China / U.S./ Design Associations Local Communities U.S. Ireland and Design Consultants OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 73 Sustainability Governance — > The PCH Sustainability Team has influence across all our > Sustainability reviews are conducted on product and packaging divisions. The Sustainability Team is involved at all stages across PCH platforms in the U.S. and China, including new of the business: product development, supplier selection, project proposals. supplier development, packaging and distribution. The Team is > The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer heavily influential in the areas of Employee Health and Safety and Senior Leadership Team review all programs. (EHS), including compliance, workforce engagement, resource efficiency and safe handling of chemicals and other materials. > The PCH Audit Team conducts all China-based supplier qualification audits for labor, environmental and chemical > PCH is governed by a Board of Directors who delegate management practices. governance and responsibility for sustainability to the PCH Senior Leadership Team. > PCH-owned factories have a Sustainability Committee with Labor, EHS and Ethics subcommittees. > The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) oversees sustainability initiatives at PCH. > Individual offices champion CSR initiatives across the organization, including volunteering, diversity, internships > Each program is initiated within our China-based Sustainability and charitable giving. Team, led by the Head of Sustainability. Details are reported to the CFO to ensure there is a viable business case for > Our suppliers are expected to adhere to our Supplier Code each project. of Conduct (CoC). > Programs focus on supplier network development, EHS, worker engagement, social initiatives and industry partnerships. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 74 Jason Seitz OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 75 Looking Ahead — Josh Kagan, Hugo Oritz and Michelle McCarthy OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 76 We work in a dynamic industry that requires shorter production cycles, increased factory sophistication and greater demand for personalized products. Non-tech industries such as fashion, beauty and entertainment are entering the hardware market. We will continue to expand our profitable growth opportunities by focusing on product development, specialized manufacturing, fulfillment and supply chain orchestration. We welcome that end consumers are asking more questions about the origin of products, their impact on the environment and product life cycle. PCH seeks to lead the industry in providing transparency. Our Sustainability Progress in 2018 2019 Sustainability Goals OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 77 Our Sustainability Progress in 2018 — More to do Ongoing Complete Status 2018 Goals Update 2019 Goals Assessment of current sustainability structure Decision was made in 2018 on restructure of within PCH and identify how modifications can Appoint Global VP, Sustainability, reporting directly to CEO Sustainability function to report directly to CEO. help achieve longer term goals. Finalize strategy for integration of carbon neutrality Expand to include more product materials and All packaging design work to include Life Cycle options for design and delivery of products. Internal the removal of single-use plastics as a near-term Analysis and sustainable materials. procedures to be defined in preparation for rollout of focus. carbon neutral product strategies. PCH Employee Handbook updated to ensure Rollout updated grievance mechanism initiative grievance mechanism in place, procedure outlined, Complete across all PCH locations. and acknowledged by all employees. Develop corporate partnership with PCH continues to engage with sustainability-focused PCH to host sustainability-themed events at our facilities. sustainability bodies in additional industries; organizations with a view to growing our network of Encourage cross-industry collaboration on addressing develop roadmap for future collaboration. potential partners in this area sustainability challenges. PCH procedures developed to work with supply Ensure flexibility in procedure to allow for continuous network on control of restricted materials. Supply restriction of harmful materials, with the ability for Restricted Substance List (RSL) standardized network provides material declaration for PCH additional restrictions based on customer requirements. and applied across all projects. project team verification. PCH controls against PCH project team to set and declare standards to RSL requirement plus additional customer-specific which Supply Partners must adhere to in order for AVL requirements. compliance and project kick-off. Explore and enable possible transition of Working on structural change with this partner to ensure our partner from NGO to social enterprise Ongoing no loss of capacity during transition to social enterprise, partnerships to help prepare for scale to meet continues in exploratory phase. long-term goals. Current status is customer-dependent. In some PCH will continue to engage with customers on AVL cases suppliers may meet criteria for audit waiver, All consigned suppliers meet AVL standard. auditing strategy. PCH will carry out consigned supplier in accordance with Responsible Business Alliance inspections on customer’s behalf. guidelines. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 78 2019 Sustainability Goals — Continue to enhance Continue to develop Materials Increase engagement with Establish additional Supply long-term sustainability goals Library, encouraging clients sustainability leaders in other Network development for the Company. to choose less harmful industries, e.g., apparel, programs, partnering with chemicals/materials/processes. cosmetics, etc. to incorporate third-party service providers for best practices. ease of scale. Programs to focus on waste reduction, manufacturing efficiency. Continue to develop and deploy Continue to assess Develop capability to offer Creation of dedicated Restricted Subtances List (RSL) sustainability issues for supply PCH customers full Life Cycle cross-platform sustainability for customers who do not have base consigned by our clients. Analysis (LCA) reports on initiatives focused on startups their own RSL. product, along with existing and hardware companies that capabilities on packaging. are preparing to scale. Initiatives are tailored to requirements for small and medium size enterprises. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 79 About This Report — Graham Hough OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 80 This is our seventh annual Sustainability Report and covers the year 2018 at PCH. Our 2012 2017 Reports can be accessed on our website. Our 2018 Report covers all PCH business units and entities. This is not a report on the financial condition of the organization. Because we are a privately held company, we do not disclose certain financial information, capitalization structure of the organization or details of the share capital and executive board structure of the organization in this Report or in any public forum. Mutual non-disclosure agreements prevent us from naming our suppliers and customers in many cases. Many suppliers and customers do not wish to be named to protect trade secrets and maintain their competitive advantage. We respect this and are working with our partners towards a more transparent future. Our Reporting Glossary Guidelines of Terms Information GRI Index in This Report OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 81 Our Reporting Information Guidelines in This Report — — Our sustainability reporting follows industry and sustainability The information in this Report may contain forward-looking standards, including the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) statements. Such statements reflect management’s current Communication on Progress and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) expectations. Although management believes such statements to be Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This Report has been prepared in reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. prove correct. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, and such future events could differ materially from those set out in In compiling this Report, we incorporated the principles for defining the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, report content, namely: stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability changes in economic, market or competitive conditions, success context, materiality and completeness. We strive to ensure the of business and operating initiatives, changes in the regulatory principles for defining report quality are also met, namely: balance, environment and other governmental actions and business risk comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. We have not management. Any forward-looking statement made in this Report sought independent assurance of this Report. relates only to events as of the date on which the statement is made. All data in this Report is based on the best possible methodologies We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements currently available and is aligned with recognized standards. to reflect new information, except as required by law. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data is subject to inherent uncertainties because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emission factors and measurements. Our GHG emissions accounting and reporting are aligned with the GHG Protocol, and the emission factors we use are from publicly available sources such as the International Energy Agency (IEA). The reported energy usage is based on invoiced utility data, data reported by transport providers and suppliers and data from real-time electricity meters. Monetary amounts are reported in U.S. dollars. Additional currency values are conversions based on the conversion rate on December 31, 2018, unless stated otherwise. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 82 Glossary of Terms — AVL: Approved Vendor List. paint, ink, cleaning agents and CSR: Corporate Social DFA: Design for Assembly is a thinners. Included are chemicals Responsibility. process by which products are BOM: Bill of Materials. A list of that form part of the final designed for efficiency and raw materials, subassemblies, product as well as sacrificial Corporate Staff: ease of assembly. intermediate assemblies, chemicals (those that are not All non-operator (non-factory) subcomponents, parts and the part of the final product). employees who work in DFM: Design for Manufacturing quantities of each required to PCH offices. is the engineering practice of manufacture a product. CQM: Client Quality Manager. designing products, so they are COGS: Cost of Goods Sold is the easy to manufacture. B2B: Business to Business. CRM: Client Relationship direct costs attributed to the Manager. production of the goods sold. DFP: Design for Procurement. B2C: Business to Consumer. CoC: Code of Conduct. Customer: A customer of PCH. DFT: Design for Testing. B2D: Business to Distributor. Consumer: End customer of Customization: The process of Design Engineer: Research Cell Based Manufacturing: our customers. and develop ideas and systems creating a unique order for an The manufactory production for manufacture. Improve the individual customer, market, line set up as small cell. Consumer Engagement: region or retailer. performance and efficiency of The (emotional) connection Channel: (Fulfillment) existing products. between a brand and its Demand Planning: Distribution channels such customers that increases DVT: Design Validation Test. Customer’s demand analysis. as retail, ecommerce and retention and promotes loyalty. direct-to-consumer. Demand Pull: LEAN production DVU: Design Validation Units. Continuity of Supply: system by which shipments Chemicals: Substances and The stability and continuity Development Engineer: (demand) trigger production chemical compositions that are of supply. Oversees research and design starts. additives to the manufacturing teams, lead testing procedures process such as adhesives, CM: Contract Manufacturer. and draft specifications for manufacturing. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 83 Glossary of Terms — Dispatch Worker: Factory Factory: A manufacturing, IP: Intellectual Property. Manufacturing Partner: operators who work in PCH logistics, fulfillment or Strategic manufactory that distribution business. Some Jig and Fixture: The mechanical PCH wants to work together facilities who are hired and factory businesses are a tools used on production with for long term. managed by a third-party collection of facility buildings. lines to help increase the dispatch agency. accuracy and efficiency of the MPS: Mass Production Schedule Employee: Any person who Factory Office Staff: production process. Material Safety Data Sheet has an employment contract All non-operator employees JDM: Joint Design (MSDS): A document that with PCH, excluding supervised who work in factory offices. Manufacturing. contains information on a workforce. FDA: U.S. Food and Drug material’s potential hazards Just-in-Time: Lean supply chain. EHS: Employee Health and Administration. of (health, fire, reactivity and Safety, also referred to as KPI: Key Performance Indicator. environmental) and how to work First Pass Yield: Number safely with the material. Environment, Health and Safety of good units of products Lean Manufacturing: A in our industry. completed through the production methodology Materials Management: EOL: End of Life. production process with no that focuses on minimizing The management of materials scrap or rework. waste within manufacturing planning, purchasing, End-to-End: The product production and delivery, Fulfillment: The process of systems while simultaneously journey from concept to to fulfill the demand. preparing and delivering a maximizing productivity. consumer. consumer order. LCA: Life Cycle Analysis is the New Generation Supply Chain: EVT: Engineering Asset-light supply chain that is Global Network: Relationships assessment of all environmental Validation Test. highly flexible. with suppliers worldwide. factors of a product’s life, from E&O: Excess and Obsolete. raw materials to end of use. NPI: New Product Introduction GRI: Global Reporting Initiative. is a phase in manufacturing Facility: A factory building; Logistics: movement of the one factory business might IoT: Internet of Things is the products from suppliers to when processes are refined have multiple facilities. network of devices, vehicles end consumer. and validated through pilot and home appliances which use builds and capabilities studies technology to connect, interact to capture issues early in order and exchange data. to resolve them. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 84 Glossary of Terms — OEL: Occupational Exposure Pack Out: The final step PDM: Product Development RACI: A matrix used to assign Limit is a regulation that sets (often including packaging Management. roles and responsibilities for maximum exposure levels of and labeling) before shipment each task, milestone, or decision to customer. PP: Production Planning. on a project. RACI stands for chemicals and other hazardous materials in workplace air. Production Ramp: The increase Responsible, Accountable, PPE: Personal Protective Consulted, Informed. in factory production and labor OTS: Off The Shelf, referring Equipment such as protective clothing, helmets, goggles or required to meet manufacturing RBA: Responsible Business to product currently being other garments or equipment production demand. Alliance. designed and manufactured. designed to protect the wearer’s PVT: Production Validation Test. OTD: On Time Delivery. RSL: Restricted Substance body from injury or infection. PRD: Product Requirements List, which includes hazardous Operator: Factory production Personalization: The process chemicals and raw materials Document. staff (line operators, warehouse of creating a unique product and possible alternatives. and logistics staff) hired by PCH utilizing such methods as PM: Program Manager. or our suppliers on a full-time or Senior Leadership Team: monogramming, etching supervised basis. Prototype: An early sample, The team of PCH Senior and printing. model, build or release of a Executives designated by the Operations: The whole facility’s Platform: A system structure product created to test product Board of Directors to manage daily management including where we can share data features and design concept PCH business, including but not production, shipment, quality. and communicate internally before investing time and limited to the Chief Executive and externally. money in production. Officer and Chief Financial Orchestration: Management and optimization of a Officer. The team is also PSSR: Pre-Startup Safety Review QMS: Quality Management customer’s supply chain to designated with responsibility of is a tool that incorporates System. return value to the brand. sustainability leadership at PCH. safety measures Raw Material: Any non-living OECD: Organization for in pre-production design SOW: Statement of Work matter, whether natural or Economic Cooperation and processes. defines the specific services man-made, which combine to and Development. (work activities and Procurement: Purchasing. make customer products such deliverables) that a contractor as plastic components, metals, ODM: Original Design is expected to perform. leather and fabrics. and Manufactory. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 85 Glossary of Terms GRI Index — — SOP: Standard Operating Sustainability: Focus on PCH follows the GRI Standards, an internationally recognized Procedure. meeting the needs of the framework for disclosing economic, environmental and social present without compromising performance. This report has been prepared in accordance Supplier: A factory not owned the ability of future generations with the GRI Standards: Core option. by PCH that supplies products, to meet their needs. The concept goods or services to PCH and of sustainability is composed our customers. of three pillars: economic, Supplier Partner: Strategic environmental and social. supplier that PCH wants to work Sustaining Production: together with for the long term. Sustainable production. SIPOC: A SIPOC (sometimes Transport and Logistics COPIS) is a tool that Partner: Strategic logistics summarizes the inputs and supplier that PCH wants to work outputs of one or more together with for the long term. processes in table form. The acronym SIPOC stands for Tooling: Molding. suppliers, inputs, process, UNGC: UN Global Compact. outputs and customers, which form the columns of the table. Vendor: All PCH suppliers, including factories, sample part SBM: Supply Based suppliers, office supplies, goods Management. and services. Supply Chain: Supply channels Vertical Integration: from raw material and Consolidation of upstream components to finished goods. and downstream supply chain. Supply Planning: Visibility: Clear information Material planning. which is visible and transparent. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 86 GRI Index — Disclosure Description/Detail Location in Report/Detail/Omission Explanation Page General Standard Disclosures Organizational 102-1 Name of organization PCH Intl. 92 Profile 102-2 Products and services About PCH: What We Do 13 102-3 Headquarters Cork, Ireland 34 102-4 Locations Our Key Operations 34 102-5 Ownership About This Report 82 102-6 Markets served Our Key Operations 34 102-7 Scale PCH in 2018 15 102-8 Employees About Our People 42 102-9 Supply chain Partnering with Our Suppliers 54 102-10 Significant changes Message from Liam Casey 5 102-11 Precautionary Principle N/A 102-12 External initiatives PCH is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. 102-13 Association memberships United Nations Global Compact 82 Strategy 102-14 CEO Statement Message from Liam Casey 5 Ethics 102-16 Values and Code of Conduct Employee Guidelines, Supplier Code of Conduct 43, 54 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Sustainability Governance 74 Stakeholder 102-40 Stakeholder groups How We Communicate with Stakeholders 73 Engagement 102-42 Identifying stakeholders Materiality, Stakeholder Engagement 72, 73 OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 87 GRI Index — Disclosure Description/Detail Location in Report/Detail/Omission Explanation Page Stakeholder 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement How We Communicate to Stakeholders 73 Engagement 102-44 Key Topics Materiality Matrix 72 Reporting 102-46 Defining report content Our Reporting Guidelines 82 Practice GRI Index 86 102-47 Material topics GRI Index 87 102-48 Restatements N/A 102-49 Changes in reporting N/A 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2018 unless otherwise noted 81 102-51 Date of most recent report March 15, 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 81 102-53 Contact point for questions Alan Cuddihy, vice president, sustainability, alan@pchintl.com 102-54 GRI in accordance option Core 82 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index 87 102-56 External assurance N/A Specific Standard Disclosures Economic Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supplier Spend by Location 58 Practices Anti-Corruption 205-1 Anti-Corruption guidelines Anti-Corruption and Business Ethics 68 OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 88 GRI Index — Disclosure Description/Detail Location in Report/Detail/Omission Explanation Page Environmental Energy 302-1 Energy Consumption Resource Use 39 Water 303-5 Water consumption Resource Use 39 Emissions 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Resource Use 39 Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Resource Use 39 Environmental 307-1 Non-Compliance with environmental laws and We have never been fined or had any incidents of non-compliance Compliance regulations with regulations or laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Social Labor/ 402-1 Minimum notice periods for operational changes In the event of any change to our operations that would Management significantly affect our factory employees, up to three days' notice Relations is provided by the HR department. When any employee is no longer to be employed by our factories, they receive at least one-month notice from factory management. Occupational 403-1 Occupational health and safety management Worker Health and Safety 43 Health and Safety system 403-9 Work-related injuries Worker Health and Safety 43 Training and 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills Career Enhancement Opportunities 45 Education Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity 48 Equal Opportunity Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Audit Discoveries 56 child labor Marketing and 417-1 Requirements for product information and For product labeling such as European Conformity (CE), U.S. Food Labeling labeling and Drug Administration (FDA) or labeling approval for a particular market, our customers instruct us on their labeling requirements. OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 89 James Kong, Bella Huang and Rinna Zeng OUR PURPOSE ABOUT PCH OPERATIONS PEOPLE SUPPLY NETWORK PRODUCT MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD ABOUT THIS REPORT 90 NORTH AMERICA ASIA EUROPE SILICON VALLEY SHENZHEN, CHINA CORK, IRELAND PCH Innovation Hub PCH Innovation Hub PCH International 135 Mississippi Street 9A Zhong Tian Yuan Heritage Business Park San Francisco, CA Logistics Centre Bessboro Road 94107 8 Tao Hua Road Blackrock, Cork pchintl.com USA Futian Free Trade Zone, Ireland Shenzhen, China info@pchintl.com
