Sustainability Report 2019 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Contents About the report The Sustainability Report 2019 reports on Danfoss’ activities from a sustainability perspective and presents Danfoss’ contribution as a committed participant in the UN Global Compact. CEO comment 3 Our Operations Energy, climate and environment 18 The Sustainability Report is framed in the context of our Overview Global decarbonization 19 sustainability program. In essence, this report is about Danfoss targets CO2 neutrality 4 Energy consumption and emissions 20 how we do business responsibly and profitably, with a view to maximizing sustainable value creation for society. We want 30% female leaders 5 Less plastic for a better planet 21 Sustainability highlights 2019 6 Compliance – products and materials 22 This report complements Danfoss’ Annual Report 2019, About Danfoss 7 Compliance – ethics and human rights 23 which presents our business and financial results for the Our commitment to sustainability 8 year and outlines the company’s strategy and priorities. Our People Our Solutions Our people 25 Danfoss’ annual reporting is prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act (FSA). Together with the Our work with the SDGs 9 Diversity and inclusion 26 Annual Report 2019, the Sustainability Report 2019 fulfills the Our impact on the SDGs 10 We are proud of our people 28 requirements of FSA, Sections 99a and 99b, by accounting Health and safety 29 for Danfoss’ activities relating to social responsibility and reporting on activities in the areas of human rights, labor Stay up-to-date rights, diversity, environment, anti-corruption, and climate change. Stay up-to-date 31 Follow us here 31 This Sustainability Report 2019 has been prepared and Sources 32 published in English. The report is released as an electronic publication only and made available at www.danfoss.com. Frontpage Future of the Fjords is the first fully electric carbon fiber vessel in the world. Danfoss electric solutions enable marine vehicles to navigate without CO2 emissions Danfoss became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2002. We continue to support the Global Compact and its principles, which govern our sustainability efforts. Read more at unglobalcompact.org 2/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Danfoss targets CO₂ “For a long time, we have talked about neutrality by latest 2030 ‘doing something about climate change’. Now, it is time to take the decisions needed to implement the There is a lot of talk about the climate criand on driving the uptake of electric technologies that can transform our world sis right now – but more talk won’t help us. That’s why at Danfoss, we follow our mobility, smart buildings, and district energy. Ultimately, we invest heavily in on a greater scale.” founder’s mindset ‘action speaks louder electrification powered by renewable than words’ – and set ourselves new and energy. We also want to transform our ambitious targets followed by action: own company car fleet to be electric when infrastructure becomes available.  1. We commit to CO₂ neutrality by latest 2030 – supporting the Business Ambition Second, as a leading technology provider, for 1.5°C and signing up to the Science we believe in high performing diverse Based Targets initiative – because as teams and an inclusive workplace to an engineering company, we naturally develop innovative solutions to tackle believe in science to solve our biggest the global megatrends of climate change, challenges. food supply, and urbanization all by enabling sustainable development through  2. We set a target for high-performing digitalization and electrification. diverse teams with 30% female leaders by 2025 – as we need the best people with We continue our strong commitment to the diverse backgrounds to drive innovation UN Global Compact and the Sustainable and take advantage of the megatrends. Development Goals. We cannot achieve this without our dedicated 27,871 employees. How are we going to do that? We follow Together, we are proving that it is possible common sense and our business mindset. to deliver on ambitious performance targets and on the Paris Agreement. We First, we will invest further in energy demonstrate that sustainability is good efficiency in our own operations, as the business for people and the planet. We cheapest and cleanest energy is the one, we have the technologies today; we need to do not use. However, we are well underway stop talking and start acting. and will continue to move forward. Then we will work with our partners in cities, utilities and governments on the Kim Fausing infrastructure needed for sector integration, President & CEO 3/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Danfoss targets CO₂ neutrality by latest 2030 Joining the decade of action, Danfoss has set itself new ambitious targets to become CO₂ neutral by latest 2030 with a focus on energy efficiency first. 2020 As a step towards turning our ambitious decarbonization commitment into action, Danfoss has joined the Business Ambition for 1.5°C and the group of leading companies 254,000 tons CO₂ today behind the Science Based Targets initiative – because as an from our operations engineering company, we naturally believe in science to solve our biggest challenges. Our global Energy Saving Programs has successfully lowered our global energy consumption and emissions compared to our sales. To drive these improvements even further, Danfoss has joined all three business action initiatives by The Climate 2030 Group, an international non-profit organization dedicated to accelerating climate action. CO₂ neutral in the We are now working on plans to transition the company’s global operations energy consumption to renewable sources and its current company car fleet to electric vehicles by latest 2030, given that the necessary infrastructure will be in place. 0% “The climate emergency is a reality – and time for talk is over. Focusing on energy efficiency and electrification is at the very core of our business, where we take action every day. Decarbonizing our business using cost-efficient solutions that reduce energy consumption, drive electrification and integrate renewable energy is how we take climate action to showcase that green growth is indeed possible.” Kim Fausing, President & CEO of the Danfoss Group. 4/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People We want 30% female leaders by 2025 Our world is transforming with high speed. The megatrends 30% female leaders by 2025 change the way we do business and inspire us to continuously redefine the way we work. Diversity of thought combined with an inclusive work culture enables us to unleash the potential in every team, making us 30% in 2025 more agile and innovative. However, we are not where we want to be: The representation of women in leadership roles does not reflect our organizational gender split. We recognize that our business, as well as the industry we 25% operate in, is dominated by men. To us, this only means that in 2022 we have a responsibility to make engineering even more attractive to female talents. That’s why we have set new ambitious targets to reach 25% female leaders by 2022 and 30% female leaders by 20% in 2019 2025. We want to break down barriers and assumptions about leadership roles and inspire everyone to achieve their potential. We want it because it is simply the right thing for us to do. 5/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Sustainability highlights 2019 45% Reduction of Danfoss' energy intensity since the base year 2007. “ 35% We successfully reduced the global Lost Time Danfoss joined new partnerships with, amongst Injury Frequency by 35% from the 2017 level others, the Three Percent Club, Getting to Zero versus a target of 50%. The LTIF ended at 2.2 Coalition and Cool Coalition. lost time incidents per million hours worked. Reduction in Lost Time Injury Frequency Since 2007, we have succeeded in reducing our since 2017. Six Danfoss solutions received recognition for heat consumption at the Nordborg campus by their contribution to the SDGs and obtained the more than 60% and we have reduced the CO₂ Solar Impulse Efficient Solutions Label which emissions from heating by more than 70%. serves as a guarantee of quality to those looking to implement clean solutions.  anfoss Poland successfully implemented the D 117 Less Plastic project in Danfoss' Eastern European In 2019, Danfoss received Sustainary's SDG Region, preventing 300,000 plastic water bottles Tech Award in the “Best Company” category in from being annually disposed as waste. ” recognition for the company's sustainable and innovative technology solutions. Different nationalities work in Danfoss creating high-performing diverse teams across the globe. 6/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People About Danfoss Today, global megatrends are changing the world, making Business model 72 Factories Danfoss more relevant than ever. Danfoss’ competitive advantage builds on three core capabilities which We have proven and reliable solutions to meet many of enhance customer productivity, profitability and sustainability: Application knowledge, Innovation and Leading positions. These capabilities reflect our climate, urbanization, and food challenges. Driven how we create value for our customers across the business segments. Key is by the power of an electrified society and fueled by the our operational setup with extensive, global coverage and a strong regional opportunities of going digital, Danfoss is dedicated to presence close to customers. engineering solutions that can unleash the potential of tomorrow. 27,871 With the promise of quality, reliability, and innovation deeply rooted in our DNA, we deliver an extensive range of products and solutions across our business segments of Heating, Cooling, Drives, and Power Solutions. Climate change Across the globe, our sustainable, smart technologies power Application Innovation Employees industries and cities, secure a reliable food supply, and create knowledge Differentiate through new technology healthier, more comfortable indoor climates. At the same Close to customers time, we’re developing solutions that integrate renewables Competitive into tomorrow’s smart energy systems, where onand offadvantage highway machinery, cars and marine vessels are powered by hybrid and fully electric solutions. Food supply Digitalization This is where the transformation starts – in the way we heat, Leading positions 6.3 cool, connect, and feed a growing population. Together with Exploit scale our customers, we help make a greener and better future a reality. Together, we are engineering tomorrow. Urbanization Electrification Our innovative engineering dates back to 1933. Today, Danfoss holds market-leading positions, employing 27,871 people and serving customers in more than 100 countries. EURbn Sales We are privately owned by the founding family. Visit danfoss.com Read more in the Annual Report 2019 7/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Our commitment to sustainability Taking care of the world we operate in has been a focus Being a sustainable company, we create value in the form of for Danfoss since the company was founded in 1933. The increased employee engagement, more efficient operations Danfoss DNA and our culture has been instrumental in our and improved utilization of resources. In other words, it is ability to build leading positions across multiple industries. really good business to be sustainable and provide solutions Sustainability, with regards to people and the environment to the world’s challenges. Danfoss sustainability program as well as financial performance, is a precondition for Danfoss’ long-term success and for the company’s ability to At the societal level, our work on sustainability and the make bold decisions and invest in future technologies. Sustainable Development Goals create value through the company’s initiatives and local presence. Society benefits Our sustainability policies because we take responsibility for the vulnerable in the labor Business and products People and community We will be a reliable and trustworthy business partner by market, for training employees or contributing to increased acting responsibly while balancing financial, environmental energy efficiency or the transition to green energy. Energy and CO₂ emissions Health and safety and social issues. We comply with the UN Global Compact Resource efficiency Environment and support the Sustainable Development Goals and engage But we cannot deliver on abovementioned without ensuring Products and materials Ethics and human rights with our stakeholders to promote sustainable development. that we are acting in compliance with global minimum Sustainable Development Goals Compliance programs We do our utmost to implement decisions and actions with standards for human rights, labor rights, the environment dignity and fairness and we ensure that sustainability is a and anti-corruption and the Global Compact’s ten principles. fundamental element of our business conduct focusing We keep our own house in order and are proud to be a on resource efficiency, risk mitigation, reputation and leading player in the fight against global heating. engagement. Desired outcome Together with our aspiration, promise, values and behaviors, Cost Risk Business Employee Keeping our own house in order our sustainability program ensures that we maintain a and assessment opportunities engagement Danfoss is actively working with sustainability, integrating it strategic focus on those areas where we have the biggest resource and and and optimization mitigation reputation commitment into our daily work to serve as an active role model. impact and can create the best results. 8/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People We deliver on the 2020 What we want Sustainable Develop processes to measure the impact of our business on the SDGs. Development Goals Strengthen the knowledge on the SDGs in Danfoss' global organization through internal awareness programs. An ever-growing global sense of the climate crisis and 2019 existing inequalities led to the adoption of the Sustainable What we did Development Goals, that became a standing agenda for In total, six Danfoss solutions have many governments, business, cities and civil society who are received recognition for their contrimobilizing efforts to deliver on sustainable development. For bution to the SDGs and obtained the Danfoss as a leader in technology and innovation, the SDGs Solar Impulse label. first of all create good business opportunities and generate the space to make a positive impact in the societies around us. In 2019, Danfoss engaged with three more partnerships: Cool Coalition, Our product portfolio offers a wide range of solutions helping Getting to Zero Coalition and the Three our customers to minimize their environmental footprint and Percent Club. mitigate global climate issues, such as air pollution in cities. We enable sustainability, efficiency and productivity in buildings, transportation, urban development, energy systems and food production. 2019 The prioritized SDGs What we said SDG 7 is at the center of everything we do – it is the opportunity Further increase ownership and for us to set the focus on climate action through our products commitment to the Sustainable and manufacturing processes. Our passion for energy efficiency Development Goals in Danfoss' global and electrification is directly linked to four of the Sustainable organization. Development Goals – SDG 6, SDG 7, SDG 11 and SDG 12 – these are the areas where we consider our products and solutions Engage in more projects and partnerto have the highest impact. Taking care of our people, ships to advance the SDGs. communities and the regions, in which we operate is the key element of our company DNA. We take responsibility for vulnerable people in the labor market, for training employees and providing equal opportunities and conditions for a diverse workforce. 9/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Clean water and sanitation Fresh, clean water is a basic element of life it is vital for agriculture and important for industries. At Danfoss, we provide solutions with optimized energy consumption for water and wastewater handling, and desalination, which is important in water-scarce areas. Our technology helps to reduce water loss in city pipes networks and secure more efficient water use within food production. Every drop of water count energy use and minimizing water loss in production from the wastewater facility. Water scarcity is one of the major water-treatment applications and irrigation This has been achieved without adding challenges that the world is facing today networks. Sensors and variable speed drives external carbon to the wastewater facility or with 2.1bn people without access to safe coupled with advanced process control using any other external energy sources. At drinking water. With 2-3% of global energy can significantly reduce water leakage the moment, Aarhus Water is running with consumption, the mutual dependency and energy consumption by at least 25% only 6% water leakage. Our variable speed between energy and water has an through cost-effective efficiency actions. drives and pressure transmitters are the key enormous impact on global economic part of such systems. growth, the environment and our future High energy use in municipalities in general. Up to 30-50% of a municipality's total Partnerships for capacity building electricity bill can be spent on water and We work actively with municipalities, such Energy-efficient water systems wastewater. as ProjectZero in Sonderborg, Denmark, Visit danfoss.com A more energy-efficient water system In Aarhus, Denmark, we achieved 100% and through global city networks, such automatically helps to reduce water leakage. energy-surplus production by increasing as C40, to help build capacity and deploy Our solutions helped Danish water utility At Danfoss, we engineer technologies for an the energy efficiency throughout the smart, and energy-efficient solutions for the company to become energy-neutral. Click energy-neutral water sector, by optimizing whole water cycle and maximizing energy energy-neutral water sector, today. to learn more. 10/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People 2025 Is the year, when 1/3 of the world’s population will live in water-stressed areas according to the United Nations. 25% of water and energy consumption can be saved with energyefficiency measures and smart technology. 100% energy-surplus production by increasing the energy efficiency throughout the whole water cycle. Play video Handling water efficiently is vital for human wellbeing. Watch the video to learn more on why pressure management is the key part of the solution in achieving more efficient water management on a global scale. 11/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Affordable and sustainable energy for all To reach carbon neutrality, energy-efficient technology and renewables must be implemented together and on a large scale. We must not only turn our energy supply green but decouple economic growth from energy demand. An enabler for the energy transition is electrification. Danfoss engineers solutions for an electrified mobility sector on land and sea. The future is electric navigates without CO₂ emissions. The Danfoss’ motors, According to the International Energy Agency, around 44% used in the e-ferry, are powered by a battery system with of emissions reduction need to come from energy efficiency an unprecedented capacity of 4.3 MWh and fueled 100% by to reduce the world’s energy demand and 36% from electricity. This makes Ellen emissions-free and she saves renewable energy, such as wind and solar. An enabler for the the climate 2,000 tons of CO₂ every year. On top of this, the green transition is an electrified mobility sector, both on land technology allows 50% energy savings compared to dieseland at sea. powered vessels. Maritime sector emissions With market-ready emissions-free ferries, we can electrify The maritime sector is responsible for about 2-3% of global transport in in-shore shipping areas, and on rivers, harbor greenhouse gas emissions. At Danfoss, we engineer electric areas and lakes. These innovative solutions make it solutions for off-highway and marine transport to reduce possible to reduce pollution and improve air quality in the not only CO₂ and other pollutants, but also improve the surrounding areas. productivity and efficiency of such machines. Our Editron electric marine system makes ferries far less carbon Electrification of transport by sea holds great potential intensive and allows them to sail without polluting island That’s why, in 2019, we joined the Global Maritime Forum’s communities, coastal zones and inland waterways. multi-stakeholder initiative, called the Getting to Zero Visit danfoss.com Coalition, aiming at zero-emissions vessels by 2030. We want The world’s most powerful electric ferry Ellen started to be a partner for our customers and have our technologies Our Editron electric marine system reduces operating in Danish waters in 2019. The electrically ready for a decarbonized maritime sector. emissions of marine transport. Click to learn powered ferry has the largest battery capacity at sea and more. 12/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Play video Achieving low-carbon and sustainable future requires electrification of transport on sea and land. Watch the video to learn 2-3% of global greenhouse gas emissions are emitted by the more about the case. maritime sector. 100% an electrically powered battery system drives the motor of the E-Ferry Ellen. Electricity from sustainable energy sources is the fuel of the future for maritime vessels. 13/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Sustainable cities and communities To ensure our future, cities must scale up urban efficiency and transform their energy systems. At Danfoss, we provide energy-efficient solutions for sustainable buildings, heating and cooling, district energy systems and electric transport to develop carbon-neutral cities as the world’s first responders to the climate emergency. Climate-conscious urban planning data from weather forecasts, the software Within 30 years, the Earth's population adjusts the indoor climate to reduce energy will reach almost 10 billion. With nearly consumption and cost. 70% of people living in cities, our success in achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 will In Finland, where winters get very cold, depend on urban strategies, policies and the pressure on the energy system is actions. extreme. By getting building-control systems installed in 4,100 apartments, We need to future-proof our cities Finland’s fourth largest housing association Heating, ventilation and air conditioning was able to reduce energy consumption in buildings is one important topic no by 20% and achieve a 10% reduction in one should overlook when tackling the energy cost. This has led to a reduction of climate crisis. At Danfoss, we engineer greenhouse gas emissions of 3,800 tons digital solutions for urban efficiency, based per year. on innovative software and connectivity solutions. Working with the Three Percent Club As part of the newly launched Three Percent Our Leanheat technology uses Artificial Club by the International Energy Agency, Intelligence (AI), and Internet of Things UN Environment, Alliance to Save Energy, (IoT) sensors to make buildings intelligent World Resources Institute and others, we Visit danfoss.com making already energy-efficient district support countries and cities to develop energy systems, even more climate friendly. energy-efficient buildings and district The Leanheat solution makes buildings By monitoring temperature and humidity heating and cooling systems for futuremore intelligent by using AI and IoT. Click to in each apartment in combination with proof and sustainable cities. learn more. 14/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People 60-80% of energy resources will be consumed in cities in 2030. 20% of energy is saved in peak hours due to intelligent buildings. 30% reduction in technical-maintenance costs for buildings by providing accurate predictive problem-detection. Play video With Danfoss Leanheat installed in over 100,000 apartments, we actively contribute to mitigating the impact of cities on climate change. 15/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Responsible consumption and production With a growing population, consumers are demanding more, safer and healthier food. This means that the need for efficient and effective food supply and cold chain management has never been more important. We offer technologies that enable the reduction of post-harvest food losses and ensure perfect conditions from farm to fork. Closing the food gap today In India, banana farming has been marked by severe food Food loss and waste accounts for about 8% of global loss. Every third banana in the world is produced in India, greenhouse gas emissions annually. If this was its own with more than nine million tons produced in the state of country, it would be the world’s third-largest emitter. Tamil Nadu alone, where post-harvest losses have reached While 1/3 of all food produced is never eaten, 800 million up to 30%. Danfoss supported farmers in establishing postpeople go to bed hungry every day. harvest measures and a cold chain, extending the life of bananas and making transportation possible. This resulted At Danfoss, we provide technologies for every step of the in a 20% reduction of post-harvest food loss and an increase food supply chain. For example, energy-efficient pre-cooling in farmers’ income by 200%. and cold storage extends the life and quality of the product, while ripening chambers ensure better control and the right Joining the UN's Cool Coalition to share knowledge temperature for the product. The potential of precision Now we are aiming to scale this approach with the help farming and cold chain solutions can radically improve the of the UN Environment-based Cool Coalition, helping way we produce and handle our food for the benefit of the governments to develop cooling action plans and increase climate, farmers and consumers. their farmers' income and productivity. Visit danfoss.com Fighting food loss as a means of reaching zero hunger is not Our product portfolio for cold chain only vital in meeting the growing demand for food, but it is applications allows food to be preserved all also a way to lift more people out of poverty. the way. Click to learn more. 16/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Play video 1/3 of all food produced is lost or wasted. Indian bananas made their way to Europe for the first time in 2018. Technologies and partnerships made it happen. 200% increase in farmers' income achieved due to established partnership between Danfoss and banana farmers. 20% reduction in post-harvest food loss achieved in Indian case through implemented post-harvest measures and a cold chain. 17/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Energy, climate 2020 What we want and environment Provide detailed recommendations on how to decarbonize Danfoss’ global operations at the latest by 2030. Launch pilot projects paving the way for electric company cars by 2030. Launch “LessPlastic” globally to phase We enable the world to do more with improvements. In 2019, 87% of all production companies out single-use plastic by 2021. less to build a carbon-neutral future were certified to ISO 14001. The remaining companies are exempt from the requirement. At Danfoss, we turn words into action. It’s in our DNA. As The Himmark beach area next to Danfoss’ headquarters in more opportunities come up through digitalization and Nordborg, Denmark, was used in the 1950s and 1960s for 2019 the ambition of an electric future, we are putting ourselves and our customers in the perfect position to be part of the landfill and the incineration of 28,000 to 52,000 m3 industrial waste; of which 6-700 m3 contained chlorinated solvents and What we did sustainable transformation. Our diverse team of 27,871 petroleum products. It happened with the approval of the Danfoss’ energy intensity was reduced ambitious colleagues makes this possible. authorities who do not hold Danfoss accountable for the by 45% and the CO₂ intensity fell by 33%, pollution. both compared to 2007. Nevertheless, Danfoss has chosen to pay for investigations Our environmental policies to further understand how the pollution can be remediated. Danfoss announced the company’s Guided by the energy-efficiency-first principle, we prevent Danfoss has also volunteered to pay our share of the cost of ambition to become CO₂ neutral in pollution and manage resources efficiently while minimizing the clean-up. its global operations and to make the the environmental impact of our activities. We act preventransition to electric company cars 2030 tively using a risk-based approach to ensure continual and Circular economy at the latest. measurable improvements in our performance. Circular economy promotes the sharing, leasing, reusing, repairing, refurbishing, and recycling of existing materials Environmental management and waste in an almost closed loop. As a leading company, We follow a strict due diligence procedure when dealing we are committed to making this shift easy, efficient and with the potential environmental risks ssociated with productive for our customers. This requires that we view 2019 acquiring land and companies. This includes thorough the entire value chain through the glasses of circular reviews of potential acquisitions examining the site and economy with the entire life cycle in mind. What we said the environmental history of the surroundings. Regional Further reduce energy intensity and CO₂ hydro-geological and geotechnical conditions are evaluated For several years, Danfoss has included circular thinking in intensity in the largest factories. through field surveys to discover ground pollution or our product design, reducing in-process waste and the use historical deposits. of raw materials while ensuring high durability and long Explore what radical steps we could take lifetime. We continue to explore the opportunities in circular to accelerate the decarbonization of our All production companies are required to maintain environeconomy and embed this into products and processes. This energy consumption. mental management systems certified to ISO 14001 to includes detailed environmental product declarations based manage performance and identify potential environmental on full material declarations and life cycle-assessments. 18/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Global decarbonization To address the climate emergency, we need to stop talking and start acting. We have set ourselves the target of CO₂ neutrality by latest 2030. 100% carbon neutrality in Danfoss' global operations by 2030 New ambitions for action for sector integration, to drive the uptake of Global megatrends, such as climate change, electric mobility, and also to transform our pressure on food supply and urbanization are own company car fleet to all electric. First defining our world. As a leading technology pilots have started in Northern Europe to provider, delivering solutions enabled by phase out combustion-engine vehicles and digitalization and electrification, we take develop plans for charging infrastructure. action. Danfoss is now embarking on an ambitious journey to become CO₂ neutral in RE100 Renewables our global operations by 2030 at the latest. We support the development of futureJoining the “Business Ambition for 1.5°C proof district energy and ensure that Our Only Future” and setting science-based buildings become smart, and able to targets will further emphasize Danfoss’ consume and produce energy, such as commitment to combat the climate crisis. when we utilize the surplus heat from supermarkets to heat our homes. Business initiatives for action And ultimately, we are investing heavily In December 2019, Danfoss joined, as the in electrification powered, of course, by first global technology company, all three renewable energy. business action initiatives under The Climate Group. Danfoss signed up for the The next steps RE100 and EV100 initiatives on top of EP100, Within the first quarter of 2020, we will detail which the company joined in 2016. how we will reach these targets including how to balance potential CO₂ impact, EP100 Energy efficiency first commercial terms and long-term factory Focusing on energy efficiency and electrifootprint. We apply an “energy efficiency fication is at the very core of our business first” approach that also supports a high and the solutions we provide to our share of renewables. customers. The cheapest and cleanest Less clean energy needed means less energy is still the one not used. investments for grid extension, energy storage, back-up capacities and energy EV100 Electric company cars imports. Finally, electrification, powered We work with partners in cities, utilities and by renewables, is an enabling tool that will governments on the infrastructure needed allow us to decarbonize our business. 19/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Energy consumption and emissions The energy we don’t use is the cheapest and energy efficiency is therefore at the core of Danfoss’ green transition Continued focus on energy efficiency global organization. In 2019, the energy productivity increased Danfoss’ energy consumption and emissions The most cost-efficient, sustainable, and secure form of by 4% to 9.9 EURm/GWh bringing the total increase of the energy is the one that is not needed to begin with. As a energy productivity to no less than 80% since 2007. We expect Index leading technology provider with a portfolio of innovative, to reach 100% within few years, which means that we generate 200 energy-saving products, Danfoss is part of the solution and the same output with half the energy consumption as in 2007. 175 committed to leading by example by reducing our own CO₂ 150 footprint through an ambitious sustainability and climate In 2019, Danfoss emitted 254,000 tons of CO₂ which is a 125 strategy. reduction by 4% from the previous year. The sources were 100 generation of electricity and heat in our own facilities as well 75 In 2019, Danfoss continued its energy-saving projects at as the purchase of electricity and heat from external sources. the 27 largest factories worldwide, accounting for 85% of In 2019, Danfoss’ CO₂ intensity fell to 40 tons per EURm, equal 50 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Danfoss’ total energy consumption. We believe that we to an overall reduction of 33% since 2007. have not yet harvested the full potential of our technologies The CO₂ intensity is still somewhat impacted by increasing Energy productivity Energy intensity CO₂ intensity within energy savings and process optimization and electricity consumption in countries with high carbon new projects are therefore being launched to cut energy intensity in the electricity supply. In 2019, customer demand consumption further in buildings and production processes, grew for products produced in factories depending on a and to recover excess heat from processes and ventilation. more CO₂-intense electricity supply. Energy consumption and emissions Water consumption In 2019, Danfoss’ energy consumption fell by 2% to 634 GWh. In 2019, consumption of water decreased by 8% from the Danfoss’ energy intensity decreased in 2019 by 4% compared previous year to 1,069,500 m3. The water consumption to the previous year. The energy intensity has overall been intensity decreased to 170 m3/EURm net sales from 191 m3/ Visit danfoss.com reduced by 45% since 2007. To achieve the target of doubling EURm in 2018; equal to a 35% reduction since 2007. The our energy productivity by 2030, energy optimization decrease is mainly caused by successful water saving Read more about Danfoss’ energy and water measures have been implemented throughout Danfoss’ projects in Danfoss' factory in Anshan, China. consumption and CO₂ emissions 20/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Less plastic for a better planet 15 tons of single-use plastic Every year, the world produces more than 300 million is eliminated from tons of plastic waste. At Danfoss, we promote circular and Danfoss factories in Eastern Europe sustainable consumption and take action in eliminating annually single-use plastic from factories and offices. If we do not change the ways we treat plastic community are encouraged to join the waste, our seas and oceans will suffer, and challenge and commit to use less plastic biodiversity will be threatened by 2050. for a better planet. The Less Plastic project Scaling up positive impact To address this challenge and avoid Following the implementation in Poland, the negative impact of plastic on the the project was expanded to all locations in environment, Danfoss in Poland initiated Danfoss’ Eastern European region, resulting the Less Plastic project in 2019. in 15 tons of plastic being eliminated every The project targeted plastic water bottles year from Danfoss' factories and offices. and single-use plastic products such as The initiative also inspired other Danfoss cups, plates and cutlery to eliminate them locations in e.g. Brazil and Switzerland to from factories and offices. All employees join forces and eliminate more than 200,000 at Danfoss Poland contributed to the plastic cups and plastic bottles. successful implementation of the project by using glass bottles and carafes with In 2020, Danfoss aims at scaling the cooled and filtered tap water instead of the project to global level. By applying circular previously used plastic bottles. economy thinking, we are delivering on SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and As well as Danfoss employees, Danfoss Production) and reducing consumption of Poland's top customers and the local the products that are not sustainable. “The Less Plastic project is excellent proof that sustainability is part of Danfoss' DNA and also deeply rooted in employees' awareness. The idea came from employees and was successfully implemented in the entire Eastern European region. I can’t imagine a better testimony of an organization's sustainability maturity.” Karolina Barcewicz, Public Affairs Director, Danfoss Poland 21/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Compliance 2020 What we want – Products and materials Implement a new regulatory monitoring process and tool. Conduct product chemical compliance digital pilot and prepare data for ECHA’s Integrity and compliance are key values and will enable our businesses to deliver high-quality SCIP database. to Danfoss. compliance information to customers and authorities, including full material declarations (FMD) and recycling information. In 2019, we strengthened our product compliance as an important enabler for customer satisfaction, growth and sustainability. Robust end-to-end processes In 2019, Danfoss deployed aligned processes to strengthen 2019 compliance with regulatory requirements. Danfoss complies What we did with the Conflict Minerals Rule and reviews whether tin, Our product-compliance policies tantalum, tungsten, or gold (3TG) in our products originate Tested and selected vendor for We make safe and sustainable products, proactively meeting from conflict regions. We collect data from 1,400 tier-one regulatory monitoring tool. compliance obligations to customers and regulators. This suppliers and provide conflict mineral reports to our means that we proactively drive our compliance program, customers. Created templates, tools and processes continually monitor requirements from customers and for integrated product chemical regulators and address risks through efficient processes. The Danfoss Negative List is the backbone of our continuous compliance. efforts to avoid hazardous substances in products and We work with our supply chain to minimize adverse impacts production processes and must be complied with by all Strengthened internal processes for and continually improve compliance processes across our Danfoss’ suppliers, tenants and contractors. In 2019, we compliance with the European WEEE, businesses. updated the Negative List twice and reviewed our processes batteries and packaging directives. and tools to ensure compliance. In 2020, our main focus will Regulatory foresight be monitoring and reporting under REACH, updating our Danfoss monitors and manages the impact of a growing Negative List and preparing data for ECHA’s SCIP database. number of product regulations and standards at national, regional and international level. We communicate regulatory Many Danfoss products are in direct or indirect scope of the 2019 requirements to our business segments and functions to ensure on-going compliance. EU's Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive or similar regulations in other countries restricting the What we said use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic Strengthen approach that support Digital with strong data equipment. In 2019 we trained employees within research resource efficiency and circular Digitalization with automated and integrated product data and development, procurement, and sales. economy. in end-to-end solutions will be key to staying compliant and supporting sustainable business growth. We are working on Danfoss also complies with the European Battery and WEEE Conduct Product Chemical Compliance common processes and effective solutions to manage both Directives (Waste Electric and Electronic Equipment). In 2019, pilot providing relevant information to product chemical compliance and recycling administration we deployed aligned Group processes to strengthen our customers. under extended producer responsibility schemes. compliance under the so-called open scope phase of the The solutions are anchored in the Danfoss One ERP platform, directives. 22/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Compliance – ethics and human rights It is important to Danfoss that our results are created in an ethical manner. Our company name must always be associated with respect for human rights, proper working conditions and social and environmental considerations. Our ethics and human rights policies We are a business people can trust and rely on, and which drives profitable growth in a decent, ethical manner. This means that we apply high business ethical standards in everything we do while acting with due diligence and being transparent about our business policies and decisions. Additionally, Danfoss’ employees can find answers to Taking ethics to the next level questions or doubts regarding ethics and compliance using In 2019, Danfoss continued the “Taking Ethics to the next We educate our employees to act with respect for other the “AskUs” function. This inquiry function was established level” initiative, which focuses on face-to-face training of people and cultures in 2012 to minimize uncertainty and prevent unintended managers. The aim of the training is to identify, prevent and noncompliance, when making managerial or business handle unethical behavior. In 2019, the training was carried Ethical guidelines decisions. out on Danfoss sites in Turkey and UAE, United Arab Emirates. Danfoss has its own ethical guidelines and mandatory e-learning for all managers on ethics. This program, as well Dismissals due to unethical behavior Human Rights as other compliance programs continues to be updated Transparency about ethical issues is important to maintain As part of Danfoss’ commitment to live up to the UN Guiding according to the newest legislation and stakeholder an ethics culture and since 2004, Danfoss has monitored the Principles for Human Rights, we deployed our process for expectations. number of dismissals due to unethical behavior. human rights due diligence in the Turkey-Middle East region in 2019. Ethics Hotline In 2019, 32 employees left Danfoss due to unethical behavior, Danfoss’ human rights due diligence process aims at building Danfoss has a whistle-blower function, where employees compared to 39 in 2018 and 51 in 2016. The figure includes capacity to handle human rights issues in the different and others can anonymously report violation of internal both dismissals and voluntary resignations connected regions where we operate, thereby creating ownership at guidelines or legislation. In 2019, a total of 81 new reports were with ethical issues. The main reasons for the dismissals are local level. received from all parts of the world where Danfoss operates. fraudulent behavior, disloyal behavior or other violations of company policies. Assessment of legislation and actual practices in the Corrective actions have been taken for all substantiated countries where we operate forms the basis for identifying, allegations ranging from stopping inexpedient behavior to Most dismissals were handled by Danfoss' Ethics Hotline, assessing, prioritizing and mitigating potential impacts on termination of employment. while the rest were handled directly by line managers. human rights in the due diligence process. 23/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Action plans addressing actual or potential human rights Five of the six trial audits have been closed, while one impacts are drawn up with local management and regular (construction) failed. Construction holds more challenges 2020 follow-up meetings ensure that the process is maintained. So far, we have conducted human rights due diligence in because the contracts are short-term and therefore, Danfoss has formed a cross-functional team that has established a What we want regions covering the following regions: China, Asia Pacific, process to avoid forced labor in construction. The process Evaluate and align Danfoss’ compliance India, Russia, Latin America and Turkey/Middle East/Africa. contains steps to avoid forced labor in each of the phases in with emerging and relevant Modern large and medium-sized construction projects. In 2020, we Slavery Act regulations, with focus on Companies are required to report on their salient human will use the process as a pilot project when carrying out a making more robust processes for highrights. Danfoss’ salient human rights can be found here. (link new construction project in China. risk areas for forced labor. to danfoss.com “Ethics and human rights”) Responsible sourcing Modern Slavery Danfoss continues the company's systematic work with Several countries have issued regulations to avoid ‘Modern responsible supplier management. Slavery’, which comprises all forms of forced or bonded labor. Danfoss addresses forced labor in two ways: in the due Our Code of Conduct for suppliers, which all existing and diligence process for our own factories and in our supply new suppliers are required to accept and sign, defines our chain. The scope for the due diligence process at our requirements on environmental, social and ethical issues. The factories has been extended by outsourced functions like Code of Conduct also deals with modern slavery and human 2019 cleaning, catering and construction as these are some of the branches with increased risk of forced labor. trafficking to ensure that all suppliers act in accordance with the guidelines and regulations in these areas. What we did Taking ethics to the next level and Assessment of potential human rights issues in our supply We perform regular supplier audits to verify compliance and Human Rights due diligence has been chain can be quite complex, considering that Danfoss has to ensure that any non-compliance is addressed. Follow-up carried out in Turkey and Middle East more than 3,500 suppliers of direct materials (materials used audits are conducted to follow up on matters such as inaccording to plans. in products) and 10,000 suppliers of services and indirect adequate safety measures, missing or blocked emergency materials (e.g. cleaning and catering). Based on a risk matrix exits, incorrect handling or storage of hazardous chemicals considering country risk and spend, suppliers of direct and discharge of wastewater etc. materials with high risk are subject to third-party audits. Training of all Danfoss employees, who have contact with Suppliers of indirect materials and services must sign suppliers is done on an ongoing basis to ensure that they Danfoss’ Code of Conduct, but they are not subject to thirdare familiar with our Code of Conduct and their roles and party audits. However, research shows that some of the responsibilities. The training consists of multiple modules, categories in indirect supply are more exposed to forced primarily as online training. 2019 labor than suppliers of direct materials, because these are branches with many lowor un-skilled workers and relatively In 2019, based on spend, the compliance to Danfoss What we said low wages. Branches, which have these challenges are: requirements was documented on all suppliers with a Conduct human rights due diligence cleaning, catering, construction, clothing, transport and score of 94% against a score of 90% in 2018. project and ethics training in Turkey and recruitment. Middle East. To get an idea about the conditions in these branches, trial Visit danfoss.com audits in each of the six branches were carried out in 2019. The results of the audits were similar to those we see for Click to read Danfoss’ Modern Slavery suppliers of direct materials, but the level of maturity in Statement 2019. mitigating the issues was lower than for direct suppliers. 24/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Our people Our people are our most valuable assets. Building and developing highly competent and engaged teams is one of the key enablers in creating greater innovation and results. Our people policies Our people work with purpose – engineering technologies that enable the world of tomorrow to do more with less. We trust people and give them freedom to act. We work together to exceed customer expectations and achieve excellent performance and continue to learn and value expertise, curiosity and ambition. We provide a working environment where people are treated fairly and can be successful in their life journey. We want a culture of high-performing diverse teams, operating in an inclusive work environment that fosters empowerment, creativity and respect. Innovation and great results are driven by diverse backgrounds, personalities, skills, and perspectives, reflecting people who care about each other and treat each other fairly. By living out an inclusive culture characterized by diversity, we make sure to develop our own people as well as attracting the very best candidates from various backgrounds to join us. 25/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Diversity and inclusion: Be curious and welcome differences Diversity is our reality – inclusion is our choice. A diverse workforce helps us to understand and serve our global customers best. We set a target for our high-performing diverse teams with 30% female leaders by 2025. Being different makes us challenge the creativity, innovation, and a broader We strive to create a work environment, where status quo and inspires us to engineer a better tomorrow. Innovation and great perspective in decision-making, optimizing our performance. In 2019, we reached our everyone knows their opinion counts and matters. results are driven by the right mix of people target of having 20% female leaders in Our new targets are equally ambitious and with diverse backgrounds, personalities, Danfoss. Despite our progress in this area, skills, and perspectives, reflecting the world we recognize that we still need to do better. essential; we need to break down barriers and n which we do business. At Danfoss, we call inspire everyone to achieve their full potential.” this mix ‘high-performing diverse teams’. Therefore, we are determined to increase the percentage of female leaders to 25% High-performing diverse teams by 2022 and 30% by 2025. Ilonka Nussbaumer, Head of Group HR However, different is not enough to be highperforming. To make sure the mix of people We will take further steps in 2020 to works, we strive to create an inclusive reach this target, among other things by 30% work environment where people of all reviewing our recruitment processes, and backgrounds are treated equally, respected, by developing female talents to create a Play video and valued for who they are. more diverse pipeline for our leadership positions. Click to watch the video about our Multiple studies show that a genderfemale leaders by Postgraduate Program balanced organization simply generates Danfoss defines employees with an extra2025 stronger performance. We, too, believe that ordinary potential to grow as ‘talents’. In a diverse and inclusive workplace fosters 2019, 24% of these were women. 26/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People We are working towards a diverse representation in every Gender composition of the Board of Directors team. To us, diversity is not only a measurable traits we can The Danish Financial Statements Act (FSA) requires that 2020 see with the naked eye. It is also about different personal backgrounds and characteristics, driving diversity of corporate entities of a certain size and type report on the gender composition in management. What we want thoughts. At Danfoss, we define diversity and inclusion in Track the degree of perceived inclusion terms of five dimensions: generations, gender, nationality, Danfoss aims at a gender composition in the Group's Board in our engagement surveys. various backgrounds, and individual characteristics. of Directors, that reflects that of the rest of the Group, and has a target of having at least one female member of the Strengthen our diversity and inclusion In 2019, we accelerated our efforts towards creating a Board of Directors, who is elected at the Annual General ambassador network across the globe. more diverse and inclusive workplace. We teamed up with Meeting (AGM). Danfoss meets this target. In 2019, the Board Copenhagen Business School to learn more about how of Directors had three female members, one AGM-elected Drive initiatives to increase diversity in to build high-performing diverse teams by fostering an and two employee-elected. Furthermore, the Board of teams and the percentage of female inclusive work environment, where everyone is invited Directors consists of people with diverse backgrounds in leaders to 25% by 2022 and 30% by 2025. to a seat at the table and feels comfortable to join the terms of professional skills, nationality and age. conversation. Gender composition targets like that of the Board Building on this, we initiated diversity and inclusion of Directors have been implemented in the relevant activities in the recruitment processes, people-development subsidiaries of a certain size and type. Danfoss meets the 2019 programs, and leadership trainings. Moreover, we introduced various initiatives to build awareness of diversity and gender composition target for the Board of Directors of Danfoss Power Solutions ApS, but not of Danfoss Power What we did inclusion, such as webinars to discuss how to create a more Electronics A/S (Danfoss Drives), Danfoss International A/S Confirmed that diverse teams in inclusive work environment. and Sondex A/S, as the composition of the boards did not inclusive work environments deliver the change during the year. However, Danfoss Drives has a strongest performance in Danfoss. To accelerate and support our journey, we built an ambassafemale board member elected by the employees. In these dor network driven by passionate employees in every corner relevant subsidiaries, the gender composition target for Created and activated a global of our business. The ambassadors share best practice and the Board of Directors is expected to be met in 2021. definition and strategy for diversity and promote, and co-design, diversity and inclusion initiatives inclusion. locally in their regions as they know best what is needed to make a difference. Last, but not least, we have achieved an equal gender split in our One ERP Program as well as in our Post Graduate Program. 2019 What we said Establish diversity and inclusion as a high priority on our strategy agenda. Generations Nationalities Employment seniority Gender – percentage female 15% Born 1946-1964 117 nationalities across 10.1 years average 29% All employees Create a foundation for further (Baby boomers) Danfoss employment 24% Talents initiatives about diversity and inclusion. 31% Born 1965-1977 (GenX) 20% Leaders 51% Born 1978-1996 (GenY) 15% Senior Management 2% Born 1997+ (GenZ) 7% Vice president and above 27/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People The Behavior The RISE project: Sandrah shows the way Ambassador program Developing our diverse for African women workforce We believe that engagement and involvement are key in According to UNESCO, only 10% of the engineering working towards our common goals. At Danfoss, we have workforce in South Africa are women, although 2.5 million three behaviors that function as global guidelines for how new engineers and technicians are needed in sub-Saharan we want to achieve our goals. Everything we do should Africa. reflect these behaviors: Frontline Passion, Run the Business – Like your own, and Think Danfoss. Technical Support engineer in Danfoss South Africa Sandrah Ramalepa is one of the few women in what is very much a In 2019, we sharpened focus on the behaviors by launching man’s world. She grew up in an environment with limited the Behavior Ambassador Program globally. The program is access to proper schooling and formal employment. based on peer-to-peer nominations of both individuals and However, those circumstances did not hold her back. teams at all levels of the Danfoss organization. Finally, three She had a burning desire to succeed, which drove her to ambassadors are recognized and celebrated, one for each overcome the challenges she faced every day, eventually behavior. leading to a job as an engineer: “I would not have done it without Danfoss. They helped me a lot, and I think I can Through the program, we recognize and celebrate our compete with the best in industry,” she says. dedicated and loyal employees who make a difference for We develop our diverse workforce in an inclusive and Danfoss every day. The program also serves as a source of collaborative work environment. This year, the RISE project understanding as it naturally generates examples of our came to life in Danfoss Asia Pacific Region. The program is behaviors from all over the organization, making our designed to develop and challenge our people by giving behaviors personal, concrete and representative. them the opportunity to take on special projects outside of their usual job tasks and cooperate with colleagues from The program runs twice a year, creating awareness and other areas of the business. enhancing the sense of community within Danfoss. During a six-months period, five different teams in the region worked together on projects across functions and national borders to gain new experiences and insights. Through cross-team collaboration, the teams worked, among other things, on projects to improve customer loyalty and service delivery. The name of the program is an acronym and simply means: “I would not have done it without Danfoss. They Realize your potential; Increase your visibility; Strengthen helped me a lot, and I think I can compete with your network; Expand your learnings. the best in industry.” Sandrah Ramalepa Technical Support Engineer, Danfoss South Africa. 28/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Health and safety At Danfoss, we say Safety First! and we mean it. Taking care of our people and improving health and safety on an ongoing basis is a top priority across Danfoss. Everyone should feel safe at work and no one should become injured or sick from working with Danfoss. At Danfoss, we say Safety First! And we mean it. Safety comes before anything else. We want everyone to be safe at work and we will do our utmost to ensure a safe working environment for everyone. Wellbeing at work Many employees thrive and manage to maintain a good Our health and safety policies balance between the private and the professional life while We protect the health and safety of our employees and other others find increasing requirements and constant changes stakeholders and promote wellbeing to reduce absence. in the workplace and in the society a great challenge. Both professionally and privately. We provide a safe and healthy workplace and prevent potential negative impacts of work while preventing Danfoss Drives now offers help and guidance to employees pollution and managing resources efficiently. We act through the “Family Support” initiative as an offer to their preventively using a risk-based approach and respond employees to receive help and guidance to maintain wellimmediately to incidents. being in a busy everyday life. The employee's day-to-day wellbeing is discussed at a professional meeting, which Safety First! takes place at their home and is conducted by a person Danfoss’ “Safety First!” program was established in 2015 as professionally trained in mental health. If the meeting reveals Visit danfoss.com Danfoss’ systematic approach to a safe workplace. Focus challenges disturbing the wellbeing of the everyday life, a is on clear, aligned procedures and processes to ensure a professional from Family Support will offer the employees Health and safety is very important to safe working environment and avoiding accidents across all and their family help to solve the problem. Danfoss and our employees. Click to learn Danfoss sites. An important element in “Safety First!” is the more. mandatory use of safety shoes and safety glasses for anyone Speak up for safety entering the shop floor in any Danfoss factory worldwide Danfoss launched the global “Speak up for Safety” campaign or performing gardening or outdoor maintenance work. in June 2019 to increase focus on potential hazards. Hearing protection is also mandatory for employees working We encourage employees to report all potential hazards in at machines with high noise levels, and safe walkways have their working area so that the cause of potential incidents been identified and marked in all factories. can be removed. 29/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Once the potential hazards are identified we prevent “Managing safety is never an easy accidents from happening and we will make Danfoss an task, unless you have a 100% 2020 even better and safer place to work. By running the campaign, we demonstrate a “we respect, value and care” committed management and What we want culture for ourselves and the people in our lives who depend employee workforce who keep Further reduce the global LTIF to 1.6 on us to return home – our families, friends and loved ones. safety at the top of the agenda.” Lost Time Incidents per million hours The engagement from our employees in the largest safety worked. campaign ever run within Danfoss has been massive. More David Lourdusamy than 5,000 hazards were identified and removed in just six Head of Environment, Health & Safety Implement global tools to assess months making incident prevention an integrated part of Danfoss India ergonomic hazards, assess potential the safety mindset at Danfoss. hazards and risks on machines, and tools to handle Material Safety Data Sheets. Halving the LTIF In 2018, Danfoss set the ambitious target to reduce the Lost Time Incident Frequency – also called LTIF – by 50% before the end of 2019 compared to the 2017 level of 3.4. The LTIF level has already more than halved since 2011, but even more 2019 can be done. In 2019, the total Group LTIF ended at 2.2 from 2.8 the previous year equal to an improvement of 35% since LTIF – Lost Time Injury Frequency What we did 2017. Since 2018, the number of accidents has consistently (Injuries with absence per million hours worked) decreased in all segments. Danfoss Drives' factories in The LTIF ended at 2.2 which equals a Denmark and Finland managed to decrease the number of 6 reduction of 35% from the 2017 level of Lost Time Incidents from 21 in 2018 to just 8 in 2019. 3.4 Lost Time Incidents per million hours 5 worked. The Lost Day Rate (LDR) in 2019 was 28 (the number 4 of days of absence, by LTIs per million hours worked). This is a significant decrease from 57 in 2018. In 2019, the 3 injured employees were absent for a total of 1,223 days, 2 corresponding to an average absence of only 13 days on average per Lost Time Injury. 1 In 2020, focus will be on reducing the LTIF further and on 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 reducing the number of MTIs – Medical Treatment Incidents. What we said Programs for ergonomic assessment of work and global alignment of Material Data Safety Sheets are planned for Reduce global LTIF Lost Time Incident 35% execution by the One EHS Steering Committee in 2020. Frequency with a step change to 50% below achieved 2017 level equal to 1.7 Programs for general safety awareness, safety leadership, Lost Time Incidents per million hours powered industrial vehicles, are being implemented in worked. reduction of all segments while previous programs focusing on hand Lost Time Injuries & finger injuries, trips & slips, and machine safety are from 2017 to 2019 maintained. 30/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Stay up-to-date The Climate Group´s business action initiatives We're meeting many of the world's climate, urbanization, and food challenges with proven and RE100 brings together influential reliable solutions and we're just getting started. businesses committed to 100% renewable electricity. Led by The Climate Group in With our smart technologies, we are leading the way to partnership with CDP (Carbon Disclosure sustainable transformation. Project), RE100’s purpose is to accelerate change towards zero carbon grids, at global scale. The initiative works to increase corporate demand for – and in turn supply We are strengthening our business to drive sustainable growth across of – renewable energy, by bringing together Visit danfoss.com the globe by putting energy major companies committed to sourcing efficiency into everything we do. 100% renewable electricity. Click to learn more on how our solutions can unleash the potential of tomorrow. EP100 is a global initiative in partnership with the Alliance to Save Energy. The Visit danfoss.com initiative brings together a growing group of energy-smart companies committed to To stay up-to-date on our achievements improving their energy productivity and and ambitions, check our Sustainability in doing more with less. Energy productivity Review page. is the ratio of economic output to energy consumption – so improving energy This is where transformation starts productivity means getting more economic Together with our customers, we are output out of every unit of energy engineering solutions that allow us to consumed. use resources in smarter ways. EV100 brings together companies committed to accelerating the transition Follow us here: to electric vehicles (EVs) and making electric transport the new normal by www.facebook.com/danfoss 2030. The transport sector is the fastestgrowing contributor to climate change, www.twitter.com/danfoss accounting for 23% of global energy-related Visit danfoss.com www.youtube.com/danfossgroup greenhouse gas emissions. By being ambitious in the target-setting for future Explore inspiring stories where our www.linkedin.com/company/danfoss EV purchasing, companies can drive mass innovative technologies drive the roll-out and make electric cars more rapidly https://www.instagram.com/danfosscareers/ sustainable transformation of tomorrow, affordable for everyone. today. 31/33 Danfoss Sustainability Report 2019 Overview Our Solutions Our operations Our People Sources Page 8 Page 13 • IEA World Energy Outlook 2016 • European Commission, The State of European Cities 2016, • State of Green: “Reducing urban water loss”, 2016 Directorate-General for Regional and Urban Policy & United Nations Human Settlements Programme, UN Habitat for a Page 9 Better Future • World Health Organization, 2019 • Lean Heat case study (https://www.danfoss.com/en/ service-and-support/case-studies/cf/leanheat-makesPage 10 buildings-smart/) • European Commission, Electrification of the Transport System 2017, Studies and Reports 2017 Page 14 • FAO, How Access to Energy can influence Food Losses, 2016 Page 11 • FAO, Our actions are our future Healthy diets for a • European Commission, Electrification of the Transport #ZEROHUNGER world, 2019 System 2017, Studies and Reports 2017 Page 15 Page 12 • Food and Agriculture Organization of United Nations • World Resource Institute, Accelerating Building efficiency (http://www.fao.org/save-ood/resources/keyfindings/en/) 2016, WRI ROSS Center for Sustainable Cities • Danfoss and the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) case • United Nations, World Population Prospects 2019 study (https://www.danfoss.com/en/service-and-support/ case-studies/cf/the-agricultural-giant-has-awakened/) 32/33 Further information available on Danfoss’ website: www.danfoss.com Date of publication: February 27, 2020 Contact address: Danfoss A/S Nordborgvej 81 6430 Nordborg Denmark Tel.: +45 7488 2222 CVR no. 20165715 (registration number with the Danish Business Authority) Email: danfoss@danfoss.com
