UN Global Compact Communication on Progress April 2020 Contents Statement by Our Chair of Board of Directors 3 About Siren 4 Contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals 5 Committed to the Global Compact Principles 6 Human Rights 7 Labour 9 Environment 12 Anti-Corruption 14 For more information on Siren’s involvement in the UN Global Compact, reach us at: @sirenassociates info@sirenassociates.com www.sirenassociates.com Statement by Our Chair of Board of Directors I am pleased to reaffirm Siren’s support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Siren remains a committed partner in the global efforts to realise the Sustainable Development Goals. Given the unprecedented crisis that the planet is now facing, and the long-term effects it will have on human security and prosperity, there is an imperative to recommit ourselves to a future based on human rights, dignity, and equality. The current moment should serve as a reminder of the fragility of our current system, and a wake-up call to treat climate change and environmental degradation with the urgency they require. Siren remains steadfast in its commitment to addressing the challenges of the current moment, and will continue to work with our partners around the world to do so. In Siren’s second-annual Communication on Progress, we provide an update on the policies we have either updated or enacted in relation to the four areas of the Global Compact over the past year. We describe activities we have taken to further engrain the ten principles in our own work practices as well as promote them amongst our partners and beneficiaries. In addition, we highlight the ways in which we are responding to the current COVID-19 crisis: by making sure our staff are safe, healthy, and supported; by working with our partners to improve government responses to the current crisis; and funding direct support to the most vulnerable individuals in the communities we seek to serve. Despite the challenges currently facing our global community, Siren will continue to take action to uphold and promote the Global Compact’s principles. We will ensure that our own staff, as well as our local and international partners, are aware of our commitment to the Global Compact and the actions we are taking to realise its objectives. And we will continue to seek out additional partners who share this commitment. Jonathan McIvor MBE CEO & Chair of Board of Directors April 2020 3 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 About Siren Our Organisation We help develop safe and secure societies where there is equal access to justice and freedom from fear. Specialising in civil policing transformation and broader public sector reform, we empower and build the capabilities of organisations to become more responsive to the needs of communities. We support our clients through the process of strategic change, combining an Organisation Development approach with advanced technology and customised solutions. Our Approach Committed to making a difference, we believe that the development of capabilities cannot be done for organisations it must be done by and in effective partnership with them. As a result, our approach is collaborative, client-centered and holistic. We employ rigorous problem analysis and innovative interventions that are gender and conflict sensitive to drive sustainable change. Working in post-conflict and fragile states, we recognise the value of being flexible, adaptable and responsive to our clients’ changing needs. Our multidisciplinary teams are diverse and highly skilled. We empower, develop and motivate our staff in recognition that it is our people that set us apart. 4 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 Contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals We help develop safe and secure societies where there is equal access to justice and freedom from fear. Specialising in civil policing transformation, broader public sector reform, and strengthening civil society in the areas of safety, security and justice, we empower and build the capabilities of organisations to become more responsive to the needs of communities. Realising our vision is therefore inextricably linked to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and a number of the goals have been integrated directly within our business model and organisational structure. The SDGs provide us with the opportunity to align our individual mission with that of the global community, articulate our priorities with regards to the 17 goals, and reaffirm our commitment to working with our local, regional, and international partners in bringing about a more just, equitable, and safe world. 16. Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 5. Gender and Equality Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainaAchieve gender equality and empower all women ble development, provide access to justice for all and and girls build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels We have integrated a gender-sensitive approach within our entire project management cycle and our own interSustainable Development Goal 16 lies at the core of our nal corporate development. We prioritise gender-mainwork. We partner with security actors, public sector enstreaming across all of our operations and our programs tities, civil society, and donors to foster a more inclusive, and have implemented gender-specific projects that rights-based approach to justice and security. strengthen women’s participation within public sector security services across the Middle East. Our mission statement affirms our commitment to embedding SDG 5 within our core business model. 10. Reduced Inequalities 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities Reduce inequality within and among countries Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Our interventions are based on the conviction that justice and security actors, as well as other public sector entiOur work contributes towards making cities and human ties, should be accessible to all, and non-discriminatory settlements more inclusive, safe, and resilient. Working in the services they deliver. We work with local partners with a broad range of actors, including local civil society to introduce new systems and processes, regulations, and organisations, community groups, UN agencies, local adaccountability measures that ensure institutions are comministrations, and security institutions, we devise and impliant with international standards prohibiting discriminaplement initiatives that seek to address the root causes of tory practices. Equal access to justice is a core tenant of conflict, reduce violence, and promote safe societies. our approach. 5 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 Committed to the Global Compact Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We contribute to the ten principles, both internally and externally, through: Building a Sustainable Business Model We have updated and/or amended policies to continue to align our business practices with the ten principles of the Global Compact. We continue to take concrete action internally to uphold these principles and improve the way we work. We ensure an ethical, environmentally conscious, and rights-based business practice that places our people and their well-being at the centre of what we do. Supporting our Beneficiaries, Partners, and the Community Our mission is centred on building a safer world for all in which governments and institutions are accountable to their citizens and respectful of their rights. We pride ourselves on working with a wide range of stakeholders in the security and development sector, including security actors, public sector institutions, local and international civil society organisations, and donor partners and governments. The Global Compact principles are embedded in all of these relationships. Covid-19 Response: The Covid-19 pandemic poses unique challenges to individuals, corporations, and governments around the world. More than ever, it is essential that we uphold key principles in relation to the way we treat our colleagues, our partners, and our planet. Siren has made clear and tangible commitments, both to its own staff to ensure their health and safety, and to the communities we serve in order to support those most vulnerable to the current crisis’ implications. 6 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 Human Rights Global Compact Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our Commitment Our mission contributes directly towards building human rights compliant security and justice institutions. Working directly in fragile countries with stakeholders that can be complicit in committing human rights abuses, we integrate specific human-rights related components that engage our counterparts on these issues. We are committed to upholding and promoting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our Code of Conduct, which was updated this year to remain current, commits staff to respect all individuals’ rights, inclusive of colleagues, partners, and beneficiaries. We’ve also further operationalised our human resource policies in relation to preventing sexual misconduct, harassment, and violence, protect the rights of the child and prevent child abuse in all of its forms. We employ a conflict sensitive, human rights-based approach in the design of all of our projects and interventions. Partnerships over the past year with industry-leading organisations in conflict sensitivity have helped augment our capacity in this regard, continuing to ensure that each Siren initiative ‘does no harm’. Human rights protection is embedded within our risk management cycle. 7 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 ‘Siren works on behalf of governments and international organisations expecting us to observe high ethical and humanitarian standards. Our long-term success depends on maintaining the respect and confidence of donors, partners and clients. The obligation to do what is right must be an essential part of our organisational culture and underscore everything we do.’ Siren Code of Conduct Actions Taken Building a Sustainable Siren Business Model • Siren Code of Conduct has been updated, re-disseminated to, and signed by, all staff. • Siren has also improved its safeguarding and whistleblowing policies, including them in orientation sessions, developing posters for the office, and including them in all-hands briefings. • Siren partnered with International Alert, a leading international peacebuilding organisation, to provide staff with training, mentoring and technical assistance to ensure that we have the proper tools, and the skills to use them, and to ensure our projects are conflict sensitive and ‘do no harm’. These tools are now being integrated into Siren’s corporate policies. • Siren’s flagship programme in Lebanon now has gender and conflict sensitivity advisers, helping to mainstream these principles across all programming and build our internal capability in this regard. Supporting our Beneficiaries, Partners, and the Community • In Lebanon, where the country was met with widespread protests against the economic and political crisis, we have worked with the Lebanese Internal Security Forces to ensure a human rights compliant response. This has included supporting the Human Rights Division to develop new human rights guidelines and monitoring toolkits to help monitor public demonstrations for potential infractions. • Siren is also supporting the Internal Security Forces to mainstream human rights principles across all of their training, working collaboratively with the institution to make sure principles are adapted to the local context. • Siren has conducted scoping initiatives in relation to a number of pilot projects to address root causes of prison overcrowding in Lebanon, a major human rights priority, slated for implementation in 2020-2021. Covid-19 Response Siren also made direct donations to organisations that work in the communities that we operate in, namely in Lebanon and Jordan, in order to help serve the needs of the most vulnerable during the Covid-19 crisis. This includes donations to Foodblessed, to help secure food security for in-need families in Lebanon, Sesobel, an NGO working to support children with special needs in Lebanon, and SoS Children’s Villages, a child protection organisation in Jordan. Siren has also made a donation to a network of migrant domestic workers in Lebanon, as the community here has little in the way of labour protections and is vulnerable to abuse by employers, particularly during the crisis. Measurement of Outcomes • Zero reports of human rights violations by staff or contractors 8 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 Labour Global Compact Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Committment Having expanded our workforce considerably over the past year, we remain committed to being an employer of choice. We are dedicated to abiding by applicable labour laws within the countries in which we operate, and have aligned our business practices with international best practice. We are committed to the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We have conducted a full review of our Human Resources policies over the past year, ensuring compliance with Jordanian, Lebanese, and UK law where applicable. Our Human Resource Handbook covers all labour-related policies, including employee rights, responsibilities and compensation. Our Code of Conduct further enshrines our commitment to diversity and prohibits any form of discrimination. It also outlines our procedures with regards to duty of care, outlining specific policy measures to protect our staff against any form of harassment and protect our beneficiaries against exploitation or abuse. Despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 crisis, we remain committed to ensuring the well-being, safety, and health (including mental health) of our staff and have put in place policies and procedures to do so. 9 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 ‘Siren is committed to observing responsible business conduct consistent with applicable laws in the countries we operate and to follow internationally recognised standards. All employees, applicants and service providers associated with our business are offered equal opportunities regardless of gender, gender reassignment, marital status, pregnancy or maternity, sexual orientation, age, religious belief or political opinion, race, ethnic or community background or nationality or disability that does not prohibit performance of essential job functions.’ Siren Human Resource Handbook Actions Taken Building a Sustainable Siren Business Model • 22 new full-time staff, 13 of which are women (a number of whom were brought in at mid and senior management level). • Updated our Human Resource Handbook to ensure it remains current. • Siren developed comprehensive and customised Security Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for its operations in Lebanon and Jordan to ensure the ongoing safety of all of our staff. • A dedicated staff member was designated as Security Manager, to action the SOPs. • Siren has enhanced its employee package considerably, making good on our commitment to put our people first. Our package now includes: • Social Security • Medical Insurance • Increased annual leave, now set at 24 days annually • Corporate rates for fitness centre membership • Training and Development Assistance, through which Siren will fund training and education opportunities for staff members that they identify and that align with their given roles • We continue to maintain competitive salaries by bench-marking new recruit salaries against industry norms. • We conducted an organisation-wide staff survey in order to understand our staff’s needs, issues, and suggestions for how we continue to improve our operations and we have implemented improvements to our operations accordingly. Covid-19 Response Siren has implemented a comprehensive response to the Covid-19 crisis to ensure staff safety and well-being, which has included: • Prior to moving fully to remote working arrangements, Siren had procured the required sanitary supplies for its offices and had communicated, both via posters and email announcements, key information to keep staff safe. 10 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 • Our cleaning team was provided with training on how to disinfect the office in a safe manner. • Moving to remote working arrangements in all of our offices, which remain in effect at time of reporting (April 20 2020). • Developing a bespoke Remote Working Policy for our offices; this policy has since been updated to take account of new measures, and is reviewed regularly. • Monitoring on a daily basis media and government to be able to communicate effectively to all staff any changes in policies. • Providing staff with any of the required ICT hardware or software required to work from home, at no expense to staff. • Clear guidance and reminders to staff to maintain a healthy work/life balance, despite remote working arrangements. • Siren has a designated doctor for phone consultations with any Siren staff, with costs covered by Siren. Supporting our Beneficiaries, Partners, and the Community • Our programme supporting the Lebanese Internal Security Forces now includes a specific deliverable to improve human resource management across the organisation; this includes a specific sub-component on mainstreaming gender within the organisation. • As part of our partnership with the Canadian Embassy in Jordan, we have continued to provide first-responder training to female members of the Kingdom of Jordan’s Gendarmerie. • We also expanded our training delivery, and delivered similar training to first responders, including female first responders, in the Philippines, Maldives, and Indonesia. Covid-19 Response Siren has also provided support to the communities we work with to protect worker’s safety and alleviate pressures on those most vulnerable. This has included an initiative to purchase PPE from a local network of women in north Lebanon, in order to provide them with a livelihood as well as donate the PPE to frontline workers in the police and in hospitals. Measurement of Outcomes • Half of the Board of Directors are women. • Over half of our full-time staff are women. • 13 out of 22 new hires are women. This includes one senior manager and three mid-level managers, roughly proportionate to new male hires. • Zero cases of complaints of inappropriate behaviour, both internally and from our partners. • Zero cases in labour court. • Gender-balanced police training teams in Jordan. • Zero incidents of violation of Human Resource Handbook. • Training delivered in Jordan has continuously met our target of 15% women as part of each training cohort, with courses often having 20% women (this is despite the fact that women make up only 10% of the Jordanian PSD and 5% of the Gendarmerie, our two main beneficiaries). • Trainee feedback from our South East Asia project did not identify any instances of misconduct on the part of trainers; trainees were overwhelmingly positive with regards to the professionalism of our trainers. 11 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 Environment Global Compact Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Committment We are committed to the principles enshrined in the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. We continue to strive towards environmentally conscious, sustainable processes across our operations. Siren operates within countries that often have limited environmental policies and enforcement mechanisms. It is therefore essential that we analyse risks related to possible environmental harms due to our interventions and mitigate these risks accordingly. Working with our partners and beneficiaries, we promote awareness of, and alignment with, international good practice in an effort to influence the degree to which environmentally conscious behaviour is adopted in the communities that we work. 12 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 Actions Taken Building a Sustainable Siren Business Model • Recycling program in our Lebanon project office and headquarters has continued, and was expanded to our Jordan location. • Both our core programme delivery teams in Jordan and Lebanon are based 100% locally, reducing flight-related emissions. • International deployment schedule to Lebanon was rearranged to extend deployments and therefore reduce the number of required flights. • We prioritise the hiring of local staff as a means for reducing the need for flights and reduce our carbon footprint; of our 22 new full-time staff, 20 are local. • Siren is working on a comprehensive environmental policy to help guide our work in this regard. Covid-19 Response Siren has grounded all international travel of experts, and has re-oriented to locally available staff, as well as remote working arrangements. Siren will be reviewing its work processes in the aftermath of the Covid-19 crisis in order to reassess its international working arrangements to identify areas where its environmental impact could be reduced. Supporting our Beneficiaries, Partners, and the Community • Continued to employ an eco-friendly approach to construction and refurbishment of police stations and police facilities in Lebanon, including: prioritising the use of recycled materials; ensuring proper disposal of waste materials; installing solar panels as an alternative energy source (where appropriate); using energy-efficient technologies, such as double-glazed windows and LED lighting fixtures; and utilising ozone-friendly climate control systems. Measurement of Outcomes • Reduced the number of flights required for implementing our Lebanon and Jordan project by approximately 50% by moving to a core project delivery team based in country. • Over 50% of office waste is recycled in our Lebanon locations. • Approximately 80% of materials used in our construction/refurbishment activities in Lebanon come from recycled sources. • Furniture procured as part of refurbishment activities in Lebanon has been audited and is compliant with FSC-STD-40-004 (Version 3.0) and FSC-STD-40-005 (Version 2.1) standards. • Approximately 60% of waste materials from construction and refurbishment activities in Lebanon is recycled. 13 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 Anti-Corruption Global Compact Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Committment Siren exercises a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption and supports the principles enshrined within the UN Convention against Corruption. Our Anti-Bribery policy is compliant with the UK Anti-Bribery Act 2010 and is applicable to ‘Siren staff, to temporary staff, consultants, contractors, agents and subsidiaries acting for, or on behalf of, Siren within the UK and overseas.’ Our Code of Conduct further enshrines this commitment. Siren’s Procurement Policy, updated this year, details procedures to ensure full transparency and prevent corruption in the awarding of Siren contracts. Siren operates in difficult contexts where accountability measures often remain weak, and is therefore required to maintain detailed financial and procurement records for audit purposes. Siren conducts individual corruption risk assessments for each of its projects. Corruption risk monitoring is integrated into our broader project risk management cycle. Siren has also expanded its portfolio in the past year, taking on projects that directly address the need for better public sector oversight, accountability, and transparency in Lebanon. This is a direct response to the current political and economic crises in Lebanon, which have called for coordinated action by international and local partners to tackle these major issues. 14 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 “Siren is committed to the highest standards of ethical conduct and integrity in its business activities. This policy outlines the organisation’s position on preventing and prohibiting bribery, in accordance with the UK Bribery Act 2010. We will not tolerate any form of bribery by, or of, staff or any person or body acting on Siren´s behalf. Siren is committed to implementing effective measures to prevent, monitor and eliminate bribery.’ Siren Anti-Bribery Policy Actions Taken Building a Sustainable Siren Business Model • Siren’s procurement manual was updated an annual process to remain current with best practice and applicable laws. • Siren was awarded a major contract by a bilateral donor that includes stringent requirements in terms of due diligence and supply chain management, including clear policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the UK Terrorism Act 2000 aimed at preventing the financing of terrorism worldwide. • All transactions are managed via thorough checks and balances, with checks and controls distributed between project teams and the Board of Directors. Checks and controls are the responsibility of project finance officers, project procurement officers, the project director, and ultimately the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). • Siren continued to maintain compliance with the International Aid Transparency Initiative, as part of its Dutch-funded project in Jordan. Supporting our Beneficiaries, Partners, and the Community • Siren continues to support police accountability and governance via its policing support programme in Lebanon. • Siren has initiated two new projects in Lebanon, both directly targeting public sector governance and accountability. We have partnered with a primary national oversight and audit agency, working with them to improve their systems and processes. Siren was also contracted by the World Bank to conduct research into public sector procurement in Lebanon in order to recommend actions to improve the systems transparency. • Siren, as part of efforts to spread best practices within the development community in Jordan, provided an introductory session to other stakeholders on the International Aid Transparency Initiative and its effects on reporting requirements for programming. Measurement of Outcomes • Siren has not been involved in any legal cases regarding bribery or corruption 15 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 © April 2020 Siren Associates All Rights Reserved
