Sustain —ability Report 2020 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress THIS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HAS BEEN DISCUSSED, REVIEWED AND APPROVED BY OUR Contents BOARD AND ALL OUR 1. About Alliance EMPLOYEES. THIS REPORT 2. About Global Compact 3. The Ten Principles IS PUBLISHED ON THE 4. Statement of Continued Support 5. Living the principles 6. Achievements in the report period UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT WEBSITE 7. Our goals for the next year 8. Sustainable design in our projects UNGLOBALCOMPACT.ORG AND OUR OWN WEBSITE 2019— Design & illustrations by Alliance architecture studio ALLARK.NO About We want to Alliance Alliance is a Norwegian architecture studio design the most established in June 2005 with a strong focus on sustainability. inclusive and The studio collaborates with various offices represents the energy and attitude that inspire and disciplines, and we frequently participate us in our daily work. We also have a set of in architectural competitions. The scope of values that we strive to implement in all we do: our work spans from case studies and area reliability, curiosity, social engagement, design planning to the development and completion for urban biodiversity and circularity. of building projects. Our projects range from sustainable detailing a 50 m² boat house to developing In the spring of 2007, as the first architectural 860 000 m² area plans. We primarily work with office in Norway, we became members of the new constructions, but are also involved in UN’s Global Compact, where members commit renovation, restoring and extensions to existing to align their operations with ten principles structures. The majority of our commissions concerning environment, anti-corruption, consist of residential and commercial human rights and labour. ways to house developments. We do development design from concept to completion. Our involvement is mainly concerned with environmental sustainability and labour Our studio is organized as a non-hierarchical/ standards. Furthermore, we promote the role horizontal structure (horizontality is for design of architecture as a trigger in encouraging only) and we continuously seek to collaborate the public to participate in environmental and connect with groups and individuals from other and social issues. As architects, we aspire to disciplines. We believe that such collaboration encourage the discourse on our current and contributes to a positive synergy effect as well future urban development, where the interests as adding inspiration and learning to the work of private developers may diverge from the processes, resulting in creative methods and needs of the society. Our stated vision: we want original results. We carefully assemble teams to design inclusive and sustainable ways to people with the necessary requested experience in house and connect people. combination with innovative strategies. This More about us on our website https://www.allark.no/studio Alliance architecture studio — Sustainability report The world’s About Global Compact largest The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted corporate principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, business, as a primary driver of in the Global Compact’s rapid growth. With sustainability globalisation, can help markets, commerce, almost 10 000 companies from 160 countries, it technology and finance advance in ways that is the largest voluntary corporate responsibility benefit economies and societies everywhere. initiative in the world. The Global Compact is a practical framework for the development, As social, political and economic issues — at implementation, and disclosure of sustainability home or in other regions — increasingly affect policies and practices. Offering participants a business. Many companies recognise the need wide range of work streams, management tools to collaborate with governments, civil society, and resources, the framework is designed to initiative labour and NGO’s like the UN Global Compact. help advance sustainable business models and This ever-increasing understanding reflects markets. More about our vision on our website https://www.allark.no/studio The Ten Principles More about our vision on our website https://www.allark.no/studio AntiLabour corruption 2. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Alliance is committed to protect labour rights, including freedom of association, abolition of forced and child labour, and the elimination of any type of discrimination. of the right to collective Alliance fulfills all its responsibilities 1. Businesses should work Alliance is committed to working bargaining. according to Norwegian law. Beyond the legislative demand, Alliance has against corruption in all its forms. against corruption in all its appointed employee representatives forms, including extortion 3. The elimination of all forms as council and neutral support for employees on issues regarding salary and bribery. of forced and compulsory negotiation and contractual dispute. labour. Alliance sees great value in geographical and ethnic diversity among its work force. 4. The effective abolition of child labour. 5. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human EnvironRights ment 6. Businesses should support Alliance is committed to the protection of international human rights within our 8. Businesses should support a Alliance is committed to the promotion of greater environmental responsibility and respect the protection sphere of influence. precautionary approach to and precautionary approaches to environmental challenges in our sphere of internationally proclaimed Alliance fulfils all its responsibilities environmental challenges. of influence. human rights. according to Norwegian law, including implementing a health and safety We have decided to place management system. The company 9. Undertake initiatives environmental issues at the very core of our strategy, one of our main holds a third party certification 7. Make sure that they are not as a “Sustainability lighthouse” to promote greater priorities is strengthening and sharing complicit in human rights (Miljøfyrtårn), with obligations on health and safety management beyond environmental responsibility. technical knowledge related to the design of more ecological buildings abuses. the legislative minimum. Progress is We seek to involve users and reported annually since 2012. 10. Encourage the development stakeholders at an early project stage. and diffusion of We design for a healthy living, working and social environment, and believe this environmentally friendly is key to a sustainable society. technologies. We make an effort to reduce our resource and energy use in our running of the office and the project development. We aim to achieve best practice for our projects through the use of international building and area planning certification systems, such as BREEAM, and recognized national standards like the passive house principle. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact The Office of Sustainability The Architectural Industry of Norway has labelled us «the Office of Sustainability» and “the Challenger”. This motivates us to continue to contribute to an environmentally as well as financially sustainable architecture and urban development! Statement of continued support In 2019 we decided to base the company’s strategy on corporate social responsibility, We aim making it both a central and transversal objective. 2020 was the year we were going to implement this into our doings and projects. Due to COVID-19 all this work suddenly came to for drastic a pause as the company’s survival became, and still is, our primary concern. Our ambition, per today, is to restart the work the opportunities to implement circular changes on implementing our strategy in January and nature-based solutions. The main ones 2021. Therefore, we see no need to change being material recycling, energy production, our priorities and ambitions, and repeat what waste treatment, maximization of green was said in 2019: structures and living systems in cities and the consideration of the entire supply chain. In terms of human and financial investment, our priority is strengthening and sharing Another important aim is to create spaces technical knowledge related to the design of that favor services based on sharing and less in practice more ecological buildings and cities in line on ownership (equipment, vehicles), again to with the circular economy principles. The reduce the consumption of raw resources and same applies to recruitment, partnerships, energy, while creating more fulfilling living and new clients’ profiles. conditions for users. We are also optimizing and standardizing In collaboration with our clients, the our project management processes for authorities, our suppliers, collaborators, architecture, urban planning, landscape and partners, we aim for drastic changes in architecture and zoning planning. One practice, in accordance with the urgency with of the aims is to facilitate and clarify which we are confronted and for which we dialogue with our stakeholders regarding are collectively responsible Tarjei Halvor Torgersen CEO & partner More about our vision on our website https://www.allark.no/studio Living the principles As architects we have a remarkable opportunity Following to influence the building industry in areas considering the contractual framework, design, methods and materials. We take advantage of this opportunity as often as we can. the GC It is now more than ten years since we took on Council which manages BREEAM in Norway. board The Global Compact in our office. The We also work with other environmental first years, we grew fast in both project volume standards such as the passive house standard and staff. Following the G.C. principles, we or area specific sustainable programs. We seek have put a lot of effort into developing both a to develop new areas of expertise through good workplace and great projects. This has education and courses, strategic cooperation principles required a continuous process of defining, with other companies and by encouraging staff reaching for our goals and developing a to enter the public arena through debates, framework of implementation. One of our main lectures, and teaching. We have a growing achievements to date has been achieving a understanding for diving deeper into the Global third-party certification as an environmentally Compact. We are committed to raising the sound business practice that we continue to bar on both the types and number of projects improve. We also regularly map staff priorities with high sustainable qualities, and in terms for the resources at hand and put them into of developing skills in our organisation and a for 13 years life, such as a shorter workweek and a better stronger management framework. We welcome pension scheme. the initiative from G.C. to take onboard emerging sustainable global issues through The office has developed a fixed salary system the Global opportunity report, where the five for the first fifteen years of practice, securing most significant global sustainable threats are a fair salary development in the initial years identified. of practice, regardless of gender, parental leave or negotiation skills. The office practices We have participated in the Global Compact competence mapping of the staff in addition to Nordic Network (GCNN) forum that facilitates obligatory annual individual talks to ensure that outreach, learning, policy dialogue, collective the competence at hand is used wisely, uncover action and partnerships. We hope to needs and wishes for new skills and career engage further in the network and explore directions. In terms of securing high standards opportunities for partnerships for concrete for sustainability in our planning and building initiatives and projects in the current period. projects, the office has chosen BREEAM as the preferred platform for environmental implementation and assessment, and we are a member of the Norwegian Green Building More about our vision on our website https://www.allark.no/studio In 2019 we set specific goals for the principles for the next year. Our goals and achievements are described in the following. LABOUR Bilkollektivet, a car sharing club in Oslo, all AchieveInhouse our employees are offered a free private membership. Our bike parking is indoor so Goal all employees can park their bikes safely. Measure the quality of the indoor climate Subsidized use of City Bike has been regarding dust, humidity and oxygen levels. withdrawn to cut costs in a financial hard Also, increase the number of green plants time. Yoga is still not on the schedule at the in the office in order to improve the indoor office, but employees have had subsidized ments in climate. memberships at a gym before covid-19. Result We have not measured the quality of the Goal indoor climate, but we are scheduled to Have presentations of both ongoing and do so for a recertification of our status as finished projects to inspire and share Miljøfyrtårn-company (“environmental knowledge between co-workers. Have lighthouse”) in the spring of 2021. Throughout in place a good system for collective the year employees have had complaints intelligence to better share ideas, initiatives, the report about the ventilation as it is often too and knowledge between co-workers. cold and a strong draft in the the office. Result The landlord is informed and working on We have presentations of projects on a improving the situation. We will continue to regular basis in the office and continue to push for improvement. improve our routines of knowledge-sharing. We did increase the number of plants. We have created a database on Teams for sharing ideas, knowledge and experience Goal with materials and products. period Create career plans for all employees that include strengthening knowledge on CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) and LABOUR circularity. In building projects Result Each employees’ skills and knowledge has Goal been mapped. This creates the basis for the Define at least one innovation factor in each career plans. project to promote learning and quality awareness. Share the knowledge obtained Goal within the office, and where feasible, with our Encourage the use of public transport and clients and the public. bicycles to/from work by subsidizing the use Result of City bikes (Bysykkel) in Oslo and introduce We continue to have several projects where yoga in the office for stress handling and we have managed to implement innovation/ reduction. learning factors, but can still improve both Result on the percentage of projects and on making Employees are encouraged to walk or bike these factors evident to the entire staff and to to avoid public transportation and maintain our clients. social distancing. We are members of More about our vision on our website https://www.allark.no/studio Goals & achievements EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION We have been on national news and morning ANTI-CORRUPTION Goal Inhouse TV talking about the cruciality of planning Inhouse Make sure that most of our purchases are for sustainable solutions to handle climate eco-labelled, organic or Fairtrade products. Goal change, and how green roofs and storm Goal Reduce the amount of waste by 10 %. Participate in at least four events on water management are important elements in Continue with a transparent economy Result architectural issues related to the principles, a sustainable urban design. and company administration open to all We continue to choose eco-labelled, organic and particularly on environmental employees. and Fairtrade-products, and we have sustainability. Our ambitious mobility strategy for the Result increased the number of suppliers that are extension of the city of Bodø gained attention All staff have open access to our environmentally certified (e.g. ISO/EMAS, the Result from Nordlandsavisen and «Bodø nu» administrative materials not underlying any Nordic “Svanen”, the Norwegian Miljøfyrtårn We have participated succeeded in pledge of confidentiality. We keep an open (Eco-Lighthouse)). participating in several activities related to We have worked with Norske Boligbyggelag dialogue with employees and will continue the principles. (NBBL) to develop their new standard of to do so. Information from the administration Goal sustainability. NBBL is a interest organization is usually given in regular office meetings. Continue to use less electricity in the office. Two of our projects, Nordre gate and with 1 million members that manages about Employees also have a representative in the Result Petersborghuset, were part of the Oslo 500 000 dwellings all over Norway. They also board to ensure that their rights and needs Our electricity consumption is kept to a Open House program as good examples of assist housing associations with advicing and are heard. minimum. We will continue to groom the sustainable solutions and good design. development. habits we have developed over the last years to keep our electricity use to a minimum. Petersborghuset was the chosen location for ANTI-CORRUPTION the DOGA (Design and Architecture Norway) HUMAN RIGHTS In building projects Goal event «How to co-create an urban gathering In building projects Focus on reducing all types of waste, food house for the neighbourhood?» Goal waste and having meat-free lunches. Goal Continue to promote the principles by Result Nordre gate is a pilot project for using CLT Recommend materials where human rights implementing our ethical standard in We keep recycling most of our waste. For the as a construction material in an infill project, are considered in the producing process. contracts, in dialogue with our project recertification for «Miljøfyrtårn» spring 2021 and on social sustainability. We have given Result groups and through our publications and we will again have an evaluation on where we several guided tours to share our knowledge The company continues to disseminate social media activities. can limit our waste production. on these subjects. The guided tours have knowledge on sustainable and responsibly Result Since most of our employees have worked been for, among others, the Oslo School of sourced materials within its staff, and actively We have achieved our goal for the last period from home large parts of this year, we no Architecture (AHO) and architectural offices. suggests such material alternatives in our and will pursue this goal further for the next longer have catered lunch. When more projects, including awareness on recognized report period. people are back at the office, and we lack the Nordre gate was one of three finalists for material certification. routine of lunch planning, we see that there «Statens pris for byggkvalitet». The focus ENVIRONMENT is a significant potential in finding a new for this year’s priza was «good dwellings Inhouse solution that reduces food waste again. through life». «Statens pris for byggkvalitet» HUMAN RIGHTS All employees are encouraged to print as is an award that lifts new role models Inhouse Goal little as possible and every computer is set on that contribute to raising, renewing and Decrease the number of flights per year. We 2-page printing to reduce paper waste. developing qualities in housing projects. The Goal aim to reduce our flights with 10 % and to candidates showcase exceptional qualities Establish a partnership relation for a specific increase the number of video conferences or and are result of good and innovative project with a Norwegian or foreign NGO alternative communication by 10 %. building processes. working with human rights. We have made Result some headway in this and will continue. We have continued to limit the number of Nordre gate has been published in Arkitektur Result flights. The use of Skype and Teams meetings N, the Norwegian Review of Architecture. We are still a member of the EGN have increased drastically. We have gained Sustainability Network which also discusses valuable knowledge about when a meeting Our work with circular principles Corporate Social Responsibility. requires to meet in person and when a video and solutions through the projects, meeting is sufficient. Petersborghuset and Nordre gate has been published in Estate and Byggeindustrien, among others. Goals & achievements ENVIRONMENT Result Result We have and are working on several area In building projects Our premise for working with the project In our landscape projects we seek, for plan schemes, landscape architecture Petersborghuset, was that it was to be instance, innovative solutions on how to and building projects with strong Goal developed following principles of circularity, handle storm water locally and through sustainable profiles. We also continue Establish a sustainability group that aims to reuse, and redesign. Throughout the project open systems, both on roofs and on to promote sustainable development in increase knowledge about sustainability and we had a strong focus on motivating and terrain, aiming to exceed the authority’s several public arenas and to our clients. circularity both within the organization and in educating both suppliers, contractors and lowest requirement. We have worked on large area plans with our projects. also the client about these principles. The We promote the maximization of highly ambitious goals on how to plan Result completed building is a product all the green roofs also as part of our storm for new sustainable neighborhoods and We have established a sustainability group involved partners are very proud of. We are water management strategies. We cities. Especially new and sustainable that is working on routines and plans to promoting the knowledge and expertise we have developed high quality roof mobility solutions have been important in be implemented in our projects to secure gained to promote these principles in other terraces containing planting beds this work, as some of these plans aim for sustainable choices and focus in the projects. projects. that can hold enough soil to grow zero growth in private car use. We have created a database on Teams for We work with several building sites that are trees and lush vegetation, as well sharing ideas, knowledge and experience fossil free. as edible roots, vegetables, and Goal with materials and products. herbs. The implementation of green Continue to promote sustainable Goal roofs is an example of our interest in materials and energy efficient solutions Goal Investigating the possibility of binding designing multifunctional systems to where possible, including the use of Improve project processes to better include CO2 in building projects, continue further meet sustainable purposes: manage wood (CLT). CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) and to implement the use of wood (CLT) as stormwater, increase urban biodiversity, Result circularity principles. construction method. proliferate urban food production and We continue to promote sustainable Result Result create a place for social interaction materials and energy efficient solutions We have completed our first project that We are proud to have completed our first among others. In landscape architecture, where possible, including the use of follow circular principles, this projects is CLT project, that reduces CO2 emission we will strengthen our focus on Naturewood (CLT). We are actively seeking to also a reuse and redesign project, that tests by 50% compared to traditional reference Based Solutions to create more resilience work with projects where sustainable circular principles. buildings. The project has gained broad cities through stormwater management materials and energy use is the focus, attention where we have had the opportunity strategies. This will also help to increase so we can increase our experience, Goal to focus on and display the environmental urban biodiversity, help to mitigate expertise and influence. Always offer BREEAM project certification to benefits of using CLT. climate change, improve health, and our clients. meet social needs Goal Result Goal Establish more partnerships and join We have offered BREEAM certification to Start developing Nature-Based-Solutions Goal networks that are leading in their field a large number of projects. We uphold this (NBS) for landscape architecture; human Continue to focus on smart farming and of knowledge regarding sustainable goal for the next period. By the end of 2021 constructed (or designed) systems inspired urban food production in our projects. development and circularity principles. we will have completed two more BREEAM by nature that tackle socio-environmental Aiming for projects focusing on Result projects. We are also starting new projects challenges (increase of biodiversity in cities, sustainable development/research. We are still a member of EGN with different sustainable certifications, such mitigate climate change, improve health, Increase our focus and mapping of Sustainability Network which as «Svanemerket bolig» (Nordic certification define flexible water management). results on sustainable development in strengthens our knowledge about for environmentally friendly dwellings) and The European Union defines NBS as solutions area planning and building projects. sustainability and corporate social «Husbankfinansiering for miljøvennlige «inspired and supported by nature, which Result responsibility and share ideas with boliger» (The Norwegian State Housing are cost-effective, simultaneously provide We continue to aim for projects focusing other companies and organizations Banks financing for environmentally friendly environmental, social and economic benefits on sustainability, where innovative that have a strong interest in these dwellings) and help build resilience”. research and principles can be tested matters. We are still in dialogue with and applied. We have instigated work consultants and companies to establish Goal on building projects where emissions mutually beneficial partnerships with Reduce the amount of waste on construction have been reduced by over 50 % in regards to environmentally and socially site by challenging the suppliers and comparison with reference projects. conscientious materials and design. contractors when it comes to material consumption and recycling. Also, consider recycling for the future when choosing materials. Goals for the next report To track our progress on promoting the ten principles, we have set specific goals for the coming report period. LABOUR EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION ENVIRONMENT Continue to offer BREEAM certification Inhouse Inhouse Inhouse and other certifications that are securing sustainable projects. In order to track our progress Measure the quality of the indoor climate regarding dust, humidity and oxygen levels. on Participate in at least four events on architectural issues particularly related Continue to keep our number of flights to a minimum. Reintroduce the policy of only We will strengthen our focus on Naturepromoting the ten principles, Follow up on indoor climate and low weon circularity, environmental to principles public transportation, biking or walking to Based Solutions temperature in the office, to increase sustainability and innovation. and from meetings, as soon as the current have set specific goals for the coming comfort for the employees. covid-19 situations changes. Continue to reduce the amount of waste Make sure our green plant are healthy to on construction sites by challenging the report period. improve the indoor climate. HUMAN RIGHTS Continue to make sure that most of our suppliers and contractors when it comes Inhouse purchases are eco-labelled, organic or to material consumption and recycling. Keep having presentations of both ongoing Fairtrade products. Also, consider recycling for the future when and finished projects to inspire and share Estsablish a partnership relation for a specific Reduce the amount of waste by 10 %, and choosing materials. knowledge LABOUR between co-workers. project LABOUR with a Norwegian or foreign NGO recycle all waste. Inhouse to work on a good system for Continue working with In building human rights. projects Continue to investigating the possibility of collective intelligence to better share Continue to use less electricity in the office. binding CO2 in building projects, continue ideas, Continue initiatives to measure the quality between and knowledge of the HUMAN Define at RIGHTS least one innovation factor in each further to implement the use of wood (CLT) coworkers. indoor climate regarding dust, humidity, In building projects learning and quality project to promote Reintroduce a lunch deal that helps to cut as construction method. temperature and oxygen levels. Also, awareness. Share the knowledge obtained food waste and encourage meat free meals. Encourage continue tothe use ofthe increase public transport number of green the office, and materials withinrecommending Keep wherewith where feasible, human Continue to focus on smart farming and and bicycles to/from work and plants in the office in order to improve during the the rights are considered in our clients and the public. the producing Renew our certification as a «Miljøfyrtårn»urban food production in our projects. workday. Reintorduce subsidized use of City indoor climate. process. company. Aiming for projects focusing on sustainable Bike (Bysykkel). development/research. Continue with presentations of ongoing ANTI-CORRUPTION Reintroduce and finished economic projects tosupport for gym inspire and share ENVIRONMENT Increase our focus and mapping of results Inhouse other sports knowledge between co-workers. activities memberships, or and In building projects on sustainable development in area planning that encourage increased physical activity and building projects. Continue with a transparent economy among Encourage the the employees use of public transport Implement routines and plans to secure and company administration open to all and bicycles to/from work and during the sustainable choices in our projects, Establish more partnerships and relations employees. Reintroduce other benefits for employees workday. Reintroduce developed by our in house sustainability with consultants/a network who are leading that has been cut due to the financial group. in their field of knowledge regarding situastion Gjeninnføre during covid-19, such as additional helseforsikring sustainable development. ANTI-CORRUPTION health care insurance for alle employees and Continue to better include CSR (Corporate In building projects Social Responsibility) and circularity additional Gjeninnføre retirement tilskudd til plans. trening principles. Continue to promote the principles by LABOUR Use career plans to plan for courses anetc for implementing our ethical standard in In building each projects emplyees. contracts, in dialogue with our project groups and through our publications and Continue to implement innovation/learning social media activities. factors, and improve both on the percentage of projects and on making these factors evident to the entire staff and to our clients. More about our vision on our website https://www.allark.no/studio Sustainable design in our projects SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN WE STRIVE TO CREATE OUR PROJECTS PRINCIPLES THAT MAKE ROOM FOR THE CHANGES TO SOCIETY & TECHNOLOGY An increasing share of our projects consists of area planning, master plans and feasibility IN OUR NEAR AND DISTANT studies that lay down the framework for future buildings. FUTURE. AT THE SAME TIME, Getting the regulatory framework right is key If we want the end-users to change their ways to optimising the future buildings in terms of in a sustainable direction, we have to provide THE SOLUTIONS WE BRING sustainable issues. We see a need for a broader the tools, the room for involvement and and more holistic approach to sustainable influence, and attractive incentives from the planning that includes management of the start. sustainable issues through the process and securing the implemented qualities beyond For our building projects, we have a growing FORTH IN OUR PROJECTS the planning process. For this reason, we have portfolio where sustainability has been a central started to use BREEAM Communities as a tool focus, and we have brought forward offices, in several of our planning projects. schools and housing with qualities we are proud of. We strive towards a wider range and volume Our philosophy embraces urbanisation as a of sustainable projects, and for ever increasing MUST BE FEASIBLE & means for a more sustainable future, and to ambition in our sustainable goals. systematically challenge best practice and the restraints concerning what is possible in a In the following is a short introduction to some task. Focus on the development process is key, of our planning and building projects and how including a clear strategy for working progress, we have implemented the Global Compact SECURE THE DESIRED sensible phasing and for securing quality and principles in the work. involvement for the users during development. SOCIAL, ECONOMIC & ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITIES OF A PROJECT. ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN OUR PROJECTS Nordre gate 22 An eco-friendly project from start to finish The project consists 37 machinery running on biofuel. pavilion made from all recycled apartments, one shop, two The main construction is cross materials and crates for urban restaurants, two buildings, laminated timber (CLT), partly farming. Local stormwater is one facing the street and exposed in the interior to managed on the roof, as well one backyard building, and benefit the indoor climate in as in the green areas in the a rooftop accessible for all the apartments. Burnt wood backyard. residents. cladding is facing both the The project has bike parking From demolition of the old street and the facade towards for all inhabitants and includes building to the finished the backyard no car parking. building, the site has been The rooftop is developed into fossil-free, with construction a garden, which includes a See more of this project on our website https://www.allark.no/projects/oslo-harbour-area-a4 ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN OUR PROJECTS Petersborghuset A testing ground for circularity and reuse Petersborghuset from 1870, is excess materials, how to find Standard doors are given new life as neighborhood second-hand goods in time, painted and given simple house in Ensjø, Oslo. It is how do you find more if you ornamentation to go with the now ready to meet the new need more? And how to use classic building. generation. existing building components A sink and a shelf made from and furniture to increase their plastic waste displays more Reuse, redesign and testing value? All these questions have ways to use plastic scraps. circular principles was the given creative solutions and the 26 chairs and four tables premises for this project. The result has a great pedagogical from a 90’s meeting room project only consist of one value for the house’s visitors was redesigned and given a smaller building, therefore and users. The signal effect is more timely design. it is not the CO2-reduction the projects biggest strength. The old kitchen was moved, that makes the big difference, adapted, and given a facelift. but the possibility to test and Here are some of the ideas Sound absorbents are made display new ideas, and gaining tested and displayed: from excess materials from experience that can benefit The entrance room is given wool production. future projects. Working a new floor, made from the The house is made together with contractors and original cherry parquet mixed accessible, with a new stair the client to find solutions has with excess parquet from and a lifting platform. been key — how do you find other projects. See more of this project on our website https://www.allark.no/projects/kulimporttomten-stavanger ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN OUR PROJECTS Bodø — ny by, ny bydel A new city working with micro climate and new mobility The city of Bodø is about to nights gave us this starting new area. We introduced a grow: Moving the airport, point: «Bodø – the seasonal “high efficiency network” to Bodø Lufthavn, frees up 2900 city». How to plan for a reduce the use of private cars. acres, an area about the size comfortable city to live in with Combined with a ”last mile” of the existing city center. these conditions, and at the system, the whole city got We teamed up with a highly same time keep and enhance an effective and sustainable ambitious team to find the best its’ distinctiveness? Our mobility network. solutions for Bodø’s future. The solution was to optimize and team consisted of the following stage the climate. To achieve We developed tree offices: Henning Larsen, this we worked with wind neighborhoods in the new Goudappel Coffeng, Kristiania studies and the microclimate. city, displaying how to use Byplankontor and NIKU. the principle of mobility and Our mobility strategy was microclimate. A city with dark winters, rough based on an organic growth climate and bright summer of the existing city into the See more of this project on our website https://www.allark.no/projects/oslo-harbour-area-a4 ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN OUR PROJECTS Vardheia ungdomsskule BREEAM NOR Very Good from Design to In use Vardheia is a school for youths This also ensures the best sun The building is certified as from the age of 13 to 16. The conditions for the school’s BREEAM NOR Very Good school is dimensioned for outdoor areas, that are facing both for the design phase, 450 pupils and 54 employees. south. Designated areas are construction period and Construction started in set aside for farming, in close «In use», this has been an September 2019, the building connection to the kitchen to important tool to secure is scheduled to be ready for facilitate for this to be used sustainable choices in all levels the semester starting in August in the tuition. The school‘s of the project. Not only has 2021. playground is open for this committed the client to everyone and works a park for choose sustainably, but it has Vardheia Skole is located in the whole neighborhood. committed us to increase our Jæren, with a landscape very knowledge about sustainability characteristic to the region. To achieve multiple use of the and BREEAM. Our project To keep as much as possible building throughout the day. a members have participated of the landscape, the building sports and gymnastics hall, is in courses to achieve is placed to keep as much of being built next to the school. better understanding and the landscape as possible. competence on the subject. See more of this project on our website https://www.allark.no/projects/kulimporttomten-stavanger ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN OUR PROJECTS Skalstadskogen A masterplan based on new mobility and sustainable lifestyles We have developed the master of private cars, mobility hubs to experiment with typologies plan for a new housing area that are strategically placed that encourage sustainable with 2 500 new housing units to connect residential areas lifestyles. in Drammen, Norway. with infrastructures, such as public transportation, car Being close to nature is a The goal is to develop the area sharing and bike pools. The quality essential to keep. without increasing the traffic hubs are used to enhance the As a result, one third of the load on the roads. Developing neighborhoods within the plan, development area is set aside a mobility strategy has been they shape meeting places to protect biodiversity and key to this project. To tackle and kinder gardens, schools the recreational qualities that the challenge, the whole area and community functions are the existing forest provides, of Konnerud was included in placed in relation to them. the forest that has given the new strategy. The mobility the project its’ name — and infrastructure solutions The project includes a variety Skalstadskogen. are based on reducing the use of forms of living, which allows See more of this project on our website https://www.allark.no/projects/oslo-harbour-area-a4 ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN OUR PROJECTS Haslum elvepark Our first BREEAM Residential certificated project Haslum Elvepark consists the project opens up towards The apartments have a range of 140 BREEAM Residential the river and connects to the of sizes to provide housing certified dwellings. Alliance river with a new greenery for a variation of people has developed the project from stretching from east to west. with different needs. Each the first sketch and regulation The continuos greenery is open apartment is given their own plan to completed buildings. for everyone who wants to use private outdoor space for the area with it’s playgrounds recreation and wellness. The project is a transformation and hiking paths. of an industrial site with The main material used for the hard and grey surfaces, All increase in private traffic is outdoor cladding is sustainable to a sustainable housing to be handled through public bricks, which fulfills the projects which relates to transportation, biking and requirements for BREEAM the surrounding nature walking. Public transportation certification. and existing single houses. is in walking distance from the Øverlandselva is an important site. The centre of Oslo is only nature element in the area, a 20 minute train ride away. See more of this project on our website https://www.allark.no/projects/kulimporttomten-stavanger ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Goals for the next report Thank you for reading studio@allark.no +47 22 36 40 44 © Alliance arkitekturstudio AS
