CONNECT TO IMPOSSIBLE UN Global Compact 2020 Communication on Progress Published: November 2020 www.burstiq.com United Nations Global Compact 2020 Communication on Progress Legal Disclaimer This Communication on Progress, or COP, has been prepared for the United Nations and contains certain information related to BurstIQ’s participation in the United Nations Global Compact. This document is not a prospectus and is not intended to provide current or prospective investors with any information related to the future performance of BurstIQ. Neither BurstIQ nor its managers, officers, directors, employees affiliates or agents make any representation or warranty, express or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of this COP or any of the contents herein, and no legal liability is assumed or implied against any of the aforementioned with respect hereto. This document may contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the projected future performance of BurstIQ. These statements are based on the current expectations and beliefs of BurstIQ and reflect various assumptions by management. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise noted, BurstIQ is providing this information as of the date of this communication and does not undertake any obligation to update any forwardlooking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and the information provided herein shall not be deemed to be or interpreted as a specific guarantee of performance by BurstIQ. www.burstiq.com i UN Global Compact 2020 Communication on Progress TABLE OF CONTENTS LETTER FROM THE CEO ................................................................. III ABOUT BURSTIQ .............................................................................1 ALIGNMENT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS ................2 2019-2020 PROGRESS REPORT .......................................................3 HUMAN RIGHTS (Principles 1-2) ..................................................................................... 3 LABOR (Principles 3-6) .................................................................................................... 4 ENVIRONMENT (Principles 7-9) ...................................................................................... 5 ANTI-CORRUPTION (Principle 10) .................................................................................. 6 ADDITIONAL 2019-2020 GOALS ................................................................................... 7 2020-2021 GOALS ...........................................................................7 www.burstiq.com ii UN Global Compact 2020 Communication on Progress LETTER FROM THE CEO THIS YEAR has been one of unprecedented disruption. Families have suffered unimaginable loss and entire countries have come to a grinding halt as a result of COVID-19, and we are not out of the woods yet. We have been deeply impacted by the immeasurable pain that this virus has caused, both to our immediate families and to our global human family. But we also see many reasons to be hopeful. COVID-19 has galvanized the global community around a common mission: to defeat COVID-19. Researchers have connected with each other and established collaborations more rapidly than at any other time in modern history. Clinical trials are on a fast-track. Innovators have developed contact tracing and immunity pass solutions in record time. Here at BurstIQ, we have contributed our own expertise and tools through Research FoundryTM, and we will continue to fight alongside our global community until COVID-19 is no longer a threat. We know that the direct and indirect impacts of this pandemic will extend into future generations, and therefore, our work is far from over. By building the world’s most advanced data exchange network, BurstIQ is working to empower the next generation of health and identity solutions. Solutions that promote individual privacy and autonomy, enable access and equity, reduce fraud and waste, and support sustainability. BurstIQ is and will always be led by a single truth: that every person has equal value and that every person should have equal opportunity to thrive. It is with this truth in mind that we reaffirm our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Participation in the UN Global Compact enables BurstIQ to collaborate with governments, NGOs and enterprises to achieve a common set of goals. It demonstrates our commitment to social stewardship and thought leadership. But most importantly, it serves as a public affirmation that we are deeply committed to living our values and building products that reflect these values. In this 2020 Communication on Progress (COP), we outline how BurstIQ is continuing to incorporate the Ten Principles and Sustainable Development Goals into our business. This report will be shared with stakeholders and reinforced through multiple communication channels. Frank J. Ricotta, Jr. Co-Founder and CEO www.burstiq.com iii United Nations Global Compact 2020 Communication on Progress ABOUT BURSTIQ BurstIQ is a global data exchange network that builds trusted health and identity profiles for people, places and things, called LifeGraphs®, and empowers secure connections between them. The HIPAA and GDPR compliant platform provides everything organizations need to build secure, connected, and scalable data management solutions: — Profile Management: Build trusted profiles of people, places, and things — Consent and Governance: Manage multiple layers of consent and governance — Process Automation: Integrate workflows with system governance — Seamless Data Sharing: Simplify data sharing across partners, vendors, and users — Data Monetization: Create new services and economic value from data BurstIQ brings all of these services together on a flexible, high performance blockchain network purpose-built for securely managing health and identity data. The platform establishes trust and integrity both for data access rights and for the data itself, so data can be confidently and securely shared between known and unknown partners. By bringing all of these capabilities together in a unified and secure platform, BurstIQ allows organizations to build meaningful, compliant, and scalable data connections, so they can focus less on infrastructure, and focus more on building next generation health and identity solutions. The result is the most advanced data exchange network in the world. A network that allows health, pharma, life science, and identity organizations to achieve both scalability and data security, so they can securely share data, empower individuals, streamline partnerships, and build impossible products. BurstIQ REVOLUTIONIZES how you manage and connect data, so you can build your network, your community, your IMPOSSIBLE. www.burstiq.com 1 UN Global Compact 2020 Communication on Progress ALIGNMENT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS As a company, BurstIQ is taking specific actions that align with the following Sustainable Development Goals: No Poverty. BurstIQ is working to eliminate poverty by supporting partner solutions for financial inclusion, health equity, and access to adequate food, water and shelter. Zero Hunger. BurstIQ understands that nutrition and health are inextricably linked and is committed to supporting solutions that increase access to nutritious and sustainable food sources. Good Health and Well-Being. BurstIQ enables a global health ecosystem to use data to provide better, more personalized care and we empower people to live their healthiest life. Gender Equality. BurstIQ is committed to supporting solutions that improve maternal care and increase gender representation in clinical research. Clean Water and Sanitation. BurstIQ is actively pursuing partnerships to utilize the BurstIQ platform to connect health and identity services with solutions that promote clean water access and traceability. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. BurstIQ provides the only blockchain-based data exchange network that enables secure, scalable, and compliant sharing of health and identity data. Reduced Inequalities. BurstIQ seeks to reduce inequality by providing the infrastructure that allows diverse data sources to converge and inform truly person-centric care, by increasing access to cuttingedge health services, and by increasing representation in clinical research. www.burstiq.com 2 UN Global Compact 2020 Communication on Progress 2019-2020 PROGRESS REPORT The following provides an overview of actions that BurstIQ has taken over the last 12 months to implement the Global Compact principles and support the UN Sustainable Development Goals. HUMAN RIGHTS (Principles 1-2) The Universal Declaration of Human Rights aligns directly with the core mission and purpose of BurstIQ. The company’s HIPAAand GDPR-compliant global data network is designed to ensure that: every person has a trusted identity that is provable and recognized before the law (Article 6) every person has equal access to health, wellness and social services (Article 25) every person has the opportunity to benefit from medical advancement (Article 27) Our work in enabling these Articles of the Declaration will never truly be finished; it will be a continuous progression towards the ideal. But with each milestone that we achieve, we move closer to realizing that ideal. 2019 Goals — Increase the number of people on the BurstIQ Network who have access to next-generation health products, services and research opportunities. — Increase the number of products, services and research opportunities available through the BurstIQ Network. Progress to Date Over the last twelve months, the number of organizations using the BurstIQ Platform has more than doubled. These organizations are using the platform to build a wide variety of health and identity services: Personal health records Workflow Optimization Research communities Health Information Exchanges Revenue Cycle Immunity Pass Medical & Personal Document Management Contact Tracing Public and private organizations use BurstIQ because it allows them to build health-related services while respecting the rights and privacy of each individual person, and because it allows them to build smarter, more connected services. www.burstiq.com 3 UN Global Compact 2020 Communication on Progress BurstIQ has also invested heavily in advancing the platform for use in research. The company launched Research FoundryTM in April 2020 to allow health researchers to connect with each other and with technical solution developers. Research Foundry accelerates the research process by making it easier for researchers and innovators to share data without risking intellectual property rights, to co-develop and test solutions, and to harness the power of crowdsourcing to address complex problems such as the COVID-19 pandemic. As part of the Research Foundry initiative, BurstIQ partnered with American Heart Association and Hitachi Vantara to launch a global challenge aimed at understanding disparities in COVID-19 outcomes for people of color and people with underlying health conditions. This research challenge is specifically designed to identify and eliminate inequalities in healthcare access and quality of care. Lastly, BurstIQ has expanded our focus in the identity space. We are now actively working with multiple governments and public institutions to develop identity management solutions that enable secure, scalable, and trusted sharing of identity information. This includes know-your-customer (KYC) services, anti-money laundering (AML), immunity pass services, health care provider registries, and more. We remain heavily involved in promoting human rights through our advisory work with the OECD, EU Parliament, World Economic Forum, U.S. International Trade Administration, and Humanity 2.0. We expect that our involvement with these organizations will continue for the foreseeable future. LABOR (Principles 3-6) At BurstIQ, we are strong believers that a person’s health and individual sovereignty are directly related to their ability to access fair and safe employment. The BurstIQ platform empowers individual sovereignty by building trusted identity profiles (LifeGraphs®) that can be directly owned and controlled by each person, and that can be securely shared using fully revocable granular consent. This allows organizations to build more secure, compliant services for identity verification, employment, credentialing, fair compensation, labor reporting, and fraud prevention. Of course, our commitment to the Labor Principles must begin with us. We believe that diversity is a strength; we do not discriminate based on a person’s race, gender affiliation, nationality, ability status or political views. Since the company was founded in 2015, we have actively enforced policies which make qualifications and experience the basis for employee recruitment and advancement. We will never engage in or promote forced labor and child labor, whether directly or indirectly. www.burstiq.com 4 UN Global Compact 2020 Communication on Progress 2019 Goals — Continue to enforce policies and provide benefits that prevent discrimination, support fair labor practices, encourage professional development and promote a family-first culture. Progress to Date In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, BurstIQ’s focus on promoting a family-first culture has taken on new significance. The company has taken proactive steps to ensure that all of our employees have the support they need to maintain the health and well-being of their family during this challenging time. The company has also expanded our employee benefit offerings to ensure that our employees have access to the resources they need now and in the future. BurstIQ is also actively promoting equitable and secure labor practices in our partnerships. The company is actively pursuing several partnerships related to labor and employment. Notably, in September 2020, the company announced a strategic partnership with Tech Mahindra; the companies will offer comprehensive Provider Data Management (PDM) and Identity Data Management (IDM) services to large enterprises in the health, life sciences, and identity industries. Both solutions will use BurstIQ’s blockchain data exchange network to build LifeGraphs of medical professionals and individuals. PDM and IDM profiles are able to incorporate data from many different sources for a more comprehensive and accurate profile, and data within a profile is able to be securely shared and revoked in support of a myriad of use cases. ENVIRONMENT (Principles 7-9) The principles of health and identity are not just individual; they extend into the health and identity of neighborhoods, regions, and the world. Personal health is directly linked with environmental health, and our collective ability to understand this link is dependent on our ability to build meaningful connections between people’s health information and environmental data. The BurstIQ Platform is able to build LifeGraphs of both people and environments and connect these profiles together, so that organizations and governments can build solutions and take actions that benefit both people and the environments in which they live. 2019 Goals — Incorporate environmental data sources onto the BurstIQ platform for the benefit of organizations seeking to investigate and illuminate the link between environmental health and personal health. Progress to Date As part of BurstIQ’s launch of Research FoundryTM in April 2020, the company incorporated over 120 public datasets onto the BurstIQ Platform and made these datasets available to researchers and www.burstiq.com 5 UN Global Compact 2020 Communication on Progress innovators on Research Foundry. The Research Foundry data library includes both health and environmental data for regions around the world. This data is available for researchers to incorporate into their investigations and for solution developers to test the efficacy of their solutions. In addition, BurstIQ is actively pursuing partnerships with public and private organizations that investigate and address the links between environmental health and personal health. ANTI-CORRUPTION (Principle 10) One of the most important mechanisms to eliminate corruption is by creating transparency and connectivity between different systems, so that enforcement and oversight agencies can connect the dots between activities that appear innocuous in isolation but become suspicious when taken together. BurstIQ provides the foundation by which disparate systems are able to connect with each other, securely and at scale. The connections that BurstIQ enables move beyond conventional data transfers and data aggregation. Instead, BurstIQ uses consent and machine intelligence to build active connections between a constantly changing ecosystem of profiles. This enables regulators to capture a more comprehensive view of activity across systems and identify fraudulent activity as it occurs (or even before it occurs). But perhaps most importantly, the BurstIQ data exchange network allows disconnected organizations and agencies to cooperate at a level that has not previously been possible. The BurstIQ platform offers an effective and manageable solution that allows government agencies, private enterprises and consortiums to enforce anti-fraud systems and prevent corruption. 2019 Goals — Establish key partnerships related to secure identity management for individuals and health professionals. Progress to Date Over the last twelve months, BurstIQ has established a number of strategic partnerships to develop identity-related solutions that will increase transparency, accountability, and trust. As previously noted, BurstIQ and Tech Mahindra have established a partnership to offer provider data management and identity data management solutions to health systems, payers, large enterprises, and government agencies. In addition, BurstIQ has provided the foundational data infrastructure for multiple projects related to national-level identity and health information exchange networks. All of these systems share a common theme: they all rest on a foundation of trusted identity profiles that can be securely connected and exchanged. profiles serve as a single source of truth, enabling www.burstiq.com 6 UN Global Compact 2020 Communication on Progress coordination across hundreds or even thousands of services. Trusted identity profiles, together with secure and scalable data exchange services, are essential to building systems for identifying and preventing corruption. ADDITIONAL 2019-2020 GOALS In addition to pursuing the above 2019-2020 goals related to specific Principles, BurstIQ also established two generalized objectives in support of our commitment to the UN Global Compact: — Develop specific quantitative metrics that our company will capture each year to reflect our progress towards the Ten Principles. — Codify our platform policies and monitoring processes to ensure that usage of the BurstIQ platform does not conflict with the Ten Principles. Progress to Date BurstIQ has made significant progress towards these two objectives. The company established a key metric that will enable us to evaluate our impact across the Ten Principles and SDGs: the number of profiles, or LifeGraphs, represented on the BurstIQ Platform. While we measure all types of LifeGraph profiles on the platform (people, communities, facilities, IoT devices, organizations, etc.), individual person profiles are the most important, as they represent the direct impact that BurstIQ is having on health access and equity, individual sovereignty, equitable labor systems, and fraud prevention. With respect to the second objective, the company has well-established policies for ethical use of the BurstIQ Platform and enforces these policies through active monitoring and legal action. 2020-2021 GOALS Over the next twelve months, BurstIQ expects to build on this foundation and further solidify our actions in support of the UN Global Compact. For the 2020-2021 year, rather than pursuing a number of goals within the scope of a single Principle, BurstIQ will pursue one broader strategic goal that aligns with our objectives across all Ten Principles: — Increase the number of LifeGraphs on the BurstIQ Platform, with particular emphasis on individual person profiles. This will provide a basis for quantifying BurstIQ’s impact on access to care and medical advancements, personal identity and sovereignty, fair labor practices, the environment, and fraud prevention. It is our great honor to be a participant in the UN Global Compact. We remain committed to the UN Global Compact and look forward to advancing our progress towards the Ten Principles in the years to come. www.burstiq.com 7
