2020 IK Investment Partners Communication on Progress C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 0 2 0 2 Contents 03. Letter from our CEO 10. IK's ESG journey 04. Insights from the ESG team 11. Making the most of ESG opportunities in 2020 05. IK Investment Partners at a glance 12. Social commitment 06. Highlights/Our portfolio 14. Environmental commitment 07. Investor base 15. IK's environmental impact 08. Responsible investment: How we do it 16. Governance 09. Definition of ESG 17. Our extended commitment: IKARE I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 0 2 0 3 Letter from our CEO IK INVESTMENT PARTNERS (IK ) has been a signatory “As we look to the future, our role within the post-pandemic to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since 2014. This is our sixth Communication on recovery will be underpinned by our commitment to Progress (COP) report, reflecting actions taken between December 2019 and December 2020. responsible investment and our ability to make a difference For the third consecutive year we remain a to our portfolio companies, our investors and to society”. signatory to the UN-supported Principles for Responsible Investment and were delighted to gain recognition within the Private Equity and than ever, we recognise the interdependence We successfully closed our ninth Mid Cap fund, Strategy and Governance modules, receiving A+ of our markets, the fragility of our natural the IK IX Fund, which closed at its hard cap of and A ratings, respectively. environment and the inequalities within our €2.85 billion and attracted significant interest 2020 has been a tumultuous year for society. from a global base of high-quality institutional businesses and investors alike, with the effects of Despite this uncertainty, IK has been resilient investors. We realised several investments, Covid-19 posing unprecedented global economic, and successful, staying true to our core values made multiple acquisitions including the first social and environmental challenges. Now, more of professionalism, accountability and integrity. investment by IK’s newly formed UK Small Cap team – and strengthened our in-house expertise by establishing a Capital Markets team to ensure we continue to improve performance and create sustainable value. This year we have enhanced our environmental, social and governance (ESG) approach through several important initiatives. We bolstered our ESG Steering Committee with two additional members and, in the ownership stage, we implemented a new ESG monitoring process. We have also strengthened our ESG integration in the pre-investment and exit phases. For example, as part of our pre-investment due diligence, we will roll out a new climate change risk assessment tool in 2021. This is aligned to our heightened focus on climate change, as reflected by the updates to our Responsible Investment policy and our commitment to join iCI (Initiative Climat International, originally Initiative Climat 2020). As we look to the future, our role within the post-pandemic recovery will be underpinned by our commitment to responsible investment and our ability to make a difference to our portfolio companies, our investors and to society. I would like to thank our colleagues for their hard work during this extraordinary year, and our new and existing investors for their ongoing support. We remain focused on delivering longterm positive change and are confident in IK’s ability to create sustainable value for all our stakeholders. Christopher Masek Chief Executive Officer, IK Investment Partners I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 0 2 0 4 Insights from the ESG team THIS YE AR WE HAVE focused our efforts on prepare for the effects of ­c limate change. enhancing our ESG approach throughout During this year, we have strengthened the investment cycle. We extended the our ESG assessment and integration capabilities and experience of our ESG ­processes. We have streamlined our Steering Committee, which has been ­i nvestment sustainability monitoring and instrumental in providing guidance on the analysis by adopting Worldfavor, an online Firm’s approach to Covid-19. With the support system for sustainability reporting. Through of the Committee, we have prioritised Social the platform, our ambition is to align our factors, including employee health and safety data with global standards such as the as well as workforce management. UN Global Compact and UN Sustainable Climate change remains a strategic priority ­D evelopment Goals. Our pre-investment due for us and we have updated our Responsible diligence continues to evolve, and we are Investment policy so that IK will no longer pleased to report that 100% of Investment invest in companies that have an unacceptably ­C ommittee Memoranda have a dedicated high greenhouse gas footprint and have ESG s­ ection. We have also adopted a new failed to take reasonable steps to reduce these ­s ystematic approach to ESG assessment at Mads Ryum Larsen emissions (each as determined by IK). We are the exit stage, helping us quantify our i­ mpact Partner & Head of IR and ESG, IK Investment Partners also developing a new climate change risk over the life of an investment. assessment tool that will launch at the start The pandemic has highlighted the need of 2021. This innovative tool will allow us to for businesses to demonstrate their social understand physical and transition climate license to operate. In light of this, we have risks facing a company in the pre-investment expanded our philanthropy programme so stage, helping to guide our final investment that every IK office has the resource and decision. Recognising the importance funding to support local initiatives. We look of collective engagement, we are joining forward to rolling out this initiative over the Initiative Climat International (iCI) and will next 12 months. work with the wider industry to mitigate and Jovana Stopic ESG Coordinator, IK Investment Partners I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S CO C OM MMMU N II C C AT UN ON AT II O N O ONN P PRRO OG R ES GR S 2 ES S 20 20 02 0 5 5 IK Investment Partners at a glance Building stronger and better 96 Leading businesses since 1989 Pan-European private equity Firm Capital Markets Operations exits Team Team 141 investments 3 complementary €13 bn commitments raised fund strategies Defining and delivering Responsible ESG transformational agendas Investment policy integration across since 2012 IK Funds Sector specialisation: 7 offices Business services Consumer / food Engineered products Healthcare UN PRI UN Global signatory Compact signatory Venture philanthropy Active ownership Multiple Fund activities with IKARE model Strategies I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S CO C OM MMMU N II C C AT UN ON AT II O N O ONN P PRRO OG R ES GR S 2 ES S 20 20 02 0 6 6 2020 Highlights IK Workforce 18 38 % 62 % 15.5% of women at Partner and Director levels nationalities female male UN PRI score 140 A and A+ 100% of new recruits completed ESG induction employees training for Strategy and Governance and Private Equity modules Our portfolio 2020 >36.000 5 3.5 employees exits year average holding period 45 10 €5.7 bn combined turnover new investments Portfolio operations in >45 portfolio companies counties I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S CO C OM MM MU UN C AT N II C ON AT II O N OON N PPRRO OG R ES GR S 2 ES S 20 20 02 0 7 7 IK IX and IK Small Cap II Fund High quality investor base €3.4 bn fund commitments >100 investors 57 UN PRI signatories % Examples of our ultimate stakeholders GP 4% 1) Other 9% Asset Managers 6% North Fund of America Funds 27% 19% Banks / Insurance 26% Europe 64% Pension Funds 38% Canadian teachers British pensioners New York police and fire officers Social security beneficiaries in Kuwait 1) Including SWFs, Family Of fices and HNWIs. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 0 2 0 8 Responsible investment: How we do it AT IK, RESPONSIBLE investing lies at the heart of who we are and what we do. the moment we consider a potential investment to the point at which we divest. We acknowledge that ESG issues can affect the performance of our portfolio With the help of our proprietary toolkit, IK Way , ESG considerations are screened companies. Therefore, IK follows a structured approach to investment from across all strategies and embedded into every stage of the investment process. Pre-investment 1. We screen all potential investments against a well-defined Responsible Investment policy, in place since 2012. 2. We scope additional due diligence on ESG-related concerns with external consultants, when deemed appropriate. 3. We advise the Investment Committee on the potential investment and present a detailed assessment of financial and non-financial information. This includes an ESG risk screening and a summary of identified ESG factors. 4. Depending on the materiality of the ESG risks identified, IK develops corrective actions post-acquisition. Active ownership 5. We commission an independent ESG review, which identifies ESG risks and opportunities of material character, and the company's ability to manage ESG. The review also makes high-level recommendations, from quick wins through to strategic actions, with the aim of protecting and creating shareholder value. 6. The ESG review report is presented to the Board of Directors of the portfolio company in question. Where appropriate, we also encourage portfolio companies to form an Audit & ESG Committee. 7. We actively engage and support our portfolio companies with the implementation of high-level ESG recommendations, managing ESG risks and opportunities as well as creating or protecting sustainable value. 8. We monitor our portfolio companies' sustainability performance through an online reporting platform. Exit 9. We strive to implement a high-level and independent ESG assessment at the exit stage to provide an overview of ESG related results achieved during our ownership. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 0 2 0 9 Definition of ESG Climate change Labour rights and labour conditions Regulation Pollution and contamination of land, air and water Health and safety Anti-bribery and corruption measures Eco-efficiency and resource efficiency Treatment of customers and communities Business ethics Waste management Human rights Transparency and accountability Natural resource scarcity Diversity Board composition and independence Biodiversity Supply chain management Shareholder rights Data privacy and cybersecurity I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 0 2 0 10 IK's ESG journey Engaging in responsible investment has been an integral part of IK's culture since the Firm was founded. For the past decade, we have been developing a more structured approach to help us create sustainable value. 2012 First independent ESG review for an IK portfolio company commissioned 2016 IK Code of Ethics adopted IK Responsible Investment policy formally adopted 2014 2018 Formal integration of ESG 2007 criteria into IK's investment process IK becomes a signatory to ESG team expansion First structured review of IK the UN Global Compact First UN PRI report portfolio companies' ESG Integration of ESG matters into ESG Manual and ethical guidelines awareness and approach the IK Annual Investor Meeting for portfolio companies established 2011 2015 2019 Dedicated ESG manager First Communication on Extended ESG Steering Progress (COP) report Committee published Added one new ESG 2017 Audit & ESG Committee Coordinator governance structure 2013 established IK ESG Steering Committee established IK responsible investment E&S Assessment tool questionnaire adopted implemented ESG risk screening tool ESG Manual for Investment developed Professionals developed to strengthen ESG process IK's carbon footprint measured for the first time I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 0 2 0 11 Making the most of ESG opportunities in 2020 1. Strengthening our internal processes Expanded ESG Amended our Developing new Active ownership: Exit: Integrated Steering Committee Responsible climate change Adopted high-level Investment policy risk tool Worldfavor, a new independent ESG sustainability analysis monitoring platform 2. Engaging with stakeholders Joined Initiative Global Compact UK Member of the Attended forums Contributed to Climat International Network participant Invest Europe ESG and workshops on industry-wide (iCI), supported Roundtable sustainability issues consultations and by the PRI surveys on ESG 3. Being transparent Submitted our third Submitted sixth UN Published IK's GHG Transparency Report Global Compact Report for 2019 to the UN PRI, COP report achieved A+ for the Private Equity module for three consecutive years I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 0 2 0 12 Social commitment Human rights IK IS FIRMLY COMMITTED to the values enshrined in the Universal Declaration of stipulates that we will not invest in companies that have demonstrated a Human Rights. We support fundamental principles of human rights across all our systematic denial of basic human rights, while IK's Ethical guidelines for portfolio lines of business and we are committed to respecting human rights in any region companies express our expectation of portfolio companies to respect the where we operate. internationally proclaimed human rights principles. The IK Responsible Investment policy, which is applicable across all IK Funds, Labour WE BELIEVE THAT a good working environment and equal opportunities for all portfolio companies to support the rights of all individuals, independent of are fundamental rights for every employee. As an employer, we are gender, race, religion or any other characteristic protected by law, to uphold committed to supporting best practices in terms of labour and employment. the freedom of association and the right to bargain collectively, and to This includes equal opportunities for all, support for diversity, zero tolerance provide working conditions that surpass basic health and safety standards. of discriminatory practices and a culture of safety and welfare at work. Our The Covid-19 pandemic poses new challenges to people at work and commitment is reflected in our human resources policies. societies and has put our ESG approach to the test. To protect our IK has a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery. Our employees are employees and support our portfolio companies, IK led a dynamic and asked to raise concerns regarding modern slavery in any part of our successful response to the Covid-19 pandemic. In terms of IK's own business, or our supply chains, as early as possible. In compliance with the employees, IK has been carrying out analysis of government UK Modern Slavery Act ('MSA') 2015, IK publishes a transparency statement recommendations in all geographies where we have offices and adapting on steps taken to ensure that slavery and human trafficking do not take our approach to enable both working from home and for the return to place in our business, our supply chain, and we continue to raise awareness offices. With more colleagues working remotely, we expanded our internally on the MSA. programme of IT training to safely deliver maximum connectivity and IK's Ethical guidelines for portfolio companies stress our expectation of collaboration between employees and management teams. Peter Tucker Paula Savage Director, IT team, IK Investment Partners Senior Portfolio Manager, Operations team, member of the ESG Steering Committee, IK Investment Partners “IK’S IT FUNCTION has been fundamental for “OVER THE COURSE of the year, the ESG Steering allowing maximum connectivity and Committee has held regular meetings to inform collaboration between employees and how IK can approach ESG topics during the management teams during a volatile year. We Covid-19 pandemic. Drawing upon the expertise successfully completed IK’s three-year IT and experience of Committee members, we have strategy a year early, just before the Covid-19 strengthened and broadened our monitoring of crisis began unfolding across Europe, putting social risks, such as workforce health and safety, us in a strong position to deliver a seamless which remains a priority. Another focus point has transition from IK’s centralised offices to home based working. We swiftly been commununications to key stakeholders, such as customers and ensured all endpoint security systems and software were compatible so employees, which the Committee viewed as critical to maintaining a culture remote working could be undertaken safely and securely. We also delivered of transparency. internal training to help IK staff identify potential cyber security risks and we The ESG team and Operations team have been working closely to continue to provide regular communications on possible security issues integrate key ESG concerns within our portfolio monitoring activities. This that may arise from operating remotely. Our digital security is continually collaboration enabled us to adapt and refine our approach to ESG analysis reviewed and benchmarked against industry best practice by a third-party and underscored the importance of ESG integration during active ownership. provider and as part of our continuous development, we are now working Together, we have effectively navigated this period of volatility to improve towards a new three-year roadmap to ensure our IT technology, processes performance and create sustainable value”. and training remain industry-leading”. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 0 2 0 13 Spotlight: Questel Spotlight: Pinard IK IX Fund IK VIII Fund Country: France Country: France Sector: Business services Sector: Consumer goods Signing date: October 2020 Acquisition date: July 2017 QUESTEL IS A major intellectual property solutions provider that operates FOUNDED IN 1970, Pinard Beauty Pack (previously Pinard Emballages) specialises worldwide, developing SaaS products, automated brand services and patent in the design, development and manufacturing of high-end plastic bottles mainly filing platform. Employing approximately 900 people across 30 countries for the cosmetics, fragrance and personal care markets. throughout the world, Questel is renowned for its technological expertise and “The development and delivery of well-being at work initiatives was a key has expanded considerably since 2018, when the IK VIII Fund first invested in priority for our management teams, who regularly engage in constructive and the company. open dialogue with employees to understand how Pinard’s culture and “At Questel, we strive to create sustainable value for all our stakeholders, workplace can continuously evolve in line with best practice. Transparent and and we understand that our duties as an Intellectual Property and Innovation honest feedback has been vital in creating a workforce that is truly solutions provider come with significant responsibilities. One area of particular representative of our society. importance is our relationship with suppliers, as they play a crucial role in At Pinard we are proud that women account for 40% of our workforce. We feel providing solutions to our business and clients. that this reflects our commitment to creating a diverse and inclusive culture. In recognition of this, we have developed a Supplier Diversity Policy for our However, as a progressive and ambitious business, we felt that it was our translation division. As Questel contracts with thousands of suppliers in over 80 responsibility to assess how we could further support our colleagues and improve countries, it is vital that Questel recruits from a diverse group of individuals and female talent retention and development. businesses. Our Supplier Diversity Policy has helped achieve this by We reviewed our absenteeism rate which helped us understand the main encouraging the use of local suppliers, outlining our inclusive recruitment causes behind female absenteeism. In response, we developed a new initiative to process and how we use external accreditations, such as ISO 17100:2015 introduce flexible working practices to help our colleagues balance commitments criteria, to evaluate a prospective supplier’s qualifications. in their personal lives with their work. We have taken steps to improve our We work collaboratively with our suppliers to help them deliver a world-class recruitment process, taking the decision to anonymise all applications, and we service. Looking to the future, Questel will increase the number of supplier will launch a new scheme to address and remove obstacles facing our colleagues summits available each year, to ensure our suppliers have access to global, who are young parents. Finally, we are keen to diversify the opportunities regional, or local colleagues who can support their long-term success. These available for young people and are actively creating a new internship programme. practical steps help our suppliers contribute to global value creation as well as Furthermore, 2020 has seen several successes, including the publication of improving their overall economic, social and environmental performance. our first gender equality report. When we calculated our equality index, we were Diversity and more broadly equality of opportunity is a crucial subject for delighted that we achieved 79%, above our target of 75%. Having a diverse Questel. To have a positive impact as soon as workforce is a key component which enables us to provide quality products. We possible, we structured a funding program to remain committed to satisfying our customers’ demands while maintaining our support employee-sponsored social projects social and environmental values and adopting a culture of inclusivity. As we look dedicated to childrens' development and well to the future, we are excited to see how we can continue to develop diversity and being”. well-being at Pinard”. Pascal Magnier Thomas Pinard Marketing Communications & CSR Director, Questel CEO, Pinard I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 0 2 0 14 Environmental commitment AT IK, WE recognise that there are significant challenges posed by climate unacceptably high greenhouse gas footprint, that have failed to take change to the global economy, society and ecosystems. Climate change and reasonable steps to reduce these emissions (each as determined by IK). We environmental impacts are therefore among our key focus areas. IK is are also preparing for the implementation of a pre-investment tool that will committed to measuring and publicly communicating our greenhouse gas enable the better scoping of climate related risks and opportunities. To (GHG) emissions and we continue to try to reduce emissions from our own capture the range of future possibilities we will be looking at two different operations. Business travel has been a core part of IK’s business activity and climate scenarios – Climate Chaos and Green Revolution. Finally, as part of and Scope 3 emissions therefore remained significant in 2019, with air travel our commitment to promote greater environmental responsibility, IK as the dominating emission source. Due to measures imposed to manage became a member of the UK network of the Initiative Climat International. Covid-19, primarily restricted air travel, we expect to report reduced IK's Ethical guidelines communicate our expectation of portfolio emissions for 2020. companies to support a precautionary approach to environmental Climate change is a part of our ESG definition and in 2020 we extended IK challenges and undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Responsible Investment policy to include in the referrals companies with an responsibility. Alice Langley Partner, member of the ESG Steering Committee, IK Investment Partners “2020 HAS PLACED a renewed emphasis on social levels of greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, our climate assessment issues. However, environmental considerations, tool – to be introduced in 2021 – will provide a better insight at the such as biodiversity loss and the effects of pre-investment stage of physical and transitional climate risks, as global warming, remain high on the global recommended by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial agenda. Climate change continues to be a Disclosures. strategic priority for IK and we have established These initiatives allow us to provide fresh insight to the wider industry, new processes to improve our understanding of strengthening our ability to effectively collaborate with our peers. We climate-related financial risks. Through our recently joined Initiative Climat International and look forward to working updated Responsible Investment policy, we are moving away from with a global community of investors who recognise their responsibility to companies that we deem as unwilling to reduce their unacceptably high society and the environment”. Spotlight: Løgismose Meyers IK VII Fund Country: Denmark Sector: Consumer Acquisition date: January 2015 L+M IS THE merger of Løgismose and Meyer, two of the strongest and producers on how to adopt best practice within operations. Importantly, we widely recognised high-end food brands in Denmark offering a range of understand that the everyday choices our colleagues and customers make, gourmet food products and services across various channels including can have a considerable impact on our planet and society. So, we have retail distribution, food service, B2B wholesale and selected own outlets. partnered with other industry groups and think tanks to see how we can “There is no doubt that the production and consumption of food become better environmental stewards within our greatly affects the world around us. As operators of two leading Danish business and across our value chain. Working with food brands, employing over 800 people in total, we have a culture and our customers, employees, suppliers and the mindset that puts sustainability at the heart of both Løgismose and wider industry, we hope to incorporate a Meyers. We are committed to promoting animal welfare, developing sustainable approach from farm to fork”. plant-based products, and reducing food waste, all with the intention of mitigating climate change. Jesper Uggerhøj We actively engage in dialogue with suppliers, retailers and primary CEO, Løgismose Meyers I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 0 2 0 15 IK's environmental impact Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 DIRECT INDIRECT INDIRECT Company Facilities Business Travel Company-owned Vehicles Purchased Electricity Waste Disposal Emissions: Emissions: Emissions: Not identified 54.53 tCO 2 e 1,621.6 tCO 2 e IK’s direct GHG not identified. Purchased Electricity: Emissions generated from Business Travel: Emissions generated by air, electricity consumption in IK's London, Amsterdam, rail and taxi transport operations for business Stockholm and Hamburg offices. purposes across all IK offices. Waste Disposal: Emissions generated from waste streams, such as paper and board and plastic for recycling across all IK offices. Total emission across Scope 2 and Scope 3: 1,676.13 tCO 2 e Methodology IK'S GHG EMISSIONS determines the amount of GHG emitted by our own IK’s CO 2 e emissions are calculated and reported in accordance with the operations, excluding our portfolio. The footprint is measured in carbon dioxide GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. The GHG protocol framework splits GHG equivalents (CO 2 e), which includes seven major greenhouse gases. emissions into three scopes. IK’s emissions fall into Scope 2 and Scope 3, IK's GHG emissions imply the total amount of CO2e produced by in-house which are considered critical to day-to-day operational activities. business travel activities, waste disposal and electricity consumption across IK offices. More detail is available in the 2020 IK Investment Partners GHG Report I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 0 2 0 16 Governance AT IK, WE have an established governance framework for managing ESG matters “IK’s Code of Ethics communicates our core values – and specialists across the Firm continuously aim to improve our approach to professionalism, accountability and integrity. It is an material ESG concerns. A dedicated ESG team is responsible for promoting element of our broader approach to instituting and responsible investment awareness internally, as well as engaging with external maintaining high standards of governance and business stakeholders on ESG issues. The IK ESG Steering Committee provides further support and guidance on ESG initiatives. The ESG Steering Committee, which ethics within the Firm and its portfolio companies”. includes our CEO, IK partners, directors and specialists, including the ESG team, has been extended this year to include more members from IK's fund We ask IK funds’ portfolio companies, when appropriate, to form an Audit administration, investor relations and investment teams. This will allow us to & ESG Committee, which reports to the Board of Directors. The committee is further enhance our engagement on ESG initiatives. charged with ensuring that the company has a robust ESG plan and monitors the implementation of that plan on an ongoing basis. The committee reviews the company’s key ESG activities and achievements and reports its findings to the Board in conjunction with the annual review process. IK’s Code of Ethics communicates our core values – professionalism, accountability and integrity. It is an element of our broader approach to instituting and maintaining high standards of governance and business ethics within the Firm and its portfolio companies. We are committed to complying with the laws and regulations of each country in which we operate, including compliance with the UK Bribery Act and we do not participate in corruption, bribery or extortion. An IK Compliance Officer manages our robust compliance programme which includes Anti-corruption, Whistleblowing and Conflicts of Interest policies, induction training for all new joiners and mandatory training for all our staff on an annual basis. Our yearly compliance training was completed by 94% of IK employees in 2019. IK's Ethical guidelines for portfolio companies emphasise our expectation of portfolio companies to operate good governance practices, particularly in relation to bribery and corruption and conflict of interests. We are continuously working towards our aim of having the Ethical guidelines adopted by all IK portfolio companies. Thierry Aoun Director, Capital Markets team, IK Investment Partners “KERSIA’S BUSINESS MODEL revolves around biosecurity in crucial end-markets, “IN OCTOBER 2020, IK entered exclusive negotiations to acquire a majority namely food, farm and healthcare, and stake in Kersia, IK IX Fund’s first investment. The acquisition will be for this reason CSR has been at the heart financed through a corporate social responsibility (‘CSR’) linked of the Company’s strategy. As part of our syndicated term loan placed with institutional investors in the European ongoing partnership we will be leveraged loan markets, making Kersia and IK the first firms to secure supporting the management team’s financing of this nature in France. continuing focus on these areas, and this Kersia has grown over the last four years to become a global leader in innovative financing will play a key part in biosecurity for the food, farming, and healthcare industries. The company enabling Kersia’s sustainable growth”. has put in place a far-reaching CSR strategy that centres around its ‘Act for Positive Impact’ programme, embracing the need to establish a fully circular economy and in the long-term, to mitigate the negative impact companies can have on communities and the environment. As part of its investor commitments, Kersia will adhere to three Key Performance Indicators (‘KPIs’) that will be tracked, monitored and externally verified. Firstly, the company will be required to expand the implementation of systems to collect and recycle customers’ packaging. Secondly, Kersia will continue to increase its share of green products. Finally, it will maintain and expand its employee shareholding Dan Soudry scheme. The company’s evaluation of these KPIs will be carried out by an independent auditor. Partner, IK Investment Partners We are immensely proud to be one of the early adopters of this form of financing and we look forward to working with Kersia in accomplishing our ambitions and delivering value for all stakeholders”. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 0 2 0 17 Our extended commitment: IKARE SDG Goals: IK Aid and Relief Enterprise (IKARE Ltd) is the venture philanthropy vehicle founded and supported by IK Investment Partners. IKARE uses venture philanthropy principles to make a positive long-term impact. ENGAGING IN PHILANTHROPY has been an integral part of IK’s culture since the Firm mix of funding (grants and soft loans) and non-financial support, IKARE can assist was founded in 1989. But, as IK developed, the partners wanted to adopt a more in such capacity building at a social enterprise as may be deemed necessary to structured approach to charitable donations and link them more closely to the reach further impact on the ground. As an early stage investor, IKARE's funding Firm's core business. They wanted to make a difference, federate staff and leave acts as a catalyst in the piloting, fine-tuning and de-risking of solutions, thereby something sustainable behind. That is why IKARE was set up as an independent also helping to bring other funders on board. Over the years IKARE’s investment charity, imbued with the principles of venture philanthropy. IKARE sees its role strategy has evolved to focus on strengthening health services delivery mainly as a catalyst for change. Being problem focused and solutions oriented, infrastructures in developing countries, addressing the current gaps as IKARE typically engages for the long-term with a select number of strong social experienced by end-users and other stakeholders including beneficiaries. Local entrepreneurs, which it believes have developed sustainable and scalable engagement and gradual ownership are core to this work. Through its operations, solutions for the issues IKARE wants to address. Through an individually tailored IKARE is laying the foundation for scaling and systematic change. 2018/ 2020 Piloting of the SPT version of MyChild Solutions begins in 2006 2015 September in Mukono District, Uganda, with funding from IKARE. 2013 In 2020, based on the positive IKARE launches, mainly results and recommendations from IKARE engages with Shifo Foundation to see focusing on Stamp Out an external evaluation the Ugandan how their electronic version of MyChild Sleeping Sickness in Uganda IKARE with former portfolio company Ministry of Health, made the Solutions, launched in 2014, could be adapted decision to scale SPT nationally Ceva, sponsors the Cows Against to work in a low-resource setting in Uganda. Malaria study, conducted by a group of This led to Shifo developing the hybrid Smart researchers from The University of Paper Technology (SPT) version of MyChild Liverpool and The London School of Solutions, a Health Management Information Hygiene & Tropical Medicine System (HMIS) 2009 2017 IKARE invests in MyC4 IKARE, Shifo, Gavi and other partners 2014 microfinancing platform, embark on piloting the SPT version of providing loans to small MyChild Solutions in two districts of businesses in Africa The Gambia, with a view to scaling IKARE provides start-up IKARE embarks on a WASH initiative in the system nationally by March 2021. financing to help build up Kampala with the Students Support This is well on its way the 3 V Vets network Philanthropy Program (SSPP). This led to the launch, in 2016, of the Bwaise WASH pilot in cooperation with the target communities and their local leadership I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 0 2 0 18 SDG Goals: MyChild Solutions Smart Paper Technology (SPT) expands its remit MORE THAN FOUR MILLION children each year suffer or die from preventable administrative tasks by nearly 70%, whilst helping to ensure the timely delivery diseases like pneumonia and measles. A shortage of vaccines is not the primary of high quality (99%) data. reason. Instead, it is often due to children not being registered at birth, nor with The operating and maintenance costs of Shifo’s solutions are equal, or lower their local healthcare providers, which means they do not receive all their than those of less efficient alternatives currently in use in developing countries. childhood vaccinations. In developing countries where systems for registering Furthermore, the solution can operate in low resource settings or where security children and their immunisation are in place, managing the paperwork is is an issue. They enable access to high quality, timely, and consistent data that typically time-consuming and the quality of the recorded data is poor. is a prerequisite for continuous quality improvement and closing of gaps in Shifo developed the hybrid Smart Paper Technology ('SPT') that serves a full health services delivery. Increasingly, countries and health organisations have range of maternal and children’s healthcare services, from reproduction to shown interest in SPT solutions, which have been piloted and de-risked through immunisations of children under five. The SPT forms are scanned and the IKARE’s support and engagement in The Gambia and Uganda. IKARE digitised data is then verified using the AI technology. The records can be recognises that SPT provides an affordable and user-friendly, hybrid paper and searched by different criteria such as type of vaccine administered and digitised system which has the potential to significantly contribute to maternal aggregated data reports and KPIs are automatically generated from the system. and infant mortality reduction by 2030. The SPT version of MyChild solutions reduces the time health workers spend on Impact in numbers The Gambia Uganda Progress 2017 – March 2020 Progress 2018 – March 2020 2/7 districts (Western Region 1 and 2): ½ total population Mukono district 150,262 children registered 64,895 children registered 179,223 SMS immunisation reminders 73,396 SMS immunisation reminders 45,476 children fully immunised 19,445 children fully immunised I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 0 2 0 19 Kampala Slums WASH initiative SDG Goals: Focusing on hygiene awareness and empowerment during the Covid-19 pandemic IKARE HAS BEEN working with the Ugandan youth-based organisation, the SSPP, “Ugandan lockdowns and curfews imposed since March since 2014 on community-based water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) 2020 in response to Covid-19 have forced much of interventions in the informal settlements of Kikoni and Bwaise in the Ugandan SSPP’s work to move online. SSPP has focused its capital, Kampala. Bwaise has a population of approximately 90,000 people, with efforts on providing community leaders with smart over 80% estimated to be surviving on less than US$2 a day. In addition to supporting this vital on the ground project, IKARE will also phones so that they have access to fact-based provide financial and non-financial support to the SSPP over the next two years information about the disease and the preventative in order to further reinforce its capacity as a trusted WASH partner, whilst also measures they can implement”. exploring different ways to strengthen its financial sustainability. This may be achieved by growing the company, RCDHA, it recently established, which provides data collection services, or through engagement with other organisations pursuing different WASH initiatives. Ugandan lockdowns and curfews, imposed since March 2020, in response to Covid-19 have forced much of SSPP’s work to move online. SSPP has focused its efforts on providing community leaders with smart phones so that they have access to fact-based information about the disease and the preventative measures they can implement. In addition, “radio talk shows” have been hosted by SSPP on local channels that have featured community leaders and health centre representatives to provide information on best hygiene practices. These radio shows have become hugely popular, people living in Bwaise and Kikoni can call the show to have their questions answered, and will continue until the end of the year. The long-term aim of sustainably reducing the occurrence of water-borne diseases remains a key priority and has been strengthened throughout Covid-19 by messages of best hygiene practice and the continued visibility of SSPP as a trusted partner and source of help. SDG Goals: Expansion of the 3 V Vets initiative From disease control to improving livelihoods 10 YEARS AFTER the launch of the public private partnership “Stamp Out Sleeping sickness” (SOS) in Uganda, of which IKARE was a founding partner, the World Health Organization declared in 2017 that Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT) or sleeping sickness was on a steady course towards elimination. Only three cases were reported in the SOS area both in 2018 and 2019. With the burden of the disease now lifted from the communities in the SOS area the focus can be shifted to improving livelihoods. After several years of providing mentoring support to the financially sustainable 3 V Vets Franchise network, IKARE has decided to invest both in the expansion of the network and to empower households that lost cattle to the disease Nagana or who have had to sell off poultry and other live-stock to pay for hospitalisation. While veterinary services are labelled essential businesses and can continue to operate the Covid-19 lockdown and closing of borders along with reducing trade and imports have had a negative effect on the supply of veterinary products and retail prices since spring. In a country like Uganda with a young and “Only three cases were reported in the SOS area both in growing population, and where 70% still make a livelihood out of subsistence farming, it will be critical to re-introduce and improve farming and animal 2018 and 2019. With the burden of the disease now lifted husbandry practices for food security, improved nutrition and for providing jobs from the communities in the SOS area the focus can be throughout the value chain. shifted to improving livelihoods”. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S IK Investment Partners The Adelphi 1-11 John Adam Street London WC2N 6HT United Kingdom T: +44 20 7304 4300 W: www.ikinvest.com Contact: Jovana Stopic ESG Coordinator E: jovana.stopic@ikinvest.com T: +44 20 7304 7136 Disclaimer The purpose of the Communication on Progress report (CoP) is limited to IK Investment Partners Limited’s (the “Company”) express or implied, are made as to the accuracy or completeness of any information included herein. The material in commitment to the UN Global Compact initiative as a signator y. The repor t contains information in regard to the this report is provided for information purposes only and is not, in particular, intended to confer any legal rights on implementation of the UN Global Compact principles, and is based on information currently available to the Company you. This report is intended to provide data and analysis, however, should not be relied upon as investment advice. It at the time that this document was produced. While IK exercises reasonable care to ensure that all information is for reference only and is not intended as a commercial offer, solicitation, public advertisement or recommendation included in this report is accurate and is obtained from sources believed to be reliable, no representations or warranties to buy or sell any investment.
