Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 Letter from the Chairman 4 Our Company GRI Renewable Industries 7 Main Figures 8 Sustainable Development Goals 13 Our vision on Materiality 17 sustainability Associations and administrations 19 Governance and Corporate Governance 21 compliance model Compliance model 24 Global context 27 Balance 28 Economic Risk and opportunities 29 Dimension Security and process support 32 Customers and innovation 34 Supply Chain 41 People 45 Social Health and safety 54 Dimension Social Action 59 Environmental performance 63 Environmental Life-Cycle Focus: Circular Economy 66 Dimension Energy 69 Emissions and climate change 72 I Independent Review Report 77 II Report Profile 78 III Quantitative information 79 Annexes IV GRI Content Index 81 V Global Compact Principles 86 VI Scope 86 Doing Well by doing Green GRI Renewable Industries maintains the same values from its origin “honesty, humility, tenacity and work”, together with the principles and guidelines from the Code of Ethics and Conduct, a comprehensive and balance management, the collaborative of a team qualified professionals who are proud to work at GRI Renewable Industries, have enable us to growth as a solid, profitable and sustainable company with a global presence. This ethics and corporate values that have remarked the path, are what inspired the purpose of the company “Doing Well by Doing Green”. Only acting correctly, believing in what it is doing, working honestly and consistently, things can be achieved correctly. Letter from the Chairman Jon Riberas. Chairman & CEO 102-14 It is my pleasure to present the GRI Renewable Industries SusOur contribution to the Sustainable tainability Report for the year 2019, which summarizes our Development Goals (SDG) main undertakings (initiatives) and their progress in meeting current and future challenges and opportunities. In addition, we Over the last few years we have seen a change in the world reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. economy. The world's economic and political problems, the scarcity of natural resources and the increase in global disasFrom a macroeconomic perspective, this fiscal year started ters resulting from climate change, require urgent adaptation with a great deal of uncertainty stemming from the tensions in the roadmap of governments, businesses and civil society. between China and the United States, the slowdown of the Eurozone, the Brexit conflict, the devaluation of some currencies In line with this change, at GRI Renewable Industries we are and the energy policies in some countries, not very favourable immersed in a transformational model, aimed at contributing to renewable energies. to a more inclusive, prosperous and sustainable world, seeking opportunities that allow us to grow as a profitable comIn this complex environment, our results are showing a remarpany that creates value in the environment. kable improvement after a highly complicated and unfavourable 2018. Turnover reached 637 million euros, with a total CAPEX In this transformational model, the 17 United Nations Sustaiinvestment of 31 million euros. The main investments were nable Development Goals (SDGs) are key to change. Therefoconcentrated in China, mainly deriving from the new China IV re, we align our roadmap with the SDGs directly related to our factory, followed by Spain with improvements in its facilities, business, in order to contribute to their attainment. such as the new Forjas de Iraeta rolling mill. The Code of Ethics and Conduct was revised in Nevertheless, the year 2020 began with a very uncertain situa2019 and, after its approval, entered into force on tion for the economy due to the consequences of the Covid-19 21 January 2020. Among the changes we highlight pandemic. After starting in China and paralysing the country, we the primary management of the Ethical Channel that is now are witnessing its spread throughout the world affecting the poperformed by an external provider, which is also the intermepulation indiscriminately, bringing the economy to a standstill, diary between the user of the Ethical Channel and the Comclosing down production and distribution in most sectors and pliance Committee, thus guaranteeing confidentiality as one of negatively affecting employment, production, distribution and the channel´s principles of operation. This allows us to strenconsumption. The massive spread of the pandemic and the lack gthen our contribution to more fair and equitable societies in of information on its duration bring us to anticipate a very comline with SDG 16. plicated macroeconomic scenario. GRI Renewable Industries 4 Sustainability Report 2019 Providing stable and quality work, promotion of the solution. At GRI Renewable Industries we mainly maand development of our professionals is a prionufacture towers and flanges for the wind power market and rity through which we contribute to SDG 8, renewable energy generation, which makes our business promoting decent employment and job security. In 2019 we directly aligned with the SDG 7 and SDG 13 and actively made 873 new contracts, bringing our total headcount to 4,140 involved in the fight against climate change. professionals, 91.8% of whom have permanent contracts. 2019 has been a period for analysis and reflection for GRI Our objective is to integrate Health and Safety at all levels of Renewable Industries in which a new roadmap has been dethe organization, as well as to establish a true preventive culfined based on the current needs and trends, as well as the ture based on collaboration, teamwork, strong commitment demands of stakeholders, which will contribute to reducing and participation of all workers and stakeholders. To this end, CO2 emissions, aligned with a carbon-free future. This plan we are carrying out numerous initiatives under the umbrella will be based on various areas such as innovation, reforestaof the OHSAS 18001 and ISO 45001 Management Systems, tion, energy efficiency, the purchase of energy from renewaand the IPRL system of excellence, under which we are imble sources and mobility, among others. proving working conditions by 8.6% overall and prevention Likewise, the Circular Economy plays a fundamental management by 14.9% in 2019. role in the way we manage our raw materials and We are aligned with SDG 9 and the development waste, in line with SDG 12. In this area, our main of more efficient and sustainable industries. We acraw material steel stands out for its recyclability and durabicomplish this together with our clients and with the lity. Also in 2019 we witness a significant social demand that collaboration of our suppliers, adapting to their needs and the points to plastic as a protagonist due to its massive use, its new models for increasingly powerful turbines through innoimpact on the environment and the difficulty in its managevation, developing towers and flanges according to their new ment, which is why we are developing a plan to help minimize dimensions, improving their design with less weight, which its consumption in the period 2020-2022. allows us to minimize their impact. At GRI Renewable Industries, we expect that more and more Also in the field of innovation, the deployment of the Digital governments to embrace clean energy policies, investor inteWorkPlace (DWP) project throughout the group is noteworrest will continue to grow, advances in innovation and new, thy. This project will transform the way the company operamore efficient technologies will continue to reduce installates and will promote the talent of its professionals. In June, tion and generation costs, and that social demands will be we started the global deployment of DWP with the participamet, all of which require a change in the situation. Theretion of more than 500 professionals in webinars and national fore, we are optimistic about our growth and development and international workshops. towards a transformative and cleaner future. The fight against climate change is very Without further ado, I hope that this Report will be of interest present in our management model, and to you and that forecasts for next year will allow us to contithrough our business activity we are part nue growing as a profitable and sustainable company. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 5 OUR COMPANY Since 2008, GRI Renewable Industries has experimented a sustainable and profitable growth, with 16 factories in 8 countries and 3 business lines of towers, flanges and castings. Global presence +4,000 employees in 16 factories in 8 countries Diversification 3 business lines: Towers, Flanges and Castings Values Honesty, Humility, Tenacity and Work 2019 stability Efforts to promote the production, efficiency and innovation Turnover 637 million euros GRI Renewable Industries 6 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Renewable Industries 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-5 AND 102-16 GRI Renewable Industries S.L. (GRI Renewable Industries or the The headquarters are located in: 3 Ombu St. 12th Floor. 28045 Company onwards) was founded in 2008 as the main provider Madrid Spain. of towers, flanges and castings for the renewable energy sector. GRI Renewable Industries has developed a global corporative We use cutting-edge technology to supply high quality products culture which has kept the same values since its origin, but which and services all around the world. are adapted to the local necessities of each country, to the cuIn 2015, the Japanese group Mitsui & CO Ltd was integrated as a rrent market conditions and to the requests of its stakeholders. partner, with the acquisition of 25% of the Company. From its outset the company has had a significant annual growOn 20 December 2019, 100% of the Spanish company FIHI th. Nevertheless, 2019 was more stable, and efforts were made Forging Industry S.L was sold (trade name: GRI Flanges Iraeta), to consolidate the production, the efficiency and the innovation which was set up through the spinoff of the Forjas Iraeta Heavy in all the factories under operation. Industry S.L. branch on 26 July 2019 to the Chinese company Iraeta Energy Equipment CO. Ltd. mission GRI Renewable Industries mission vision Global and innovative leader values Honesty is to globally meet the needs of in the manufacturing of Humility our customers considering their wind turbine components, Tenacity activity, the safety of our emcreating a more sustainable ployees and the respect for the and emission-free future for Work environment. everybody. Main brands and products 102-2 The company operates under the brand of GRI Renewable Industries, keeping the same structure and specifying the product or service personalized to each country and region. GRI Towers GRI Flanges GRI Castings This division is responsible for the Its activity is the manufacturing Its activity is the casting of steel to manufacturing of towers for the main of flanges (structure designed to produce components for the wind wind energy OEMs in accordance with the join segments of wind towers). industry. specifications defined by these. It has six operating plants Currently it has one plant in Spain, It has nine operating facilities for “onshore” distributed over Spain, Brazil and “GRI Castings Zestoa”. towers in Galicia, Brazil, Turkey, India, South four in China. Africa, Argentina and the USA, as well as a plant in Seville to manufacture “offshore” towers. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 7 Main Figures Milestones 102-4 AND 102-6 Currently we are present in 8 different countries and count with 16 operating plants. Its evolution since its foundation in 2008 is shown below. GRI Flanges Iraeta GRI GRI Towers Brazil Flanges GRI Towers Galicia China I 2010 2009 2008 GRI Flanges GRI Hybrid China III Towers GRI Flanges China II GRI Towers GRI Brazil (bevelled GRI Tower Towers Turkey cutting line) India I 2013 2012 2011 GRI GRI Casting Towers Zestoa USA GRI Flanges Brazil GRI Towers South Africa 2016 2015 2014 GRI Flanges Iraeta. Rolling Mill GRI Towers Galicia. Corte & GRI FLanges Biselado China IV GRI Towers GRI India II Towers GRI Calviño Sevilla Towers Argentina 2019 2018 2017 GRI Renewable Industries 8 Sustainability Report 2019 2019 GRI figures 102-7 GRI Renewable Industries understands the Sustainability as a model that integrates responsible management and a commitment of ethics, transparency and collaboration with our stakeholders, in order to enjoy a cleaner environment and with fewer inequalities that contributes to achieve the Sustainability Development Goals. Economic Contribution Our business activity generates numerous benefits in the society which we live. The Company dynamize local development by nourishing employment in the region, the growth of new suppliers and businesses, as Social Contribution well as improvements of the infrastructure through the Our business activity requires employing numerous payment of local taxes and duties, among others. local workers to whom we offer stable employment, which enhances the region´s economy and the families´ purchasing power. In addition, the Company carry out many social activities with the goal of improving the local environment. 74% of expenditure on local suppliers 637 Turnover Million € 97% 4,140 2,000 Professionals 31 of local origin Professionals TOWERS Investments Production Million € capacity >99% 42,922 8 16 Full-time Hours of contracts training Countries Factories in 75% Presence operation % certification OHSAS 18001/ 92% Permanent ISO 45001 contracts Emissions 87.5% 168,599 produced % certification ISO 14001 Tons CO2 Environmental Contribution Emissions Our business activity is directly linked to the generation of avoided renewable energy, through which we indirectly contribute STEEL 782,480 100% to the mitigation of the carbon footprint and the effects of climate change. Additionally, the Company also manage its Tons CO2 RECYCLABLE plants aiming to minimize its environmental impact. 1,611,859 GJ Energy consumption GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 9 Worldwide presence 102-4 AND 102-6 8 Countries 16 Plants 4,140 Professionals GRI Towers USA USA SPAIN GRI Flanges Brazil GRI Towers Brazil BRAZIL GRI Towers ARGENTINA South Africa GRI Calviño Towers Argentina GRI Towers GRI Flanges GRI Castings plants plants plant GRI Renewable Industries 10 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Towers GRI Flanges GRI Castings GRI Towers Sevilla Iraeta Zestoa Galicia Headquarters GRI Towers Turkey TURKEY CHINA GRI Flanges INDIA China I GRI Flanges China II SOUTH AFRICA GRI Towers India I GRI Flanges China III GRI Towers India II GRI Flanges China IV GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 11 OUR VISION ON SUSTAINABILITY GRI Renewable Industries integrates significant economic, social and environmental challenges in its strategy for a more profitable and more sustainable future, and is strongly committed to creating long-term value and fighting climate change. The Sustainable Development Goals have a fundamental role within this framework, primarily SDG 13 Climate Action , SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth and SDG 9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure . SDG Sustainable Development Goals SDG 13. Climate Action, SDG 9. Industry, innovation and infrastructure and SDG 8. Decent work and economic growth. GRI Renewable Industries Towards a carbon-neutral economy Ec Re Inn ono o nv E ov KPI's monitoring and measurement wa n m e n t a l n i l e ica SDG contribution r at m ion ble energy ni ng Social tr ai Empl nd oyment a Materiality 9 material aspects Internal and external stakeholders' opinion Reforestation 1 tower 1 tree GRI Renewable Industries 12 Sustainability Report 2019 SDG Commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals Following the launch of the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in 2015, a new roadmap, aligned with Agenda 2030, was initiated to help meet these objectives, particularly those related to our core activities. Our impact on the SDGs Activity GRI Renewable Industries defined and integrated significant economic, social and environmental objectives into its strategy for a more profitable and sustainable future, strongly Strategy committed to the creation of long-term value and care for the environment. We have therefore taken into account aspects that derive from our activity and strategy, the opinion of stakeholders (materiality) and the most relevant social demands. Stakeholders Trends & demands Ec Re E Inn ono ne i ro n nv ov ab l le at ica m ion energy w mental in g Social n ai As a result, we have defined which Sustainable Development tr Empl oyment a nd Goals we impact most directly and have drawn up goals to measure our contribution objectively. SDG 17 Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development is key. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 13 GRI Renewable Industries and the SDGs Climate change (reforestation) and the SDGs Our contribution in the fight against climate change Energy is a key element in our business. The measures that aim to reduce and/or offset these consumptions are highly beneficial, as they contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions. Forests are enormously beneficial in this context (protection of biodiversity, water conservation, reduction of erosion, etc.) and they play a critical role in the storage of CO2. However, deforestation and the constant loss of tree cover have increased steadily over the last 18 years, due to various causes such as fires and indiscriminate logging. Trees and forests have a direct relation to climate change. On one hand, changes in the climate affect forests through changes in rainfall patterns, increases in average annual temperatures, and through the upsurge of extreme weather events. On the other hand, forests contribute to curbing climate change, by trapping and storing CO2. Therefore, a long-term reforestation project was initiated in 2015, named one tower, one tree . The aim is to balance, as far as possible, the number of trees planted with the number of towers manufactured. In order to meet this target, we carry out various initiatives annually at locations close to our plants and offices, in which our employees and their families often participate, thus indirectly contributing to SDG 15 / 15.2 By 2020, promote sustainable management of all types of forests, halt deforestation, restore degraded forests and substantially increase afforestation and reforestation globally. Since the approval of the Sustainable Development Goals by the United Nations and the historic Paris Agreement (COP 21) in 2015, many initiatives have been developed, such as the European Green Deal, which includes a Climate Roadmap Monitoring KPIs for the coming years for a fair transition to a carbon-neutral I Offset part of our CO2 emissions through economy. reforestation projects, by matching or exceeding Within this framework, the Fight against Climate Change is the total number of produced towers with the directly aligned with SDG 13 Climate Action and SDG 7 total number of planted trees. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and moIn 2019, a total of 2,000 trees were planted in Spain, dern energy for all . compared to 1,375 towers produced. The increase of societal, economic and political demands should also be mentioned, these require a shift in consumpII Increase annually the CO2 avoided/offset with tion patterns, a cleaner and emission-free environment, and reforestation plans, aiming to avoid 100 tons/ towards a more just and equal society, enabling us to face year in 2020. the world´s biggest challenge: climate change. In 2019, a total of 16.7 tons were avoided, totalling 82.7 The situation in 2019 has not improved. In spite of the ecot/year when added to previous years. nomic downturn and the decline in the use of coal, carbon dioxide emissions have increased to new records with a growth of 0.6% compared to last year (in 2018 and 2017 this increase was of 2.1% and 1.5% respectively), according to the last Global Carbon Project report. As the World Meteorological Organization has pointed out, 2019 is the final year of the hottest decade ever recorded. GRI Renewable Industries 14 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Renewable Industries and the SDGs Innovation and the SDGs Our contribution to innovation Within the wind energy sector, the advances have mainly centred on the aero-generators, which are becoming increasingly powerful, efficient, better fitted and adapted to the different weather conditions. This increase in the output of the aero-generators also requires adjustments and improvements in other components, such as the towers and flanges. The highest impact on cost reduction will come from improvements in the efficiency of the design, construction and installation of wind parks. Therefore, innovation of all components is a key aspect for this transition. At GRI Renewable Industries we have a team of innovation experts dedicated to the design and improvement in the manufacture of towers and flanges that are increasingly light, efficient and competitive, and to the development of new products adapted to market conditions, to meet the objectives set by each client. Therefore, we consider many of our initiatives to be directly aligned with SDG 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all and with SDG 9 / 9.4, by 2030,we must upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities . Monitoring KPIs In 2019 the R+D+I Center in Turkey started operations and the construction for the R+D+I Center in Seville began. ObjecIn 2018 the acceleration of CO2 concentrations in the atmostives I and II were drawn up for these centres, and objective III phere was confirmed, estimating that in 2019 they will reach is aligned with our customer line: 412 ppm, which brings us dangerously close to the 420 ppm that scientists set as the red line. I. The R&D Center in Turkey, which is where adWithin this framework, the new favourable energy policies hoc projects for our production processes are of many governments, the interest of investors, innovation developed, aspires to increase its staff by 30% and new, more efficient technologies and the notable drop per year in the 2019-2022 period. in generation costs, pointed to 2019 as the key year for the The project started with 10 employees in 2019. growth of renewable energies. II. The R&D Center in Seville is planning for the deveIn recent years we have seen the business sector acquire inlopment of important projects. Six doctorates are creasing volumes of renewable energy, driven by sustainabiexpected to be awarded at the start of the project. lity objectives and the increased availability for procurement. The objective is to increase these doctorates by In this area, innovation and new technologies, which are be20% over the next 3 years (period 2020-23). coming more and more competitive, allow for the proliferation Objective to be launched in 2020. of hybrid solar-wind installations, increasingly sophisticated network management and storage solutions, all at increaIII Collaborate with our customers to improve singly competitive prices, which suggests a completely fostower design and efficiency. Objective: to design sil fuel-free electricity system in the not too distant future and improve two tower prototypes per year in (source: GWEC). collaboration with our customers. In 2019, we collaborated with Vestas to improve three tower prototypes, among other projects. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 15 GRI Renewable Industries and the SDGs Education and the SDGs According to the ILO report World Employment and Social Our contribution to decent work Prospects: Trends 2019 , the evolution in the reduction of At GRI Renewable Industries we believe that global change is unemployment at a global level is not accompanied by improrequired to move towards formal, diverse, secure and stable vements in the quality of work, where millions of people are employment that complies with human and labour rights, imforced to accept poor working conditions, complicating the proving education, reducing pay gaps and inequalities, paving attainment of SDG 8 Decent work . the way for a more fair and equal society. In 2018, the majority of the 3.3 billion employed people in Therefore, as a global company with a presence in 8 counthe world did not enjoy sufficient levels of economic security, tries and with over 3,500 direct employees, we contribute material well-being and equal opportunities. Currently, 700 to the improvement of this environment through providing million people live in extreme or moderate poverty despite stable, lasting quality employment, which allows us to create being employed. local wealth in the communities that we operate in, and so The report highlights the lack of progress on the gender gap. contribute to the achievement of SDG 4 Quality education The female labour force participation rate was 48% compared and SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth . to 75% for men. Another concern is the persistence of informal employment with 2 billion workers (61% of the world's workforce) and one in five young people (under 25) not working, studying or receiving training, thus compromising their Monitoring KPIs job prospects. I Aiming to create local wealth in the countries It also emphasizes that, should the global economy succeed where we operate, through stable local hiring, in avoiding a major slowdown, unemployment is expected to payment of decent wages, with legal working continue to fall and training to improve in many countries. hours and schedules, we have a double objective: to maintain the average local employment and permanent contracts >80%. In 2019 local employment was at 97% and 92% of our employees have a permanent contract. II Improve education and qualification of our employees. Increase training hours per employee to an average of 20 hours per employee in 2025. In 2019, a total of 42,922 hours of training were given, amounting to a total of 10.4 hours per employee. GRI Renewable Industries 16 Sustainability Report 2019 Materiality Identification and communication with stakeholders 102-40, 102-42 AND 102-43 Since 2014 we have updated our stakeholders to improve At GRI Renewable Industries we believe that taking care and their coverage and communication, to know their expectaimproving the relationship we have with our stakeholders is tions better and to focus the contents of the Report on their a key aspect to improve our performance. Within this context, main economic, social and environmental requirements. We we consider any collective that may hold a substantial inhave different specific communication channels available for fluence, and that is or may be affected by our activity. each of the identified stakeholders, as is outlined next: • Leading The Change • Interdepartmental meetings with management. • Works Council and Health and Safety Committees • Visits to the facilities • Audits • Briefings with senior management • Client audits • Supplier Portal • Sustainability report • Periodic meetings • Supplier Initial Assessment (SIA) • E-Mail, social networks and website • “B2B Platforms” available • Quality system at some clients • Social networks and website Employees Suppliers Customers Local communities Media and administrations • Social channels • Corporate website • Press room • Agreements and settlements • Press releases to with local authorities the media Competition • Licenses, permits and Stakeholders authorizations • Forums and • Meetings of the Board of • Consultation periods in associations Directors Environmental Impact Assessments • Specific • Ordinary and informative collaborations communications • Participation in social action. 3rd sector Social Media We highlight the internal and external Twitter LinkedIn TOTAL communication with the stakeholders through Followers 702 16,668 17,370 social networks, the website and the intranet, Total number of contents with contents that allows to measure the posted in 2019 30 15 45 positive impact of the messages where our presence is most common. Visits to our profiles 2,577 19,484 22,061 GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 17 Relevant aspects: Materiality study 102-44 AND 103-1 Over the las few years we have been working on our maFor this identification, we have conducted an extensive conteriality analysis, in order to detect and update the relevant sultation with our main stakeholders including management, matters regarding sustainability. Since 2018, the study has employees, suppliers and customers. The survey is done been carried out every two years, so the next materiality through a technological data and information analysis tool study will be updated in 2020. that assesses the importance and perception of the idenFor the identification of material matters we consider, on tified matters. The average participation of the surveyed one hand, the matters that affect our environment (current stakeholders is given below: trends, issues treated by our competitors and analysts), and Surveys sended on the other, the policies and programs developed by GRI Renewable Industries, as well as our appearances in the communication media. This allows us to group the relevant 878 information into 18 matters. Those matters were pondered by the stakeholders to identify those most relevant from an internal and external perspective. External 88% response 58% response Benchmark Press Analysts´ Managers Employees sectorial analysis reports Employees’ Customers Suppliers´ opinion opinion opinion Internal 24% response 27% response Management Contractual Key Strategy opinion Customers Suppliers obligations aspects After this analysis, its weighing and revision, a global total This, as summarized in the Report, it is very important for of 9 material matters were defined for all stakeholders. It the society, for our customers and to management, as should be noted that with respect to last year, this year well as increasingly regulated. Therefore, we are desigwe have incorporated the “Fight against of Climate Channing a roadmap with the aim to moving towards a carbon ge” as material aspect. neutral company. Material Matters 102-47 Chapter Risk control framework 4. Economic dimension Risks concerning data protection, cybersecurity and intellectual property 4.4 Information security Compliance: availability of an ethics and anti-corruption framework 3.2 Compliance model Supplier Homologation: Aspects related to sustainability 4.6 Supply chain Customer relations. Communication and feedback mechanisms 4.5 Customers and innovation Talent attraction and retention 5.1 People Health and Safety management 5.2 Health and Safety Environmental management 6.1 Environmental performance Fight against Climate Change 6.5 Emissions and climate change In addition, it was material from the internal approach: sustainable financial profitability and Innovation, and from the external approach: Circular Economy. GRI Renewable Industries 18 Sustainability Report 2019 Associations and administrations Associations and organizations 102-13 GRI CORPORATE GRI TOWERS GALICIA GRI TOWERS TEXAS • Seres • AICA • Amarillo Chamber of Commerce • Asociación de Industriales • Panhandle Human Resources GRI CASTINGS Metalúrgicos de Galicia (ASIME) • Asociación de Fundidores • Centro Tecnológico AIMEN GRI TURKEY del País Vasco • Bandirma Organize Industrial Zone GRI TOWERS SEVILLA (BOSB) GRI FLANGES IRAETA • Asociación Empresarial para la • Gönen Chamber of Commerce (GTO) • Asociación empresarios Promoción del Puerto de Sevilla • Balikesir Chamber of Industry (BSO) de Gipuzkoa (ADEGI) • Istanbul Metal and Mining Exporter GRI TOWERS SOUTH AFRICA Commerce del Noroeste (IMMIB) GRI ARGENTINA • Steel and Engineering Industries • Cámara Eólica Argentina Federation of South Africa • South African Wind Industry Association Collaboration with local authorities 415-1 GRI Renewable Industries establishes relations with local GRI Towers Sevilla public authorities on an altruistic basis with complete transThe Seville Port Authority (APS) in collaboration with GRI Reparency, in accordance with the guidelines of the Code of newable Industries, the Association for the Promotion of the Ethics. The company does not make any economic or in-kind Port of Sevilla (ProSevillaPort) and the Aquarium of Sevilla, contributions to political parties, nor through sponsorships or held the IV Port-Logistics Meeting with over 200 people, as donations, which are against the law. the major of Seville. Its relationship with local administration is transparent and The meeting was focused on industrial logistics and project responsible. It is mainly related to issues affecting its sector, cargo, an increasingly common way of traffic at the port of which are normally channelled by associations. Seville due to the growth of industrial production at the shipBelow, there are summarized some initiatives undertaken in yards. A seminar took place debating on the improving oppor2019. tunities and competitiveness. Also, in 2019 the sixth edition of the “Noche de la Economía y la Empresa held by the Commerce Chamber of Seville. In GRI Calviño Towers Argentina such event, GRI Sevilla received the awards in the category of The board chairman at GRI Calviño Towers Argentina, repreIndustry for its project in this field, highlighting its capability sented the company at forum held by the Global Wind Enerfor generating richness, employment and innovation. gy Council. Different leaders and main representatives in the global and Argentinian wind industry, as well as political leaders attended the meeting to analyse the burgeoning wind GRI Towers Turkey industry in the country. GRI Towers Turkey has been present at the VIII Wind Energy Congress held by the Turkish Wind Energy Association. In the event, presented its range of products for the wind sector, besides offering assessment regarding tendencies in the wind market or new strategic investments. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 19 GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE MODEL All the members of the Board have as a function of approving and the committing to the rules of the Code of Ethics and Conduct. A new version of the Code of Ethics and Conduct entered into force on 21 January 2020. Among its new features is the new Ethical Channel. Constitution GRI Renewable Industries S.L. was founded on June 22 of 2008 Sustainability Policy Approved by the Board of Directors in 2015 Code of Ethics New version of the Code of Ethics and Conduct since January 21, 2020 Ethical training Online and onsite training Ethical Channel The Ethical Channel has media accessible to all employees and third parties GRI Renewable Industries 20 Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Governance GRI Renewable Industries S.L. was founded on June 22 of As of December 31, 2019, the Board of Directors of the Com2008 under the name “Gonvarri Infraestructuras Eolica“, later pany comprises of six members, namely. it was denominated “Gestamp Wind Steel“ before taking on its current name, GRI Renewable Industries, and absorbing Gonvarri Eolica (102-5). In 2015, the Japanese group Mitsui & CO Ltd was integrated as a partner, with the acquisition of 25% of the Company. On 20 December 2019, 100% of the Spanish company FIHI Acek Desarrollo y Forging Industry S.L was sold (trade name: GRI Flanges IraeGestión Industrial, S.L. ta), which was set up through the spinoff of the Forjas IraeaRepresented by Mr. Juan te Heavy Industry S.L. branch on 26 July 2019 to the Chinese María Riberas Mera company Iraeta Energy Equipment CO. Ltd. Chairman Mr. Katsuhito Structure of Governance. Mr. Shinichi Hori Tanahashi Composition and its committees Member Member 102-18, 102-22 AND 102-23 The governing bodies of the company are the General Shareholders’ Meeting and the Board of Directors, the highest Gestamp Bizkaia body of governance, supervision decision-making and control Mr. Mario Ruiz S.A. Represented of the company. Escribano by D. Francisco Member and The Articles of Association of the company set out the funcJose Riberas Mera secretary tioning of the Board of Directors, as well as the requirements Member and established deadlines to convene the General Shareholders´ Meeting. No provisions are made for other means to manage the company, and the modification of the executive Holding Gonvarri S.L., body would, therefore, entail a modification to the Articles of Represented by Mr. Juan Association. María Riberas Mera Member The performance of the Board of Director is not evaluated, since a part of the members thought their shares are the owners of the company their shares and represent all the partners (102-28). The Board of Directors will represent the Company in all the matters lying within the corporate purpose and those assoThe company ACEK Desarrollo y Gestion Industrial, S.L., ciated with the trade or dealings thereof, subject to no form represented by D. Juan Maria Riberas Mera held the position of limitation, placing obligations upon the Company with of Managing Director of the Company at 31 December its acts and contracts, with the entitlement to exercise all 2019, being delegated each one of the powers vested to powers not expressly reserved by the Act or by these Bylaws the Board, except those that may not be delegated by Law or according to the Articles of Association. for the General Meeting. The company is not listed on the Stock Market and its members of the Board of Directors represent the total number of As for executive staff, 100% are aged more than 46 years partners and therefore, there is no legal obligation to count old. Furthermore, 66.6% hold the local nationality and all with representatives from other stakeholders. (100%) are male (405-1). GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 21 Delegation, economic, social and Functions and knowledge environmental responsibilities regarding sustainability 102-19 AND 102-20 102-26, 102-27 AND 102-32 The members of the Board of Directors will perform their duThe functions of the Board of Directors include the approval ties with the diligence of a responsible business owner and and commitment to comply with the standards of the Code loyal representative, and they must maintain secrecy as to of Ethics and Conduct. They are kept permanently informed confidential information, even after leaving office. The resregarding social, environmental and economic issues, through ponsibilities of the Board include the approval and committhe communication channels such as: periodic meetings with ment to the Code of Ethics and Conduct and the Sustainathe management of the different areas, the Sustainability Rebility Policy. port and actions and initiatives of the company. The Board of Directors takes relevant decisions at its plenary The Sustainability Report is coordinated through the sustaisessions and delegates, where relevant, the execution of said nability team, which is part of the Communication, Marketing decisions. The Board of Directors may agree to vest special and Sustainability Department. After its elaboration, a revipowers of attorney in company employees to address specision and supervision process is conducted by the different fic aspects of operations previously approved by the Board. departments, to finally be approved by the Chairman. SimiSimilarly, the Company integrates its social, environmental larly, to ensure the reliability of the information, the Report is and economic responsibilities at the various Departments, externally verified by an independent body. whose most senior management figures refer any decision to be taken to the Board of Directors. Communication with the senior Appointment and Selection body of governance Processes. Conflicts of interest 102-33 102-24 AND 102-25 The General Meeting is called by the Board of Directors when it is deemed necessary or desirable in the corporate interests, The President of GRI Renewable Industries does not hold an and, in all cases, on the dates or during the periods establiexecutive position. Power to appoint Board Members lies solely shed in the Law on Corporations. with the General Shareholders´ Meeting, which represents the interests of all partners (see KPI 102-18). Additionally, the meeting must be called in case one or several shareholders representing at least five (5) percent of the The members of the Board of Directors are appointed by the share capital request so, stating the matters to be discussed shareholders themselves, and therefore other aspects regarin their request. In this case, the General Meeting must be inding diversity, minorities, etc. are not taken into consideration. voked to be held within two (2) months of the date when the They will perform their duties indefinitely, without prejudice to notarial demand was served on the Board of Directors to call the General Shareholders´ Meeting´ power to proceed at any the meeting. The order of business must necessarily include time or moment with the severance or termination, in accordanthe matters which formed the object of the request. ce with the Law and with these Articles of Association. Unless any other mandatory requirements are established, Shareholder status is not required to be appointed as a director, the General Meetings will be called by means of a written, and the position may be held by both natural and legal persons. individual announcement sent by registered mail with confirLikewise, the Articles of Association establish the conditions mation of receipt, by telegram, by registered fax services or that prohibit the performance of said functions. any other written or remote electronic means that guarantee Shareholders may not exercise their voting rights corresponding the receipt of said announcement by all the shareholders, at to their shares when they are subject to any case of conflict of the address they have designated for this purpose or at the interest as established in Article 190 of the Royal Legislative address recorded in the Company´s documentation. Decree 1/2010, of 2 July, which approves the Consolidated Text Those responsible for the various departments keep a fluid of the Capital Companies Act. and permanent communication with the Board of Directors and the Company. Any major concern is immediately conveyed, which, if necessary, is immediately referred to the Board of Directors. GRI Renewable Industries 22 Sustainability Report 2019 Meanwhile, periodic meetings are organized in which all the Unless all the Board Members should agree otherwise, the corporate experts participate. announcement will be served thirty calendar days prior to the These are bidirectional meetings, with the CEO communicadate when the meeting is to be held, except in cases of extreting all the relevant aspects regarding the management and me urgency, in the judgement of the President or at the request situation of the company, and in turn, receiving feedback from of any Board Member, when it may be served five (5) days in the experts to these issues and to other aspects of interest. advance. An announcement will not be required provided that all Board Members are present and decide to hold a meeting. Finally, the consultation processes between stakeholders and the senior body of governance (102-21) are done throuThe Board of Directors will be validly convened whenever the gh mechanisms for the exchange of information between the meeting is attended by five (5) of the members, each Board Board of Directors and the stakeholders. Member entitled to be represented by another Board Member, through a written authorization, signed by the represented party, on an individual basis for each meeting. NevertheNature, performance and number less, if a Board Meeting could not be held due to lack of the established quorum, it may be convened again just 7 days in of issues raised at the Board of advance, with the same order of business, in which case it Directors will be deemed validly convened if the meeting is attended, in person or represented, by the majority of its members. Resolutions may be passed in writing, without a meeting beThe General Meeting will be held within the first six months ing held (including through written electronic means), proviof each financial year to scrutinize the corporate management ded that no Board Member opposes this procedure. and to approve, where applicable, the accounts for the previous year, and to rule on any matter regarding the results. The General Meeting will be validly established to deal with any issue, without the need for prior notification, as long as all the Remuneration of the Board share capital is present or represented and those present unaof Directors nimously agree to hold the meeting and its Order of Business. 102-35, 102-36 AND 102-37 Unless any other majority is mandatorily established, and except for the provisions of the adoption of the Key Decisions The position of director is unremunerated in said capacity, for which the General Shareholders’ Meeting is responsible, notwithstanding payment of any fees or salaries that might corporate agreements will be passed by a majority of validly be payable by the Company for the provision of professional cast votes, provided that they represent at least a third (1/3) service or an employment relationship, as applicable, resulof the votes corresponding to the shares into which the share ting from a contractual relationship other than those derived capital is divided. Blank ballots will not be counted. from the directorial position. Said fees will be subject to the Regarding the Board of Directors, it will convene whenever so legal regime that would be applicable. decided by its President, either on his own initiative or when Additionally, and irrespective of the above, whenever the admiso requested by two of its members, and it will meet at least nistration and representation of the Company is entrusted to a once per quarter, and in all cases within ninety (90) days of Board of Directors, and a member of the Board of Directors is the end of the financial year. In 2019, the Board of Directors appointed managing director or is attributed executive functions met 7 times. by virtue of some other title, a contract must be made between The announcement will be sent by letter, telegram, fax or any the Company and said individual in accordance with the Law. other written or electronic means. The announcement will be The contract will detail all the items for which a remuneration addressed personally to each of the members of the Board for the performance of executive functions may be received, of Directors, listing the matters to be dealt with in the meeincluding, where applicable, the possible compensation for ting, along with the required information to allow the Board premature dismissal from said functions and the amounts Members to participate in an informed discussion of the mapayable by the Company for insurance payments or contritters set out in the order of business. Where applicable, the butions to saving plans. announcement of the meeting must mention the fact that it The contract must comply with the remunerations policies may be attended in person or by proxy, physically in person approved, where applicable, by the General Meeting. or through teleconferencing, videoconferencing or any other equivalent system, with the requirement to indicating and This financial year the indicators 102-38 and 102-39 are not providing the necessary technical resources for this purpose, reported. We do not have a uniform method to obtain a result which must, in all cases, allow for the direct and simultaneous that would comply with the requirements of the indicators and communication between all attendees. in some cases the information is considered to be confidential. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 23 Compliance Model Our Policies 102-17 The Company has developed a global corporative culture follow-up of the training in Ethic Code of all employees. This that has kept the same values and principles since its origin, Management was formally approved by the Board of Directors. but which are adapted to the local necessities of each counAlso, as planned for the year 2019, a detailed criminal risk try, to the current market conditions and to the requests of analysis was developed at the national and international levels. stakeholders. GRI Renewable Industries has formally established common In 2017 the Compliance Department was created to coordipolicies and guidelines, as detailed below: nate all the initiatives in Compliance, as the monitoring and Code of Ethics and Conduct The Code as a reference for all decisions taken by all employees and collaborators of GRI Renewable Industries. Sustainability Policy Approved by the Board of Directors at the end of 2015, its aim is to reinforce the main commitments on ethics, sustainability and human rights in all the countries we operate in. The Sustainability Policy is available on our web. United Nations Global Compact Since 2014 we have adhered to the United Harassment Nations Global Compact. We have renewed prevention guidelines our commitment once again with the and action protocol interest of promoting and implementing the This incorporates the measure 10 universally accepted principles. for prevention and reporting of possible situations of harassment, with the minimum aspects of obligatory compliance in all the Behavioral guidelines to offers of countries we operate in. incentives, gifts or invitations These regulate bribery and corruption in the countries we operate in with the objective to comply with all the laws, regulations and standards. GRI Renewable Industries 24 Sustainability Report 2019 Code of Ethics and Conduct 102-16 The code is a benchmark for decision making by all emploEthics Committee 102-34 yees and GRI Renewable Industries partners. This is the body responsible for the promotion of the values It was approved by the Board of Directors in January 2014 and conduct of GRI Renewable Industries, and for the tracand was revised in 2019. The new version of the Code of king, the communication and the dissemination of the Code Ethics and Conduct came into force on January 21st, 2020. of Ethics, as well as to assist in the resolution of doubts reOne of the most significant changes is the new Ethical garding possible claims or incidents, all through the complaint Channel . The Ethical Channel is available to all employees, channels: by email, by telephone or by post. directors, administrators and partners of GRI Renewable InDuring fiscal year 2019, the Ethics Committee received two dustries, as well as other external stakeholders: customers, complaints of harassment in the workplace (406-1), which suppliers or the society in general, which serves a double were handled by the Ethics Committee, which reported its function: conclusions and recommendations to the Steering Commit• It allows the reception of queries, incidents and reports tee. The company has not received any complaints from third related to alleged irregularities contrary to the behaviour parties, nor any related to labour practices nor related to huguidelines of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, as well as man right violations. These were resolved with disciplinary those actions contrary to the law and likely to generameasures of varying degrees of severity, depending on the te criminal or economic responsibilities to individuals or seriousness of the facts proved after the investigation. companies. Regarding to other proceedings against the company, on• It is also a means of consultation for doubts that may going litigation and sanctions, there are none that have a arise from the very application of the Code of Ethics, polisignificant economic impact on the Group, in terms of unfair cies, rules and laws. competition and antitrust practices (206-1), impacts on the A new development is that the primary management of the health and safety of product and service categories (416-2), channel is now managed by an external provider, i2 Ethics substantiated claims relating to violations of customer priva(www. i2ethics.com), which is also the intermediary between cy and loss of customer data (418-1), non-compliance with the user of the Ethical Channel and the Compliance Commitlaws and regulations in the social, environmental and econotee, thus guaranteeing confidentiality as one of the principles mic fields (307-1 and 419-1). of operation of the channel. At the end of the year, no claims nor significant fines, that exThe Ethical Channel has various means of communication acceed €100,000 or that have a special impact on the Company cessible to all employees and to third parties. Via these means, by nature, related to social, environmental, economic aspects it will be possible to make any consultation, report or communor to labor practices and/or human rights were received. nicate any incident. The channel is available in all the languaIt should be noted that no fraudulent activity or corrupges the group operates in. tion was found in the analyzed operations (205-3). All the We also initiated an in-depth review of the internal complaint analyzed risks, which may or may not have a relation to fraud/ channels in some of the group's factories in accordance with corruption, are linked to a control for its mitigation (205-1). local legislation and customs. The aim is to unify and collect all complaints, incidents and queries in a centralised manner through the group's official ethics channel, without it having Training any repercussions or being contrary to the legal requirements In order to provide all employees with information on the policies applicable in each country. and guidelines, a Training Plan has been developed, which incluOnce this information is centralized, a global dissemination des both online and face-to-face training. campaign on GRI Renewable Industries' new Code of Ethics This training has been given by the Compliance area through an and Conduct and Ethical Channel will be launched. online and classroom format course, in which 2,720 people have participated (684 online 25% and 2,036 classroom 75%), representing 68% of the workforce (205-2 and 412-2). Web application https//gri.i2-ethics.com In order to spread the new Code of Ethics and Conduct, in force since January 2020, the training model to be carried out during Email address the financial years 2020 and 2021 is being designed and defiethicalcode@gri.com.es ned. In addition, the necessary support materials will be designed for their proper dissemination (posters, etc.). Postal service Att./ Compliance Committee C/. Ombú, 3. 12th floor 28045 Madrid. Spain GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 25 ECONOMIC DIMENSION 103-1, 103-2 AND 103-3 GRI Renewable Industries has made an extraordinary investment effort totalling close to 500 million euros since its creation. This effort allows us to provide coverage to our main customers through innovative and high-quality products, as well as very efficient processes. Economic Value Generated (EVG) 645 million euros Economic Value Distributed (EVD) 623 million euros Industria 4.0 Cultural Change & Digital WorkPlace 2019-2021 Innovation New Innovation Centres in Turkey and Seville Supply Chain Suppliers 100% evaluated and approved. 15 in situ audits GRI Renewable Industries 26 Sustainability Report 2019 Global context The mitigation of climate change is a primary challenge for the 21st century. Its achievement is partly subject to an adequate energy transition, which is driven by efficiency and the increase of renewable energies in the energy mix. Although a reduction in global CO2 emissions is expected in the long term, the International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates that world energy demand will see an increase of 30% by 2040, with an estimated 3.4% annual growth in the global economy and an increase in population from 7.4 billion to over 9 billion by 2040, complicating the achievement of the Paris Agreement objectives. Likewise, the messages from the COP 25 (Madrid) are not very favourable. The latest report from the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change illustrates the enormous challenge we face, which requires immediate measures from governments, companies and the society. The closing statement of the COP 25 stresses the urgent need to keep the increase in global average temperature well below a 2°C increase above pre-industrial levels and speaks of efforts to limit temperature increase to 1.5°C . However, the agreement still does not clarify how countries will do this, as they are only encouraged to present their renewed upward Also noteworthy are the conclusions of the independent commitments in 2020, before the meeting in Glasgow. KPMG report The socio-economic impacts of wind energy in the context of the energy transition commissioned by Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy, among which we highlight: Our sector • According to the most conservative estimates, low-carGlobal renewable energy capacity is estimated to increase bon energy sources and natural gas will cover at least by 50 per cent to over 1,200 GW between 2019 and 2024, 80% of the increase in global energy demand by 2040. led by solar photovoltaic energy. Thus, despite stagnating in • Over the last six years, renewable energies have been 2018 for the first time in nearly two decades, global renewathe main source of new energy capacity. ble capacity will grow again and the share of renewable energy in global power generation will increase from 26 per cent Favourable energy policies, along with innovation, play a funtoday to 30 per cent in 2024. (Source: International Energy damental role in this growth, with an increasingly important Agency). role for offshore wind energy. It is worth highlighting the notable increase in offshore wind The wind industry is at the vanguard of technological innoenergy, having installed a record 6.1 GW of new capacity in vation and increased efficiency, with higher towers, bigger 2019, adding a total of 29 GW, 35.5% more than the preturbines with longer blades and improved aerodynamics that vious year. This growth is expected to accelerate, with prewill, among other things, significantly increase energy effiliminary forecasts determining that an additional 50 GW of ciency, raising capacity factors. new offshore capacity could be installed by 2024, reaching At GRI Renewable Industries we are in a prominent position 90 GW worldwide in the next five years (Source: GWEC Marwithin the wind sector, we have a presence in 8 countries, we ket Intelligence). are collaborating on a new renewable and sustainable enerWithin this new context, innovation and new technologies, gy model, and developing modern, innovative and high-qualiwhich are increasingly competitive, allow for the proliferation ty wind components, mainly towers and flanges. of hybrid solar-wind installations, more sophisticated grid By doing so, we contribute to the development of the commanagement and more efficient storage solutions, raising the munities where we operate by reducing pollution and improprospect of a completely fossil-fuel-free electricity system in ving access to electricity. the not too distant future. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 27 Balance 201-1 In recent years, GRI Renewable Industries has made an exThe locations where GRI Renewable Industries is present traordinary investment effort totalling close to 500 million received a total of 16,010 thousand euros through business euros since its creation. The consolidation of the plants rates, taxes and levies, which contribute to improving the quastarted up in recent years and the beginning of operations lity of life and the services available to the local population. Its in other new plants are foreseen within the fiscal year 2020. distribution per country is given below: The company´s key economic figures are outlined below: TAXES AND LEVIES (thousand euros) 2019 Economic Value Generated (EVG) with a total of 644,934 Brazil 2,128 thousand euros, distributed as follows: China 8,814 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED Spain 3,992 (thousand euros) India -460 2018 2019 Turkey 764 USA -1,074 Turnover 386,364 636,827 South Africa 1,846 Financial revenue 3,142 5,308 16,010 Other revenue 1,845 2,799 Total EVG 391,351 644,934 The company received 1,819 thousand euros (201-4) in the form of tax incentives by public administrations as shown below: Economic Value Distributed (EVD) amounting to a total TAX BENEFITS of 622,917 thousand euros, distributed as follows: (thousand euros) ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED 2018 2019 (thousand euros) Tax reliefs and tax credits 486 682 2018 2019 Subvention 212 183 R&D 319 251 Operational costs 306,688 481,881 Financial Benefits 295 703 CAPEX 59,604 30,835 TOTAL 1,312 1,819 Payment to capital 7,185 14,336 providers As for other accounting obligations, the companies that make Taxes 7,638 16,010 up the GRI Renewable Industries Group are, for the most part, Personnel 63,816 79,844 obliged to prepare annual audit reports on their individual Investments in the annual accounts regarding the total volume of their assets, 14 11 community turnover and average workforce. There are no exceptions to Total EVD 444,945 622,917 those reports. Following approval by the corresponding body, these reports are presented, in due time and form, to the Mercantile RegisEconomic Value Retained (EVR) with a total of 22,017 ter for each financial accounting year, with the legalization thousand euros. of the Official Records and the filing of the Annual Accounts. Furthermore, the companies of the group have no outstanThe Net worth of the company is 326,595 thousand euros. ding Social Security, General Treasury or tax payments. GRI Renewable Industries 28 Sustainability Report 2019 Risks and opportunities Main risks at GRI Renewable Industries 102-15, 102-29, 102-30, 102-31, 103-1 AND 103-2 At GRI Renewable Industries we work to mitigate and reduce Phases: all possible risks through mechanisms integrated in the orga1. Data collection (customers, potential business volume, nization, as is outlined next: investment costs, regulatory aspects, capital repatriation, etc.). Once analyzed, and if viable, it is brought to the Risk management: Board of Directors for the next phase. new projects 2. The Board of Directors approves the new project as well as the necessary measures to mitigate potential risks. It Deriving from possible changes in the company´s strategic liis periodically informed about its degree of process by nes or in the country´s situation, such as political or regulatory the different main managers. changes, currency devaluations, changes in energy policies, 3. Once approved, all procedures to obtain the necessary trade restrictions, etc. permits and licenses, the startup and the outsourcing of For the development and execution of our new projects, an the design, engineering and construction activities are exhaustive study is done in which all quantitative and qualiinitiated, as well as the investment, financing, and purtative aspects of the project, as well as the potential risks, are chasing of assets and machinery. Similarly, the selection analyzed and assessed by the distinct departments prior to of the necessary personnel for the plant’s operations is their presentation to the Board of Directors. started. All proceedings and their derived risks are continuously 4. Once the plant is finalized and starts operating, it counts analyzed by the management and the teams of the company, with “startup teams” from other plants of the group to put which allows for their detection and for the quick and agile imthe plant into operation together with the local teams. plementation of correcting measures. . GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 29 Risk on financial Operational information risks Since 2015, GRI Renewable Industries counts with a “GeneWe focus our efforts on keeping and improving the relationsral Internal Control Framework”, based on COSO (Committee hips with our customers, adapting ourselves to their needs, of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) amplifying our product and service portfolio and increasing methodology, which includes: our global presence. • Internal Control Committee and Policy In order to minimize this risk, various technological actions • Array of Entity Levels Controls (ELC) for improvement, innovation and production efficiency have been defined within the Strategic Plan. • Risk and Control Matrix for each key business process All of this with the aim of avoiding faults in the product, maGRI has documented those processes it considers with risk nagement problems, competition problems, etc. and adapting of material impact on the preparation of financial information. better to the customer´s requirements, without losing the These describe the controls that enable and adequate reshigh quality for which we are renowned. These initiatives are ponse to the risk associated to the achievement of the obdetailed in the innovation chapter. jectives related to the reliability and integrity of the financial information in such a way that the risk of errors is prevented, As a result of the control tests, a list of improvements for detected, mitigated and corrected. different company processes was defined in the different processes of the company in order to improve efficiency and The disclosure of processes, flowcharts and matrices is done homogeneity, most of which have been implemented during through the specific portal in Leading the Change, remaining the year 2019. available for consultation by any member of the organization, constituting another working tool. After the annual risk assessment of the financial information and associated processes, from a qualitative and quantitatiReputational, ethical ve point of view, the review of various processes in 11 GRI and human right risks societies and various processes were defined representing 65% of the (412-1). These are caused by possible behaviors which are contrary During the review process, both training and implementation to the guidelines indicated in the policies and codes of GRI of the model were carried out, as well as the corresponding Renewable Industries regarding ethics, human rights and antests. The corrective measures and action plans were already ticorruption. implemented at the end of the year, which help to reasonably Through the new Management of Corporate Compliance and guarantee the reliability of the financial information and comthe managers of the different plants, an ambitious training pliance with the applicable standards and legislation. plan covering the compliance codes and policies for all personnel has been executed. In addition, a Compliance Committee and the Ethical Chanel Risks: confidentiality belong have been defined to respond to complaints and conflicts that may arise. and privacy Through these mechanisms, we have mitigated the risks and Systems are a fundamental element for the execution of buimproved communication and management regarding the siness processes and for implementing strategy, even more in economic impact of our factories (business opportunities to a context of collaboration and innovation based on emerging local providers, employment, improving the local economy, technologies and in an increasingly turbulent business envitax payments, etc.). ronment. The systems and the IT organization are essenRespecting to project financing, in 2019, 10 contracts retial to take advantage of the most powerful wave of digital quired clauses or commitments of compliance in labour, entransformation. vironmental and human rights matters, directly related to This makes necessary to revise and reinforce our systems compliance with international treaties and/or the Equator with security policies, so that these are less vulnerable and are Principles (412-3). adapted to changes in personal data protection regulations. GRI Renewable Industries 30 Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental risks and climate change Main risk 2019 The actual environment clearly shows us the risks associated • The change in the wind market´s pricing model with environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues as in countries where GRI Renewable Industries the Climate Change, water scarcity and Human Rights, are has a presence (Turkey, South Africa, USA, increasingly relevant. Therefore, its necessary to incorporate India). them into the company’s decision making, business strategy, performance and management. • Concerns related to data fraud, cyber attacks and other technological vulnerabilities Good management of these aspects minimizes risk to reputation, regulation, labor, access to capital and credit, among • The tendency to concentrate on big others. customers, which reduces their number of Among these risks, the one derivate of “Climate Change” potential customers. stands out. To combat this risk various initiatives have been implemented as the “New Green Deal” from the European • Commercial risks. The threat of Chinese Union, the more restrictive regulations in many countries and tower producers and the high tariffs on steel the demands of all the main customers of the company and originating from China. the society. All of them provide a clear roadmap towards a • Risks arising from the USA protectionist policy carbon-neutral future at two key milestones 2030 and 2050. and Brexit changes. GRI Renewable Industries incorporates these demands adapting its strategy and developing a roadmap that allows us to • Currency devaluation in some countries we are advance along this path, in accordance with the demands of present. the governments, customers and society. • The growth of environmental, social and The new Plan will include innovation and efficiency measugovernance (ESG) awareness. res, reforestation, promotion of renewable energies, purchase of energy certificated in origin and sustainability mobility, • Climate change, natural disasters and illnesses. among others, and it will be published during 2020. Likewise, precautionary and continuous improvement princi• The withdrawal of the most emission ples through the Code of Ethics and Conduct, the Integrated countries from the Paris agreement (COP 21). Policy and the Sustainability Policy (102-11). It is important to remark the enormous risk that we are facing derivate from the Covid-19 pandemic of Risks related to health global dimensions. and safety Therefore, we started this financial year 2020 The Health and Safety of our employees is a key aspect, with a very uncertain situation for the economy, always present in the decision-making process and in the after its start in China paralyzing all the country, development of work plans aimed at constantly improving we witness its expansion to the world affecting safety and working conditions in all our installations. the population indiscriminately, which produces a standstill in the economy, closing the production We actively manage all identified risks, through our policy, and distribution of the most sectors and affecting through awareness and training measures, through our maemployment. nagement system certified under the ISO 45001 standard and through the IPRL excellence system. We implement preThe enormous expansion of the pandemic and ventive and corrective measures to reduce both the probabithe lack of information about its duration, make lity and the severity of any undesired event that might occur, us foresee a very complicated macroeconomic through common criteria and through requirements which are landscape. stricter than those stipulated by the applicable legislation. This allows us to identify and develop improvement actions that contribute to improving our employees´ work environment. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 31 Security and process support Business process support Systems are a fundamental element for the execution of business processes and for the implementation of our strategy, even more so in this innovative and collaborative environment that relies on emerging technologies in an increasingly turbulent business environment. Systems and IT organization are essential to harness the most powerful wave of digital transformation. The IT department of GRI Renewable Industries faces a challenging balance between the need for digital innovation on a company-wide scale and the need to maintain and operate with today's most advanced systems and processes in order to maintain operational excellence. 2019 has been a very challenging year in this regard: The Group's centralised ERP SAP system, infrastructure services and communications were both maintained and improved, with a focus on business support, efficiency, and profitability. At the same time, transformation projects have been launched to align our business and systems strategy and move forward on the journey towards digital transformation. The IT Department, in collaboration with the Communication and Sustainability Department, has supported all the companies in the Group. At the same time, and in a coordinated manner, it has worked on the recent challenges the organization faces, which include creating new IT capabilities to increase productivity and efficiency. The department has been actively involved in the workplace through the Digital Workplace initiative, a cultural change that embraces techSimultaneously, and with the aim of eliminating the innonology to improve the way employees work and interact with vation latency , to enable and accelerate the adoption customers and suppliers, enhancing experience, satisfaction of initiatives in this area, work has been done on adopting and productivity through collaboration. new technologies to add IT capabilities and new operating models, such as the so-called hyper-convergence , which makes it possible to close the gap between the traditional infrastructure and public cloud services and production lines. Hyper-convergence provides a hybrid cloud approach in an industrial environment, which keeps critical infrastructure and data under GRI control, but allows for their integration with machines at the plants and with applications and data in the cloud. It is an enabler for data collection and process automation, one of the pillars of the digital transformation strategy. In some cases, in order to manage the scalability of IT capacities, it may be necessary to collaborate with third parties, which are selected through an impartial process of publishing specifications, receiving and evaluating bids and making the final selection based on the quality criteria for business support and system efficiency. At GRI Renewable Industries we are convinced that information has become a strategic asset for the company and ensuring its security is one of the Group's greatest challenges. GRI Renewable Industries 32 Sustainability Report 2019 Information security Cyberthreats continue to grow in ingenuity and frequency, online fraud continues to evolve thanks to new social engineering techniques, and these are responsible for million-dollar losses in companies worldwide. The rapid proliferation of intelligent devices and the connectivity given by the Internet of Things (IoT), coupled with the lack of global security standards makes many of these devices very vulnerable and exposes personal and business information. This trend is shown by the increase in the kidnapping of corporate computer equipment by hackers, with the aim of mining crypto currencies. This is done through a modern malware that is designed to go after business networks which can make these collapse or even damage the hardware. In the year 2019, the following measures, among others, have been taken to improve security policies: • Periodical system scans to detect external and internal vulnerabilities and their correction based on their level of criticality. • Diagnosis of information security and its risks based on the ISO 27000 standard. • To reinforce awareness and training of the group´s employees’, campaigns and training courses took place. In addition, training sessions have been carried out in both corporate and plant offices on the risks of connecting to public networks and protecting your personal data, due to the According with what we mentioned above, also has increarisk this new type of crime poses to people and assets. sed the phishing fraud, so every day it is necessary to adeWe have also continued to support and improve the relevant quate all the security policies and the devices with the aim to measures to adapt to the new European data privacy regulaprotect the actives and the people’s security. tions (GDPR) that came into force in May 2018. This implies For this reason, the necessary mechanisms have been estaa more transversal level of supervision on the protection of blished to safeguard information privacy and to protect the personal data information. data of customers and providers, as well as to manage and In addition, new versions of anti-ransomware analysis softreat documentation adequately according to its level of retware have been installed through pilot tests, new tools for levance, and to enhance security, information security procecataloguing and protection of corporate information (IRM dures are periodically reviewed and systems are continually Information Rights Management) and for the protection of tested to ensure they are secure. smartphones or tablets (MDM Mobile Device management). GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 33 Customers and innovation Our commitment to R+D+I We understand innovation as a factor of change and adaptation to the new requirements of customers and markets, generating added value to the business and minimizing its environmental impact. Therefore, innovation is one of the strategic pillars of GRI Renewable Industries, contributing to its profitable and sustainable growth. This commitment is embodied in the R+D+i team, with an increasing number of qualified professionals, and in the constant search for opportunities and improvement projects, which allow us to anticipate the market, offering differential and more efficient products, in line with new technological trends. We are currently involved in different national and international projects, including our participation in REOLTEC (Wind Industry Technological Platform), in which we coordinate R&D+I activities that respond to the needs of the sector. R&D Center at GRI Tower Turkey Also significant was the start-up of the R&D Center in TurEn 2019 it will be completely operational. Located in the GRI key, integrated into the GRI Tower Turkey facilities and the Tower Turkey facilities, it has a multidisciplinary team of 11 launch of the Elcano University Innovation and Training Cenresearchers, 7 technicians and support staff, who together ter project in the Port of Seville. with various professionals will work on the design and development of all the process engineering. The aim of the innovation center is to improve the machinery GRI Towers Sevilla and the used in the production of wind towers and, thus, to reduce production cost and to obtain a higher quality of products. Centro de Innovación y Formación Therefore, this will allow for increased cooperation with the Universitario Elcano suppliers and customers in terms of designs and production Started in 2018, GRI Renewable Industries is proud of the fimatter, also to improving the global efficiency in order of nal approval of the project for the creation of the CIU3A Uniimplementing the improvements achieved in the rest of the versity Innovation and Training Center in the Port of Seville. factories. The project is leading by the University of Seville and togeR&D team is already developing different equipment for the ther with the Universities of Alentejo and Algarve, within the multiple critical processes of tower manufacturing with very INTERREG V-A SPAIN-PORTUGAL funds (POCTEP 2014satisfactory results. This shows the importance of the in2020) and supported by the Seville Port Authority. novation in our sector, not only externally through different collaborations, but internally with the aim of serving as a GRI Renewable Industries plays a key role in the developreference in advanced manufacturing processes to achieve ment of wind component research projects and in the training the operational excellence. of future professionals in the sector. For its development we have the collaboration of prestigious The Centre will take residence in buildings and warehouses universities such as Balıkesir University . Also, this year GRI located in the area conceded to GRI, as well as in other builTowers Turkey attended the 7th Award Ceremony for Techdings still belonging to the Port Authority, and will have a nology Development and R&D Centers where it received the testing area, laboratories, a welding area and training areas. certificate of approval of the R&D Centre from the Turkish Its close proximity with GRI Towers Sevilla is a fundamental Ministry of Industry and Technology. lever for the company´s strategy to promote the Innovation and Development department for new tower designs, as well as to make improvements in production processes and, through these, increase our competitiveness. GRI Renewable Industries 34 Sustainability Report 2019 Customers: product innovation The success of GRI Renewable Industries is based on its canomical and easy to develop, transport and assemble. This pacity to identify and meet its customer needs. As the only year we have reinforced our commitment to our customers supplier with the capacity to design and manufacture new by designing new towers with lower weight and, thus, prototypes of towers and flanges, innovation plays an essenlower costs, without compromising their resistance that will tial part. allow the construction of more modern wind farms with less Because of this, we have highly qualified innovation teams, impact. Among them, we highlight the following: who focus directly on improving our products, on process effi• Started in 2018, we continue with the Forestalia project ciency and cost reductions, while keeping to our high safety as the company awarded a large part of the future parks and quality standards. of the Government of Aragon, where this year we have deThrough innovation we design lighter and more efficient prolivered 220 new towers of 85m high and three sections. ducts. This allows us to optimize the costs of wind energy, The factories of Turkey, Galicia and Seville participated in being more competitive by improving the standardized cost the project. of electricity (LCOE) compared to other renewable energy • Thanks to the success of the first project, Enercon reconfirsources, thus contributing to increase the profitability of our med its confidence in GRI by granting a second and imporcustomers. tant project where we delivered 49 towers of 131 meters Closeness to the client is a fundamental aspect, for that rehigh, manufactured in Brazil. Likewise, we started a new ason we are committed to the personalization and the consproject for Sweden for the year 2020. tant improvement of our service through our commercial • In Seville, upcoming manufacture of the first 125-meterteams, specialized and adapted to each type of business, high offshore tower for Vestas, the world’s largest OEM. client, country and product, which allows us to provide a more Also with Vestas, three new towers designs were defined specific coverage. for manufacture in 2020, where we achieved an 8.5% reTo ensure quality and excellent service, we have a Corporaduction in weight, also to designing 14 new prototypes to te Quality Policy, which is why all plants are certified under be built in all our factories. Likewise, the homologation prointernational quality standards. The plants of GRI Towers cess for the new client MHI Vestas is being completed for Turkey and GRI Towers Seville have updated the standard to the supply of towers in two new projects. the new version 2015 and the rest are in the process of be• GRI Towers Sevilla has new orders from GE for their proing adapted. Most of GRI Renewable Industries' factories are jects in USA. also certified under the EN1090 standard, and, consequently, our products have the CE conformity declaration. Regarding the flanges production, it has put in operation from Due to the classification of our products and services, successful way the new rolling line at GRI Flanges Iraeta, their evaluation on health and safety matters is deemed started in 2018, with an investment of 16 million euros. This non-applicable (416-1). will allow us to go one step back in the supply chain, manuIn addition, we follow a rigorous procedure of approval and facturing the steel bars directly. Also, the approval of a new control of suppliers to ensure the proper receipt of raw welded flange for offshore projects for Siemens Gamesa and materials, components and equipment according to our GE are in their final phase. requirements. Finally, it is highlighted the manufacture and deliver of the We are aligned with the development of the new models of first forged flange with more than 15 meters of diameter in towers and flanges that are more versatile, efficient, ecoChina factories, the biggest forged flange manufactured ever made. New rolling mill at GRI Flanges Iraeta The rolling mill is now fully operational and is able to produce steel bars in multiple sizes, perfectly adapting to the needs of the plant and which is primarily used to manufacture flanges for onshore and offshore wind towers. During the process, the raw material is heated in the furnace (at about 1250°C) and then compressed/rolled in a roller box, where it is given its final format, square or rectangular bar. The installation, and its product, has been the object of audits and qualifications in conformity with the APQP4Wind platform with customers such as: VESTAS, SIEMENS GAMESA, GE, OERSTED, MVOW, etc. In addition, it is certified under the standards ISO9001, ISO14001 and EN10025 + CE MARKING. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 35 Innovation in processes At GRI Renewable Industries we believe that technological The flange painting process, as it was set up, required a siginvestments and continuous improvement through innovanificant amount of paper and working time to cover parts of tion are part of our culture and bring us significant benefits, the flange. Polyamide templates were designed to cover the including quality as excellence, worker safety and better consurface of the flange quickly and efficiently by using magtrol of results (data collection, analysis and management). nets. This implies a notable reduction in painting times and Likewise, these projects have managed to generate signifipaper use, thus avoiding the management of this waste. cant savings through improvements in processes and reducWith regard to air conditioning, another of the upgrades made tions of the consumption of raw materials, natural resources to the facilities was the total enclosure of the boiler-maand the generation of waste, emissions and spills, thus conking area. This allows a significant improvement in comfort tributing to the circular economy. for workers and significant energy savings in air conditioning. The initiatives undertaken fall into two different categories: Minimizing waste is also a priority. We have made a pilot on the one hand, improvements in production processes and, project where, with a simple adaptation to the machines, it on the other, digitalisation and Industry 4.0 projects. Below is possible to replace the 100kg consumable containers with we summarise some examples: others of 1000kg. This initiative significantly reduced packaging and waste management costs, and increased efficiency in the use of raw materials. To improve productivity and reduce power consumption, several adjustments were made to the plasma cutting machine to balance the use of oxyfuel, reducing manual bevelling. Depending on thickness, application of the manual passes on the bevels for an adequate finish varies. If there is a greater thickness, the process time increases significantly. Therefore, this improvement results in a reduction of the time and the surface area of operation, improving productivity by around 20% and electricity consumption by 50%. A pilot project based on the modification of the joint profile on the flange bevels has been developed. The new design significantly reduces the welding space and, therefore, the welding consumables, improving the quality of the finishes. It is estimated that there will be a reduction of around 35% in welding wire. An additional time reduction of 20% was made in some factories by reducing the thickness of the welding wire. To improve the working environment, the flux dust collecImprovements in processes tion and filtering system was modified from the previous For GRI, adapting to customer needs is a priority. A clear open design with diffuse emissions to a closed recirculation example are the various changes made in Brazil to adjust to model, resulting in a cleaner working environment without the new production and design requirements for the emissions. towers of the Enercon project, which made it possible to significantly optimize the processes. Projects focused on efficiency, improvement of safety and working conditions, quality and minimization of resources, among others, are being developed in different factories. A system was developed to monitor and control boiler-making consumables (welding, painting, etc.), which includes the training of operators in their correct use and proper recording. In the facilities where the system was implemented, a 10% saving in consumables was observed with respect to the previous year. We have improved the logistics process. In some facilities, the management of the finished sections under the existing distribution was very long and complex. For this reason, a project was drawn up for the redistribution and reorganisation of the sections in stock, which allowed for a significant reduction in times and the minimisation of worker exposure risks. GRI Renewable Industries 36 Sustainability Report 2019 Digitalization and Industry 4.0 In 2019 we continue to be immersed in the Industry 4.0 Through the WWS program we are able to improve monitoproject and in the digitalization of the manufacturing proring, control and error detection in the circular welding process in all its phases. cess. This initiative allows us to store all records, which improves the detection of possible errors and the high quality of These actions allow us to improve standardization, to be the finishes. It should be noted that the automatic machine for more flexible and to adapt to customer requirements in a welding interiors on cylindrical surfaces has already been impersonalized manner, shortening design, manufacturing and plemented with great success in 100% of the tower factories. sales cycles, through faster and more efficient production series, with less environmental impact. In this area, the advanIn order to enhance the automatic welding of the door frame, ces made at the innovation centre in Turkey are noteworthy, the Cartesian CNC project allows us to improve and adapt as summarised below. the machine used in the cutting and welding process of the door frames of a wind tower. Among its advantages are the The MES project was designed to integrate and digitize optimization of operation times, finishes and safety condiall the information about the processes from multiple chantions, thus reducing risks in the working environment. nels and variables; exploit it, optimize it and perform ¨Big Data¨ analysis in real time. With regard to the painting process, a project was developed to automate the interior painting process (the exterior proThe Camera Assisted Fit Up project which, through a cess is already automatic). This results in significant savings system with a camera, laser, and a projector, simplifies the on raw materials by significantly reducing paint consumption joining of the ferrules by observing the joining points in detail, (between 15-18%), a more homogeneous paint distribution improving precision and time. on the surface and minimizes the risks of worker exposure. The Counter Flow & Re-works VT pilot is being deveAlso, due to its adverse conditions (heat, dirt, etc.) the manual loped, where the material and the weld are inspected using a process of internal blasting is a logical area for improvement. laser and 2D and 3D cameras that detect millimetre defects. A new design allows us to automate the process, increase its This allows for a more precise identification of defects during efficiency, improve the quality of the finishes and reduce the the initial inspection process and their automatic marking effort required to complete the entire section. This is all done in with an ink mark, with the consequent savings in time and a cleaner industrial environment with numerous direct and inraw materials. direct benefits for both maintenance work and human health. Another problem identified in the initial phase of the process Significant improvements are also being made at the Corpois caused by dirt from the received steel sheets. Therefore, a rate level, including the Standardization Project which new installation has been designed to clean these sheets by aims to unify general documentation and processes, including sandblasting (wisebrush) to remove the dirt. This improvewelding processes in collaboration with the IT department. ment also allows to visually detect possible failures from the beginning of the process and to improve the working environUltimately, process improvements allow us to improve proment of the operators. duct quality, delivery times and control of the supply chain, along with some product improvements that allow us to reWelding is one of the key processes at GRI Renewable Induce weight and the total landed cost, as, by reducing raw dustries and this is why we are involved in several improvematerials, we contribute to the optimization of customer ment projects. The implementation of a new laser stands out, coverage. which makes it possible to mark the exact welding point of the internal parts of the tower, optimizing and reducing time, the margin of error and improving the working environment. GRI Renewable Industries App GRI Renewable Industries is constantly engaged in the digitalization process, which is transferred and applied to its business model and focuses on providing employees with the best tools to conduct their work. When the GRI 4.0 Intranet was rolled out, the GRI Renewable Industries App was launched. Available on both Android and iOS devices, it provides easy access to all personal content and improves connections with colleagues at any time and from anywhere. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 37 Cultural Change & Digital WorkPlace 2019-2021 Cloud Work Anytime, Collaboration Anywhere Foster Collaboration Culture Efficiency Boost Personal Performance Engagement Increase Innovation Employee Company Engagement Intelligence Powered “Digital WorkPlace” project began in 2019 aiming to embrace On the other hand, all employees were encouraged and traMicrosoft technology and provide employees with the Offiined to use this new technology. To this effect, a thorough ce 365 tools to continue advancing in the company’s digital implementation and training program was developed, inclutransformation. ding a number of initiatives and training materials, enabling It is a process that demands an important management of the to conclude with great success the first stage of the DWP cultural change of the whole company, in a collaborative enviadoption project. The main milestones are shown below: ronment that allows to approach successfully this challenge of incorporating the new digital technologies, but another piece of an ambitious project throughout the company in these 3 areas: “Digital Champion” campaign The implementation of the project began in March with the • Digital Competences: increase digital competences, “Digital Champion” campaign. This aims to identify collaboraknowledge and skills to adapt to a constantly changing tors in each area and country where the company is present; market and environment. based on an active, open, constructive, and motivated profile • Digital Workplace: define how new technologies may of employees who do not fear technology. improve the way of working in all aspects. Once identified these profiles, it was formed a group of more • Digital Experience: boost digital agility in all work than 50 Digital Champions spread through all the countries in aspects. which Gonvarri is present. This group became a very active The main change derives from the integration of Outlook, asset of the project, playing a key role of functional support OneDrive and SharePoint tools in the Office 365 platform. and assistance to final users during the transition process. The project is aligned with SDG 9 and our innovation and diThe group received specific training to provide them with the gitalization strategies. necessary knowledge and tools to enable the identification It’s been implemented based in two approaches: and problem resolution, feedback compilation on the identifiOn the one hand, transfer all the information to the new placation of the main resistance to change. tforms, where: With the support of these team of Champions, the following • Migration of all the information hosted in the document training stage in the usage of DWP tools began. To this effect, manager into the new SharePoint platform, updating a number of activities were developed, to mention some. admin profiles and adapting the access to each group to the new available profile options. • Each user migrated its personal information into OneDrive. GRI Renewable Industries 38 Sustainability Report 2019 Workshops in offices and factories A series of workshops were designed and developed in offi• Organized in groups by departments they discovered the ces and factories between April and December aiming to voice-interaction technology and the different concepts motivate and train employees in a fun, easy and comfortaand features of the DWP at the Innovation stand; ble way. 2019 workshops were held in our offices in Madrid • They made suggestions of the features they would like to and factories of Galicia, Seville, Texas, Argentina and Brazil. In find with regard to the new digital tools at the Efficiency 2020 the rest of the factories will be visited. stand; All of them consisted in an introductory speech explaining • They experienced the coedition at the Collaboration the corporate history in the adoption and technological evostand; lution processes and the development of playful dynamics • They took selfies and learnt about the new features of the on DWP. Afterwards, attendees took part in a tour with five mobile App at the Commitment stand. experiences based in the five pillars of the project: Collabora• And they addressed the new Intranet and the vision “Work tion, Innovation, Efficiency, Commitment and Cloud. anytime, anywhere” at the Cloud stand. lace Digital Workp adrid Day 2019 M d 25 April 23, 24 an Digital Workplace Da y 2019 Argentina September 18 Digital Workplace Day 2019 GRI Brasil adrid October 9 y 2019 M rkplace Da Digital Wo October 2 nd Digital Workplace Day 2019 GRI Towers Texas Day 2019 Galicia Digital Workplace October 23 Digital W orkplace November 11 Day 201 9 Sevilla Novembe r7 GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 39 8 Nº of training +500 +500 hours per person Nº of attendees to Nº participants in / Audiovisual the Workshops the webinars Materials (all languages) Digital 5 Champion Nº of training 3,200 65 hours per Nº of video Nº Champions person displays Presential Training Digital Workplace Hub On site: developed by experts during the different stages of The Digital Workplace Hub is a SharePoint site That gathers the project, aimed at different target (managers, champions, all the information with regard to the DWB project. There all employees, and so on). They were shown and explained the employees can access to DWP training materials, FAQs douse of the tools and had the chance to actively test them. cuments, webinars, training courses hosted in GRI Academy, tips, calendars, the Digital Champions network, feedback, and so on. Online training webinars: online live training for multiple Various groups of employees. This training consisted of a brief desReferential training guides for Outlook, OneDrive and cription of the tools an its advantages, as well as a detailed SharePoint: these materials include manuals that cover all description of its usage and a wide range of possibilities they the usage instructions and the different functionalities of offer. Office 365 tools in a very simple and graphic way. Videos: Videos presenting and summarizing DWP project. Frequent asked questions (FAQs): documents that gather the most common queries about these tools, general Videos píldoras formativas: short videos in the shape tips regarding their usage and questions that other colleagues of case studies to explain specific aspects and advantages have made which are every bit as useful. of the new tools. Tips for the tools: Tips to get the most out of the Outlook, OneDrive, SharePoint and Office Suite tools. GRI Academy: platform that offers training of the different Satisfaction Survey: Surveys to know the opinion off the tools of the Digital WorkPlace, its features, benefits, tips, etc. employees about the materials and actions performed. GRI Renewable Industries 40 Sustainability Report 2019 Supply Chain Management of Supply Chain 102-9 GRI Renewable Industries´ suppliers are an indispensable asPurchases set within the value chain, both for their importance in project We differentiate purchases into two types based planning and for the company’s cost competitiveness. on their characteristics: direct and indirect. In both groups it Therefore, our purchasing model aims to have the best suis essential to meticulously follow our purchase procedures ppliers, managed through procedures that ensure transpawhich are based on the parameters of the group´s general rency, fair conditions, respect for human rights and long-term purchasing conditions. These conditions safeguard us in the relationships. service we provide and in the most significant measures Purchase management is centralized in the corporative ¨Sulinked to our responsibility to sustainability. pply Chain¨ division, which integrates the following areas: Direct Puechases All these purchases are strategic and therefore managed Procurement from the corporate headquarters in Madrid. In all business This is the first link in the chain. It is their role to lines there is a wide range of product families. ensure that suppliers are compliant in time and form, meet Steel, in terms of volume and cost, is our main raw material. deadlines, monitor costs (based on previous planning) and For this reason, we only work with suppliers which are adeencourage the use of the latest technologies to optimise suquately calibrated in the market and that contribute a diffepply chain management. rential value to GRI. In each project they establish continuous and fluid communiAs steel processors, we are very proud of our strategic relacation and manage the risks until the reception of the matetions that tie us to other steel providers, by dedicating a great rial in the plant. deal of effort to ensure that these relations are long-term and To comply with these requirements, meetings are held and present a competitive advantage to both parties. monitoring templates are shared, to facilitate the identificaApart from steel, other products fundamental for our comtion and minimization of risks. petitiveness stand out, such as: internal tower parts, doorframes, flanges, etc. for which we seek global and strategic partnerships. Indirect Purchases For purchases related to investments, supplies and services there is a selection process based on service quality criteria, market positioning, competitive advantage and risk prevention. Depending on the nature of the purchase, especially the synergy and reiteration of the same at a global level, these purchases are managed from the corporate or from the plants at a local level. That said, there is always monitoring of these purchases to ensure that they are executed under the group's procedures/standards and to identify new synergies and/or opportunities for improvement. We seek to develop relations with suppliers to assure that the company has a cost and service advantage over its competitors, and at the same time to build a creditworthy and fruitful business for the supplier. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 41 Supplier quality This is done at both the corporate level and at each Evaluated suppliers of the plants. The department is responsible for the certifiIn 2019, work has been done on the implementation and use cation/auditing of suppliers, complaint management and of the new portal web as a tool for the control of the approremedial action development, which allow us to ensure that ved suppliers. Therefore, it has been contacted all the Group’s products and their providers live up to the Group´s standards. suppliers, providing them with information and support so To reinforce these issues, reduce complaints and align our they can register, as well as uploading all the documentation suppliers with group standards we deployed numerous inirequired for the approval, depending on the type of the matetiatives. We should mention the new Online Supplier Portal , rial they supply or the services they provide. developed in collaboration with the company FullStep pro A total of 232 suppliers were registered of which: 51 are which is integrated into SAP. classified as fully reliable, 45 are considered of minimal risk This new platform allows for immediate registration and acand 61 as medium risk. cess to each supplier's portal, where they update their inforThe remaining suppliers are in the process of completing remation and certificates. The homologation requirements are gistration. The continuous improvement in the qualification of defined and adapted to the different categories of materials / suppliers to achieve the maximum score is a milestone that services and supplies that are provided, categorizing as critithe SQA area is pursuing day after day. cal or non-critical. At all times, suppliers are informed on their In addition to the evaluation, 15 ¨in-situ¨ audits, both for procurrent status, for instance: certification nearing expiration, ducts and processes, were conducted by the purchase teams documentation pending, additional data to be provided, vafrom the Plants and Corporate (308-1 and 414-1). luation, etc; or even on the non-conformities they have. No operations or suppliers with significant risk of child labor The homologation requires that 100% of the suppliers provicases have been identified (408-1). de certain data and evidence, which we believe guarantees that we can choose the best suppliers in the market. This information includes, among others, aspects of sustainability, ethics and compliance, human rights, availability of environLogistic mental, quality and safety and health certificates, absence of This department focuses on the reduction of transconflicting minerals, Reach compliance, etc. portation costs (for acquired goods, as well as for the finished In addition, in accordance with the procedure for Control of product); thereby improving service and creating competitive suppliers for processes, products and services , for the suadvantage over competitors in the sector. ppliers of subjects considered critical , an onsite audit is caWithin the multiple transports carried out, it is worth mentiorried out that verifies conformity on the requested matters as ning that in 2019, 9 complete ships were chartered, with 270 well as a First Piece Qualification (FPQ) inspection focused sections and 16,000 tons of finished product. on the product. Additionally, this department centralizes all information reThe final evaluation of the suppliers includes and weighs the lated to tariffs and taxes associated with the movement of result and the degree of conformity of all these requirements, goods, which is of increasing relevance. and depending on their result and classification, different measures are established. For those with lower ratings, action and improvement plans are defined, monitoring tasks and plans are drawn up in order to make them reach the good or excellent category. All suppliers, once approved, are periodically evaluated each semester as a control mechanism to maintain their classification. With regard to audits and inspections, these are always repeated whenever any incident occurs, a new product is required, any change is made to the process or any other cause that calls for their repetition. It should be noted that some customers, among their contractual conditions, establish which suppliers and materials are to be used for the towers, which, in these cases, substantially limits our decision-making capacity. Similarly, in order to create local value, in some countries we find suppliers with whom we work closely, with which we increase control measures in order to minimise any risk, and with which we define action and improvement plans in order to improve their results in the assessment. GRI Renewable Industries 42 Sustainability Report 2019 Expenditure in local suppliers 204-1 EXPENDITURE IN LOCAL SUPPLIERS GRI Renewable Industries contribute to the development Total supplier’s Local supplier’s Local and generation of wealth in the communities of the counexpenses expenses supplier´s % tries in which we are present through expenditure in local Brazil 92,971,922 88,246,692 95 providers. Spain 173,092,723 40,670,878 23 No negative social impacts have been detected in the suIndia 15,755,160 13,886,163 88 pply chain, therefore no measures to eliminate/mitigate these effects were necessary (308-2 and 414-2). Turkey 45,442,146 40,947,487 90 In 2019, supplier spending reached 594,464,938 euros, USA 54,733,369 50,331,406 92 74% of which corresponds to local agents. South Africa 27,153,717 20,937,655 77 China 185,315,901 185,315,901 100 TOTAL 594,464,938 440,336,183 74 Main achievements in 2019 Within the numerous goals achieved in 2019, these are • Monitoring and management with suppliers for the most relevant: the manufacture of the first Off-Shore project in In the Purchases and Procurement area: GRI Towers Sevilla. • Acquisition of machinery and construction works In the Suppliers quality: for the extension of the plant in Turkey achieving a manufacturing capacity of 320 towers. • Implementation of the new Full Step tool, to follow up on all suppliers in the group's portfolio. • Acquisition and commissioning of a new standardiUse of this tool as a single database for the mazation furnace at GRI Flanges Iraeta that will reduce nagement of approved suppliers, transferring the gas consumption as well as improve the process. information previously managed by other means • Management of suppliers for the development of to the new platform. new clients in the portfolio. (Enercon, POMA...) in GRI Brazil and GRI Galicia. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 43 SOCIAL DIMENSION At GRI Renewable Industries, having a strategy that allows us to have excellently trained and motivated professionals is a key aspect in order to grow as a competitive, solid and sustainable company. All this integrating Health and Safety in all levels of the company, with the true preventive culture in a safe working environment. Therefore, we support local development in the areas where we are present through social action, the payment of local taxes and local employment, among others. Worldwide presence 4,140 own employees and 597 external employees Contracts 99% full time contract 92% permanent contract Growth 873 hires and 663 leaves Health and Safety IPRL and ISO 45001 Social action Corporate and local GRI Renewable Industries 44 Sustainability Report 2019 People Management focus 103-1, 103-2 AND 103-3 External professionals: Regarding indirect employees, the number of employees is At GRI Renewable Industries, having a strategy that allows 597: 409 subcontractors and 188 TTE´s. In annex 3: table us to have excellently trained and motivated professionals 2, their detailed distribution by country, gender and type is is a key aspect in order to grow as a competitive, solid and shown. sustainable company, since the development and future of a EXTERNAL PROFESSIONALS company is largely dependent on the commitment and work Subcontractors TTE´s of its team. For this reason, the Human Resources department ensures to guarantee stable and quality employment, Men 382 171 Women 27 17 with growth and promotion opportunities for our employees. TOTAL 409 188 Workforce 102-8 AND 405-1 Distribution of own employees by country Turkey In 2019, the workforce of GRI Renewable Industries compriArgentina sed of 4,140 own professionals and 597 external collaboraSouth Africa 6% 8% tors, with a total of 4,737 employees. 7% Brazil In comparison with the previous year, the global workforce India 10% 10% has increased by 21%, mainly derived from the incorporation of the factories of GRI Calviño Towers Argentina, GRI Towers USA 7% India II and GRI Flanges China IV into the scope of the report China 28% Spain Own professionals: 24% With a total of 4,140 own employees. The distribution of our (direct) professionals by country and age is shown next. Annex 3: Table 1 includes the breakdown of staff by country, gender and age. Distribution of external employees by country PERSONNEL BY GENDER AND COUNTRY South Africa Brazil 5% Spain MEN MUJER TOTAL Turkey 16% 6% Argentina 328 24 352 4% 2% USA Brazil 352 58 410 China 944 214 1,158 Spain 862 113 975 USA 259 22 281 India 437 0 437 India South Africa 264 29 293 Turkey 228 6 234 67% TOTAL 3,674 466 4,140 GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 45 Job stability Turnover 102-8 401-1 Job stability is a priority for GRI Renewable Industries. After In 2019, a total of 873 new hiring’s were made (773 male a very complex 2018, in 2019 all our factories have been in and 100 female), mostly in Spain (26%) and China (25%). operation, which has allowed us to increase the workforce Likewise, a total of 663 leaves (591 male and 72 female), priand maintain stable employment. marily in Spain (31%) and USA (21%). These leaves are 28% As shown in its distribution, almost 99% of employees have due to dismissal and 72% voluntary. a full-time contract, and 92% have an permanent contract. In terms of the total workforce, this year shows an average Annex 3: Table 3 shows the detailed distribution by country, turnover of 16% (by gender: 16% men and 15% women). gender and type and duration of contract. Annex 3: Table 4, shows the distribution of new hires and leaving by country, gender, age and category. KIND OF CONTRACT PERMANENT TEMPORARY SCHOLARSHIP Men 3,377 283 14 Women 427 27 12 3,804 310 26 CONTRACT DURATION FULL-TIME PART-TIME Men 3,657 17 Women 450 16 4,107 33 National and international mobility is at present a key element for GRI Renewable Industries. Mobility is a great opportunity for our professionals to develop their potential in new areas and countries, acquiring new competences, experience and skills. Distribution by kind of contract 91,9% HIRES AND LEAVES Permanent Men Women TOTAL TOTAL HIRES 773 100 873 Dismissal leaving 169 17 186 Voluntary leaving 422 55 477 TOTAL LEAVES 591 72 663 Hires 89% 11% 0,6% 7,5% Men Women Scholarship Temporary GRI Renewable Industries 46 Sustainability Report 2019 Employment conditions Regarding employees with disabilities, we have 34 employees (32 men and 4 woman) located in Spain (35%), Brazil Diversity and Equality (32%), Turkey (24%) and South Africa (9%). 405-1 Disabilities At an international company such as GRI Renewable Industries, having a diversity of people with different perspectives, from different origins and different working models prevails, as they bring a great competitive advantage to the company. Diversity in the workforce is important in order to innovate, to make big changes and to continue offering new business 94% 6% opportunities. Men Women As to the distribution by gender, 89% are men and 11% are women. Gender In GRI Renewable Industries, we develop different initiatives and maintain a fluid collaboration with the Special Employ89% 11% ment Centres, such as: purchasing fresh fruit every Monday, renting rooms for different events, etc. This also allows us to Men Women contribute to the integration of people with different abilities and/or at risk of social exclusion. We continue with the project “Supply Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)” through vending machines that allow for the simple and automatic delivery of the necessary work maBelow, its shows the workforce by category and by gender. terial (protective gloves, safety glasses, helmets, ...). This system allows us to work with a single supplier/distributor and PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY AND GENDER delegate the part of adjusting the ¨packaging¨ and logistics to Men Women staff from special work centres, which is how we contribute Director 75 8 to this collective. Middle manager 294 67 The project started in Spain and is in the launch phase in the Plant Personnel 3,305 391 plants in South Africa and the USA. In Brazil, a machine model 3,674 466 has been implemented that records deliveries, in accordance with the country's legal requirements. Maternity/Paternity 401-3 As for paternity and maternity leave, 55 men took the paternity leave, of whom 98% resumed their job. As to women, 89% Plant of the 19 leaves, 95% have resumed their jobs. Meanwhile 78% of men and 90% of women remain at the company after Personnel taking paternity/maternity leave in 2018. Managers 2% 9% Middle manager At GRI Renewable Industries 97% of the staff (97% male and 95% female) holds the local nationality status, thus fostering social development in the communities we have a presence in. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 47 Freedom of association 102-41 Attraction, In GRI Renewable Industries 61% of the employees at GRI development and Renewable Industries are covered by sectoral collective agreements or similar agreements, and 11% are protected talent retention by a Handbook , stipulating employment conditions, rules Internal Promotion of conduct, salaries, social benefits, etc. The remaining At GRI Renewable Industries, we believe that internal promo28% corresponds to the employees located in China, which tion means talent recognition and commitment to professiohave agreements or similar structures in compliance with nal development within the company. provisions defined and regulated by the Ministry of Work and Generally, when a vacancy is to be filled, the most closeits applicable legislation. ly aligned profiles are sought within the workforce. For this purpose, when an internal vacancy arises, the most suitable profiles within the staff are sought. For this purpose, there Collective is a system of internal publication of open positions ( Job agreements Posting ) that allows employees to apply for those internal 61% opportunities that they consider a professional development opportunity within the company. In total, it has been published 6 vacancy through Job posting, Others 28% which 3 of them were covered internally and the other 3 externally, it has been closed 16 selection processes and 3 direct promotion in the corporate area. 11% Regarding the organizational changes, a monthly periodic is Handbook sent via email to all employees summarizing the main hires and leaves occurred during the reference month, introducing the new responsible in each position. No significant centres and suppliers have been detected Additionally, vacancies in other countries as expatriates are where freedom of association and the right to collective offered. This allows our professionals to develop their career bargaining may be infringed or threatened in the operating in different directions and to gain new experience, while cofacilities. vering these positions. Short-term deployments are also offered, for shorter periods Work-life balance in ¨start-up teams¨. When a new plant starts operation, or an At GRI Renewable Industries, the work-life balance is one of already operational plant is challenged by a change in prothe most highly valued factors. duction, customer, product issues..., this requires the support For this reason, we have flexible work entry and exit times of personnel from other plants that are more familiar with the in our offices. This is more complex in the plants, however, process, in order to pass on their know-how, experience, culas work is organized in shifts based on the customer requiture, methodology and working methods to the to the local rements, so we strive to offer individual flexibility to those employees. workers whose circumstances require so. In 2019, a total of 100 employees were employed temporarily or Permanently at other GRI Renewable Industries plants. The main emission plants have been Turkey, Brazil and Galicia and the main receiving plants have been USA, South AfriSpain ca and Spain (Seville, Galicia and Iraeta). The attached map summarizes their distribution: 2 7 1 USA 4 22 China 1 Argentina South Africa 12 10 4 2 GRI Renewable Industries 48 Sustainability Report 2019 Training and professional development 404-1 At GRI Renewable Industries, we take the development of the abilities and skills of our employees very seriously. Each year, each plant analyses the training needs of its workers and a training plan is drawn up ¨ad hoc¨ to the requirements of each plant, in which new employees are integrated. The plan includes not only language training, but also specific training in health and safety, compliance, competences, etc., as well as technical training focused on professionals from the different plants. In 2019 a total of 42,922 hours was trained. This is an average of 10.4 hours per employee (11 hours male and 7 hours female). Annex 3: Table 4 shows the distribution of training hours by country, gender and category. 87% Plant Personnel Evaluation process Middle 404-3 Manager 1.4% 11.6% manager In 2019 there were several changes at the company, among In this context, the Onboarding Training stands out. When other, a change in the management of Corporate HR. This a new employee enters the company, an obligatory requirechange has derived in the strategic revision, that affected to ment is that they receive onboarding training. This may vary some projects started during last year. between office and plant workers, both in duration and in For that reason, the performance assessment is no longer contents, depending on the business activity of each plant. operational, preparing its adaptation to a centralized system For staff that work in the central offices, this training has a mion the “ETWeb” platform, aligned with other divisions in the nimal duration of 20 hours and includes the following stages: group. The system allows the professionals to have informaI. Meeting with the HR team with the aim of introducing the tion about their annual goals, to do a follow up of them and company in general terms: ACEK Group; GRI History; GRI to know the degree of compliance through the performance Business Lines; GRI Production Processes; GRI Organizaassessment and competencies. tional Structure; GRI corporate office employees. In 2020 this system will be into operation. II. Meeting with the different Corporate departments. The role and scope of each department is explained, with special emphasis on issues directly linked to the position to be occupied by the new employee. School Day Off III. Depending on the position, a visit to a plant to get to In June it held the School Day Off in which GRI Reknow the production process in situ. newable industries employees and their sons took We offer Outplacement training service to employees part. In this occasion, boys and girls had the chance who leave the company. It aims to support this group for their to enjoy and have fun with several activities like reintegration into the labour market and includes various serKarts, Scalextric or water games. vices such as psychological support, training, etc. (404-2). Also, children went to look for their parents at their Within the initiatives carried out in the training matter, the jobs, to find out where they work and invite them to following programs can be highlighted: do an activity together. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 49 Language training In 2017 a study was carried out to assess the level of English among employees and the requirements of their jobs, with the aim of designing personalized English classes for improvement and subsequent (voluntary) certification under international standards. The system became operational in 2018. To make the system more flexible, it is run on a mixed platform embedded in the intranet, with the support of face-to-face and telephone classes. In Spain, this same platform is used to provide Spanish language training to the various employees transferred to other Group companies. In 2019 some improvements were made, providing more flexibility in online classes, including the option for telephone English. In addition, new languages such as Portuguese and German have been included. GRI Academy: New way to learn and improve In Jun 2019, GRI Academy Platform was launched in Madrid, According to the category, position an improvement aspects, gradually extending to the rest of the factories and countries. GRI Academy offers the possibility of accessing courses and Academy is orientated to offer online information to all emitineraries, which can be of three types: ployees at the company. Thank to that, now there are more • Obligatory: for all the people who are members of the of 750 people registered which have completed more than company 565 hours of training. • Important: associated with each training profile This new multi-language platform has available courses • Recommended: open for voluntary work. adapted to all training profiles: In addition, it has a Knowledge Center where the documen• Management team tation regarding different processes, business lines and pro• Supervisor/ Plant ducts of the company is gathered. • Collaborator/Plant • Sales Team • Talent • New Employees • Start Team GRI Renewable Industries 50 Sustainability Report 2019 Predictive Index (PI) Health and Safety Training: Among the initiatives to improve talent management, the Metal Convention sessions within the Predictive Index project stand out. This For the period 2018-21, a training plan was launched based is a methodology designed to help understand the factors on the provisions of the Metalworkers' Agreement, which will that naturally move the behavior of our employees, at all leallow the homogenisation of training for all workers in the vels and categories, thus helping to improve team cohesion. sector. This plan establishes the guidelines for training by job Most of the information is available on an intuitive and easyand task, aiming to cover all personnel within a period of 3 to-use online platform, available in real time from any device. years. The chapter on Health and Safety details this inforIn 2019, the sales and supply chain teams took part in this mation. initiative. The sessions were held at the facilities of the Juan Lastly, it should be noted that the project to improve techniXXIII Roncalli Foundation. cal knowledge Structuralia and the skills project 7 Habits are in the process of being re-evaluated. VII HR Meeting Edition On November 12th and 13th, the VII annual HR meeting deciphered the hidden messages coming from other plawas held in which representatives of Human Resources nets, and ultimately, passed the test as a team working teams of GRI Renewable Industries in all factories, as towards a common goal, to be drivers of change. well as corporate managers, have been defining the Subsequently, they all worked together on the first challenges to face in the coming years. Learning Day of GRI with the guidance of TAK, Esperta, They worked on the latest developments that have Bizpills and Speexx, transforming their vision of learning. been launched from the Corporate area to meet the They also had the assistance of Solutia and Sergi Riau needs of our plants, focusing on Development and on how to run management and other key aspects of Training as fundamental building blocks for the growth absenteeism. of our teams. Finally André Aparicio; presented the key points of the Added to the previous challenges, they were determistrategic plan, focusing on the commitment to innovaned to reach the Space with the help of Conkistadores, tion as the central component for the development of in their particular Space Race. They built the ships, new products and businesses. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 51 Health and Social Benefits 201-3 AND 401-2 Social Benefits USA: includes life and disability insurance and medical insuThe social benefits that the company offers are diverse as rance, as well as assistance to the retirement plan where the they are adjusted to the customs of each country. Their discompany contributes most and the employee only 3%. tribution is given below: India: includes life and disability insurance, health insurance, Argentina: included partial health insurance (not apply for cafeteria or dining services, as well as pension plan assistanall employees) and a canteen service ce and retirement plan assistance, for employees who have been working in the factory for more than five years. In addiBrazil: includes life and disability insurance, health insurantion, women in India II have a longer period of maternity leave ce, cafeteria or dining services, as well as transportation serthan legally required. vice or assistance. It also has agreements with pharmacies and other locations. South Africa: includes disability insurance, pension plan assistance and retirement plan, where contributions are made Spain: includes life and disability insurance. Likewise, GRI equally by the company and the employee. Casting Zestoa and GRI Flanges Iraeta, these plans are a mandatory requirement of the Metal Sector Collective AgreeTurkey: includes medical insurance, life and disability insument Guipúzcoa which regulates both plants. rance, cafeteria or dining services, as well as transportation service or assistance. In addiction, the Flexible Payment Plan, which offers employees various services within the remuneration package, such as transportation tickets, day-care and food vouchers, etc., Other local benefits: which subsequently allows them to benefit from tax breaks. GRI Towers Turkey, according to local customs of the counIn 2019, the PRF was solicited by employees with the fotry, gives to the its employee: at the begging of the month llowing distribution: of Ramadan a box of food, also at the end of the year to celebrate the new year another box of food is given, at the begging of religious holidays a box of chocolates. In addition, if any employee is married, they give them a gold bracelet to Medical help support the new family 55% Insurance* GRI Calviño Towers Argentina, GRI Madrid and some Transport 7% Childcare other factories in Spain, in Christmas, distribute a box with 8% voucher Christmas products to all employees to enjoy with the family. Restaurant 24% 1% Training voucher *Only company personnel are included, not their family members. Benefits Club The company has a “Club Benefits” tool which every employee can access to offers and discounts applied to both online and physical purchases. Access is via Leading the Change or from the LTC Mobile APP, on Android and IOS. Its use is very easy, intuitive and customizable. This platform is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. GRI Renewable Industries 52 Sustainability Report 2019 Health improvement programs Be Active The objective of this programme is to implement good healthy habits for the employees of the company, oriented primarily at the promotion of sport activities. In 2019, the participation of the corporate employees in the following stand out. • The GRI Running Challenge aims to collectively run a total of 10,000 km in 21 days among all employees to combat sedentarism through sport. Thanks to the efforts of the runners from the participating plants, the total distance reached 25,000 kms. GRI Towers Galicia took first place. • In December, GRI Renewable Industries participated • 25 workers at GRI Towers Sevilla participated in the in the 20th edition of the Companies Race , with particiInstituto Municipal de Deportes de Sevilla race in the pants from Madrid and the plants in Seville, the Basque Maria Luisa Park, where all participants wore the GRI Country and Galicia. T-shirt, being the largest participating group. Moreover, • 5 employees from Corporate (Madrid) participated in they participated in the 4th edition of the Companies the Madrid Rock 'n' Roll 2019 race. The race features Race organized by ESIC and ABC, in the Cartuja of Sevithree modalities: 10 km, half marathon (21 km) and the lle, with more than 50 team members participating. They marathon (42 km). placed third as a team and ranked among the top 3 com• As part of the Corporate agreement with the Real Mapanies by number of participants, the GRI green tide has drid Foundation, GRI Renewable Industries participated already become a regular occurrence in sports competiin the 7-a-side football championship of the “V Foundations in Seville. tion Sponsorship Day”, along with 19 other collaborating companies, to raise awareness and educate a particularly vulnerable group in road safety: young people with intellectual disabilities. Be healthy In line with the programme mentioned before, the goal is to improve the health and lifestyle of our employees. Among the initiatives carried out, the fresh fruit offered every Monday in the central offices in Madrid for all employees stands out. The products are provided by a special employment centre which helps people with different abilities to integrate into the working world. GRI Madrid, GRI Towers Sevilla and GRI Towers Galicia deliver baskets with fresh fruit to all staff on certain relevant dates. GRI Flanges China´s union invited experts from the Zhangqiu People's Hospital to give a lecture on first aid and health in the workplace . The aim was to improve employees' awareness of the importance of first aid in the workplace, increase the capacity for self-protection, rescue and self-care and develop good healthy living habits. GRI Towers Turkey organized a barbecue for all employees at the end of April at the factory gardens. The event, in addition to a healthy meal, increases employee satisfaction and • GRI Flanges China, organizes basketball, badminton motivation. and other sporting events for employees at its own facilities. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 53 Health and Safety Management focus 103-1, 103-2 AND 103-3 To GRI Renewable Industries, the Health and Safety of our IPRL: Excellence System for Health employees is key, and is always present in the decisionmaking process and in the development of work plans and Safety Management focused on the constant improvement of safety and working IPRL or Occupational Risk Prevention Index is an own stanconditions in all production centres. dards about Health and Safety developed by GRI Renewable The aim is to integrate Health and Safety to all levels of Industries and it is a tool that lets evaluate in a precision way the organization, as well as to establish a true preventive the improvements in Health and Safety matter in all the procorporate culture based on collaboration, teamwork, strong ductive factories. commitment and participation of all our employees and This index, applied since the beginning of 2016, defines the stakeholders. common Health and Safety criteria that are applicable to all Health and Safety is reinforced by senior management leaproduction centers of the group, gathering all features of the dership and a robust management system that reflects the different technologies and production processes, and also infeatures and strengths of the company and is therefore an cluding best practices in pursuit of continuous improvement important part of business development. of operational safety and efficiency, and it is a reference to compare the status of the factories. For this reason, and as a global company, we are committed to implementing a Health and Safety Management System The goals that we look for with the IPRL are: at work as a fundamental part of our strategy, based on the To evaluate in a precision way the improvement of each constant evaluation of risks associated with our activity. plant in Health and Safety In doing so, we make the health and well-being of all our worTo Provide “GRI Standard” of reference to the factories kers a priority. Our integrated management system (IMS) is about Health and Safety based on the international standard ISO 45001. 25% of all To stablish a system of continuous improvement based in the plants are certificated on the standard ISO 45001 and, the experience and joint work the 50% are certificated under Standard OHSAS 18001 and To compare with the organization a complete and objecin process of migration to the new standard. The factories of tive information about the status of each plan in Health India II (planned for 2021), Casting Zestoa and Flanges Iraeta and Safety matter do not have this accreditation. To improve the support and supervision of the factories GRI Renewable Industries actively manages each and every from the corporate area risk identified, implementing preventive and corrective measures to reduce both the likelihood and severity of any The Index result is the pondered measure out of 89 factors unwanted occurrences. that are classified in three big groups: Indexes, Work conditions and PRL Management. At GRI Renewable Industries, IPRL results are monitorized continuously and are evaluated quarterly by the responsible Corporate Health and Safety team. In 2019, all plants of the group were audited under the IPRL standard. The results of both internal audits and the continuous evolution of the plants are available to the entire organization through internal communication channels and via the corporate intranet. GRI Renewable Industries 54 Sustainability Report 2019 The following shows the percentual improvement concerning both employment conditions and prevention management in each of the centres since 2016. WORKING CONDITIONS HEALTH & SAFETY MANAGEMENT % % % % % % % % improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 GRI Flanges Brazil 29 16 5 4 6 32 24 35 GRI Towers Turkey 30 41 5 4 27 33 18 29 GRI Towers Brazil 56 -19 17 -1 16 23 2 30 GRI Towers Sevilla 40 36 GRi Towers India 10 15 20 -4 14 18 -6 -8 GRI Towers USA 8 7 -12 6 GRI Towers South Africa -4 10 14 30 -14 13 1 23 GRI Calviño Towers Argentina GRI Towers Galicia 7 9 7 -3 0 1 -20 18 GRi Flanges Iraeta 0 12 11 15 19 3 12 5 GRI Castings Zestoa 11 2 4 -1 MEJORA TOTAL 8.6 14.9 In 2019 we have improved employment conditions globally Regarding the perimeter, our new GRI Calviño Towers Argenby 8.6% and prevention management by 14.9%. tina plant has been added to the IPRL index, being a plant During this year we had four production centres with the that manufactures hight quality and demanding products to excellent performance rating regarding Health and Safety, attend the demand of the towers market. by incorporating in the last quarter of the year GRI Towers In 2020, India II is scheduled to enter and is currently in the Sevilla. GRI Towers South Africa also reached the good perconsolidation process. The perimeter does not include the formance . factories in China. World Day for Health & Safety at Work The different factories and offices of and transmit safe and healthy the meeting sharing its personal GRI Renewable Industries celebrate behaviours to its employees. testimony and providing information the World Day for Health & Safety (main entrance, reception area, of interest and reflections to work developing different initiatives communication panels and encourage a safe and responsible and actions to raise awareness and the Area 4 for contractors and driving. The speech was completed promote a culture of prevention, not visitors). In addition, a training with a brief speech by Emotional only among their employees, but also in the field of Health & Safety Driving extend to external companies and was undergone principally aimed main contractors. Some examples are at third companies and main • GRI Calviño Towers Argentina summarized below: contractors to encourage the use addressed the celebration of of the safety PPE’s at work. such day by developing a series of training and sensitizing talks • The managing board of GRI • GRI Madrid analysed Be focused on Be Safe! Campaign Towers Sevilla approached Safe! program emphasized for employees and also third the celebrations of such day on the “in-itinere” journeys in companies and main contractors. undertaking a series of training personal vehicles by employees, and sensitizing talks focused from home to work and from Complementarily, four different talks on Health & Safety, aimed to work home. These journeys are about occupational safety from employees, external companies included in the working activity four different perspectives: One and contractors, emphasized on and the company decided to for all and all for one, your hands the importance of developing insist in the commitment and are the most important tools, the preventive and responsible responsibility of all of us to take importance of helmet and Let’s take behaviours during working time. all the necessary measures to care of our vision. In addition, the preserve our safety. Thus, a celebration included a testimony by • GRI Towers India placed posters an injured person, who talked about speaker of AESLEME, Prevention of the BeSafe! program along its experience. of Accidents that Cause Spinal the most concurred spots of its Cord and Brain Injuries, addressed facilities aiming to encourage GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 55 Monitoring indicators At GRI Renewable Industries, we continuously monitor indiBelow, it is a summarize of the main rates: cators related to accident rates, being fully integrated within the IPRL structure. These indices relate to internal workers RATE ACCIDENTS WITH LEAVE as well as to subcontractors that perform tasks which are neOWN PERSONNEL EXTERNAL PERSONNEL cessary and to our activity. MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Among the traditional indicators the following can be found Spain 62.0 20.7 16.9 0.0 (403-2): Brazil 2.4 16.2 0.0 0.0 No. ACCIDENTS Turkey 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 with leave without leave India 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN South Africa 85.5 19.2 30.7 0.0 Own personnel 142 7 194 8 USA 11.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 External personnel 4 0 3 0 China 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 146 7 197 8 Argentina 6.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 20.7 7.2 11.8 0.0 The numbers above show us that in 2019, the number of acRate: Accidents with leave/ hours worked by 1,000,000. cidents with and without leave increased globally, aligned to the upturn in activity and the incorporation of the Argentina, India II and China IV factories. RATE ACCIDENTS WITHOUT LEAVE As a positive aspect, it is noted the reduction of accidents OWN PERSONNEL EXTERNAL PERSONNEL without leave in external personnel with a 78% less, and in MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN own personnel, women, with 50% less. Spain 81.9 25.8 33.8 0.0 By country, Turkey and China stand out for their good results, Brazil 3.6 8.1 0.0 0.0 with no accidents with or without leave, and Turkey has only registered 3 accidents without leave in its own personnel. In Turkey 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 addition, the GRI Flanges Brazil factory has been without acIndia 10.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 cidents involving sick leave for four years. In 2019, no fatal South Africa 36.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 accident was recorded in the group. USA 105.4 70.6 0.0 0.0 China 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Argentina 0.0 0.0 7.4 0.0 TOTAL 28.3 8.2 8.8 0.0 Rate: Accidents without leave/ hours worked by 1,000,000. GRI Flanges Brazil: IPRL excellence and zero occupational accidents During 2019 we had an important reduction in the rate of the accidents with leave in the group and in a specifically stands out the record of four year without accidents with leave of GRI Flanges Brazil. To achieve this milestone has been possible thanks to the implementation of the IPRL in the factory, catalogized as excellent, the implementation of a true preventive culture and the daily commitment in Health and Safety of all employee in the plant. GRI Renewable Industries 56 Sustainability Report 2019 Communication In 2019, 8 cases of occupational disease (own personnel) In 2019, a central axis of the company's preventive activity was detected (6 men and 1 woman in Brazil and 1 man in at a global level was to strengthen communication on Health Spain). The global rate is 0.20, 0.20 men and 0.21 women by and Safety at all levels, both top-down and bottom-up. gender (nº of illnesses / nº of hours worked by own personnel GRI Renewable Industries has been developing awareness x 200,000). campaigns (Be Safe!) over the years, teaches and organizes In the remaining countries, the rate has been 0.0 for both TOP 5 meetings and Safety Dialogues (DDS), and issues incigenders. dent and accident notifications to increase participation and With regard to the ratios of days lost due to accidents and inform all workers about specific Health and Safety matters. other causes, there was decrease with respect to the preAs a responsible company we foster a strong culture of safety vious year. The results of the rates for the fiscal year 2019 awareness based on people´s behaviour as we firmly believe are shown below: that Health and Safety at work is everyone´s responsibility. This year we wanted to further strengthen this communiDAYS LOST DUE TO cation by making use of the following channels: through the DAYS LOST DUE TO ACCIDENTS AND Health and Safety area on the corporate website, the comACCIDENTS OTHER CAUSES munication of contents on the corporate intranet, via social MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN and professional networks (twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube) and Spain 7.7 8.0 1.3 1.5 official forums, through participating in congresses and conBrazil 4.0 1.0 2.1 1.2 ferences and by organizing visits of stakeholders. Turkey 3.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 An important figure that helps the integration of Health and Safety in the company is the Health and Safety Committee. India 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 This internal body represents workers, meets periodically South Africa 6.2 6.1 0.9 2.5 and addresses relevant issues concerning Safety and worUSA 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 king conditions in the factories (403-4). Employee represenChina 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 tation in the health and safety committees is 100% (403-1): Argentina 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 No. EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION TOTAL 2.8 2.1 0.6 0.6 COMMITTE H&S Rate: Days lost due to accidents / hours worked by 1,000 Spain 18 Rate: Days lost due to other causes / hours worked by 1,000 Brazil 30 Turkey 19 India 26 South Africa 18 China 19 Bonus prevention Argentina TOTAL 4 134 In 2019, Mutua Universal has awarded GRI Note: in 2019 USA did not have a formal H&S Committee. Renewable Industries with the Bonus Prevención accreditation for its commitment to occupational accidents depletion and occupational risks prevention. During the event it was highlighted the important work performed by companies and prevention areas “regarding the remarkable performance, not only regarding the Bonus, because prevention requires an on-going effort. Preventions managers play a very relevant role to meet the set goals”. This award shows the daily effort Of GRI Renewable Industries to be a leader company in the reduction of work-related accidents, betting on an improvement culture of prevention in all levels of organization. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 57 Training and Risk analysis awareness-raising Each factory conducts a comprehensive risk assessment that is periodically reviewed by both the plant and at a corporate GRI Renewable Industries provides all employees with the level. specific, high-quality training necessary to safely perform all The main identified risks are listed and addressed globally to tasks on the job. guarantee complete control, defining specific protocols that Safety plays an inclusive role in said training. All training is must be complied with, for example: the adjustment of specific based on results obtained from the risk assessments at the work equipment within the production process or the adopworkplace, as well as on procedures and work instructions. tion of ergonomic improvements in the process after a rigorous Training is integrated with the communication of the best evaluation and specific studies. prevention practices identified and implemented globally. We have made progress in specific ergonomic studies, as well This year, we have focused on compliance with the II State as in psychosocial assessments. After the analysis of the reMetal Agreement , which incorporates as its main novelty the sults, specific action plans for each of our centres were defined minimum training in occupational risk prevention that worto adjust machines and workspaces thereby, improving the kers whose activity is NOT carried out in construction works wellbeing and conditions for all workers. must have and the recycling training for all workers who carry Likewise, 35 jobs have been identified with risk-exposed of out their activity or not in construction works. disease (13 in Spain and 19 in Brazil) and affecting 4 workers, Health and Safety training has increased slightly in 2019, which have the appropriate PPE and controls for their minimiwith a total of 31,076 hours of training, focusing on high-risk zation (403-3). activities, handling machinery, working in ATEX zones, handling chemicals, use of lifting tools and emergency preparedness, as well as training for office staff and managers. GRI Brazil celebrates the Internal Week for Occupational Training GRI Argentina Accidents Prevention and 1% GRI Environment GRI USA Spain GRI Brazil has celebrated the Internal Week for Oc24% cupational Accidents Prevention and EnvironGRI 37% ment (SIPATMA) aiming to raise awareness of these two ambits and foster a real preventive culture at work South Africa 6% and respect towards the environment. All GRI Brazil personnel has been trained on occupa2% tional and personal health & safety and taken part in GRI India 12% 18% various activities undertaken during the workshop, such as blood donation, a questions-answers quiz, designs GRI Turkey GRI Brazil on the subject “plastics pollution” or the visualization of health & safety videos performed and recorded by the personnel. In addition, employees of the factory donated around 3,500kg of food products given to seven different charitable organizations. Idea Program. Participate, we want to hear your idea! GRI Brazil developed in 2019 an Ideas Program in which all employees, as well as subcontractors and collaborators, can participate, except for supervisors, coordinators, managers and plant managers. The proposed ideas must contribute to the reduction and/or improvement, be innovative and quantifiable. A committee will validate these ideas, which once approved will receive a score that can be exchanged for various awards. GRI Renewable Industries 58 Sustainability Report 2019 Social action 103-1, 103-2 AND 103-3 One of the GRI Renewable Industries priorities is to support local development in those areas where we are present. Therefore, we have stablished collaboration agreement with non-profit organizations which we carry out various local and corporate activities. Contribuition from Corporate 102-12 LQDVI Foundation What Really Matters. Real Madrid Foundation. We have supported Since 2014, we have supported the Foundation the Foundation since 2018, with the aim to What Really Matters with disseminating univereducate in road safety to people with different sal, moral and ethical human values through the capabilities. development of motivational conferences. This year we develop the “La Educación vial: In 2019 we have been present at the following un gran valor” in the schools of the Foundation, congresses Madrid, Oviedo, Valencia, Malaga, A those where the students can practice football Coruna, Bilbao, Seville and Palma de Mallorca. and basketball. Also, we increase the number of sessions. Aesleme. We have supported the Foundation since 2013. with the aim of preventing traffic United Nations Global Compact. We have accidents through training and social awaresupported the Foundation since 2013, to contriness, as well as offering psychological and legal bute to the dissemination and compliance of the support to those affected by road accidents. 10 Principles and the Sustainable Development In 2019 we have supported the dissemination Goals. of information on road safety in schools in the In 2019 we participated in various conferences Community of Madrid, in addition to collaborato improve our contribution to these objectives, ting with sports events. On Health and Safety among others, participated in the campaign at Workday, road safety training was held at #AlliesoftheSGD promoted by the Spanish Nethe GRI Corporate offices, focusing on in itinere twork of the UN Global Compact on the reason journeys of its fourth anniversary and the anniversary of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), presented a dossier of Good Practices in which it WCK. We have supported the Foundation since included the training program Training Lay-off 2013. Its mission is to end food insecurity and in South Africa. malnutrition in areas of humanitarian catastrophes. Furthermore, during the celebration of its 2019 General Assembly, the Spanish Network has reIn 2019, we made a special contribution that cognized GRI Renewable Industries as a Bronze helped provide 10,000 basic meals in places Prescribing Partner. The association wanted to where there have been natural disasters. thank our company for its commitment and work in spreading its values Foundation Juan XXIII Roncalli. We have supported the Foundation since 2007, apart from being its Trustee. Its mission is to improve Seres Foundation. We have supported the the lives of people with intellectual disabilities Foundation since 2016, to contribute to the and to foment their social integration. joint construction of a stronger society and with This year the company has supported the Founcompetitive companies lasting over time. dation with the rent of its spaces and utilities In 2019 we collaborated as Trustee of the to hold departmental meetings with awareness foundation and participated in projects aimed at talks given by the Foundation's staff. improving communication and measurement of actions in the area of sustainability. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 59 Local contribution 413-1 Distribution of social action by type of activity We carry out actions and development programs with the local community in different countries and with different 20% Economic approaches. Development In 2019, GRI Renewable Industries focused its efforts on & Social WellEducation being 14% social initiatives related to culture, environment, sport, education and healthcare. All work has been aimed at the deveCulture 17% lopment and support of the societies where we are present. Social programs have taken place in all countries (100%) in which GRI Renewable Industries has a presence. Heath & Sports Environment Education 14% 35% GRI Towers Turkey, invited the students from “Gonen Mehmet Akif Ersoy” Primary School to visit the factory. The event was a surprised for most of the employees whose children assist to that school. During the visit, the business model, the processes, aspects related to Health and Safety, among Culture other interesting topics, were explained in order to know the GRI Towers Galicia, is committed to the local community, labor market and different alternatives. for that reason they support culture events as: “Enxebre” folk GRI Towers South Africa has invested around 375 thoumusical festival, “Rondalla” group of popular music, the award sand rand in various training projects under the Black Econoto the acrobatic dance of “Club Marusia”, as other popular mic Empowerment (B-BBEE) program. This racially selective festivals. program was launched by the South African government to correct the inequalities of apartheid by helping black South Africans (blacks, colored and Indians) The following action were developed within this program: • Computer equipment was provided to the Westford College center to enabled them to set up an IT room. Among the donated material there are a spotlight, 5 computers and a laptop. • It was made a donation to Robinvale school in order to develop an extracurricular math’s program. This program has 40 students in 5 groups, whose are interested in improving their math’s level. In order to continue year after year, the students must exceed in 10% their performance respect last year. The donation was destinated to purchase school material as notebooks, boards and pens, food for the journeys, transportation of students to the center, as well as incentives for participating students. • There were hired two professors to teach class for students in third and seventh grade, in order to develop GrosGRI Towers Turkey organized a children's day activity with venor primary school. employees and their children, taking them to the zoo so that • Support was provided for extracurricular training for Berthe children could get to know the animals closely. zelia School students in their final year of primary school In addition, on the occasion of the arrival of spring and in orin order to access to secondary school without problem, der to increase employees' commitment and motivation for passing their exams. In addition, an extra support was githe company, a barbecue was organized for all employees. ven to the youngest students of the school through the partial hiring of support teachers who work on reading and writing. GRI Renewable Industries 60 Sustainability Report 2019 Health & Sports Environment En GRI Renewable Industries we are committed to climate change, which is why in 2015 we set ourselves the challenge of planting one tree for every tower produced. This year, GRI Madrid, GRI Towers Galicia, GRI Towers Sevilla, GRI Flanges Iraeta and GRI Casting Zestoa have participated in a reforestation in the areas close to the factories and offices, managing to planta 2,000 trees. Economic development & Social Well being GRI Towers Galicia and GRI Madrid, delivered the surplus Christmas baskets to Caritas. GRI Towers Texas collected toys and gave them to the Toys for Tots Foundation so that children with less advantaGRI Towers Turkey, and all the workforce raise money to ges could have a Christmas present. help an employee with cancer with medical and personal expenses cause by the treatment. In addition, it has been inviting to employees to donate blood to “Red Crescent” for the past five years. GRI Towers South Africa, held a Mandela Day event where employees donate money and food to be distributed to people with more necessities. Also, within Blac Económica Empowerment (B-BBEE) programa GRI South Africa contributed to the local development by assisting and collaborating with local supplier trough: • Preferential purchasing from local suppliers, especially those managed by women of colour, to encourage their development and the maintenance of local families. • Aid/subsidy of local businesses for their growth and deGRI Flanges China organized a primary care day to raise velopment, so that they can be preferred suppliers for awareness among its employees of the importance of first GRI, both in raw materials and services, such as Resolux, aid knowledge in case they must assist someone at any time. Mandivista and National Industries Supplies. This training was taught by experts from Zhangqiu People Hospital. GRI Brazil, have done a personal collection of non-perishable items for employees who are not longer at the company GRI Towers Galicia, considers that the sport is main part and have no other employment, so the collection of food that of the education and development of the youngers. For that is made at the end of the year for distribution among them. reason, supports the Arenteiro football school and the Carballino football team with more than 200 people. Also, GRI sponsors different sport activities as: IV editio Rallymiz de Pinor, Arenteiro athletics solidarity race, Cenlle sport club, basket club and Solidarity Race of Carballino, and in the field of cycling, sponsored Os Mosqutieros and Carballino clubs. GRI Towers South Africa sponsored the Atlantis rugby team and Jomo’s Powers football team in order to participate in local competitions. Therefore, donates sport equipment for 60 young people and trophies and awards for the rest of the teams. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 61 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION GRI Renewable Industries is continuously tracking the environmental impacts of its activity, measuring performance, minimizing its impact, and identifying opportunities for improvement. Because of our activity, we are aligned with the fight against climate change and the definition of a strategy that will allow it to move towards an emission-free future. Environmental Management 87.5% of factories certification ISO 14001 Waste 99% of non-hazardous waste 97% corresponds to steel scrap C02 Emissions 168,599 tons of CO2 produced 782,480 tons of CO2 avoided indirectly Circular Economy 67% of steel from recycled sources Project One Tower One Tree 2,000 trees planted versus 1,375 towers manufactured GRI Renewable Industries 62 Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental perfomance Management approach 103-1, 103-2 AND 103-3 In GRI Renewable Industries we operate in an efficient and Water and discharges (303-1 AND 306-1) responsible way and we show our interest in the preservation of the environment. Our work is done under the umbrella of an Water is a resource little used in our activity, reason why it Integrated System and a Quality, Environment and Health and presents low consumptions. However, as it is an essential and Safety Policy. increasingly scarce natural resource, it is monitored with the aim of achieving its sustainable use. Through these, consumption, emissions, waste and discharges among other environmental parameters are monitored In 2019, the total consumption amounted to 52,608 m3. 70% to contribute to the minimization of its environmental impact of the water consumed came from the water network 8% without affecting the quality of our products whilst working on came from superficial water and the remaining 22% came from the continuous improvement. groundwater sources. A total of 7,287 m3 is also reused, distributed between India (85%) and Brazil (15%). Nowadays, the 87.5% of our plants are certificated under the standard ISO 14001, pending of the certification GRI Towers Consumption was mostly sanitary (86%), followed by indusIndia II, GRI Casting Zestoa and GRI Corte y Biselado (Brazil). trial use (12%) and irrigation of green areas (2%). Using and handling hazardous materials is done in accordance with procedures and instructions in place, while complying Distribution of water consumption by country with the applicable regulations and using the appropriate Spain PPEs. Brazil 26% At GRI Renewable Industries we carry out different actions that contribute to the minimization of our impact; through in12% Turkey novation and increasing the efficiency of our processes and products. Similarly, we support the achievement of the Sustai18% nable Development Objectives, as is summarized throughout India the Report. Argentina 13% We conduct awareness-raising activities in all our plants, coin17% South Africa ciding with emblematic dates such as Environment Day. To cover potential environmental risks, at GRI Renewable In10% *China data not available USA dustries we make financial provisions and have guarantees to cover for the materialisation of environmental risks in our 4% contracted insurance policies: • Environmental Liability Insurance It should be noted that no water source was significantly im• Liability Coverage for Sudden and Accidental Pollution in pacted by the company´s water collection (303-2). the General Liability Policy With regard to discharges, it is estimated that there was a During 2019, no activation of the guarantees of The Group' s total of 17,061 m3 in discharges, of which 90% was discharEnvironmental Responsibility Policy were required. ged in the sewage network, 9% in septic tanks and 1% in GRI Renewable Industries monitors the environmental impacts watercourses (river, sea, etc.). that derive from its activity through different indicators that Therefore, the plants develop projects that contribute to mimeasure its environmental performance, allowing it to meanimizing or reusing water. For example, GRI Towers Brazil inssure its evolution and identify opportunities for improvement. talled a point of reuse water for washing sections, resulting in annual savings of R$ 26,725.14 (303-3). GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 63 Waste 306-2 Residues produced in our facilities are appropriately segreA total of 120,939 tonnes of waste is produced, 99% of gated, tracked, identified, stored and managed by authorized which is non-hazardous. agents, as is set out in the environmental instructions and Non-hazardous waste amounts to 120,265 tons, of which procedures. 97% consists of steel scrap, followed at great distance by welding flux of 1%. Their distribution is shown below: NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE Paper and Recyclable Scrap metal Wood Welding Flux Blasting Others* cardboard plastic GRI Argentina 538 52 8 3 172 0 128 GRI Brazil 908 187 12 4 145 35 115 GRI China 93,121 0 0 0 0 0 0 GRI Spain 19,232 176 66 54 716 139 80 GRI India 382 19 500 501 30 20 2 GRI South Africa 462 0 5 3 0 0 0 GRI Turkey 530 101 24 0 310 66 29 GRI USA 1,008 0 4 0 213 116 51 116,182 535 619 564 1,586 375 405 Others*= 5% construction and demolition, 8% tablex and 87% others (organic, etc.) Hazardous waste amounts to 674 tons and 13m3 of oil, More than 99% of non-hazardous waste (except organic with sludge (37%) and contaminated packaging (22%) being waste) is destined for recycling. Hazardous waste is partly the most relevant. managed for treatment and the rest is deposited in a landfill. Of note is the metallic dust which is no longer managed as waste but is sold as a by-product. HAZARDOUS WASTE Contaminated rags Metallic dust (ton) Sludge (ton) Packaging (ton) Other (ton) Oils (m3) and PPE (ton) GRI Argentina 0 43 1 18 1 1 GRI Brazil 3 36 19 2 43 2 GRI China 0 0 0 0 0 0 GRI Spain 58 69 53 35 68 5 GRI India 0 0 2 0 0 1 GRI South Africa 3 30 2 21 0 0 GRI Turkey 0 0 1 58 0 0 GRI USA 8 73 11 14 1 3 73 252 89 148 114 13 Conflict Minerals Since the year 2010, following the approval of the DoDuring the homologation process it is requested that the oridd-Frank Wall Street Reform, governments, companies and gin of the materials is accredited, thus assuring that these do consumers request to know the origin of conflict materials, not originate from foundries that use conflict materials (colwhich has, therefore, become significant within GRI Renewatan, cassiterite, wolframite, gold, tantalum, tin, or any other ble Industries. conflict mineral or its derivatives) which contribute to funding The corresponding homologation of providers, with those of conflicts in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or any previously calibrated in the market, is done within the purneighboring country. chasing process. In this process we have identified steel and Likewise, the information required by our clients regarding the electric and electronic materials as materials that may the absence of this type of mineral is completed and presencontain these minerals. ted annually. GRI Renewable Industries 64 Sustainability Report 2019 Recovery of solvents GRI Towers Galicia, South Africa and Brazil have installed In addition, a washing machine for contaminated empty a solvent recovery system, which helps to reduce and containers has been installed in the same facility, so that improve the management of some hazardous materials, paint residues from these containers can be removed such as paint sludge, by extracting the solvent and and recirculated to the solvent recovery system. With this contaminated metal containers. measure, the containers become non-hazardous waste The recovered solvent can be reused in the cleaning and can be managed as scrap metal. tasks in the surface treatment area of the plant, giving it a new use. GRI Sevilla joins the waste recycling initiative #GreenLeague During the European Week for Waste Prevention (EWWR) 2019, GRI Sevilla joined the 2nd edition of the #GreenLeague for the recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), promoted by the Ecolec Foundation. This initiative aims to raise awareness among companies and workers themselves for the importance of proper management of unusable electrical and electronic equipment, both at home and in the workplace, which should be disposed of in the correct places. In total, 45 waste collection points will be installed in the workplaces of these companies and institutions, which will promote the segregated collection of WEEE among their workers. Further reinforcing this message, and during the week of the COP25 celebration, GRI Sevilla held 5 training sessions for the entire workforce on waste management, especially on WEEE, which were attended by all the plant's employees. In addition, WEEE collection points were set up in all areas. At the end of the campaign, the total number of kilos of WEEE collected by each company will be compared and a recycling ranking will be created. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 65 Life Cycle Approach: Circular Economy Part 1: The role of our products in the circular economy Our activity is the manufacture of components for the wind The towers, once completed, are mainly made of steel, in adindustry, mainly towers and flanges that contribute to the gedition to electrical and electronic equipment and packaging neration of renewable energy. (very little relevant in this case). The average distribution of In the towers we incorporate all its components, according to materials is approximately: the specifications of the final client. A number of agents are • 96-98%: Black Steel involved in this manufacturing process: the suppliers of raw • 2-4%: Internals materials and components who supply the various products This distribution clearly makes steel the main objective of the and equipment, our production and factory assembly procescircular economy, while establishing, as far as possible, addises and delivery to the end customer. tional initiatives for the other components. In order to define a global strategy in the circular economy, we must consider all these agents, providing measures that contribute to minimize the global impact on the environment. Steel The economic system needs to move from the current linear STEEL CONSUMPTION BY COUNTRY (301-1) model, in which products are manufactured from raw maTONS terials and discarded after being used, to circular models in GRI Argentina 15,985 which products have the capacity to be repaired, reutilized, GRI Spain 38,784 returned and recycled. GRI Brazil 284,832 In this context, steel, besides being a fundamental material in society, is the main component of all the processes of GRI GRI Turkey 57,957 Renewable Industries, contributing to the world's socio-ecoGRI India 484 nomic growth, to the development of more sustainable proGRI South Africa 6,758 duction models and, therefore, to the Circular Economy. GRI USA 23,810 Steel has great advantages over other materials: GRI China 21,501 TOTAL 450,111 Design and innovation: reducing the weight and quantity of the material used Through innovation we have achieved notable reductions in the weight of our structures, which results in significant savings in raw materials The steel may be reutilized or reconverted in different ways. It’s the most recycled material in the world The reutilization ratios have a great potential for growth due to the eco-design, recycling and the increase in efficiency, as it will not lose its properties Our steel product is almost 100% recyclable and the scrap metal has a significant value in the market. For every tonne of steel recycled, the steel industry saves around one and a half tonnes of iron ore, 85% of water, 80% of energy and 95% of coal and all their associated emissions (Source: UNESID). GRI Renewable Industries 66 Sustainability Report 2019 Part 2: A transition based on 5 transversal elements In addition to developing and spreading the circular vision throughout the organization, 5 specific elements have been identified on which GRI Renewable Industries tries to support its progressive transition towards the circular economy. Systemic thinking and design: Design processes Rely on digital technology: Incorporate new need to be based on circular concepts, integrating the technologies that allow the measurement, monitoring whole lifecycle of the materials and products in order to and optimization of the use of resources and connectivity extend their useful life and to facilitate their future reuse. between the different parts of the organization and the different actors in the value chain. Prioritizing the use of renewable energies and resources: Encourage the efficient use of renewable and Collaborate: Identify possible synergies and non-toxic materials and energies collaborations with other companies or institutions that allow us to find solutions to foster economic growth while also reducing environmental impacts. Exploit the full potential of the generated waste and extend useful life: Maximize the useful life of resources and try to take advantage of waste as a source to generate secondary products. Part 3: circularity at GRI Renewable Industries At GRI Renewable Industries, instead of focusing on the Circular Economy as a final goal, we want to use this concept as a tool to guide us towards a continuous improvement of our productive processes and a greater environmental responsibility. The proposals cover the entire life cycle, from production and consumption to waste management, including the secondary raw materials market. 1. Innovation: product and process improvements The concept of product design and process efficiency is essential to the circular economy. Our innovation teams design towers that are lighter and therefore more versatile, efficient, economical and easier to develop, transport and assemble, without compromising either the final height of the tower nor its strength, allowing for the construction of more modern wind farms with less impact. In addition, we make significant investments focused on improving existing processes and/or incorporating new technologies, which contribute to more sustainable production. These projects have managed to generate significant savings by reducing the consumption of raw materials, natural resources and the generation of waste, emissions, and spillage, thus contributing to the circular economy. All this information is further elaborated in the chapter on innovation. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 67 2. Our raw material steel and the integrated management of scrap The steel industry is undergoing major changes over the last At GRI Renewable Industries, a significant part of the steel years. The expected future scarcity of raw material and the processed is made up of recycled material. Out of the total growing availability of scrap, among other economic reasons, steel consumption of 450,111 tonnes, 60% comes from elecare encouraging greater use of electric ovens to manufacture tric steel makers (100% recycled origin) and the remaining steel from old steel. 40% from the conventional steel industry, where around 18% According to the Steel Manufacturer's Association, electric furis recycled steel. nace steel production reduces greenhouse gasses by 65-90% Therefore, we can estimate that 67% of all our steel is of recycompared with conventional steel production from iron ore. cled origin, which amounts to 301,651 tons, as shown below: RAW MATERIAL (TONNES) (301-2) 100% RECYCLED STEEL CONVENTIONAL STEEL (18% RECYCLED) TOTAL % Recycled steel 269,062 32,589 301,651 67 Non-recycled steel 0 148,460 148,460 33 TOTAL STEEL 269,062 181,049 450,111 100 Steel from conventional metallurgy: 181,049 tons. Total product: 450,111 tons. Non-recycled steel: 82% 43% 148,460 tons. Steel from the electric 57% steel industry: 18% Recycled steel: 32,589 tons. 269,062 tons. This, added to the efficient management of our scrap, favours DISTRIBUTION OF SCRAP BY COUNTRY the development of a more circular steel value chain with SCRAP (TONS) lower emissions. GRI Argentina 538 In all plants, GRI Renewable Industries has an integrated GRI Spain 19,232 system for the central collection and recovery of steel waste generated during production. GRI Brazil 908 The quantity of steel discarded in 2019 amounts to 116,182 GRI Turkey 530 tonnes, of which 100% is sent for recycling and subsequentGRI India 382 ly reintroduced into the value chain, thus stimulating steel GRI South Africa 462 production from recycled material which will lead to signifiGRI USA 1,008 cant savings in raw materials and emissions. GRI China* 93,121 TOTAL 116,182 GRI Renewable Industries 68 Sustainability Report 2019 Energy Energy consumption within the company is high due to the ENERGY INNOVATION FOR LIFE industrial processes, and for this reason measures to improve SANEDI, PO Box 9935, Sandton, 2146 A: CEF HOUSE, Block C, Upper Grayston Office Park, 152 Ann Crescent, Strathavon, Sandton, 2146 T: +27 [11] 038 4300 E: information@sanedi.org.za W: www.sanedi.org.za energy efficiency are being incorporated, as well as measures to reduce the environmental impact and the carbon footprint. With our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals SECTION 12I 3rd PROGRESS CERTIFICATE 01 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 (SDG), in particular to climate change, we are continuously CLIENT NAME : GRI Wind Steel, South Africa trying to further reduce our environmental impact through PROJECT TITLE : GRI Wind Steel, Atlantis different actions such as reforestation, measures to increase PROJECT NUMBER : SAN_BL_79/2019 energy efficiency and by favoring renewable energy producPROJECT CONSULTANT : CFJM Solutions tion. M&V TEAM, (where applicable) : N/A DATE OF PROGRESS REPORT : 10 September 2019 SHORT PROJECT DESCRIPTION : The tower manufacturing facility has been built with the Energy efficiency objective of supplying wind towers to the South African market, contributing to the strong development of renewable energy markets in the country. The project, which creates more than 200 jobs, will produce 150 towers 302-4 a year for the Southern African market. GRI Wind Steel South Africa aims to assist in the stimulation of energy efficiency improvement in the manufacturing industry and benefit from the 12I income tax incentive. At GRI Renewable Industries it is key to know, monitor and control the energy consumption in all of our plants in order Performance of Section 12I Project The attached document (GRI Wind Steel South Africa Performance Assessment Report: 2014-01to set up measures that contribute to its minimization and, 01176, GRI Wind Steel Atlantis and dated 10 September 2019, v1r0), for the period 01 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 (12I Compliance Period: 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018), is regarded as a true reflection of the Third Performance Assessment for this project. therefore, to reduce CO2 emissions into the atmosphere. ACTUAL IMPACT OF PROJECT As summarized in the section on innovation, we are involved The Performance Assessment for the period 01 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 was submitted to SANEDI on 10 September 2019, as defined by Regulation 2.2(a) under section 12I of the Act. in numerous projects focused on improving our processes, most of which will optimize energy consumption and reduce SANEDI is a state-owned entity, established under the National Energy Act (Act 34 of 2008) raw materials. In addition, we are currently working on the Board Members: Mr Nkululeko Buthelezi (Interim Chairperson: SANEDI Board), Mr Mlondolozi Mkhize, Ms Phuthanang Motsielwa, Mr Mmboneni Muofhe, Ms Deborah Ramalope, Ms Nomawethu Qase, Mr Gerhard Fourie Company Secretary: First Corporate Secretaries (Pty) Ltd definition of applicable indicators that will allow us to have actual and reliable results in each project. Furthermore, energy efficiency initiatives and significant in• Concerning energy efficiency measures at GRI Towers vestments in the various factories are being made, as sumSouth Africa, the applicable tax legislation, Section 12I marised below: Tax Incentive, requires a certificate from an accredited • Following the energy audit pursuant to Royal Decree external entity that verifies energy efficiency measures, 56/2016, GRI Towers Galicia implemented various which include optimization of production times and promeasures and introduced the PRO-EFFICIENCY measucesses, and the reductions achieved, in accordance with rement system, which will provide us with real reduction the SANS 50 010:2018 methodology. data in the coming year. The latest available performance assessment is for the • GRI Brazil designed efficiency measures for the period 2018 fiscal year and concludes with savings of 15.2% on 2017-2020, which include projects related to changes in base energy use. lighting systems. GRI Towers Brazil changed its mercury lamps (440W) for Below are some projects with new, more efficient technoloLED lamps (145W). This means a reduction in consumpgies. tion from 190.5 Kwh to 62.7 Kwh for each lamp. This project will be implemented in 2020 in GRI Flanges Brasil and GRI Corte y Biselado, where it is estimated that the consumption/lamp will be reduced from 70.84Kwh to 23.345Kwh and from 28.16Kwh to 9.28Kwh, respectively. In addition, GRI Flanges Brazil removed any unused lighting fixtures. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 69 GRI Flanges Iraeta: new Removal of Volatile standardized flange Organic Compounds furnace (VOCs) Our processes, especially painting, emit volatile organic compounds (VOCs), which are harmful to the environment. Therefore, we implement the latest technology in environmental solutions for emission treatment. The installation of the new Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer (RTO) with a Zeolite Roto-Concentrator at GRI Towers USA is a clear example of improving the treatment of gaseous emissions and eliminating VOCs. VOCs are eliminated through oxidation at high temperatures (800-850ºC) which eliminates up to 99% of pollutants in the combustion chamber. It is a highly efficient process as Volatile Organic Compounds supply energy to the system, which reduces the natural gas required by the RTO to maintain oxidation temperatures. If the inlet concentration of VOCs is above the auto-thermal point, the burner will remain off and, when the VOC concentration is below the autothermal point, the burner ignites and modulates its power to maintain the temperature of the combustion chamber. For the heat treatment of steels, maintained temperatures of approximately 900ºC are required, in addition to outdoor cooling at room temperature. At GRI Flanges Iraeta, the existing standardized flange furnace showed enormous gas consumptions. Therefore, an investment was made in a standardised flange furnace with self-recovery burners, better insulation and shorter heating times, among other advantages, which led to a significant reduction in the plant's total gas consumption. With regard to its performance, the following savings are expected: • At 900ºC a higher efficiency of 36% (going from 55% to 75% efficiency). • Due to its better insulation, it is estimated to save 42%. • With regard to the furnace heating time, a saving in gas consumption per cycle of 855 Nm³ is estimated, which is equivalent to 9,196 KWh (32%), in addition to an increase in production of 14.8%. GRI Renewable Industries 70 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Towers USA: Improvement of air conditioning At the Texas factory, we developed a major energy effitures are very high and reverse the flow of hot air into the ciency project in the factory's compressor area. plant in the winter when temperatures are very low. Due to its characteristics, the compressor room was too This contributes to significant savings in air conditioning hot due to poor ventilation. Therefore, the position of in the production area, where temperature conditions the ventilation ducts outside the area was redesigned have improved considerably. The average temperature to avoid overheating, which required an investment of improved by an average of 5ºC from 11ºC to 16ºC and around 14,000USD. the fluctuation in temperature, which before the installaTwo-way ducts were installed, one outside the plant and tion could vary from 2ºC to 21ºC, was notably stabilized. one inside the surface finishing area. These allow hot air Now the average temperature has a variation of only 14to be sent out of the plant in the summer when tempera18ºC, being much more stable. Internal energy consumption 302-1 This year we consumed a total of 1,611,859 GJ, of which With regard to the distribution of energy consumption, 65% 34% came from electricity consumption and the remaining of the energy consumed is for production, 2% for heating and 66% came from fuels such as LPG, natural gas, propane and the remaining 33% for both uses. diesel. As for external energy consumption, no available data is available related to this indicator. Information is expected to be available by the year 2030 (302-2). ENERGY CONSUMPTION Energy (GJ) GLP (Gj) Natural Gas (Gj) Propane (Gj) Diesel (Gj) GRI Argentina 13,328 3,293 0 0 207 GRI Brazil 18,262 649 7,124 0 477 GRI China 335,508 0 914,580 0 0 GRI Spain 102,747 0 124,443 1,413 477 GRI India 17,686 770 0 0 1,559 GRI South Africa 13,765 510 0 0 420 GRI Turkey 14,509 0 9,184 3,186 0 GRI USA 25,065 0 12 395 2,288 540,871 5,222 1,055,343 4,994 5,428 Energy intensity 302-3 ENERGY INTENSITY TOWERS Measuring energy intensity is a good way to measure the GJ consumed/ t sold product efficiency and impact of our processes. The calculation Argentina 0.68 takes electricity and fuel, corresponding to internal use, into Brazil (Towers) 0.82 consideration. Spain (Galicia+Sevilla) 1.14 The resulting annual ratio is calculated by dividing energy India 0.92 consumption by the total weight of products sold in each South Africa 0.58 country. Turkey 1.19 The energy intensity of GRI Brazil Corte y Biselado is not USA 0.88 included, as its product are included in the towers and flan0.94 ges plants in Brazil, and GRI Castings Zestoa because its ENERGY INTENSITY FLANGES activity is related with the foundry (independent of towers GJ consumed/ t sold product and flanges). Spain (Iraeta) 3.05 Brazil 3.80 China 4.39 4.21 GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 71 Emissions and climate change 201-2 Risks and opportunities associated with climate change Global situation Regulatory framework In spite of the economic downturn and the decline in the use Following the commitment of the Paris Agreement (COP 21), of coal, carbon dioxide emissions have increased to new reall countries were required to agree on measures to reduce cords, with a growth of 0.6% compared to last year (in 2018 global greenhouse gas emissions to levels which are consisand 2017 this increase was of 2.1% and 1.5% respectively), tent with climate security, as outlined in the reports of the according to the last Global Carbon Project report. As the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). World Meteorological Organization has highlighted, 2019 is The objective is to limit the increase of the average global the final year in the hottest decade ever recorded. temperature to 1.5ºC with respect to pre-industrial levels, The scientific community warns that, with the present prowhich requires an accelerated change in the development jections and measures, the temperature increase may exceed model in the coming decades. three degrees by the end of the century, which directly points Little progress has been made at the annual meetings held to the production of polluting gases: If the report's forecasts from 2015 onwards, mainly on Article 6 which defines the are indeed met, CO2 emissions will be 4% higher than in rules for the carbon market. The latest meeting, COP 25 in 2015, when the Paris Agreement was signed. Madrid, has succeeded in giving visibility to the problem and Although the use of coal (the main pollutant, accounting for in disseminating the scientific and expert reports which gua40% of total fossil fuel emissions) is declining, this will be offrantee a complicated future if no urgent action is taken. Moset by increased use of natural gas and oil worldwide. reover, the demonstrations and demands of civil society have The scenario envisaged by the four most polluting regions been remarkable. in 2019 is quite diverse. China, which continues at the top, is Within this voluntary framework, the Sustainable Develoexpected to grow by 2.6%, the United States and European pment Goals, mainly those directly related to climate, such Union (second and third places) are expected to decrease by as ODS 13 climate action and ODS 7 affordable and clean about 1.7% and India, the fourth most polluting country, is energy , cannot be overlooked. expected to grow by 1.8%. The European Union positioned themselves as leaders in the face of the problem, presenting the New Green Deal , which establishes the main lines of action for the coming years to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, as an opportunity to modernize, promote innovation and improve the competitiveness of the European economy and generate quality jobs. The pact calls for a 100-billion-euro commitment between 2021 and 2027 to achieve this goal. However, it is the year 2020 in which real and tangible commitments and plans will have to be presented to reduce carbon emissions and respond to this emergency, which is why we must wait for COP 26 in Glasgow, Scotland and hope that countries such as the USA, China and India will form part of this commitment. In Spain, the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030 (PNIEC) sets out the guidelines for electricity generation to be 100% renewable by 2050, with intermediate milestones such as in 2030, with a reduction of one third in greenhouse gas emissions, 42% renewable energy in the electricity system and 74% in electricity generation, in line with the commitments made in Agenda 2030. GRI Renewable Industries 72 Sustainability Report 2019 Stakeholders' expectations Our position There has been a significant increase in social mobilization GRI Renewable Industries is aware that it faces various risks over recent years, prompting governments to take urgent acarising from climate change, which include: tion to curb the rise of global average temperatures, which is • Regulatory risks. Through the increasingly restrictive documented in numerous rather pessimistic scientific reports. emission requirements. The position of our main customers with plans and policies • Business risks. To adapt to the requirements and the focused on the reduction of emissions in the medium/long demands of our customers. term stands out. For GRI Renewable Industries, meeting their • Financial risks. Derived from financing requirements, expectations is a strategic aspect, which is why we work in which increasingly value these issues and consider them line with their commitments to reach a common goal. in their customer portfolios. In this context, the financial sector has also taken a step • Risks in the environment. Derived from climate forward. Many institutions have already committed signichange (increase in storms, floods, etc.) at our suppliers´ ficant amounts to finance investments related to reducing facilities, which would cause supply problems. emissions over the next 10 years, acting as a Climate Bank, with a commitment to reducing the carbon dioxide (CO2) foo• Reputational and image risks. Derived from globalitprint of their credit portfolios pursuant to internationally rezation and the social awareness on these issues. cognized criteria, and to channel savings and financial resources towards sustainable investments in the future. In that regard, in 2015, after the approval of the Sustainable Development Goals, we changed our way of integrating and communicating sustainability, aligned with our main initiatives to the fulfilment of the SDG most directly related to our business. Therefore, taking the environment, the risks and the expectations of our stakeholders into consideration, 2019 represents a period of analysis and reflection for GRI Renewable Industries in which a new roadmap must be defined in line with the current needs and trends, as well as the demands of our NEUTRAL stakeholders, in which the fight against climate change, for the reduction of CO2 emissions and a carbon-neutral future, play a fundamental role. 2030 We are currently defining a roadmap with the commitment to move towards a long-term carbon-neutral model, based on different lines of action: • To have a complete measurement of emissions from all three scopes. • To have KPIs that allow us to objectively measure the reductions achieved in the various projects underway. • To promote the use of renewable energy in our facilities and the purchase of energy from renewable sources (PPA's). • Definition of investments for projects that contribute to minimising emissions (ECMs and technology), as well as more precise monitoring and measurement systems. Plan • Others: continue with our reforestation project one tower one tree , sustainable mobility, training and awaCARBON reness, etc. NEUTRAL In the next report we will publish a detailed plan defined with the objective of carbon neutrality. 2030/50 GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 73 Produced emissions Other emissions 305-3 These emissions correspond to corporate trips made by plaIn 2019, 169,988 tons of CO2 were produced, of which 43% ne, train and rental cars. Additionally, the estimation of emiscorresponded to scope 1 and the remaining 57% to scope 2. sions deriving from employees´ commutes is also included. Scope 3 emissions are outlined next: Direct Emissions 305-1 These emissions refer to those emitted by the production proOTHER EMISSIONS (tons CO2) cess of the company. In 2019, 60,252 tons of CO2 were produCorporate Trips 2,423 ced. The distribution of these emissions is shown below: Transportation employees 25,992 Scope 3 total 28,415 DIRECT EMISSIONS LPG Natural Gas Propane Diesel Tons CO2 Tons CO2 Tons CO2 Tons CO2 GRI Argentina 208 0 0 15 Corporate Trips GRI Brazil 41 400 0 35 GRI China 0 51,308 0 0 GRI Spain 0 6,981 89 35 Rental car Travel by plane Travel by train GRI India 49 0 0 115 GRI South Africa 32 0 0 31 155 2,262 6 tons CO2/year tons CO2/year tons CO2/year GRI Turkey 0 515 201 0 GRI USA 0 1 25 170 330 59,205 315 402 Intensity of Emissions 305-4 The intensity of the emissions is considered to measure effiIndirect Emissions 305-2 ciency and the impact of our processes. Indirect emissions are those produced by third parties and are The yearly ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of all direct consumed in our plants and offices, they amount to 79,932 and indirect emissions by the total weight of all products sold tons of CO2. The emissions by country are given next: in each country. In the following table the obtained results are detailed for each production process: EMISSIONS INTENSITY TOWERS INDIRECT EMISSIONS (tons CO2) GRI Argentina 1,299 tCO2 / t product sold GRI Brazil 594 Argentina 0.06 GRI China 58,062 Brazil (Towers) 0.03 GRI Spain 8,220 Spain (Galicia+Sevilld) 0.08 GRI India 3,527 India 0.17 GRI South Africa 3,441 South Africa 0.14 GRI Turkey 1,858 Turkey 0.11 GRI USA 2,931 USA 0.10 79,932 0.10 EMISSIONS INTENSITY FLANGES Spain (Iraeta) 0.18 Brasil 0.18 China 0.38 0.36 CO2 Produced CO2 Avoided 168,599 tons CO2/year 782,480 tons CO2/year SCOPE 1 60,252 tons CO2/year TOWERS PRODUCTION SCOPE 2 BALANCE 782,463tons CO2/year 79,932 tons CO2/year CO 2 Avoided REFORESTATION 613,881 17 tons CO2/year SCOPE 3 28,415 tons CO2/year tons CO2/year GRI Renewable Industries 74 Sustainability Report 2019 Avoided emissions Reduction of the weight of the The main activity of GRI Renewable Industries is the manutowers facture of components for wind turbines (towers and flanAs summarized in innovation, the design of new models of ges), which are designated to the generation of wind energy. towers and lighter flanges is key in our business, for the deThis renewable and sustainable energy does not emit greenvelopment of more modern, competitive and with less impact. house gasses into the atmosphere, contributing to mitigate A clear example are the projects developed in 2019 for two climate change. of our main customers, with whose reduction in steel weight Moreover, we are committed to the achievement of the Susit is estimated that 11,015 tons of CO2 emissions have been tainable Development Goals (SDG), and, in particular, to those avoided. that contribute to the fight against climate change (SDG 7.3 and SDG 13.2). Next, we highlight our contribution, through tower production Reforestation and reforestations, in 2019. Trees and woodlands have a direct relation to climate change, and they contribute to curbing its impact, functioning as a drain by trapping and storing CO2. Tower Production Therefore, GRI Renewable Industries committed in 2015 to In 2019, the company manufactured a total of 1,375 wind minimize these impacts through reforestation, with the aim towers, the final destination of which is shown below: of matching, as far as possible, the number of trees planted to the number of towers built. TOWERS In 2019, we have done four reforestations, totaling 2,000 South Africa 10.0% trees compared to 1,375 towers manufactured. As a result of Turky 2.9% these plantings and based on the species that were planted, Kazakstán 0.9% it is estimated that a total of 670 tons of CO2 will be absorbed Ucrania 4.1% over the next 40 years, which is equal to 17 tons per year. If Spain 15.5% we include the estimated absorptions of reforestations done Poland 1.6% in previous years (38 t/year in 2016, 15 t/year in 2017 and 13 tons of CO2/year in 2018), we reach a total of 82.7 tons USA 18.8% of C02 avoided per year because of the reforestation scheme. India 9.5% Canada 4.2% Brazil 4.2% GRI Towers Galicia Holland 0.8% The team in Galicia and their families planted, in the town of Argentina 9.5% Oseira, 350 chestnut trees and 150 birches trees. This planGermany 1.4% ting is estimated to allow for the total absorption of 106 tons France 10.6% of CO2 over 40 years. Senegal 5.6% Irland 0.4% GRI Towers Sevilla 100% The team in Seville and their families planted a total of 500 trees in Seville of nine species typical to the region. This planThe proportional weighing represented by the cost of the ting is estimated to allow for the total absorption of 364 tCO2 wind tower manufactured by GRI Renewable Industries out over 40 years. of the total cost of the tower is deemed to be 16.4%. If one estimates the annual net operational hours of the turbines in the countries where they are present, the installed power, GRI Flanges Iraeta and GRI the conversion rate applicable to each country and the perCasting Zestoa centage of the cost of the tower out of the total structure, we The team in the Basque Country planted a total of 500 trees of estimate that our contribution to combating climate change three species typical to the region (Quercus robur, Fraxinus examounts to 782,463 tons of avoided CO2 emissions in 2019. celsior and Fagus sylvatica) in Soraluze. This planting is estimaRespecting to the reduction of energy requirements for proted to allow for the total absorption of 115 tCO2 over 40 years. ducts and services (302-5), the innovation section summarizes the improvements made in products and processes. We are currently working on a plan that will allow us to have the GRI Madrid. Headquarters real savings derived from the measures implemented, which The team in Madrid and their families planted a total of 500 will be available in 2030. trees of the Pinus Sylvestris of the region in San Martín del Pimpollar (Avila). With this plantation a total absorption of 85 tCO2 is estimated at 40 years. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 75 ANNEXES The annexes include detailed information on personnel, relevant aspects of the perimeter and scope of the report, as well as the independent external verification report. ANNEX External verification report ANNEX II Report Profile ANNEX III Quantitative Information ANNEX VI GRI Content Index ANNEX V VI Global Compact Principles Scope GRI Renewable Industries 76 Sustainability Report 2019 ANNEX I Independent Review Report 102-56 GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 77 ANEXO II Report Profile The Sustainability Report was created in accordance with Presentation cycle the information and indicators established in the reference As in the previous periods, the Report has an annual perioguide of the comprehensive option of the ¨GRI Standards¨, dicity (102-52), and encompasses the information covered (102-54) and the relevant matters that arise from our Mabetween January 1 2019 and December 31 2019 (102-50), teriality Study, as an integral part of our commitment to the the last report being the one corresponding to the year 2018 Sustainable Development Goals. The table of contents can (102-51). be found in the Annex of this report, together with the independent external verification report done by the company EY (102-56). Significant Changes The goal is to communicate the most relevant aspects and With respect to the previous year, the factories of GRI Calviño initiatives, with an approach that is aligned with our way to Towers Argentina, GRI Towers India II and GRI Flanges China understand sustainability and its impact on the management IV have been incorporated into the reporting perimeter. The of the company. minor changes are indicated in their corresponding sections (102-49). Contact of the report There has not been any restatement of information regar102-53 ding the previous financial year (102-48), nor were there any changes in the supply chain (102-10). For general issues regarding this report, information is available at: rsc@gri.com.es +34 91 379 19 00 C/ Ombú 3, Floor 12. 28045 Madrid. Spain GRI Renewable Industries 78 Sustainability Report 2019 ANNEX III. Quantitative information Human Resources OWN PERSONNEL BY COUNTRY, GENDER AND AGE MANAGERS MIDDLE MANAGERS PLANT & OFFICE MEN 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 Argentina 0 2 7 4 0 2 2 1 43 151 98 18 Brazil 0 0 1 2 0 4 2 1 16 141 140 45 China 0 1 5 11 0 24 16 9 118 295 239 226 Spain 0 0 10 9 0 18 67 28 39 219 301 171 USA 0 2 1 3 1 6 14 5 48 98 48 33 India 0 1 6 2 7 42 10 5 38 103 179 44 South Africa 0 2 0 5 0 11 8 5 11 104 74 44 Turkey 0 0 0 1 0 0 4 2 12 127 69 13 0 8 30 37 8 107 123 56 325 1,238 1,148 594 WOMEN 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 Argentina 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 6 12 3 1 Brazil 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 8 22 24 3 China 0 0 0 1 0 10 9 2 27 68 56 41 Spain 0 0 0 2 0 7 26 2 2 32 27 15 USA 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 6 5 7 India 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 South Africa 0 0 2 0 1 2 2 1 9 7 2 3 Turkey 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 4 1 0 0 1 4 3 1 21 39 6 52 151 118 70 EXTERNAL STAFF BY COUNTRY AND GENDER EMPLOYEES LOCAL NATIONALITY BY GENDER AND COUNTRY SUBCONTRACT TTE´S MEN WOMEN TOTAL LOCAL MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Argentina 300 21 321 Argentina 0 0 0 0 Brazil 96 0 0 0 Brazil 344 52 396 China 0 0 0 0 China 942 214 1,156 Spain 24 5 2 2 Spain 815 103 918 USA 9 1 2 1 USA 241 16 257 India 207 14 167 14 India 436 1 437 South Africa 20 7 0 0 South Africa 260 29 289 Turkey 26 0 0 0 Turkey 228 6 234 382 27 171 17 3,566 442 4,008 DISTRIBUTION OF PERSONNEL BY COUNTRY, GENDER, TYPE AND DURATION OF CONTRACT TYPE OF CONTRACT PERMANENT TEMPORARY SCHOLARSHIP MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Argentina 328 24 0 0 0 0 Brazil 347 52 0 0 5 6 China 936 211 8 3 0 0 Spain 594 92 267 21 1 0 USA 259 22 0 0 0 0 India 436 0 1 0 0 0 South Africa 249 20 7 3 8 6 Turkey 228 6 0 0 0 0 3,377 427 283 27 14 12 TRAINING BY CATEGORY AND COUNTRY MEN WOMEN DIRECTOR MIDDLE MANAGERS PLANT & OFFICE DIRECTOR MIDDLE MANAGERS PLANT & OFFICE Argentina 0 0 0 0 0 0 Brazil 4 263 8,033 0 24 1,100 China 76 64 248 76 64 248 Spain 164 891 8,866 4 499 496 USA 8 23 7,500 3 4 26 India 72 130 416 0 0 0 South Africa 75 2,577 3,638 84 157 200 Turkey 20 171 6,192 0 115 391 419 4,119 34,893 167 863 2,461 GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 79 HIRES MANAGERS MIDDLE MANAGERS PLANT & OFFICE MEN 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 Argentina 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 3 12 14 2 Brazil 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 23 14 8 China 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 47 72 44 21 Spain 0 0 0 1 0 5 3 1 20 79 63 26 USA 0 0 0 1 0 0 5 2 40 55 29 14 India 0 0 1 0 6 18 1 0 41 24 3 0 South Africa 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 2 24 7 0 Turkey 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 13 9 2 0 0 1 3 6 24 11 6 164 302 183 73 WOMEN 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 Argentina 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 Brazil 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 4 4 1 China 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10 9 6 3 Spain 0 0 0 0 0 1 4 0 2 15 7 1 USA 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 3 4 2 4 India 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 South Africa 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 4 3 1 1 Turkey 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 3 4 0 22 37 21 11 DISMISSAL LEAVING MANAGERS MIDDLE MANAGERS PLANT & OFFICE MEN 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 Argentina 0 0 3 2 0 0 0 0 8 38 29 2 Brazil 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 7 9 2 China 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 Spain 0 0 1 3 0 0 1 2 0 1 2 1 USA 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 8 11 9 5 India 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 South Africa 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 5 7 5 Turkey 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 6 0 2 2 4 17 62 56 15 WOMEN 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 Argentina 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 5 0 0 Brazil 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 4 0 China 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Spain 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 USA 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 India 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 South Africa 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 Turkey 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 3 9 4 0 VOLUNTARY LEAVING MANAGERS MIDDLE MANAGERS PLANT & OFFICE MEN 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 Argentina 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Brazil 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 3 3 0 China 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 30 31 17 16 Spain 0 0 2 2 1 5 2 0 14 41 69 39 USA 0 0 2 0 0 1 2 0 24 34 17 14 India 0 0 0 0 1 2 0 1 2 8 2 1 South Africa 0 0 0 2 0 0 1 1 1 9 2 0 Turkey 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10 3 4 0 0 4 4 2 9 6 2 72 136 113 74 WOMEN 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 Argentina 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Brazil 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 China 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 8 3 4 Spain 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 7 6 4 USA 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 2 0 1 India 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 South Africa 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 3 1 0 Turkey 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 1 11 20 10 10 GRI Renewable Industries 80 Sustainability Report 2019 ANNEX IV GRI Content Index 102-55 The contents of this index have been externally verified by the independent entity EY. The related independent review report for verification can be found in the Annex of this document. Information omissions are included as a note in italics on appropriate indicators. Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review GRI 101: Foundation GRI 102: General Content 102-1 Name of the organization 7 √ 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 7 √ 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 √ 102-4 Location of operations 8, 10, 11 √ 102-5 Ownership and legal form 7, 21 √ 102-6 Markets served 8, 10, 11 √ Organizational 102-7 Scale of the organization 9 √ Profile 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 45, 46, An3 √ 102-9 Supply chain 41, 42 √ 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 78 √ 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 31 √ 102-12 External initiatives 59 √ 102-13 Membership of associations 19 √ 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 √ Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 29-31 √ 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 7, 25 √ Ethics and integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 24, 25 √ 102-18 Governance structure 21 √ 102-19 Delegating authority 22 √ 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 22 √ 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 22 √ 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 21 √ 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 21 √ 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 22 √ 102-25 Conflicts of interest 22 √ 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 22 √ 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 22 √ 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 21 √ Governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 30, 31 √ 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 30 √ 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 30, 31 √ 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 22 √ 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 22 √ 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 25 √ 102-35 Remuneration policies 23 √ 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 23 √ 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 23 √ 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 23, ND √ 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 23. ND √ ND: not avalilable GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 81 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 17 √ 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 48 √ Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 17 √ engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 17 √ 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 18 √ 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 86 √ 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 18 √ 102-47 List of material topics 18 √ 102-48 Restatements of information 78 √ 102-49 Changes in reporting 78 √ 102-50 Reporting period 78 √ Reporting practice 102-51 Date of most recent report 78 √ 102-52 Reporting cycle 78 √ 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 78 √ 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 78 √ 102-55 GRI content index 81-85 √ 102-56 External assurance 77 √ Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Economic Performance Management Approach GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 18, 26 √ Approach. It is applicable to all 103-2 The management approach and its components 26 √ indicators reported in this section Economic 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26 √ Dimension. Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 28 √ 201-2 Financial implications and other risk and opportunities 72 √ GRI 201: Economic due to climate change Performance 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 52 √ 201-4 Financial assitance received from government 28 √ Procurement Practices GRI 204: Procurement 204-1: Proportion of spending on local suppliers 43 √ Practices Anti corruption 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 25 √ GRI 205: Anti corruption 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 25 √ procedures 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 25 √ Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 206: Anti-competitive 206-1: Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 25 √ Behavior monopoly practices GRI Renewable Industries 82 Sustainability Report 2019 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Environmental Performance Management Approach GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 18, 63 √ Approach. It is applicable to all 103-2 The management approach and its components 63 √ indicators reported in this section Environmental Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 63 √ Materials (not material) 301-1: Materials used by weight or volume 66 √ GRI 301: Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used 68 √ Energy 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 71 √ 302-2: Energy consumption outside of the organization 71, Note A √ GRI 302: Energy 302-3: Energy intensity 71 √ 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 69 √ 302-5: Reduction in energy requirements of products and services 75, Note B √ Water (not material) 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 63 √ GRI 303: Water 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 63 √ 303-3 Water recycled and reused 63 √ Emissions (not material) 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 74 √ 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 74 √ GRI 305: Emissions 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 74 √ 305-4: GHG emissions intensity 74 √ 305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions 75 √ Effluents and Waste (not material) 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 63 √ GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 64 √ Note A: There is no information on this indicator, which is expected to be in the year 2030. NOTE B: Does not apply. The products follow the customers’ specifications, so the company has little influence. GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 83 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Environmental Compliance (not material) GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 25 √ Compliance Suppliers 308-1: New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 42 √ GRI 308: Suppliers environmental assesment 308-2: Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 43 √ Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Social Perfomance Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 18, 45, GRI 103: Management √ 54, 59 Approach. It is applicable to all 103-2 The management approach and its components 45, 54, 59 √ indicators reported in this section Social Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45, 54, 59 √ Employment 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover 46, An3 √ 401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to GRI 401: Employment temporary or part-time employees 52 √ 401-3: Parental leave 47 √ Occupational Health and Safety 403-1: Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees 57 √ 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 56 √ GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-3: Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 58 √ 403-4: Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 57 √ Training and Education 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 49 √ GRI 404: Training and 404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 49 √ Education 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 49 √ GRI Renewable Industries 84 Sustainability Report 2019 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Diversity and Equal Opportunity (not material) GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 21, 45, 47 √ Equal Opportunity Non-discrimination GRI 406: Non-discrimi406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 25 √ nation Child Labor GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 42 √ Human rights assessment (not material) 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 30 √ assessments GRI 412: Human rights 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 25 √ assessment 412-3: Significant agreements and investment contracts with clauses on 30 √ human rights or submitted to evaluation of human rights Local Communities (not material) GRI 413: Local 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 60 √ Communities and development programs Suppliers social assessment 414-1: New suppliers that have passed selection filters according to social 42 √ GRI 414: Suppliers criteria. social assessment 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. 43 √ Public Policy GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1: Political contributions 19 √ Customer Health and Safety 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service 35 √ GRI 416: Customer categories Health and Safety 416-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts 25 √ of products and services PCustomer Privacy (not material) GRI 418: Customer 418-1: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 25 √ Privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 419: 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic Socioeconomic 25 √ area Compliance GRI Renewable Industries Sustainability Report 2019 85 ANNEXES V and VI Contents in relation to the Global Compact Principles The following table shows the chapters of this report that provide the most relevant information regarding the 10 principles of the Global Compact, in addition to the one included on the management approaches of every GRI aspect. Each stakeholder can evaluate GRI Renewable Industries’ progress concerning these principles by the following this table: Aspect UN Global Compact Principles Progress included in chapter Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Compliance Model protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. and Supply Chain Human Rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human Compliance Model, commitment rights abuses. to SDG and social action Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to People collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced Labor People and compulsory labor. Standards Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. Compliance Model and people Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect Compliance Model and people of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Environment Dimension approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment Environment Dimension environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of Customers and innovation environmentally friendly technologies. and Environment Dimension Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Anticorruption Compliance model in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Scope consolidation of GRI Renewable Industries S.L. and subsidiaries Scope consolidation. The group was composed by the following companies at the end of 2019 (102-45) Subsidiary / Associated company Country Subsidiary / Associated company Country GRI Calviño Towers Argentina SA Argentina Forjas Iraeta Heavy Industries, S.L. Spain Shandong Golden Luyang Co Ltd China FIHI Forging, S.L. Spain Shandong Iraeta Heavy Industry Stock Co., Ltd. China GRI Basque Holding S.L Spain Jinan Siemat CNC Machine Co., Ltd. China GRI Castings S.L. Spain Jinan Iraeta International Trade Co.,Ltd China GRI Hybrid Towers, S.L. Spain Shandong IBARMIA CNC Manufacturing Co., Ltd. China GRI Towers Sevilla, S.L. Spain Gobi Oasis LC China GRI Towers Galicia S.L. Spain GRI Flanges Forjados de Aço, A/S (antes Iraeta Brazil GRI Powergear Towers India Private Limited India Brasil S/A) G&B Wind Services, S.A. Brazil GRI Wind Steel South Africa, Ltd. South Africa GRI Towers Brasil Estructuras Metálicas Brazil Gesbey Enerji turbini kule uretim sanayi ve tikaret AS Turkey GRI Corte e Biselado S/A Brazil GRI Towers Texas, Inc USA GRI Renewable Industries 86 Sustainability Report 2019 Download the online version of the Sustainability Report on APP GRI www.gri.com.es
