Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We center our business activities on the concept of humanity. Support for human right is an absolute imperative for any socially responsible company. Human rights are universal and play a fundamental role in development of the society as whole. Implementation: In this regard Hub Pak Salt refinery:  Recently installed “Hematology Analyzer” in the lab of Halima Hospital to increase the level of accuracy and maximize the output rate. The analyzer is used to do white blood cell counts, complete blood counts, reticulocyte analysis, and coagulation tests.  Have also added “Gastroscope” to our facility at Halima Hospital. Gastroscope is use to conduct gastroscopy (or endoscopy) to examine oesophagus (gullet or food pipe), stomach and duodenum to check symptoms, diagnosis or for treatment.  Have reviewed all internal company ethics and rules and developed programs for employees to make them aware of human rights.  We donated fair amount of money for opening a free of cost school named Jamia-al-Mariam School which provides primary level of education to children in the area.  The company has defined SOP for safe waste disposal and conduct employ training regarding waste handling. We are committed to uphold human rights in our organization, involving permanent employees and seasonal workers during seasonal harvesting of salt.  Being salt based industry we care that our main suppliers i.e. salt harvesting miners are made aware and fully facilitated in modern mining & harvesting practices through good training provided, and paid competitive market based price and have minimum waiting time to deliver the best quality salt to factory.  Right from the time of harvesting our field staff keep close liaison and advises the labour for good variety at every step, so that with maximum high recovery for benefit can be achieved every year.  Our management has open door policy. All employees are free to approach top management with their concerns and good suggestions & grievances. Measurement of outcomes  The Halima Hospital’s lab will achieve efficiency and accuracy with the use of Hematology Analyzer in the form of lab test reports, which is being provided for free to patient without biasness of any regard.  By adding “Gastroscope” to our facility, we have nearly eliminated the financial & physical hardship of a patient of traveling all the way to city side for gastroscopy. It will enable to Hospital to timely confirm the diagnosis and perform a treatment, which will eventually result in better health of community peoples in increasing number.  We have got positive changes in the actions of our company and suppliers in the area of human rights.  We have been able to promote observance and implementation of international human rights standards in our company’s policy as well as stakeholder’s. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Hub Pak Salt Refinery believes in equal employment opportunity. Our HR team makes sure that work place rules, policies, practices and behavior are fair and do not dis advantage employees’ potential. All the workers are valued and respected and have opportunities to develop their full potential. Hub Pak Salt refinery take responsibility for providing its members with nutritional value by providing them with proper meals at all our facilities. We have assembled a nutritionist team under the guidance from Scaling Up nutrition (SUN) Business Network & GAIN (Global Alliance for improved Nutrition). Implementation:  We do not allow discrimination based on religious beliefs, ethnicity, gender, political affiliation or social background of employees.  We will continue our investment in wage subsidies, and increase availability of training and support employment.  We provide properly filtered water to all our employees, whether in head office or in our factories. We believe that taking are of the basic need of employees is our fundamental duty.  Child labor is a very serious problem. We believe children are our future and we have to take care of them if we want a better future.  Support education and vocational work for needy children.  We have a hospital by the name of Halima hospital based in Hub providing free of cost services to patient all around the area and to our members.  We redesigned our daily food plan according to nutritional requirements for all members keeping in mind all the food groups.  Due to COVID-19 prices of commodities has risen up even higher than they were prepandemic due to which HPSR members were barely able to meet the basic nutritional requirement because of their limited financial capacity. HPSR tries to fill the gap by providing nutritional food to these bread earners of the family.  We implemented nutritional plan with the guidance and financial support from GAIN. Measurement of outcomes  By providing filtered water to employee in remote area where there is no reliable source for drinking water, we ensure our employees healthy state and reduced the risk of getting sick through unreliable source.  Our employees are satisfied and are happy enough to full utilize their potential in work. They know the full support of management is with them.  Audits or other steps are taken to monitor and improve the labour performance & queries coming from labour.  We conducted blood tests to examine before and after results of our nutritional plan.  We have an ISO audit every year to examine that we are maintaining all healthy standards properly in our kitchen and maintaining all hygienic standards in providing daily meals. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Hub Pak Salt Refinery has developed an environment policy which clearly specifies that we are not engaged in any activity having harmful or negative impact on the environment. We are committed to continuous improvements in environmental performance and the prevention and reduction of pollution, waste, carbon dioxide emissions and the use of paper and other non-re-usable equipment. Implementation:  The usage of non-toxic cleaning products.  We have furnished our office with the furniture, carpet and paint that are free of volatile organic compound.  We have installed RO plant in the HO the filter water, which is being provided to all our employees in the head office as well as in the factories.  We have placed bins in whole building to provide clean environment.  The employees are instructed to turn off the lights when they are leaving and try to utilize natural light when they can, and to print on both sides or use back side of old document for faxes, scrap paper, or drafts. Avoid color printing and print in draft mode whenever feasible.  We have placed energy savers to save energy than regular lighting.  We prefer to work with customer and suppliers who develop, produce and sell products which have minimum environmental impact.  To move forward the initiatives of removing consumption of plastic bags, we provide customers eco-friendly reusable bag and also encourage other to adapt the same. Measurement of outcomes  Hygienic and green environment along with comfortable working atmosphere increased employee’s efficiency to do work on time.  We are continuously reviewing and monitoring our systems for improving the environment.  Clean drinking water and proper sanitation facility have reduced the risk of diseases transmitted through untreated water among employees.  Health and Safety protocols have minimized the number of incident, which causes harm or loss.  By eliminating unnecessary paper work, recycling and re-using paper, the usages of paper have significantly reduced.  Withdrawal of plastic bag use have reduced the overall contribution of plastic bag disposal in the environment. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Hub Pak Salt Refinery is always raising its voice and combating corruption both internal and external. Implementation:  At internal level we have maintained an excellent check and balance system over transactions.  The records are maintained with proper proves that where does each rupee go to and what is done with it. This information is checked and controlled by finance, administration and HR department which ultimately reaches to CEO.  We make sure that our employees work like a true professionals and follow the work ethics.  We are working under the philosophy of working hard and earn the reward and not to use any sort of mean ways to win contracts or to do anything which is against the PROFESSIONALISM and WORK ETHICS. Measurement of outcomes  Corruption free environment and employees are aware of the consequences they will face if found doing fraud.
