COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 ON PROGRESS 2019 For Earth from space 1 Contents 3 CEO’s message 4 Our business model 6 United Nations Global Pact 8 Foreword 10 Optimized labour relations 15 Fulfilment at work 19 Employee health and safety COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 22 From customer needs to customer satisfaction 26 A naturally eco-friendly business 29 Environmental management 32 Combating corruption 33 Protecting data 35 An international CSR policy 2 From the CEO Since signing up to the United Nations We realize that a clear and rigorous CSR Global Compact in 2016, CLS has set itself approach is a key competitive advantage. That is why identifying and managing the each year the goal of continuously non-financial challenges encountered by CLS improving its non-financial performance. form the foundation for this report. The year was a transformative one for CLS, as we At CLS, we believe that such fundamental integrated our Novacom Services subsidiary issues as respecting human rights, preserving and our Kinéis subsidiary gradually gained its the environment and tackling corruption are independence. Through this report, we want integral to a company’s social role. to give our stakeholders the means to gauge COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 the importance of the issues that underpin our The pursuit of the UN Sustainable Development non-financial reporting obligations. Goals is inscribed in our company’s DNA and central to everything we do, since 80% of our This statement also gives us the opportunity revenues contribute directly to this aim. to reiterate for the fourth time our adherence Christophe CLS aspires unquestionably to become a to the UN Global Pact Vassal beacon of corporate social responsibility. CLS Chief This year again, our CSR working group is Executive Officer pursuing the drive to improve our CSR policy. WE REALIZE THAT A CLEAR AND RIGOROUS CSR APPROACH IS A KEY COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE. 3 Resources Our business €10m Invested every year model OUR MISSION IS TO CONCEIVE in research and in artificial intelligence and harness AND DEPLOY SPACE-BASED development CLS A global company the power of big data and analytics Satellites are today delivering vast amounts infrastructures to gain deeper insight SOLUTIONS TO UNDERSTAND 130 of varied data. To unlock the wealth of into their businesses. For CLS, this move AND PROTECT OUR PLANET Satellites send their information these data contain for our is vital to stay ahead of competitors from AND MANAGE ITS RESOURCES data to CLS customers, we have decided to invest all sides and retain our customers’ trust. SUSTAINABLY… every day 5 Passion Responsibility Processing centres Respect Shared operated by CLS WOODS HOLE GROUP Exemplarity values Dover CLS HEADQUARTERS TRE ALTAMIRA in France, the United Vancouver Toulouse KL-TRADING Seoul States, Italy and Spain FULCRUM KINÉIS London Toulouse NOVACOM 745 ES-PAS SIRS EUROPE Moscow Commitment CLS Lille Amsterdam AOSHI Brest Employees WOODS HOLE GROUP WOODS HOLE Beijing CUBIC-I Richmond GROUP TRE ALTAMIRA Tokyo Agility worldwide Bourne CLS MAROC Rabat CLS Milano Méditerranée CLS VIETNAM WOODS HOLE GROUP Lanham TRE ALTAMIRA Hanoi COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 1 CLS Barcelona Bidart CLS PERU Only one planet, which Lima CLS PT CLS ARGOS we must observe, watch PROOCEANO La Réunion INDONESIA Trust Jakarta Cooperation Rio de Janeiro over and preserve CUNLOGAN CLS OCEANIA Melbourne Anticipation Valparaíso Innovation +30 years Adaptation of experience. Our skilled and experienced workforce CLS HEADQUARTERS Reliability Transparency is our most valuable asset Know-how 745 employees* Delegation €134m Revenues in 2019 FRANCE AMERICAS EUROPE 478 164 64 ASIA39 PEOPLE PEOPLE PEOPLE PACIFIC 4 PEOPLE Energy, Mining 80% of CLS’s revenues are & Infrastructures … IN RESPONSE Developing products and services for the contributing directly TO GROWING to Sustainable 5 business energy, mining and infrastructure markets Development Goals (SDGs) VITAL NEEDS. to improve efficiency and safety, while reducing their environmental footprint in units order to respond to increasing natural and man-made disasters, as well as the growing number of complex large-scale projects 41% are helping to tackle climate change and that require close monitoring preserve marine and terrestrial biodiversity Sustainable Fisheries SDGs 6, 13, 14 and 15 Management Supporting sustainable management of marine 34% resources and related economic are contributing to and food sectors in order to Maritime Safety economic development combat overfishing & Security and to sustainable cities Preventing and and communities responding to illegal events and activities at SDGs 9, 11 and 12 sea affecting people and property. Combating 5% COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 terrorism, piracy and all are helping to tackle Environment forms of trafficking & Climate poverty and give (immigrants, drugs) and Supporting environmental preventing all types of vulnerable communities conservation and sustainable pollution (e.g. oil) greater autonomy development policies to SDGs 1, 2, 3 and 8 tackle the biodiversity crisis, polar ice melt, marine oil pollution and water shortages Understanding the past Observing the present Planning the future Adapting to meet climate and Fleet Management environmental challenges Developing innovative Gauging the environmental telematics solutions, notably impacts of economic and for humanitarian and waste industrial activities management purposes in response to growth in international freight and waste volumes 5 United SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Nations AND OUR BUSINESS CLS is helping to accomplish the 17 Global greatest challenges facing the planet in the ecological, political and economic Compact spheres. We are proud to affirm that 80% of our revenues are generated f rom activities geared towards achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals The UN Global Compact is the (SDGs). largest voluntary international initiative on sustainable development. It encourages INTERNAL POLICIES businesses to embed and AND PRACTICES MAKING A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION promote a range of principles TO SDGs regarding human rights, working Every day, the CLS Group is deploying conditions, good environmental initiatives that are having a positive COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 stewardship and anti-corruption impact on the achievement of the practices. SDGs. Besides our commercial offering, we are also supporting SDGs through our CLS is committed to making internal policies and practices with yearly progress on each of the respect to corporate governance, 10 principles of the Global management of human resources and good working conditions, the reduction Compact. of our environmental footprint and our relations with external stakeholders and civil society. WE SUPPORT THE GLOBAL COMPACT This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Pact. 6 We welcome feedback on its contents. Gender equality (SDG 5): women represent 60% of CLS’s Gender equality Executive Committee and 3 out of 5 members of its Executive (SDG 5): women represent 45.5% Board. of the Group’s managers and 41% Tackling corruption (SDG 16): the Group’s Code of Conduct of its total workforce (at October has been written and translated into 4 languages. 2019). Partnerships for sustainable development (SDG 17): CLS is a Decent working conditions signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and is (SDG 8): the Group offers extra working to implement the SDGs. benefits on top of basic salaries and has put in place profit-sharing GOVERNANCE schemes for about 54% of its employees HUMAN RELATIONS RESOURCES WITH EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 ENVIRONMENT Partnerships for sustainable development (SDG 17): CLS is Consumption and production of renewable supporting several NGOs. energies (SDG 7): CLS headquarters is powered Reducing inequalities (SDG 10): The CLS Group is supporting the 100% by renewable electricity and 4 electric vehicle Stade Toulousain Rugby Handisport wheelchair rugby organization. charging points have been installed. Responsible consumption and production (SDG 12): CLS is involved Responsible consumption and production in local initiatives seeking to encourage ‘soft’ mobility solutions. (SDG 12): CLS headquarters has equipped itself to Preserving biodiversity (SDG 15): CLS is supporting a project to sort waste. preserve biodiversity and promote local replanting of trees through Climate action (SDG 13): CLS is closely tracking its Voies Navigables de France (VNF), the public body responsible for environmental footprint and deploying initiatives to curb its greenhouse gas emissions. 7 managing France’s navigable waterways. Foreword For its second Non-Financial A number of the challenges set in our Performance Statement, CLS last Non-Financial Performance is seeking to pursue the course Statement (NFPS) were met during the course of 2019. charted the previous year and to set ever-more ambitious social The first of these was to produce an responsibility and up-to-date list of non-financial issues. environmental goals. For the second challenge, issues identified were classified taking into account their impact on the company’s business, the risks and opportunities COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 they imply and the expectations of our stakeholders in order to establish a materiality matrix of our non-financial risks. Progress made on these issues is documented in this report. Our objective remains unchanged: to focus our NFPS on the issues most relevant to CLS, in line with the analysis validated by the Executive Board. We have therefore set new challenges in this second report. 8 CHALLENGE N°1 At CLS headquarters in Toulouse, where Mandatory themes are addressed For each of the challenges selected, most of our employees work, our throughout the document. Only one The issues we shall continue to mobilize the CSR working group has implemented theme not relevant to CLS’s business covered in this employees identified as the key numerous actions in recent years stakeholders in implementing our best to improve our corporate social is again excluded this year: NFPS for their practices. The following were therefore responsibility. combating food waste. materiality are: again closely involved in writing this year’s report: our Legal & Compliance We intend to extend this approach • Labour relations Director, our Human Resources Director, progressively to all international CLS • Employee training our Health, Safety and Environment subsidiaries, starting in 2019 with the • Attractiveness Manager, our Purchasing Director, our Italian subsidiary. • Cybersecurity Quality Assurance Manager and our Data • General Data Protection Protection Officer. Regulation (GDPR) CLS also turned to an external service • Battery disposal provider for assistance in drawing up • Environmental and deploying its CSR strategy. Lastly, management we hired a CSR Officer whose first mission • Tackling corruption was to write this report. • International extension of our CSR policy CHALLENGE N°2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 This year, we wish to improve the fitness of the indicators we have chosen in order to reach our goals and effectively manage this new approach to our risk-based CSR policy over the long term. CHALLENGE N°3 The new challenge in this statement is to extend our CSR policy internationally. The information in this statement covers CLS France and for the first time our Italian subsidiary Tre Altamira. 9 Optimized labour relations CLS’s core business is driven by FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION people with a passion for highAND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING tech projects that create value for society. With this in mind, Employee representatives on the Labour senior management must Relations Committee (CSE) were reelected at the start of 2019 and the maintain and demonstrate its committee’s Work Health and Safety readiness to remain attentive to Commission (CSSCT) was set up. In 2019, the needs and interests of its the Labour Relations Roadmap was employees. Good labour shared and a methodology agreement relations bring peace of mind signed with union and employee and stability, while ensuring the representatives to encourage dialogue and negotiation. Regular meetings are COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 company’s economic health. held with employee representatives, on a monthly basis for staff delegates and the CSE. The overseeing Executive Board meets weekly and the Management Committee once a month. Minutes of monthly Management Committee meetings are communicated to all employees, so that everyone is kept abreast of issues being addressed by senior management. POLICY CLS is striving to increase its employees’ sense of worth by involving them in the company’s governance and through tools that foster in-house dialogue. Here’s how. OBJECTIVE REACHED IN 2019 Labour Relations Roadmap 10 created and shared with union and employee representatives VIBRANT IN-HOUSE Friendly workspaces Permanent contracts Headcount COMMUNICATION The new buildings include places where by type of contract 80 for whole period employees can chat in a f riendly Nurturing in-house dialogue and atmosphere (agora, auditorium, 70 Fixed-term corporate culture. 1.15% cafeterias, innovation space Launchpad). 67 60 Collaborative workspaces have also been Workplace laid out in one of the buildings. Workplace, our corporate social network 50 54 50 used by all Group employees, has been Annual conventions 40 a success since it was rolled out in June As it does every year, CLS senior 2017. While the Communication 30 34 management organized two Conventions Department has made this network one in 2019. The purpose of these events is 20 25 of its key channels, employees have also to share the company’s successes, market 18 been invited to use it freely and are doing 10 position, results, prospects and vision for so in practice. Closed and open discussion the future and how to make that vision 0 groups have been formed, focusing on 2017 2018 2019 Permanent come true. 97.06% a range of topics. New hires Departures The first convention was held to coincide COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 For example, in 2019 the car-sharing with Representatives’ Week in early group was created to enable colleagues February, with all representatives of CLS Permanent contracts replacing fixed-term contracts in 2019: to travel to work together. Discussions offices, subsidiaries and personnel invited 5 on average for CLS France. are focused chiefly on CLS’s businesses, to a presentation of the previous year’s In 2019, CLS hired more than 90 people for new positions and replacements, but not exclusively so. General CSR results, sectors of activity and the goals including those recruited for SIRS and Kinéis, and is planning to spend information is shared through the SEA and development paths for the coming a large budget in 2020. (Social and Environmental Awareness) years. A fun evening was also organized 4 CLS group. This tool is very valuable for for employees to relax and enjoy being a group present on all five continents. together. A second convention is Information may be posted in French, organized in December on a smaller English and Spanish. scale, without representatives f rom subsidiaries and offices. MEDIUM-TERM OBJECTIVES KEY PERFORMANCE • Harmonize HR management INDICATORS across international facilities. Negotiated agreements: 11 • 100% of employees using For 2019, 8 agreements signed Workplace. out of 8 negotiated. CONTINUITY THE RULE HR Managers Meetings FOR HR POLICY To strengthen people management and SPOTLIGHT ON HR policy in 2019 adhered to the same give managers the widest possible range HR ROADMAPS of tools to lead and support their teams, OBJECTIVE principles as the previous year, guided REACHED IN 2019 CLS has instituted HR Managers Labour relations by roadmaps for labour relations, HR Broad deployment Achieve constructive dialogue Meetings. These meetings are an of HR Roadmaps developm ent , attra c tin g talent , with the workforce on projects opportunity to exchange news, keep compensation/benefits and subsidiaries. that are foundational for the everyone fully up to date, ask questions company’s future and and discuss related topics—such as HR department restructured meaningful to employees finance or business—with speakers from Towards the end of the year, CLS’s HR outside Human Resources. MEDIUM-TERM OBJECTIVES team took advantage of the experience HR development acquired by one of its members with • Set up an employee Engagement Ensure the right people in the HR Customers’ Voice satisfaction Survey. This was initially planned for right place, with the right skills Kinéis to consolidate its centres of survey for managers 2019 and should now be operational and at the right time expertise. before the end of 2020. Following on from the previous year, in The team is structured into different June 2019 the HR Customers’ Voice • A monthly HR café is envisioned Attracting and retaining branches with three centres of expertise manager survey was conducted. This for employees. talent backed by a central HR Business Partner survey aims to improve daily HR support Maintain the ability to attract, function covering all HR issues for to teams and forms the basis for an Action hire and retain talent through an departments within its scope. A Plan. This will be an annual survey from innovative recruitment policy and Management Operating System (MOS) a strong employer brand now on. is in place since 2018 to support discussion COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 and regular tracking of issues, both Compensation and benefits This survey is conducted yearly. within the HR department and with Offer a fair and competitive managers and operational personnel. KEY PERFORMANCE package to retain our people / INDICATORS Provide effective tools to ensure Response to Customers’ Voice satisfied employees manager survey in 2019: 50% (35/70 managers) Subsidiaries Disseminate our corporate culture, processes, ways of working and tools to ensure Customers’ Voice manager survey 2018 2019 better understanding and more harmonious management. Number of managers concerned 69 70 Number of responses 31 35 Response rate 45% 50% 12 DISABILITY A MAJOR FOCUS SPOTLIGHT ON FOR IMPROVEMENT SUBSIDIARY With seven disabled employees, CLS still REORGANIZATION has considerable room for improvement. One reason we are not yet where we Novacom Services In 2018, want to be is the difficulty in finding CLS worked to integrate its Novacom Services subsidiary. candidates with the right qualifications. The merger, effective since the CLS is working with a temping agency start of 2019, has been specialized in recruiting people with accomplished under the banner disabilities. In 2019, disability is a central of continuity and underpinned by issue in the discussions of our CSR a shared strategy and values. working group. When negotiating the Quality of Life at Work agreement, the SIRS desire to foster workplace integration is In 2019, HR teams lent their emphasized. support to our Lille-based subsidiary SIRS for HR In May 2019, CLS took part in the Duo management, Day event, which proved a success at business and engineering. The aim is to integrate SIRS in our Lille-based subsidiary SIRS, with a January 2021. disabled person signing a three-month temp contract as a result. This mission Kinéis COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 was subsequently extended to end After the partial transfer August 2020, a total of 14 months in all. of assets from the Argos System During the course of the year, CLS also Operations branch hired a disabled intern. Lastly, we of CLS to its subsidiary Kinéis, forged a partnership with a catering employment contracts were also firm that employs disabled people. transferred. CLS has ensured that this transition is smooth to guarantee the well-being of Kinéis employees, whose pay and conditions are similar to those at CLS. Employees have been able to maintain a comfortable work environment and have a dedicated HR manager. A specific roadmap has been deployed. This transfer is therefore a labour relations (Diversity Charter) success. 13 OBJECTIVE FOR 2020 Signature of the Diversity Charter SPOTLIGHT ON Diversity and 27 AUGUST 2019: SIGNATURE skills, experience, qualifications and Work-life balance gender equality OF A COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT performance. Achieving the right balance between ON WORKPLACE GENDER work, private life and parenting is As of October 2019, EQUALITY Promotion something that concerns all employees, out of a total female Men and women must be given the raises issues regarding how the company headcount of This agreement is a key asset that will help CLS to attract talents, foster disame opportunities to further their is organized and managed, and has a 41% careers and hold positions of responsibility. strong impact on equal opportunities, verse skills and fuel innovation and creativity. Each individual must be actively engaged performance and motivation at work. 45.5% in their career progression, in line with CLS is adapting to changes in people’s of managers This agreement supersedes the previous their interests, motivations, efforts and parenting expectations and committed are women one signed in November 2014. Its aim is opportunities within the company. The to working to nurture a better work-life to foster workplace gender equality and secure the resources required to remove criteria for career development are the balance for employees who are also 3 out of 5 same for men and women, based on parents. members of the or at least reduce inequalities. skills, experience and performance. Executive Board Equal pay for equal responsibilities are women. CLS reaffirms that men and women must Training opportunities be hired on the same salaries for the CLS reaffirms that its men and women 30 same level of responsibilities, must have the same training nationalities working qualifications, experience and skills. opportunities. for the CLS Group Pay progression for men and women All generations are must be exclusively based on their represented COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Gender equality index score in 2019: 99/100 Up from 94/100 in 2018 Goal: reach 100/100 This index, which companies with more than 250 employees must publish since September 2018, is an instrument aimed at ending unequal pay for which there is a legally required minimum score. Indicator 1 Gender pay gap (for a comparable position and age): 39/40 Indicator 2 Pay rise gap: 20/20 Indicator 3 Promotions gap: 15/15 Indicator 4 Percentage of pay rises on return from maternity leave: 15/15 14 Indicator 5 Gender distribution among 10 highest salaries: 10/10 Fulfilment at work CLS is proud of its talents and OUR VISION depends on them. The skills of Learning, progressing and perfecting our employees are the one’s skills are the keys to a satisfying company’s most valuable asset. working life. Employees’ training and Our HR department takes the development needs are identified risks related to losing talents t h ro u g h a p ro c e d u re i nvo l v i n g very seriously and is working employees, their managers, business hard to instil optimum working unit managers and the HR department. conditions in order to retain them. TRACKING PROGRESS S i n c e 2 0 1 8 , C L S h a s e n t r u s te d management of training to a specialist external par tner, while its HR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Development centre of expertise retains control of quality assurance and strategy. A comprehensive training This decision was geared towards ensuring an effective and professional programme approach while enabling CLS to remain in charge of strategy and management. POLICY: Managers and the HR department thus CLS aims to retain its talents have a powerful tool to keep track of the by identifying their training and development needs. plan’s progress and obtain a full range Here’s how. of statistics. PERMANENT GOAL OBJECTIVE FOR 2020 Identify and meet Deploy Manager’s Charter 15 employees’ training needs SPOTLIGHT ON Deployment of GEPP Assessing needs TAILORED TRAINING career Key people and future employees with PROGRAMMES and job management specific training needs are identified to give CLS a medium-term vision in the After deploying the Managers’ Training event that an employee should leave the Programme in 2018, with specific training This approach (formerly called company. focused on 10 carefully selected themes GEPC) is geared towards: relating to managerial practices, CLS is KEY now organizing workshops to draw up PERFORMANCE Compiling a clear map of job INDIVIDUAL profiles its Manager’s Charter. INDICATORS DEVELOPMENT PLAN A specific New Managers programme Defining broad job families, An individualized support system for is also deployed yearly to provide support divided into sub-families each employee is in place since the end to new managers and get them up to 3.0 Classifying these job profiles in of 2017. speed. A Sales Programme was deployed families and sub-families The Individual Development Plan in 2019 and a Customer Services 2.5 2.70 supports employees moving f rom a programme got underway at the end of Identifying skills that are critical, non-executive to a management position the year and is continuing in 2020. 2.0 sensitive or lacking or in need of clearly identified and A Project Leader programme is also 2.02 Harmonizing company job titles specific training. being readied for 2020. 1.5 This Individual Development Plan is Programmes for specific job profiles and Creating job ‘templates’ in drawn up jointly by the HR department, roles are being established to reflect the 1.51 accordance with roles (Assistant COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 the manager and the employee, setting jobs and skillsets required for the future. 1.0 / Operator / Unit Manager / specific goals for support, training or These changes aim to anticipate Centre Manager / Director) implementation, over a fixed period amendments to the Metallurgy collective 0.5 Compiling job descriptions ranging from four to six months. The labour agreement planned for 2022. accordingly employee’s progress is regularly 0 monitored to make any necessary 2017 2018 2019 corrections and ensure the plan’s success 120 for both the employee and the company. Job descriptions have been Percentage of payroll spent on employee training drafted to enable existing company job titles to be harmonized. Each employee can access their job description via ADP and discuss it with their OBJECTIVE REACHED IN 2019 KEY PERFORMANCE manager. GEPP career and job management INDICATORS deployed in 2019 95% of employees say their right to disconnect is respected at CLS 16 Retaining EFFECTIVE ONBOARDING our talents To help newcomers to the company, the HR department has set up an onboarding POLICY: The HR department sets out to programme to support employees from support our employees throughout day one. Employees follow this their careers at CLS, and to attract programme for their first months in the them and retain their loyalty by company to enable them to acquire the providing not only a work additional inside skills and knowledge environment conducive to wellbeing and creativity, but also they need to grasp processes and benefits and opportunities procedures, and to understand where whenever possible. Here’s how. the company comes from, where it is going and how. Mentors are assigned to each ‘class’ of new hires. For each class, four or five mentors volunteer to show new hires the ropes and guide them through the onboarding process. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 This system thus gives each employee criteria) with a top-up contribution from during a phased pre-retirement period, the keys to accomplish their mission the company if the sum is invested in request additional leave for personal effectively. the Company Savings Plan. A new profitreasons or work part-time over a sharing agreement with better terms maximum of six months for exceptional CONSTANTLY REFINING was signed with union and employee family reasons. representatives in 2019. COMPENSATION In 2019, work began on a n ew CLS is keenly aware that its compensation Furthermore, for any time off work, compensation policy in line with job and benefits policy plays a key role in benefits kick in from day one and CLS and career profiles and branch the attractiveness of a company and its pays more than 95% of private health classifications. It is also worth mentioning ability to retain talents, which is why for cover premiums to keep costs reasonable. that individual compensation and many years it has offered its employees The company also has renegotiated an benefits assessments covering the an incentive bonus and a profit-sharing agreement concerning employees’ timeprevious year are being instituted scheme (payment based on results and savings accounts, which they can use to in 2020. OBJECTIVE FOR 2020 Set up an online onboarding calculated in accordance with legal take early retirement, work shorter hours system so that the process can begin before employees arrive 17 SPOTLIGHT ON NEW WORKING HOURS Teleworking AGREEMENT APPLIED IN 2019 agreement In November 2018, a new agreement on working hours was signed after being approved by more than 80% of employees through a referendum. In September 2019, CLS signed a teleworking agreement with union and employee This agreement came into effect representatives. on 1 January 2019. The objective of this agreement is to This agreement was decided to better meet our customers’ needs in a reflect the changes in the way we highly competitive context while work today. ensuring that quality of work remains The agreement enables fair and respectful for all by offering a employees to achieve a better choice between a Full Package and a work-life balance while making Reduced Package for employees present CLS a more attractive proposition in the company when the agreement in the job market and gain an was signed. edge on its competitors. Employees’ right to disconnect was also The agreement came COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 affirmed through the publication of a into effect on charter, as required by law. 6 January 2020. SHORT-TERM OBJECTIVES COMMITMENTS Adapt recruiting tools to attract talents, FOR 2020 with a stronger social media presence, for • Institute teleworking as example on the Careers page of LinkedIn. of 6 January 2020. 18 Identify the needs of new generations • Introduce a rewarded referrals with a view to securing loyalty. scheme as of 1 January 2020. Employee HSE POLICY health TO REDUCE RISKS and safety CLS has identified health and safety risks of closest concern. These include risks related to business travel, handling electrical equipment and to a lesser The health and safety of our extent psycho-social risks. Our HSE people is a priority for the Group. Manager is charged with implementing Workplace health and safety the company’s health and safety policy, risks are a key concern and CLS working in concert with the Work Health constantly strives to guarantee and Safety Commission (CSSCT) and Human Resources to continuously its employees the safest possible improve working conditions. working conditions. Health is the first fundamental step in RULES CONCERNING ensuring their well-being. BUSINESS TRAVEL CLS has drawn up a formal Business Travel Policy that is particularly important COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 POLICY: for sales personnel travelling to high-risk Quality of life at work is vital to countries. A geopolitical risk study is protect employees’ mental health. carried out and a “travel guide” containing CLS is committed to taking all key advice is provided to any employee possible steps to reduce workplace travelling abroad. accidents and injuries. Here’s how. OBJECTIVE FOR 2020 NOTEWORTHY RESULTS Establish first-aid training • Renewal rate of health and safety programme for employees qualifications: 100%. In 2019, all qualifications requiring renewal were renewed. • Facility safety: 100% of periodic regulatory inspections (more than 120 19 inspections covering all of our technical facilities). QUALITY OF LIFE AT WORK OPTIMIZED WORK Taking care of our employees and ENVIRONMENT involving them in the governance of the Since November 2018, teams in Toulouse company is something that is in the have been working in completely KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Group’s DNA and has a direct impact on refurbished buildings. Workplace accidents: the prevention of psycho-social risks. The premises were designed and built In 2019, 2 accidents (1 case of lumbago and 1 case of dizziness) Workshops on preventing such risks for as a series of collaborative spaces, with required 3 days off work, against 39 days in 2018. managers were organized during the a succession of modern meeting rooms The accident frequency rate dropped from 3.7 in 2018 to 3.06 in 2019. course of the year. equipped with the latest audiovisual The accident severity rate dropped from 0.07 in 2018 to 0.004 in 2019. In addition, CLS works closely with systems and individual work areas. The occupational health services to detect building’s large glass walls enable natural and treat as early as possible any light to predominate. pathologies that employees may develop. In 2019, new collaborative spaces were A programme has been set up to adapt created to foster discussion and federate Number of work-related Percentage change workstations and prevent musculoskeletal teams around a common project. accidents in absenteeism disorders. 2 All structural and organizational changes Enhanced comfort 3.0 2 2 are subject to validation by the employees’ Each floor has its own relaxation area. representative bodies, including the The ground floor houses a catering area 2.5 2.6 2.7 1.5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 CSSCT. with an outdoor patio. A space dedicated 2.4 In 2019, work on updating the Single to innovation and creativity has also been 2.0 2.2 Document initiated in 2018 continued arranged to encourage employees to in partnership with staff delegates. craft their future projects. 1.5 1 Employees were thus able 1.0 to volunteer to take part in 0.5 this process—a particularly 0.5 innovative approach. 0.0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 20 Ergonomics REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT All interior elements such as carpets, Optimizing building energy ceilings and partitions have been chosen consumption for their soundproofing and insulation In 2019, CLS recorded a significant drop properties. Chair and desk heights are in its transport CO 2 emissions by adjustable. Training was provided to preferring teleconferences over face-toensure that employees put this face meetings. ergonomic furniture to optimal use. At the start of 2019, weather sensors for Lastly, silent keyboards and noiseour electricity and water were installed reducing headsets have been made with the Ubigreen digital solution. This available to employees to enable them software allows CLS to understand and to work comfortably in this new manage the energy performance of its environment. facilities. Motion detectors were installed in toilets and washrooms. Four charging Looking after sports enthusiasts points were installed at the end of 2019 Changing rooms and showers have been to encourage use of electric or at least installed for the comfort of our many hybrid vehicles. Likewise, CLS is cyclists, runners and other sports encouraging employees to use an electric enthusiasts. vehicle renting application, notably for short business trips (e.g. to airports, train Everyone has their say stations and city centres). Lastly, adjustments were made during COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 September and November to change New waste-sorting system the layout of the premises in response Three-way sor ting of paper and to staff feedback and requests. cardboard, plastic and miscellaneous office waste was instituted in 2019 and A “First Impressions” survey was continues to be refined in 2020 (to sent out in 2019 to 10 key people by include tin cans and small cardboard the HSE Manager (7 responses were packaging). forthcoming). PERMANENT OBJECTIVES OBJECTIVE FOR 2020 • Reduce accident frequency rate Restore the heat-recovery system to • Reduce severity rate operation to achieve energy savings. 21 • Reduce absenteeism From customer need to customer satisfaction Our quality As a service company, CLS assurance depends on its ability to meet its approach COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 customers’ expectations POLICY: effectively. The Group sees the Satisfy the demands and needs of our performance of its quality customers through innovative solutions and provide them with the best available system and the care taken in data. CLS makes every effort to deliver selecting its suppliers as clear fully functional and timely solutions to its customers. We are constantly improving opportunities for success, both the quality of our products, services and in the short and long terms. processes. Here’s how. 22 MEDIUM-TERM OBJECTIVES INNOVATION • Support the company’s digital transformation CLS’s development strategy is focused • Delight our customers through on delivering increasingly innovative innovative end-user experiences solutions. We have created Innovation • Leverage our human capital and Solutions teams within each Business Unit to design products that meet customers’ needs as closely as possible. The Innovation Mission that reports OBJECTIVES FOR 2020 directly to the CEO has been consolidated • Institute systematic quality to further stimulate and ensure a central control of hardware products role for employees’ imagination and (transmitters, terminals) inventiveness. • Build project success by providing closer support to project leaders ISO CERTIFICATIONS • Develop onboarding ISO 9001 ISO 9001 certification is today a clear competitive advantage for winning new COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 business. CLS was first certified in 2004 KEY PERFORMANCE and its certification has since been INDICATORS regularly renewed. This approach gives Customer satisfaction is the Quality Department a lever with evaluated on the basis of the ISO 27001 Customer satisfaction surveys following metrics: which to challenge how the company ISO 27001 certification for our Information A project is planned in 2020-2021 to • Instant satisfaction (0 to 5 stars) operates. Certification, which is reviewed Security Management System was an perform customer satisfaction surveys • Customer experience (effort each year during the follow-up audit, objective for 2020. electronically. Today, we receive a very required to obtain satisfaction provides proof to stakeholders of the We obtained it mid-January. Our plan is low number of customer claims for our on a scale of 1 to 5) efficiency of the company’s management to extend the scope of this certification products and services. We began • Recommendation (Would you system. ISO 9001:V2015 certification is in the years ahead. measuring customer satisfaction with recommend CLS?) va l i d t h ro u g h 2 0 2 2 , s u b j e c t to our projects in 2019 and will be analysing Projects qualifying for research confirmation by annual follow-up audits. the results in 2020. tax credit: CLS has 180 projects qualifying for research tax credit in 25 areas, such as climate action, maritime intelligence, oceanographic modelling and Earth-observation networks. 23 criteria such as skills, product quality and BUILD LOCAL financial health. The systematic use of a IS THE PRIORITY multi-criteria selection matrix factoring in the opinions of the various stakeholders DSA is committed to building locally ensures the most objective analysis wherever possible. For example the possible when selecting suppliers. company’s Nemo and Triton transmitters To date, 100% of the choices made by the are manufactured in France. Purchasing Unit have been made using this methodology. A business ethics clause Distribution of purchasing in Occitanie has also been inserted into suppliers’ region and in France compared to total contracts. This clause commits the supplier purchases to respect fundamental principles like human rights, combating child labour, WORLD OCCITANIE combating corruption, and preserving the 22% 29% environment throughout their relationship with CLS. Choosing our encompassing three units (Pre-production YEARLY suppliers Engineering, Purchasing, and Supply SUPPLIER REVIEW Chain Logistics and Product Support). CLS has raised the bar in the way it CLS wishes to pursue its strategy of selects suppliers to ensure the success of The Purchasing Unit is staffed by three regularly and intelligently reviewing its employees. All major procurements are COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 projects and quality of products and panel of suppliers. To this end, an internal services. Here’s how. now systematically in the hands of experts. contact person will be appointed for each supplier and asked to give an annual and OBJECTIVE reasoned assessment of their satisfaction REVIEWING CRITERIA with the supplier. PURCHASING EU FRANCE Each CLS project has its own specific DSA also plans to implement more inCLS has radically overhauled its purchasing features. This is why selection criteria are depth quality control of products from its 17% 32% policy since 2018, with a new Supply Chaintailored to each one. Suppliers are screened suppliers, and to develop more stringent CLS procurement: Purchasing Department (DSA) and selected on the basis of objective performance thresholds. 78% from European Union, of which 61% in France, 29% in Occitanie SHORT-TERM OBJECTIVE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OBJECTIVE REACHED IN 2019 Establish a responsible purchasing charter Reduced number of listed suppliers selected using CLS optimized supplier management and halved identifying main raw material risks in the company’s multi-criteria choice matrix (skills, financial health, its listed suppliers (from 2,400 to 1,000). Strategic value chain. product quality): suppliers were selected objectively on the basis of 24 2,400 (2018) down to 1,000 (2019) their skills, financial health, product quality and business relationship. KEY PERFORMANCE Battery disposal (IATA) on the transport of hazardous materials, four CLS employees are trained INDICATORS FOR 2019 The HSE Manager ensures in the safe packaging of lithium. 100% of the 302 kg of batteries that batteries used in CLS products arriving at CLS were processed are properly handled throughout in compliance with European their life cycle. PROCESSING TAILORED TO regulations. All batteries were EACH TYPE OF BATTERY processed (as in previous years), but the number of batteries THE PROBLEM CLS products contain alkaline batteries, consigned to waste was halved lithium-ion batteries or lead batteries. compared to 2018. Batteries contain electrolytes and heavy Lithium and lead are chemically metals which, at the end of their life, incompatible materials and must never OBJECTIVE become hazardous toxic waste. If they are come into contact, so they cannot be REACHED IN 2019 not fully and properly recovered, they are stored together. These end-of-life batteries Alignment of waste-processing likely to constitute a serious pollution are meticulously stored in different sealed practices at Novacom Services. hazard, which is why they must be On 1 January 2019, CLS acquired containers and rendered secure. Unlike collected under special conditions for the French company Novacom accumulator batteries, single-cell batteries Services. recycling. European regulations on have a given charge and when discharged industrial and hazardous waste (IHW) A comprehensive review was do not require such stringent storage carried out to ensure that wasteplace the responsibility for this waste until conditions. Employees who handle these processing practices are fully its final disposal on CLS. batteries know that they must not leave aligned. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 the safe waste-treatment cycle or be mixed The results of the review are together. positive and CLS’s good wastesorting practices have been adopted at our new Fleet BU (ex. 302 kg As planned, a third storage container Novacom Services). of batteries disposed especially for alkaline batteries was of in 2019 provided in 2019. MEDIUM-TERM OBJECTIVE Succeed in overcoming the specific local practices of countries TRANSPORT that do not have adequate wasteprocessing systems to apply CLS Batteries are tracked throughout their life France’s battery disposal practices cycle. The transport of products equipped to all our international service with batteries is closely monitored. They centres. can be shipped by sea, road and air, in accordance with procedures specific to each mode of transport. CIRCULAR ECONOMY CLS has not identified any contribution to the circular economy directly related to its business. However, this topic was addressed In line with the regulations imposed by with employees during the European Sustainable Development Week in May the International Air Transport Association 25 2019 to raise awareness among our employees and generate ideas. Projects tackling key environmental issues Spotlight on the social and environmental impacts of CLS’s business. A naturally MEASURING eco-friendly GLOBAL WARMING More than 90 oceanographers and 25 business years of expertise in satellite altimetry enable us to observe with certainty the slightest movements of our seas and oceans. As a result of these efforts, CLS is The projects CLS teams are enabling scientists to track the rise in mean working on add high sea level (3.3 mm/year). This curve, produced environmental and social jointly with CNES and LEGOS and released COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 value—a great source of pride since 1992, is one of the best indicators of for all our employees. global warming. 6,000 Oceanographic data buoys send back their data to CLS every day. IN THE NEWS IN 2019 In January, CLS’s expertise was called into service for the Jules Verne Trophy to detect dangerous icebergs in the path of competitors 26 from space. MONITORING COPERNICUS BIODIVERSITY CLS and Argos help scientists, NGOs and Copernicus is a major European Earthgovernments measure the health of observation programme jointly initiated biodiversity. The results of these by the European Space Agency (ESA) and observations are the basis for measures the European Union. CLS is contributing protecting a large number of threatened to all six of the programme’s environmental species. and climate monitoring services. MARITIME SURVEILLANCE 150,000 CLS is helping to understand, plan and efficiently manage all events and actions Animals tracked in the maritime sector that could potentially since CLS began impact the safety and security of people operating. and property, law enforcement at sea, defence, border control, protection of the IN THE NEWS IN 2019 marine environment, fisheries control and In August, SIRS was called into national economic interests. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 action to track the wildfires in the Amazon and produce maps to assess the extent of the disaster. NOTEWORTHY RESULT Pollution events halved in 10 years thanks to the VIGISAT COMBATING maritime surveillance service deployed by CLS for the ILLEGAL FISHING European CleanSeaNet service. Using tools that combine satellite observations, numerical models and realIN THE NEWS IN 2019 time data collection and location systems, In March, the oil spill from the CLS is helping many governments to Grande America was monitored achieve rational fisheries management, from space by VIGISAT, which deploy solutions to combat illegal fishing reached its 10th year in service and implement plans for sustainable in 2019. fisheries management. 27 SPOTLIGHT SOS MÉDITERRANÉE AND CLS: A LOCATOR BEACON ON THE AQUARIUS SOS Méditerranée is a non-profit association of concerned citizens that charters a boat called the Aquarius to come to the aid of refugees fleeing to save their lives. In two years, some 28,000 people have been saved, one-third of them minors. A Triton maritime security locator beacon supplied by CLS has been operating on the Aquarius since 19 March 2019. The ability to communicate the boat’s position to SOS Méditerranée’s operators on shore enables it to respond quickly during operations at sea. MANAGING ENERGY SUPPORTING HUMANITARIAN COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 PRODUCTION RESPONSE CLS is supporting offshore energy players HumaNav is a real-time satellite-based engaging an environmentally friendly geolocation and fleet management approach by deploying and operating solution designed to ensure the safety products and services based on space and and security of humanitarian organizations, in-situ oceanography, radar interferometry, NGOs and United Nations (UN) agencies. location and data collection. CLS offers solutions for securing both the production of oil and gas at offshore sites and mining 105 nations and civil engineering infrastructures. We +7,000 vehicles tracked do this by closely studying the sites before work begins, forecasting currents and potential ground displacement. In 2019, CLS continued to develop its new offering for offshore wind power. TRITON is a locator beacon from CLS’s range 28 used on boats for maritime security applications. Environmental management CLS’s employees are dedicated to TARGETING sustaining an environmentally friendly WEAK POINTS business, so we are quite naturally making a special effort to limit our own The audit in 2017 found that 61% of CLS’s environmental footprint. To this end, in carbon emissions were indirect (mainly 2017 the company created an environmental database to track its due to travel). Direct emissions come energy consumption. 2018 marked the mainly from consumption of electricity publication of our first environmental powering and cooling data centres. management audit. This audit was renewed in 2019. IMAGINING Reducing our SOLUTIONS environmental footprint. Encouraging cycling Here’s how. The company’s Toulouse buildings are right next to the Canal du Midi. We COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 provide lockers for recharging electric bicycles batteries, as well as changing rooms and showers for our cyclists. CLS once again took part in the winter and spring 2019 AYAV challenge (for Allons-y à vélo or “Let’s bike it”), a fun initiative to encourage employees to cycle more. CLS took 4th place in the winter challenge, with 10% of the total workforce coming into work by bike. The CycloStand association also maintains and/or repairs staff’s bicycles one day a month on the neighbouring trading estate. 29 METRICS Renewable energies The solar panels at CLS produced 7,535 Seven key environmental performance KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS kWh of electricity between September indicators have been monitored for the 2017 and September 2018. Since 2017, 100% years 2017, 2018 and 2019, enabling us to of the electricity consumed comes from track the results of actions undertaken. renewable sources. Charging stations for Business trip-related CO2 Energy electric cars were installed at the end of emissions (air and rail)* consumption* The next step will be to establish 2018, and more were added in 2019 (four metrics to evaluate the effectiveness in total at headquarters). 2 000 000 of policies to encourage more cycling. 3 500 000 Going paperless 1 750 000 Reining back on Following the optimization of waste malong-distance travel nagement and printer use in 2017, 2018 1 500 000 Half of CLS’s meeting rooms are equipped 3 000 000 was the year CLS went paperless. Validation for videoconferencing. All personnel have of supplier invoices that were previously also been trained via internal webinars on 1 250 000 printed for circulation between departthe new Office 365 tools, which enable ments to be signed off by several different COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 remote working and document sharing. managers is electronic since February 1 000 000 2 500 000 These modes of communication have 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2018. This is the final step in making the quickly become part of our corporate 69,360 kg/km per passenger of CO2 Electricity consumption reduced in purchasing process paperless, along with culture and, together with the new Travel emissions were avoided in 2019 on air 2019. Electricity consumption dropped reception and payment forms. Employees Policy, are significantly reducing the need and rail travel. Again, this marked an between 2018 (3,020,029 kWh) and 2019 were also given training to bring them up improvement on the previous year, even (2,754,602 kWh)—a saving of more than for business travel by air and rail. to speed with electronic solutions and taking into account the integration of 250,000 kWh over the previous year. thus encourage them to save paper. Novacom Services. OBJECTIVE REACHED IN 2019 OBJECTIVE FOR 2020 SHORT-TERM OBJECTIVE Paperless purchasing Start using electronic signatures Maintain or reduce our consumption 30 from the first quarter of 2020 despite increased headcount Spotlight on local actions OBJECTIVE FOR 2020 Become a company committed to nature with Act4Nature France Signature of Climate Charter Joining this national initiative will: In June 2019, CLS enshrined its commitment to work for a sustainable • bring us national recognition and lend credibility to our actions planet with the signature of the Climate and commitments Charter of the SICOVAL inter-borough • promote our approach through council alongside 12 other local firms. regular communications by OFB, In so doing, CLS undertook to follow the the French biodiversity office 2019-2024 Territorial Air Energy Climate • foster synergies and Plan that aims to achieve a 60% reduction partnerships with fellow member firms in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, DIY workshops got employees making Sponsorship COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 develop renewable energies, improve air • enable us to share experiences household and beauty products. In 2019, our company renewed its corporate quality, work towards energy efficiency sponsorship agreements and continued They were also able to take part in laughter and engage climate change mitigation to support a range of associations. Because yoga and mindful singing activities. solutions. the Canal du Midi is an endangered part One employee organized a relaxation, meditation and stress management of our heritage that our employees in Sustainable Development activity, while another gave a Chinese gym Toulouse benefit from every day, CLS is Week at CLS class geared towards improving mobility supporting the VNF Sponsorship Mission T h e fi rs t Eu ro p ea n S u s t a i n a b l e and well-being and controlling to replant trees along the Canal du Midi. Development Week event at CLS was musculoskeletal disorders. Because we want to help change how held on the company’s premises in people see those with disabilities, CLS is Energy efficiency in the home and Toulouse in June 2019. supporting the wheelchair rugby section renewable energy were addressed by of local club Stade Toulousain. And On this occasion, our CSR team put non-profit association SOLEVAL. In because preserving the environment is together stands on a range of themes particular, it had on display a thermal central to everything we do, CLS is also such as waste sorting and recycling, imaging survey showing heat loss from supporting the French NGO Expédition sustainable travel, the circular economy, houses within SICOVAL’s perimeter. 7e Continent in its efforts to tackle plastic food and consuming responsibly. pollution. 31 Combating Compliance is the responsibility of the CLS Legal Department. The Legal & Compliance The Code of Conduct has now been translated from the original French into Procedure for evaluating and managing commercial partners corruption Officer is responsible for deploying the anti-corruption system and has set up a four languages: English, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish since 2019. It also exists in The compliance team has established a detailed procedure for selecting compliance team. Implementation of the pocket-book format. commercial partners. Senior management CLS conducts business in countries eight measures mandated by law is is alerted at the slightest sign of an alarming considered by agencies such as progressing step by step towards the development. Gifts and hospitality policy Transparency International as posing development of a comprehensive antisignificant ethical risks. Moreover, our Our gifts and hospitality policy provides corruption compliance programme. Our customers include governments and our employees with guidelines on what Internal alerting system compliance team believes in the utility of international cooperation agencies. In is deemed appropriate. It lists situations The e-mail address compliance@ this context, a clearly defined and these measures and has set itself the goal in which offering or receiving gifts and groupcls.com is available for employees effective compliance policy can provide of completely eliminating any risk of CLS other services (meals, travel, leisure) is to report any conduct or situations contragood protection against many risks. being involved in corrupt practices. authorized by law. ry to the CLS Anti-Corruption Compliance Programme. The internal alerting system POLICY: OUR ANTI-CORRUPTION is under construction. Training CLS is developing its anti-corruption COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME In 2019, a compliance training programme compliance programme step by step, in accordance with the Sapin II statute of 9 Mapping corruption risks for sales teams was put in place. Its aim is December 2016, in order to ensure sound CLS maps corruption risks, combining to help the most exposed employees gain and transparent commercial and proficiency with our Anti-Corruption institutional relations. each identified risk scenario with a Compliance Programme. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Here’s how. description of policies, procedures, controls and other supervisory measures, as well In particular, the Legal & Compliance as recommendations for improving Officer provides regular training on our preventive measures. gifts and hospitality policy. Our Brazilian subsidiary ProOceano also OBJECTIVES FOR 2020 Code of Conduct received anti-corruption compliance • The Legal department plans to set up CLS first issued its Code of Conduct in 2017. training. The anti-corruption compliance a group-wide e-learning module This code is an integral part of the programme and Code of Conduct were • Fully deploy the procedure for translated into Portuguese on this evaluating and managing commercial company’s rules and regulations, occasion. partners and the internal alerting formalizing our best practices and system projecting our values. • Propose a Key Performance Indicator for this risk 32 CLS’s anti-corruption compliance system is under construction, which is why we do not yet have a Key Performance Indicator for this identified risk. Protecting WRITTEN AND DISSEMINATED POLICY CLEAR OPERATIONAL ORGANIZATION data The Information Systems Security Policy (ISSP), revised in May 2019, has been The organization overseeing information system security is composed of an Information security is a prime approved by the CEO and sent to all Information Systems Security Officer concern for CLS. This is because personnel. All employees are required to (ISSO), an Information Systems Security our products and services depend read this policy as well as all related security team, Information Systems Security entirely on our information charters (IT Security, Office Systems and Correspondents (ISSC) in each CLS system. Their added value derives Administrator charters) and must confirm department and finally external expertise from the diversity and volume of data we handle. The protection of that they have done so by electronic for support and audits. individuals with regard to signature. processing of personal data is also covered, a fundamental right since MONITORING the entry into force of the AWARENESS SECURITY European General Data Protection & PRECAUTIONS Regulation (GDPR) on 25 May 2018. Monitoring tools are used for continuous Awareness-raising campaigns are run improvement. These include a vulnerability annually for staff and service providers. IT and surveillance scanning tool, a software development teams and project managers code inspection tool and internal audits receive training in information systems with support from external experts. Audits Securing security. Our contracts with suppliers are also performed by customers. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 information include non-disclosure agreements. A cybergovernance scoreboard is also IN 2019, CLS The Business Continuity Plan covers currently in development. ENGAGED THE ISO systems cybersecurity risks. The Guidelines for 27001 CERTIFICATION Information System Security (CPSSI) detail POLICY: the cybersecurity approach CLS requires PROCESS. We are continuously improving our Information Systems Security of its suppliers. A dedicated e-mail address CERTIFICATION WAS Policy instituted in 2015. is also provided for internal alerting of OBTAINED IN JANUARY Here’s how. security issues. 2020. AWARENESS IN 2019 PERMANENT OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVES FOR 2020 61% of CLS personnel attended Strengthen security tools • Step up our ISO 27001 certification awareness sessions on information approach systems security • Set up a Security Operations Centre 33 We do not have a Key Performance Indicator for this risk as it would imply disclosure of confidential information (such as security alerts handled) that CLS does not wish to make public as a precautionary measure. General Data ACTION PLAN Protection The actions undertaken by CLS firstly OBJECTIVES In 2019 concerned all of its websites and platforms REACHED IN 2019 Regulation accessible on the Web. Secondly, an inforDuring the course of the year, 30 (GDPR) mation campaign was aimed at all CLS the DPO established new rules regarding data retention and interventions by the DPO related employees. erasure for the highly sensitive to CLS business POLICY: Technical and organizational measures, Fleets business unit. This BU is CLS takes all necessary steps in particular to apply “by design” and “by to secure the way it processes personal default” processing principles, were devenow fully compliant with GDPR requirements and customers are 2 data and ensure that its partners apply assured that the regulations are incidents impacting the same strict standards. loped and are or will be covered by written being adhered to. personal data reported Here’s how. procedures. Training sessions on archiving In addition, CLS endeavours to regularly of personal data were also 3 update its contracts as and when necesorganized. requests formulated sary in order to allocate responsibilities to access personal data In 2019, the Privacy Impact between the parties involved in processing Assessment was instituted for GDPR PROJECT of personal data, in accordance with the processing of biometric data at TEAM GDPR. CLS used to control access to the data centre. To achieve its objective, CLS has set up a Another objective for 2019 was to project team combining legal and techCRITICAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 obtain ISO 27001 certification, nical expertise. The project team was seKPMG REVIEW which implies strict compliance lected from among the members of CLS’s with GDPR provisions and national CLS turned to consulting firm KPMG to Legal Department and is led by the Group’s standards governing personal perform a critical review of its GDPR comdata protection. This objective was Data Protection Officer (DPO). The project pliance project. The optimistic report reached in January 2020. constantly updates our data protection produced in July 2019 sets out actions to map and maintains a register listing all be pursued and new ones to be implethe personal data processing that CLS is mented. and will be required to carry out in the course of its business. NEXT STEP: SET UP AN ALERTING PROCESS THAT COMPLIES BOTH WITH THE GDPR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS IN 2019 2020 OBJECTIVES AND THE SAPIN 2 Ratio of number of reported incidents and requests • Establish a more precise map to number of incidents and requests resolved: 100% • Put in place a new processing register STATUTE. processed and resolved • Craft an internal CLS policy and a GDPR charter 34 • Set up online training on Sapin 2 statute and GDPR An international CSR policy CLS aspires to institute a sincere Our Italian subsidiary is also operating in international CSR policy that goes full compliance with the GDPR. In beyond just mandatory reporting September 2019, a ‘smart working’ pilot requirements. Our ultimate goal is for this policy to encompass all subsidiaries project was initiated to further a managerial with commitments and tools that will vision based on giving employees more help them to boost their performance. flexibility and autonomy with respect to workspaces, working hours and In 2019, CLS’s three subsidiaries were instruments (no conditions stipulating assessed to gauge their degree of CSR where and when they work). Their sense compliance and their understanding of of responsibility and results have improved the issues at stake. This assessment was as a result. conducted via the points of contact at each subsidiary, i.e.: PROOCEANO (BRAZIL) • ProOceano (Brazil) • Tre Altamira (Italy, Spain, Canada) During the course of the year, our Brazilian • Woods Hole Group (United States) subsidiary received training in combating corruption. The Code of Conduct was also translated COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 into Portuguese. All employees who might TRE ALTAMIRA (ITALY) be exposed to a risk of corruption are asked This year, Tre Altamira comes within the to complete a survey. reporting scope of our Non-Financial Individual interviews were held to map Performance Statement (NFPS). corruption risks. This map is now being Tre Altamira’s CFO, the subsidiary’s compiled following interviews with the compliance point of contact, now has the company’s managers. tools needed to track progress in The subsidiary’s short-term objective is to implementing policies within the scope adopt commercial supplier selection of our NFPS, such as for mapping of nonprocedures based on the provisions of the financial risks. These tools could be used Sapin 2 statute. to engage a CSR approach tailored to its business context. Our Code of Conduct has been translated into Italian, Spanish and English to cover OBJECTIVES FOR 2020 the full scope of Tre Altamira’s business. • TRE Altamira plans to finalize Employees received training in 2019 to GDPR training in Spain in the familiarize themselves with the code, course of the year. 35 which serves to promote ethical business • By February 2020, the ‘smart conduct. working’ project should be fully up and running in Italy. Annex: Detail of scope for each identified risk and Global Compact baseline KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR / SUBJECT SCOPE Global Compact Principles OBJECTIVE/ NOTEWORTHY RESULT Ratio of agreements signed/negotiated France (excl. Lille)* Work conditions Optimized labour relations Voice of Customers Managers France (excl. Lille)* (principle 3, 4 & 5) Gender equality France (excl. Lille)* Human rights (principles 1 & 2) Payroll spent on training France (excl. Lille) Fulfilment at work: A comprehensive training Right to disconnect France (excl. Lille) programme Ratio of new hires/departures (headcount) France (excl. Lille) Renewal rate of health Work conditions France (excl. Lille) & safety qualifications (principles 3, 4 & 5) Employee health Facility safety France and safety Workplace accidents France (excl. Lille) Absenteeism France (excl. Lille) Customer satisfaction France COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Our quality assurance approach Research tax credit France Listed suppliers France (excl. Lille) Choosing our suppliers Distribution of purchasing France (excl. Lille) Projects tackling key World environmental issues Battery disposal France (excl. Lille) Environment Business trip-related CO2 emissions (principles 7, 8 & 9) France (excl. Lille) Environmental management (air and rail) Energy consumption Toulouse + Brest Combating corruption Combating corruption World (principle 10) Information system security France General Data Protection Europe Regulation (GDPR) 36 *Lille has been integrated within the scope of our business in France as of January 2020. CLS 11 rue Hermès Parc technologique du Canal 31520 Ramonville Saint-Agne FRANCE CLS Brest Technopôle Brest Iroise Avenue La Pérouse 29 280 Plouzané FRANCE CLS Bidart Technopôle Izarbel Créaticité C64210 Bidart FRANCE info@groupcls.com © CLS 2020 www.cls.fr studio ogham 05 62 71 35 35
