Our Quality Energy for Your Blue Sea and Sky CNOOC Sustainability Report 2019 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. CNOOC Corporate Management Dept. (Policy Research Office) Address: CNOOC Building, No. 25 Chaoyangmenbei Dajie, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100010, P.R. China E-mail: report@cnooc.com.cn Website: www.cnooc.com.cn Report Introduction Report Guidance Following its launch in 2005, this is the 15th Moreover, information about CNOOC’s Corporate Social Responsibilities and the consecutive issue of annual sustainability management framework, management Guidelines to the State-owned Enterprises report of China National Offshore Oil process for sustainable development on Better Fulfillment of Corporate Social Corporation. It is an accurate reflection of and our subsidiaries, please refer to the Responsibilities issued by State-owned Summary our fulfillment of economic, environmental sustainability and annual reports over the Assets Supervision and Administration Chairman’s Letter P02 and social responsibilities undertaken in years. Commission of the State Council of Promoting Economic Growth 2019. Some pertinent information about the People’s Republic of China with reference About Us P04 Improvements: In order to reflect the report is as follows: to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Ensuring Energy Supply 14 fulfillment of CNOOC’s responsibilities Corporate Governance and of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Reporting Entity: China National Offshore in a more objective, comprehensive and Operation P05 Emphasizing Sci-Tech Innovation 24 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of Oil Oil Corporation intensive manner, the compilation of this and Natural Gas Industry (2nd Edition, 2015) Stakeholders P06 Intensifying Safe Operation 29 report is based on site investigation on the Alternative Reference: China National jointly issued by the International Petroleum responsibility fulfillment of CNOOC’s affiliates Key Performance Indicators P10 Improving Quality Management 36 Offshore Oil Corporation is herein also Industry Environmental Conservation and the selection of real cases. Opinions referred to as “CNOOC”, “the Company”, Association (IPIECA) and the American and suggestions from the stakeholders are “we”, “our” or “us”. Petroleum Institute (API), the Guidelines also incorporated to give an active response on China’s Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting Period: January 1 to December to their concerns. The report is presented Reporting (CASS-CSR 4.0) by the 31, 2019. In order to ensure the continuity with the themes of “Our Quality Energy for Corporate Social Responsibility Research and comparability of the information Your Blue Sea and Sky” and three issues of Center of the Economics Department of Enhancing Environmental disclosed, the applicable period for certain “Promoting Economic Growth, Enhancing information may be extended forward or Environmental Protection, and Driving Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Protection backward accordingly. Social Progress” to demonstrate CNOOC’s ISO 26000 Social Responsibility Guide Annex (2010) by the International Standards Green Operation 40 sustainable development. In addition to Reporting Cycle: The timescale of this Organization. Outlook on 2020 P76 Energy Conservation and the independent release of “CSR Report report is a calendar year. Efficiency-Increasing 41 Overseas”, eight special issues about Language: This report is published in Third-Party Assessment P78 Reporting Principles: To meet the social responsibility are highlighted in the both Chinese and English. In case of Environmental Governance 43 needs of the stakeholders and general report: “CNOOC and SDGs”, “Discovery of discrepancies, the Chinese version shall Index of Reporting Indicators P80 public by disclosing key information of the 100-billion-m3-scale Gasfield in the Bohai prevail. Glossary of Terms P82 Tackling Climate Change 47 Company in a true, objective, timely and Sea”, “Speeding up Deep-water Exploration Accessibility: This report is available in Feedback Form P84 Biodiversity Conservation 48 comprehensive manner. and Development in the South China print and digital formats. To obtain one Sea”, “Persevering in Serving Our Country Data: All 2019 data disclosed herein is copy of the report, please e-mail to report@ with Energy to Celebrate the PRC’s 70th annual statistics. In case of discrepancies cnooc.com.cn or login to www.cnooc.com. Anniversary”, “Green Action Practicing the with the data in the annual report, the latter cn to download. See also CNOOC WeChat Concept of Ecological Civilization”, “Poverty shall prevail. Unless otherwise specified, all Public Account for the H5 version of this Alleviation through Education Watering amounts are expressed in Renminbi (RMB). the Flower of Hope”, “CNOOC Brand report. Driving Social Progress Reporting Scope: Unless otherwise Lighting up the Belt and Road” and “Green Special Topics Caring for Employees 50 specified, all information disclosed in Production in Longlake Oilfield”. the report is from official documents, CNOOC and SDGs P08 Devoting to Public Interests 55 References: This report is prepared on statistical reports and reports of fulfilment Persevering in Serving Our the basis of the SDGs and Ten Principles Providing Voluntary Services 58 of responsibilities by CNOOC and our Country with Energy to Celebrate of the United Nations Global Compact , subsidiaries. The information has been the PRC’s 70th Anniversary P12 Integrating into the Community 59 the Guidelines to the Central Governmentreviewed by our management, supervision owned Enterprises on Fulfillment of WeChat Account of CNOOC department and various subsidiaries. Discovery of 100-billion-m3-scale Gasfield in the Bohai Sea P22 Speeding up Deep-water THE LOGO OF CNOOC Exploration and Development in the South China Sea P26 CSR Report Overseas The corporate logo of China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) encompasses the basic design elements comprising the letters that make up the Company’s initials CNOOC, enclosed by the blue curves Green Action Practicing the Creating Socioeconomic Value 64 and ripples that represent China’s seawaters. The design in red, formed by the capital letters CNOOC, Concept of Ecological Civilization P38 Strengthening Safety and depicts an offshore drilling rig silhouetted against the rising sun, symbolizing prosperity in the offshore oil Poverty Alleviation through Compliance Management 66 industry of China. Education Watering the Flower Protecting a Balanced Ecosystem 68 of Hope P56 Building Platform for Employee CNOOC Brand Lighting up Development 72 the “Belt and Road” P62 Promoting Enterprise-Community ABOUT THE COVER Green Production in Longlake Common Development 74 Oilfield P70 The drilling and completion project manager of CNOOC Zhanjiang Branch “Lingshui 17-2” gas field development project at the production site China National Offshore Oil Corp. Chairman’s Letter Chairman’s Letter 8th in the brand value appreciation list. Rejuvenating enterprise by talents, devoting to social harmony strategy and bravely assumed the overseas responsibilities. CNOOC has carried out Green low-carbon, maintaining ecological energy cooperation in 45 countries and harmony With a commitment to the philosophy of regions on 6 continents, established “people-oriented, caring for employees”, Adhering to the green and low-carbon overseas oil and gas production bases, CNOOC actively promoted the strategy, CNOOC strives to be a responsible and constantly improved the supply development strategy of “rejuvenating supplier of clean energy and a promoter capacity of oil and gas resources. In enterprise by talents” and created an of green development, and is always 2019, 36.14 million tons of crude oil institutional mechanism with equal committed to becoming an international and 10.6 billion m 3 of natural gas were opportunities and fair rules, through first-class energy company that satisfies produced overseas. As a participant of building a dense atmosphere of respecting the public, makes employees proud and the UN Global Compact, CNOOC strictly and attaching greater importance is respected by peers. In 2019, CNOOC abided by the laws and regulations of to talents, and developed a positive was awarded the “2019 Best Practices the UN and the host countries where its a n d d i l i g e n t e n v i ro n m e n t f o r t a l e n t for Enterprises Achieving Sustainable business is located. We strengthened development, so as to contribute to the Development Goals” by China network safe and compliant operations, created stable development of enterprise and the of the UN Global Compact. Upholding socio-economic value, protected the stable employment of society. We paid the concept of “Lucid Waters and Lush balance of ecosystem, optimized the attention to our employees' physical and Mountains are Invaluable Assets”, we overseas employment system, promoted mental health, helped those in difficulty, strengthened the integrated management the common development with the local, and strived to ensure that “no employee of green supply chains, and extended the and made practical actions to advance lives below the poverty line, no employee concept of green environmental protection the global sustainable development and cannot afford medical treatment, and no throughout the entire life cycle of oil fields the construction of a community of shared employee cannot afford their children’s and refinery production. For achieving future for all humankind. education”, in order to improve employees’ “protection in development, development sense of gain, happiness and security. In The year 2020 is a year full of great i n p ro t e c t i o n ” , w e i s s u e d a “ G re e n 2019, the ratio of physical examination challenges. Facing the impact of COVID-19 Development Action Plan”, and actively for occupational health reached 99.87%. on production and operation, we will implemented the “Three-Year Action Plan The “Haixue” platform has achieved full resolutely implement the decisions and for Environmental Protection Upgrading in coverage of staff, with an average offline plans, be committed to epidemic prevention Bohai Oilfield”. 4 subsidiaries were awarded training of 94.86 hours per capita. and control, production and operation. national green factories this year. We We will shoulder our responsibility, actively attached great importance to biodiversity Proactively committed to serving the perform our duties, and make all efforts conservation, resource restoration and society, creating harmony and benefiting the to accomplish annual production and environmental improvement around the people, we guided employees to carry out operation objectives. We will give full play operating areas, producing energy in a more voluntary services, and constantly advanced Dear all, to the central enterprises’ role of “stabilizer” green and low-carbon way, and adapting community “Warm Hearts” projects, to and “ballast stone” in stabilizing economic to the trend of low-carbon development actively fulfill social responsibilities. With The year 2019 was the 70 th anniversary and sales, and promoted the coordinated Large-Scale Packaged Condensate Gas growth, and contribute our strength to of the founding of the People’s Republic with cleaner energy, in order to fulfill our the platform of CNOOC Public Welfare development of industrial chains of Field Exploration in Bohai Bay Basin” won building a moderately prosperous society in of China, and it was also an extremely solemn commitment of “making the sea F o u n d a t i o n , w e h a v e i n v e s t e d m o re upstream, midstream and downstream. the first prize of the 2019 National Science all respects! extraordinary year in the reform and and the sky bluer”. Adhering to green and than RMB 90 million in targeted poverty Over the last year, the reserve substitution and Technology Progress Award. With the development of CNOOC. In this year, we low-carbon development, we optimized alleviation, marine protection, public welfare rate reached 140%, the total oil and gas principle of safety operation as support, we remained true to our original aspiration the global layout of natural gas industry, cooperation and other projects. The output was 107 million tons of oil equivalent, continuously strengthened the advancement and had our mission always in mind. supplied a total of 54.5 billion m3 of natural targeted poverty alleviation has achieved the trading volume of oil products was of safety management gateway and the We actively fulfilled our corporate gas to Chinese market throughout the remarkable results. Four of the six poverty109 million tons, the processed crude oil management and control of safe production responsibilities, pursued the harmony year and steadily developed new energy stricken counties and cities have withdrawn was 37.56 million tons, the imported LNG process, and implemented safety inspection o f e c o n o m i c g ro w t h , e n v i ro n m e n t a l businesses such as offshore wind power, to from the poverty-stricken list, and the other was 27.69 million tons, the natural gasand supervision, in order to constantly protection and social progress, assumed a build a low-carbon energy supply system. two counties and cities are under evaluation fired power output was 22.6 billion kWh, improve the level of safety management. new mission and demonstrated a new role We reinforced research on hydrogen energy, for acceptance stage, making positive and RMB 128.9 billion were paid for profits The production safety situation was Chairman Wang Dongjin in implementing the major decisions and geothermal energy, and natural gas hydrate, contributions to win the war of poverty and taxes. In 2019, CNOOC jumped to generally stable throughout the year, no March 18, 2020 arrangements of the party and the state, and strived to create green and low-carbon alleviation. 63rd in the Fortune Global 500 ranking, major production safety accidents occurred. striving to be the main force for increasing competitiveness, so as to contribute new and was ranked 31st of the world’s largest On the basis of quality management, we Extending international cooperation, joint reserves and production, and a responsible green momentum to building a beautiful oil companies. Adhering to the drive by practiced the national development strategy development for bright future corporate citizen. China and achieving global sustainable scientific and technological innovation, we of “building a powerful country by highdevelopment. We adhered to the internationalization deeply implemented the innovation-driven quality development”, cultivated the quality Innovation-driven, serving the country with strategy, and improved the transformation culture, enforced brand management, and energy mechanism of scientific research results, carried out the quality improvement actions, Being committed to serve the country with actively promoted digital transformation. We so as to continuously meet the growing energy, we earnestly implemented the new strengthened fundamental forward-looking demand for high-quality energy. Our brands energy security strategy, intensified efforts in research, and strived to break through key like CNOOC, COSL, COOEC, CNOOC the exploration and development of oil and technical problems in various fields of the enertech, “CNOOC 36-1” are renowned at gas, accelerated the construction of system industrial chain. The project of “Theoretical home and abroad. CNOOC ranks 17th in for natural gas production, supply, reserve Technology and Major Discoveries for Deep the global oil and gas brand value list and 02 03 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Sustainability Management About Us Corporate Governance and Operation Company Overview Compliance Operation 63 rd China National Offshore Oil Corporation, the largest offshore oil and gas producer in In 2019, CNOOC resolutely implemented the state’s deployment to prevent and resolve major risks, strengthened compliance China, is a state-owned mega company operating under the control of the State-owned management in accordance with the goals of “enhancing internal control, prevention risks and promoting compliance”, and Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council of the People’s continuously improved corporate governance capabilities, so as to promote the high-quality development of the Company. By Fortune Global 500 Republic of China (SASAC). On February 15, 1982, the Company was established engaging various risk prevention measures, the Company solidly promoted the construction of risk prevention and control system and with the approval of the State Council, and it changed its Chinese registration name improved the accountability mechanism for operational investment. The Company strengthened supervision on key areas, important on November 1, 2017, while transforming from an enterprise owned by the whole people into Company Limited (wholly state-owned). The Company’s registered capital 31 st links and major projects, centrally organized investigation on major risks to reveal hidden risks, strengthened the rectification of problems found in various inspections, and promoted the “Three Links” of risk, internal control and audit. CNOOC Petrochemical Import & Export is RMB 113.8 billion, with 6 domestic and overseas listed companies. The main PIW’s World’s Top 50 Oil Companies Co., Ltd. was awarded the “Leading enterprise of informationization in Risk Management of the Year”. CNOOC Finance Co., Ltd. business covers oil & gas exploration and development, professional technical services, continued to maintain a zero record of non-performing assets and non-performing loans, and its international credit rating maintained the refining product sales and fertilizers, natural gas production and power generation, and highest level of domestic commercial financial institutions. financial services. The Company was ranked 63rd in 2019 Fortune Global 500 and 31st in Petroleum Intelligence Weekly (PIW)’s World’s Top 50 Oil Companies. The main Anti-corruption business performance remains at the forefront of Central Enterprises, and was rated as A-level by the SASAC for 15 consecutive years. At the end of 2019, Moody’s and Adhering to the general tone of stability and progress, CNOOC continuously advanced anti-corruption construction. The Company made Standard & Poor’s rated the Company with credit ratings of A1 and A+, and the outlook every effort to advance central inspection and rectification and the application of inspection results, to promote reform and development. is stable. The Company kept tough stance on corruption, maintained high-pressure situation of punishing corruption and resolutely corrected all kinds of violations of laws and the Company’s regulations with an iron hand. The Company attached importance to minor cases and promptly reminded employees of the tendency problems, besides enhancing anti-corruption awareness on a daily basis and carrying out Strategy of Sustainable Development training for preventing crises before they emerge. Focusing on key areas and key works, CNOOC conducted special projects and built corporate constitutions to make continuous efforts to address both symptoms and the root cause. The Company gave full play to patrol As one of the specific implementers of the national energy strategy and marine strategy, CNOOC shoulders the crucial mission inspection and accredited agencies, thereby building a full coverage supervision network to ensure that power is effectively supervised of national energy security, developing marine resources and protecting marine ecology. The Company regards economy, and restricted. environment and society as the most significant cornerstone for energy development and value contribution. CNOOC adheres to its corporate vision “Energy for All”, upholding the philosophy of “People-oriented, Responsibilities, Win-win Benefits, Credibility and Innovation” and the ethos of “Safe and Efficient Operations, Green and Low-carbon Growth, People-oriented, Courage to Internal Audit Innovate, Charitable Giving, Openness and Transparency”. The Company has systematically built a CSR model on the lines of CNOOC implemented fully the national major guidelines and policies, effectively strengthened the nation’s leadership over internal “Economic Growth, Environmental Protection and Social Progress” and applied the concept of sustainable development to daily audit work. Adhering to the principle of “checking problems, controlling risks, improving efficiency and promoting development”, the operation in dimensions of organization, institution and management process, with the support of the three level CSR management Company strengthened the internal risk prevention and control, vigorously promoted the reform and construction of audit system, structure including the leading group, departments and subordinates. Moreover, the Company promptly evaluates, adjusts and kept enforcing audit work with science and technology, accelerated informationization progress, enhanced the effectiveness of internal improves the effectiveness and results of its sustainability strategy through benchmarking and making comparisons with global audit supervision, and devoted attention to build a “centralized and unified, comprehensively covered, authoritative and efficient” audit business leaders and historical data. supervision system, in order to contribute value to building an international first-class energy company with Chinese characteristics. As a participant of the United Nations Global Compact, CNOOC has always been adhering to the Ten Principles. By focusing on safer, more environmental-friendly and more efficient operation and management, CNOOC always strives for a balance among economic growth, environmental protection and social progress, and devotes to “Our Quality Energy for Your Blue Sea and Sky”. 317 24,091 persons / day 655 317 audit projects to implement in the whole Invested audit resources: 24,091 persons / 655 audit recommendations proposed and system day (including outsourcing) 456 adopted Vision an fe nt d Gr low een 1,582 Sa ficie ca and rbo ef n Energy for All People-oriented Social 277 audit reports and 1,582 audit findings Brave in Responsibility were issued innovation Philosophy & Values People-oriented, Responsibilities, De di of catio lov n p en aren O sp d an t 703 million RMB 3.6 million RMB Win-win Benefits, Credibility and Innovation e tra n Direct economic benefits of RMB 703 million Each auditor created direct economic were produced by auditors benefits of RMB 3.6 million 04 05 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Sustainability Management Stakeholders Communication with Stakeholders In 2019, CNOOC kept on the theme of “Our Quality Energy for Your Blue Sea and Sky” and undertook sustainable development Fully communicating with stakeholders and understanding their expectations and requirements are the basis for CNOOC to fulfill its through three dimensions of “Promoting Economic Growth, Enhancing Environmental Protection and Driving Social Progress”. The social responsibility and achieve sustainable development. Company organized various forms of exchange activities for stakeholders, widely collected opinions and suggestions of stakeholders and responded to their concerns through various channels. Some concerns were presented as main topics in this report. CNOOC has built a service and communication system for stakeholders, including governments, employees, shareholders, customers, industry partners, suppliers and contractors, financial institutions, media, communities and non-governmental organizations, etc. We pay close attention to their concerns in the formulation and implementation of our strategies, policies and plans. We also take various measures of information disclosure to echo their concerns. A series of key performance indicators are used to ensure our actions and communication with stakeholders effective. Topic identification Issue identification process 01 02 03 04 Collecting relevant Investigating the Analyzing the Confirming issue issues level of concern importance of issues ranking height height 90 90 Domestic Stakeholder Concern Overseas Stakeholder Concern 80 energy supply 80 safe production 70 70 creating localized jobs charity purchasing improving quality safe sci-tech of products and pollution control and operation innovation 60 emission reduction energy green 60 integration into technology waste management services promoting water operation community overseas 50 50 conservation compliance quality transfer protecting compliance ensuring employment resource and efficiencyoperation management biodiversity energy supply management increasing operations 40 voluntary protecting social welfare biodiversity 40 technological environmental cooperation management equal professional training service employment 30 integration occupational health 30 cost reduction into and efficiency tackling 20 20 community caring for employee improvement climate employees development change 10 10 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 height 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 height CNOOC Social Responsibility Topic Significance to CNOOC CNOOC Social Responsibility Topic Significance to CNOOC Selection Model Selection Model Information Disclosure Manner Stakeholders’ Voice On December 23, CNOOC As a small 2019, Nima County in Tibet, Uganda is one of enterprise, loans are our one of CNOOC’s counterparts, the oil companies that I am biggest worry. Unexpectedly, withdrew successfully from the list of responsible for environmental within 48 hours after the poverty-stricken counties. CNOOC has protection supervision. They have submission of application materials, totally invested more than RMB 370 million in done their best in environmental we received the operation loan for small Microblog WeChat the past 18 years, standing together with Nima protection and gained good reputation & micro business from Zhonghai Trust people and witnessing the construction of Nima among the public and the Ugandan Co., Ltd. Thanks for your support, my County’s infrastructure from scratch, and the government. career has more opportunities. enormous changes in urban and rural areas. —Li Jinman, General Manager of —Isaac Ntuju, chief environmental —Fu Xiaoyu, Deputy Magistrate inspector from Uganda National Guangzhou Zhihong Electronics of Nima, Tibet Autonomous Environmental Protection Co., Ltd. Region Agency Paper Media www.cnooc.com.cn 06 07 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Sustainability Management CNOOC and SDGs Clean water and sanitation 10,142.9 Life below water As a participant of the UN Global Compact, CNOOC adheres to the “Ten Principles” fresh water consumption for the whole year (10,000 tons) in human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption and takes effective measures referring to the 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) in Transforming Our 5 World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, proposed by the UN. In 2018, 90.7 biodiversity conservation research projects (items) water saving (10,000 tons) CNOOC made every effort to fulfil social responsibilities according to the characteristics of its business in order to achieve the 2030 SDGs. Four domains of the UN Global Compact Life on land 1,624.9 investment in marine environmental and ecological protection (RMB 10,000) Climate action compliance operation, pay taxes according to laws, 27.8 care for employee development energy consumption, energy saving (10,000 tons of standard coal) repay shareholders increase public welfare contribution, emission reduction reform and innovation, promote community harmony ecological balance, biodiversity increase value Economic Environmental Growth Protection Sustainable Development Management maintain regional ecology, improve working environment, enhance resource efficiency tackle climate change Social improve environmental quality, control environmental pollution, Progress develop circular economy adhere to the sharing of resources CNOOC was awarded the “2019 Best Practices for Enterprises Achieving Sustainable Development Goals (Sustainable labor rights and interests, multi-culture Production and Consumption)” by China No poverty community harmony, employee satisfaction network of the UN Global Compact. 9,354 181 investment of poverty assistances to CNOOC Sustainable Development Model alleviation in Tibet employees in difficulty Gender equality 19 (RMB10,000) (households) ratio of female employees Zero hunger 4 0 fixed-point poverty alleviation (provinces) employment of child labor Affordable and clean energy 393 934 Industry, innovation and 72.7 8,530 sales of LNG sales of gasoline R&D investment science and technology infrastructure (100 million m3) (10,000 tons) (RMB 100 million) employees (people) 1,301 330 813 327 sales of diesel sales of aviation kerosene granted patents invention patents (10,000 tons) (10,000 tons) (awards) (awards) Good health and well-being 99.87 145 Reduced inequalities 506 3 ratio of physical examination for volunteer teams disabled employees ratio of ethnic minority occupational health (%) (people) employees (%) Decent work and economic growth 12,883 7,509 Responsible consumption and 7,916 279 total assets (RMB 100 million) turnover (RMB 100 million) crude oil output natural gas output production (10,000 tons) (100 million m3) 58 1,289 pre-evaluation of occupational hazards (cases) tax and fees (RMB100 million) 90,400 100 100 staff rate of conclusion of rate of social insurance 3,756 (people) employment contract (%) coverage (%) processed crude oil (10,000 tons) Partnerships for the goals 34.4 3,614 Peace, justice and strong institutions Quality education 5.74 99.06 Sustainable cities and communities ratio of overseas assets crude oil overseas output annual training courses annual trainees (%) (10,000 tons) 100 (10,000 courses) (10,000 people) 1,463 176 quality and QHSE management system certification petrol stations gas stations 106 80 rate of supplier and contractor (%) natural gas overseas output localization rate of overseas 807 (100 million m3) employees (%) annual training hours (10,000 hours) 08 09 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Promoting Economic Growth Key Performance Indicators Promoting Economic Growth 2019 Source of Item 2017 2018 2019 National National Data Data Crude Oil Output / Domestic Output (10,000 tons) 7,551/4,278 7,406/4,201 7,916/4,301 19,101 NBS Natural Gas Output / Domestic Output (100 million m3) 259/143 277/160 279/173 1,736 NBS LNG Imports (10,000 tons) 2,046 2,642 2,769 Processed Crude Oil (10,000 tons) 3,592 4,132 3,756 Crude Oil Trading Volume (10,000 tons) 9,250 10,323 10,929 Fuel Oil Output (10,000 tons) 372 460 392 Ethylene Output (10,000 tons) 108 158 209 2,052 NBS Economic Methanol Output (10,000 tons) 153 152 156 Growth Fertilizer Output (10,000 tons) 384 402 413 Natural Gas-Fired Power Output (100 million kWh) 213 216 226 Direct Contractor Casualties (people) 5 3 0 Employee Casualties (people) 0 1 2 Recordable Injury Events (cases) 47 56 91 R&D Investments (RMB 100 million) 57.6 58.4 72.7 Science and Technology Employees (people) 8,529 8,337 8,530 Granted Patents (awards) 840 779 813 Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction 3.5 3.7 3.8 Investments (RMB 100 million) Comprehensive Energy Consumption per RMB 10,000 0.3805 0.3548 0.3471 Turnover (tons of standard coal equivalent) Energy Savings Environmental (10,000 tons of standard coal equivalent) 33.5 25.3 27.8 Protection Sulfur Dioxide Gas Emission (tons) 4,710 4,174 2,645 Chemical Oxygen Demand (tons) 10,268 9,117 8,809 Nitrogen Oxides Emission (tons) 1,074 919 911 Ammonia Nitrogen Emission (tons) 66 61 30 Headcount (10,000 people) 1 9.8 9.4 9.04 Rate of Conclusion of Employment Contracts 100% 100% 100% Rate of Social Insurance Coverage 100% 100% 100% Percentage of Employees Joined the Labor Union 100% 100% 100% Percentage of Female Employees 20 19 19 Degree of Employee Satisfaction (10-point system) 8.15 8.72 8.93 Social Incidence of Occupational Disease (cases) 4 3 9 Progress Rate of Physical Examination for Occupational Health 99.7% 99.5% 99.87% Average Training Duration per Employee (hours) 74.0 74.34 94.86 Employee Turnover Rate 2% 2% 1.5% Charitable Donation (RMB 10,000) 9,304 10,983 14,562 Tax and Fees (RMB 100 million) 991 2 1,147 1,289 Number of Foreign Employees 4,767 4,671 4,771 Localization Rate of Overseas Employees 80% 79% 80% Note: 1 Headcount includes the number of foreign employees. 2 Profits and taxes paid in 2017 will be adjusted according to the number of financial statements. 10 11 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Promoting Economic Growth Persevering in Serving Our Country with Energy to Celebrate the PRC’s 70th Anniversary CNOOC employees warmly celebrated the PRC’s 70th anniversary Recalling my personal growth, I sincerely thank our great motherland. When I started working, the door of China’s opening to the outside world was opened, giving me the opportunity to work and study on President Xi Jinping’s speech at the 70th Anniversary Conference of the founding of the People’s Republic of China was exciting and foreign platforms. Then I went back to the self-operating platform, back to land and engaged in many inspiring. From the Bohai Sea to the South China Sea, from scientific researchers to the front line at sea, CNOOC employees deeply different positions. I led people to work independently and obtained some achievements, which were learned and comprehended the spirit of important speeches, and expressed that they would always be together with the motherland, recognized by the motherland. When people work together with one heart, there is nothing they cannot serve the country with energy, and strive to make new and greater contributions to the country’s prosperity, and work with tireless dedicaachieve. For a better future of China, we need continue to work hard, do our job well, and enrich tion to achieve the two centenary goals and realize the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation. ourselves every day with efforts. Hao Zhenshan, “The most beautiful struggler”, National Model Labor 2019 Guyana’s LIZA Oilfield puts into production 2018 Trading volume of oil products The individual and the motherland are like water droplets and the ocean. I took part in the work in exceeded 100 million tons 1994 when CNOOC made every effort to increase its reserves and production. There was a broad Sales Refining development space for our newly graduated students. My colleagues and I overcame one technical 2013 problem after another and brought back a “Golden Doll” from the South China Sea. As one employee Acquisition of of CNOOC, I am proud to contribute to the economic construction of our country. Canadian Nexen Li Zhong, winner of National Labor Medal, leader of the “10,000 People Program” of science Transport and technology innovation 2010 Oil trade volume exceeds 10 million tons FPSO 2006 The first ship of Storage As a young scientific and technological researcher, I am fortunate to join the upsurge of China’s marine imported LNG energy development in the new century. I will continue to work with my research team to fulfill responChina BlueChemisibilities, to contribute my light and heat in the basic and core technology research of deep-water energy cal was listed in development, to develop more programs to the development of marine energy, and strive for the realizaHong Kong tion of the Chinese dream for life. 2002 Li Qingping, National Red Flag Women Bearer and 2017 Marine Figure Development COOEC and COSL are listed in Shanghai and Hong Kong Accumulated 100 foreign respectively 1994 cooperation contracts First overseas acquisition CNOOC listed in New (Malacca project, York and Hong Kong Exploration Indonesia) 2001 12 13 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Promoting Economic Growth Ensuring Energy Supply Oil and Gas Production CNOOC adheres to the innovation-driven strategy, implements safe and efficient lean management, and optimizes technical solutions With a commitment to the general principle of “planning leading, value exploration and focus exploration”, and focusing on large and contract models. In order to ensure national energy security, the Company takes effective measures to increase production and medium-sized oil & gas field exploration, CNOOC strengthened the concept of value exploration and maintained scientific and according to local conditions and maintain high production time efficiency and high utilization efficiency of oil wells. reasonable exploration investment portfolio, to ensure energy supply and sustainable development. In 2019, CNOOC produced In 2019, by enforcing technological innovation and management innovation, 710 offshore drillings were completed efficiently, reaching 79.16 million tons of crude oil and 27.9 billion m3 of natural gas, imported 27.69 million tons of LNG and generated 22.6 billion kWh of a record high of drillings number. The speed and efficiency raising made great achievements in increasing storage and production, natural gas-fired power. with best key technical indicators and lowest drilling costs in the last five years. In 2019, the domestic output of crude oil and natural gas was 43.01 million tons and 17.3 billion m3 respectively. Bohai Oilfield explored potential in the “Year of Advancing Water Injection” 43.01million tons The year 2019 was regarded as the “Year of Increasing frequency and expanding nozzle Advancing Water Injection” in Bohai Oilfield. through “one-well, one-policy” investigation, Through a series of measures in nearly 1,400 well 92.5% of production wells were proven effective Domestic crude oil output controls, such as acidification for deblocking, with an increase of nearly 9.5% in daily oil yield, profile control and waterflooding, and layered which ensures Bohai Oilfield’s stable production 17.3billion m deployment, the comprehensive decline rate of over 30 million m3 for 10 consecutive years. 3 of main oilfield was controlled within 10%. Domestic natural gas output “Weizhou 12-1” Oilfield became the production “hub” of the largest oilfield group in the South China Sea The equipment scale of “Weizhou 12-1” natural gas comprehensive utilization project, Oilfield is ranked first among all offshore the network communication center and the oilfields in Beibu Gulf, with many typical intelligent grid dispatching center. Oil and Gas Exploration processing technologies in the field of offshore In the past 20 years, by injecting more CNOOC confronted challenges head-on, aimed at key basins, key areas and zones, and increased exploration efforts in new areas oil & gas production. A number of crude oil than 515 million m3 of natural gas into the and new fields. In 2019, new domestic exploration discoveries remained at high level. 17 commercial discoveries and 21 potential production technology level is at the forefront formation, the “Weizhou 12-1” Oilfield has commercial discoveries were obtained, 28 oil & gas fields were successfully evaluated. 6 commercial discoveries and 1 potential of China. For Weizhou Oilfield Group, the increased oil production of 1.918 million m3, largest oilfield group in the South China Sea, commercial discovery overseas were obtained and 2 oil-gas bearing structures were successfully evaluated. and the first self-flowing gas injection pilot it has already become the oil & gas gathering experiment well of CNOOC was completed and transportation center, the birthplace of and maintained high yield. overseas Trial production of China’s first integrated offshore HTHP gas field succeeded commercial success success 17 discovery commercial evaluation evaluation 6 discovery On May 10, 2019, the “Dongfang 13-2” gasfield, located in Yinggehai Basin in the western South China Sea, was successfully trial-produced. It is the potential oil-gas oil & gas potential largest offshore HTHP gas field in China. After centralized processing by central platform, natural gas will be supplied to Hong Kong, Hainan and other 21 commercial 28 2 bearing discovery fields 1 commercial structure provinces through pipeline network, with an annual peak capacity of 3.5 billion m3. discovery “Kenli 6-1” set up model of cluster In field exploration, the well “YL8-3-1” obtained a high-quality natural gas exploration flow of 1 million m3 per day In 2019, after the discovery of “Kenli 6-1” In 2019, the well “YL8-3-1”, located in deep-water eastern area of Qiongdongnan Basin, was in preliminary exploration, Bohai Oilfield successfully tested with a daily high-quality natural gas flow of 1 million m3, setting a new record organized prompt cluster evaluation and of natural gas testing capacity for buried hills in Chinese waters. completed 15 exploration wells with proven The exploratory well is located southeast of Hainan Island. The drilling depth is over 3,000 meters, reserves exceeding 50 million m3. As the and the water depth of operating area is 1,831 meters, which marks a major breakthrough in the first large and medium-scale oil & gas field deep-water exploration field. in the laibei low uplift area of the Bohai Sea, it became a model of successful evaluation during the pre-exploring year. 14 15 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Promoting Economic Growth Refining and Chemical Transformation of styrene plant to promote production increase in Daxie Service Network Production Petrochemical CNOOC always takes customer satisfaction as an important indicator to measure service quality. The Company actively innovates On November 11, 2019, the first industrial It has remarkable effect on reducing polymer CNOOC adheres to the development its business model and expands service network. CNOOC attaches great importance to customer information protection and application of new rectification polymerization generation, tar emission and mitigating styrene path of “Low Cost, Differentiation, continuously enhances service capabilities for better customer satisfaction. CNOOC strives for 100% resolution rate of customer inhibitor, independently developed by Tianjing polymerization, and will bring better economic Science and Technology Leading” and is complaints and common development with customers on the basis of mutual benefit. Chemical Research and Design Institute of benefits. committed to build an oil refining industry CNOOC, was realized in Daxie Petrochemical In order to provide more convenient services, CNOOC continues to strengthen the construction of petrol stations, gas stations, oil with international leading level. After one After transformation and optimization to the on the styrene plant with annual output of depots, LNG receiving terminals and natural gas pipeline networks. By the end of 2019, the Company has actually controlled 1,463 styrene plant system in 2019, the work load decade’s development, the refining and 280,000 tons, all performance indicators and was increased from 103% to 113%, with petrol stations, 176 gas stations and 10 LNG receiving stations. chemical industry of CNOOC, distributed in stability meet production requirements, about a daily output exceeding 900 tons, which the “two continents and one bay” region, RMB 1.2 million will be saved in the cost of reached record high since the operation of the has begun to take shape. At present, two additives every year. Petroleum Products Supply plant, and the output of styrene increased by integrated industrial bases for refining and 29,200 tons in the whole year. In 2019, CNOOC continued to develop the marketing network for petroleum products and optimize the network structure through the chemical have formed in Huizhou and transformation from “having” to “having better”, from “increasing quantity and scale” to “improving development quality, investment Ningbo Daxie, and the special oil product efficiency and overall profitability”. Totally, 25.66 million tons of refined oil products were sold over the year. processing base characterized by asphalt CNOOC Oil & Petrochemicals Co., Ltd. was awarded the “the best supplier of China-made asphalt” and lubricants has been built in Bohai rim. Pilot launch of “CNOOC Mall” CNOOC promotes oil product First ethanol gasoline distribution On March 4, 2019, CNOOC Oil & the transportation planning of “five verticals In 2019, CNOOC processed 37.56 upgrading center in oil depot got approved Petrochemicals Co., Ltd. was awarded “the and two horizontals”. million tons of crude oil, produced 12.76 On June 25, 2019, the pilot e-commerce best supplier of China made asphalt in 2018”, Since January 1, 2019, CNOOC oil depots and On January 30, 2019, the ethanol and gasoline The “CNOOC 36-1” asphalt was also platform “CNOOC Mall” (www.cnoocmall. million tons of refined oil products, 6.83 with the excellent performance of “CNOOC petrol stations have comprehensively supplied distribution center in Yingkou oil depot was applied into the widening projects of Beijingcom) was launched, the services of e-commerce, million tons of bitumen, 1.96 million 36-1” in Taihang Mountain Expressway, a key national VI automotive diesel oil half a year officially approved by Liaoning Development Taibei Expressway and Beijing-Kaifeng logistics and call center were put into use in tons of lubricants, 2.09 million tons of project of “Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei integration”, ahead of schedule. On January 9, the first 1,100 and Reform Commission. It is one of the first Expressway, as well as the supporting project order to improve the marketing configuration, ethylene and 2.75 million tons of sodium and in 4 countries along the Belt and Road. tons of 98# National VI ethanol gasoline from new ethanol gasoline distribution centers in of transportation during the 70th National Day delivery capacity and precise service capacity. carbonate. Zhongjie Petrochemical was officially put on Liaoning Province, and is also the first selfIn 2019, “CNOOC 36-1” was applied in Parade, achieving seamless connection with By the end of 2019, 22 stores of CNOOC Oil & sales and won the favor of customers. owned oil depot in CNOOC that is well the construction of Beijing-Daxing Airport the key projects in Beijing. Petrochemicals and 13 stores of CNOOC Gas equipped by online blending facilities. 37.56 million tons Expressway and became an important part of & Power Group had been launched on-line. Processed crude oil Catalytic oil slurry processing for delayed coking unit was put into operation in Huizhou Petrochemicals CNOOC Gas & Power Group Promotes Digital Marketing 6.83 million tons At 11 am on October 22, 2019, heating furnace furnace Individual Heating and Post-Furnace CNOOC Gas & Power Group cooperates with Shanghai Petroleum and Natural Gas F-103 of delayed coking unit in Huizhou Mixed Refining of Oil Slurry”. Ever year Trading Center, and actively explores the innovation of trading and business mode with Petrochemicals was put into operation after the project is put into production, it will the help of mature e-commerce platforms. The company creates a “Skynet” for natural gas Production of bitumen AI intelligent successfully, which marked the successful be able to fully process the 260,000 tons of sales and opens up the online direct sales channels, in order to continuously accumulate Operator service customer service commencement of catalytic oil slurry catalytic slurry produced in the phase I and practical experience for establishing the most influential and authoritative digital marketing Call center system 2.09 million tons processing project of delayed coking unit. phase II of Huizhou Petrochemical. It is brand of CNOOC in China. expected to increase an economic benefit of The catalytic slurry heating furnace project RMB 50 million per year. Production of ethylene developed initially the technology of “PreAchieving comprehensive “cloud sales” CNOOC Gas & Power Group has fully launched online trading for LNG liquid or pipeline gas, and will greet a splendid new era of “cloud sales”. Innovating marketing model In conjunction with Shanghai Petroleum and Natural Gas Exchange, CNOOC Gas & Power Group promoted innovation and launched various trading modes, so as to realize the significant transformation of customer development from going-out to inviting-in. Develop own digital platform 13 natural gas online stores were opened on e-commerce platforms with sales areas covering the whole country, which improved customer consumption experience and helped the digital transformation of downstream sales. 16 17 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Promoting Economic Growth Natural Gas Supply Tianjin’s total LNG export volume exceeded 10 million tons CNOOC always adheres to the green and low-carbon strategy, continues to actively supply more green, low-carbon, diversified, In 2019, Tianjin LNG orderly promoted the construction of phase II project, building six Tianjin LNG storage tanks of 220,000 m3 on the basis of and environmentally-friendly high-quality energy sources, increases the supply of natural gas in offshore gas fields, promotes the existing facilities, which are planned to be put into use in 2023. After completion, the single-day gasification and external transportation capacity can development of unconventional natural gas, expands the scale of LNG supply, and continuously improves the ability of natural gas reach 70 million m3, which will secure the sufficient supply of clean energy in North China region and the whole Northern China, and play a more active supply. The Company makes every effort to mobilize the resources of the entire group, does everything possible to stabilize the role in accelerating the industry development of China’s clean energy. supply, expands the scope of natural gas supply with practical actions, and increases the natural gas supply capacity in various regions, in order to contribute green power to building a beautiful China. Shenmu area began to consume selfTwo gas wells were put into production in “Jinzhou 25-1 South” producing gas Oilfield On September 29, 2019, the Shenfu gasfield, On April 25, 2019, two new natural gas wells drilled by WHPE platform in developed and constructed by CUCBM, began to “Jinzhou 25-1 South” Oilfield started production successfully, increasing daily supply gas to the urban area, the supply could meet supply of natural gas by 400,000 m3, and guaranteed the stable operation of the daily gas demand of 50,000 households. It is the Liaodong natural gas pipeline network. first time that this national top 100 County, which is thriving due to coal, has used the natural gas produced in its own territory. In 2020, with the promotion of production capacity and surface engineering construction, the gas supply capacity will be further Increase reserves improved to meet the basic demand in Shenmu area, and production such as people’s livelihood and “coal to gas” demand, Stabilize gas which will promote the improvement of gasification supply rate, improve the atmospheric environment, and benefit the local. Clean energy for Shanxi The pressure boosting station of Panhe Gas Production Plant of CUCBM Jinnan Branch is an important part of the national coalbed methane development More than 30 billion m3 of gas went on shore in the eastern South demonstration project. More than 2.2 billion m3 of China Sea natural gas has been delivered to the south of Shanxi By April 15, 2019, the cumulative export of natural gas in the eastern South Province, the green energy was continuously injected China Sea had exceeded 30 billion m3. These natural gas was transported to gas to promote the construction of clean and low-carbon power plants, urban gas companies and large industrial users in the Great Bay energy consumption mode in Shanxi Province. Area of Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macau, contributing to the local economic Supply Chain Management development and the Blue Sky Protection Campaign. In order to establish an integrated supply chain ecosystem, CNOOC enforces the construction of modern supply chain, with procurement business as the core, deploys the transformation strategy of integrated supply chain management, and opens up capital flow, information flow and products flow from client to supply side. CNOOC enforces green supply chain management and adopts prudent principles and strict standards to select suppliers and contractors in the supply chain. The Company values not only their product quality, service ability and corporate reputation, but also their concept and implementation of fulfilling social responsibilities such as implementing QHSE standards and labor standards. Green the Yangtze River Economic Belt LNG industry stepped into southwest China Adhering to the concept of “win-win cooperation and common development”, the Company comprehensively implements centralized, On October 14, 2019, the foundation project of 1,440 pile for four On January 9, 2019, Guangxi LNG, the 10th LNG Receiving Terminals unified, classified and hierarchical supplier management, shares supplier information resources, strengthens training and supervision, storage tanks of the Jiangsu Binhai LNG Receiving Terminals Project of CNOOC, started trial production and provided clean energy for optimizes performance evaluation, and realizes dynamic management of supply chain during the entire process from access to exit, were all completed. On January 4, 2020, concrete casting has totally been Southwest China. The project takes seven years to complete, composed so as to ensure the normal performance of economic contracts. completed in the 20 areas of the four storage tank caps. After the project of two 30,000 m3 tanks, a 50,000 tons liquid chemical terminal and is completed, the supply scope of CNOOC’s LNG resource will expand supporting facilities, and the annual LNG turnover reaches 600,000 In order to make the supply chain business faster and more efficient, promote the coordination and interaction between supply from Jiangsu to Anhui and Henan, boosting strong green force driving tons. It will play an important role in promoting the optimization of local and demand, and provide more detailed, high-quality and timely logistics and business flow services, the Company will start the development of the Yangtze River Economic Belt. energy structure and green development of surrounding areas like Yunnan comprehensive digital transformation of supply chain to realize the visibility between all links in the supply chain, and focus on creating and Guizhou Province. an operating mode with e-commerce attributes, to cultivate new growth points and form new driving forces in the supply chain field. 18 19 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Promoting Economic Growth Integrated management of green supply chain Reconstruction of supplier management system In 2019, CNOOC restructured its supplier The Company implemented the supplier The Company established the closedmanagement system, revised the “Supplier registration management, removed the barriers loop management process from signing of Front Middle Back Management Measures”, and formulated of the first level and the second level to fully procurement contract to contract closing and end end end the “Procurement Contract Implementation share suppliers’ resources. After registration, post-evaluation, standardized management Management Measures”. Through panoramic suppliers can immediately participate in rules and requirements for the implementation management of suppliers, comprehensive bidding or procurement projects. of procurement contract, and ensured the Centering by procurement, Centering by headquarters, evaluation and management on suppliers’ integrity of purchase contract execution open up cross-functional clarify the positioning and The Company established the supplier risk registration, procurement activities, contract information. We strengthened the management collaboration between supply work focus of procurement prevention and control system, strengthened chain departments with subsidiaries performance, after-sales service, and of procurement and delivery quality, progress the management of penalties for suppliers’ maintenance of file information, etc., and control and contract change, unblocked the violations of laws and regulations, and the riskprompt elimination of unqualified suppliers, information communication channels of Upstream Midstream Downstream alert management of suppliers’ credit risks, to high-quality supplier resources were kept for contract parties, and reduced the execution risk avoid the loss and risk brought by unqualified the business development of the Company. of procurement contract. suppliers. Capital Flow Customer Business Unit Information Flow Supply Chain Partner Resources Supplier resource development 282 Product Flow Non-compliant suppliers handled Extension to the end market Source-to-contract Procurement-to-payment Extension to the supplier Supplier Supplier 100% suspended registration / Contract performance rate Purchasing Sourcing Purchase Payment Supply Risk & exit transaction decision analysis access Identify and Strategic sourcing Contract Operational capital Supply market Third-party risk investigate demand management optimization optimization management Supplier risk management • Target • Expenditure and achievement execution • Supplier • Supplier • Supplier due market analysis and path • Sourcing information classification diligence • Supplier due diligence • Demand establishment • Purchase order maintenance and hierarchical • Contract due • Contract due diligence management • Establishing management • Acceptance management diligence Supplier Supply projects and management • Supplier • Risk assessment for termination of • Early intervention • Import and export • Risk assessment performance classification formulating development plan cooperation of procurement management • Invoice for termination of management management sourcing management • Supplier cooperation • Investigation on social responsibility / • Standardization strategies • Contract management • Payment performance • Investigation on environmental protection / safety / health • Quality strategy, • Sourcing management compliance • Legal compliance management social responsibility execution, finding • Material / environmental strategy suppliers management management protection / safety / • Evaluating • Logistics plan health suppliers, management Modern supply chain system contract negotiation CNOOC has improved its inventory of supply chain, exploring the introduction of new digital means to improve management, and management system, and the overall effect of promoting innovation in industrial organization and business models. Integration, Digitalization, Refinement, Compliance, Paperlessness supply chain has appeared. The reduction goal of no dynamic inventory has been successfully achieved, and inventory quality has improved significantly. The no dynamic inventory of Offshore oil CNOOC for more than three years has been Modern supply chain reduced to RMB 1.19 billion from RMB system Block chain Cloud computing Big Data Internet + Internet of things 1.648 billion at the beginning of the year, achieving the goal of 28% reduction. The inventory structure has been improved, laying a good foundation for high-quality material management. CNOOC is building a modern supply chain for the offshore oil industry, initiating reforms Agile Prospective Predictable Automated Visible requirements strategic supplier procurement logistics of the procurement management system, management sourcing management execution warehousing accelerating the innovation and application 20 21 Discovery of 100-billion-m3-scale Gasfield in the Bohai Sea After years of arduous exploration and through collaborative cooperation from production, learning, research and application, CNOOC has tackled five world-class problems, including how to generate large-scale gas in oil-based basins and whether there are large-scale high-quality reservoirs in deep metamorphic buried hills, and formed the theoretical technology for deep large-scale packaged condensate gasfield exploration in Bohai Bay Basin. Under the guidance and support of this technical achievement, “Bozhong 19-6”, a large gas field with “double 100-million” scale, was successfully drilled. Focusing on Won the first prize of National Science and Technology the discovery and exploration evaluation of “Bozhong 19-6” gasfield, CNOOC has Progress Award 2019 achieved a series of major breakthroughs in theoretical understanding and key technologies, opening up a new prospect for natural gas exploration in oil-type basins. At the National Science and Technology Progress Award Conference in 2019, the technological achievements won the first prize of National Science and Technology Progress Award. “Bozhong 28-1” “Caofeidian 18-2” “Bozhong 19-6” Geological reserves of oil 1984 1998 and gas 1994 300 1980 2018 million tons of oil equivalent Proved geological “Jinzhou 20-2” “Jinzhou 31-1” reserves of condensate oil Proved geological reserves of 100 billion m3 natural gas 100 billion m3 22 23 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Promoting Economic Growth Emphasizing Sci-Tech Innovation Industrialization of large-diameter coring equipment has achieved Achievements of major science and technology programs for sustainable and stable production of 30 million tons in Bohai Oilfield remarkable results CNOOC Tianjin Branch has steadily advanced Bohai “double high” oilfield has been tested in Sci-tech innovation is a core driving force for enterprise’s sustainable development. Majoring in oil and gas business, CNOOC actively Due to remarkable characteristics of strong the implementation of “Key Technology 474 wells of 3 target oilfields, with an annual implements the innovation-driven strategy, deepens the reform of sci-tech institutions and mechanisms constantly, and improves the formation adaptability and high operating Research on Sustainable and Stable Production net increase of 708,000 tons and a reduction of sci-tech innovation system. To meet the major and important demand of the state and the company, researchers focus on a series of efficiency, the large-diameter coring of 30 Million Tons in Bohai Oilfield”. This 1.9% to the decline rate of typical double-high core technologies such as deep-water oil & gas fields, offshore heavy oil, HTHP, oil & gas fields with low permeability, and constantly equipment, independently developed by major project, consist of 7 major topics, 14 oilfield. The elaborate reservoir description explore technological research on offshore wind power, natural gas hydrate, hydrogen energy, geothermal energy and marine energy, COSL, can fully adapt to the challenges of key technologies and 30 sub-topics, has been technology has successfully guided the rolling to provide clean energies for economic, social and environmental sustainable development. different formation lithology. This technology fully launched and got several achievements. expansion of nine oilfields, increasing proved has surpassed international competitors and The key technology for tapping the potential of reserves of 37.57 million tons. become the main force of marine operations, with many records such as maximum operating Technical Innovation well depth of 4,758 meters, maximum well Underwater emergency sealing device was independently developed deviation of 42°, and maximum temperature of 170°C. In 2019, 35 wells were operated with China’s first underwater emergency well gas release. This device overcomes design an estimated revenue of RMB 49 million. sealing device, independently developed by challenges of high erosion resistance and CNOOC, integrates machinery manufacturing, HTHP resistance, and the relevant parameters hydraulic control, data monitoring, information from shallow water tests reach the level of the Granted patents Software copyright transmission, and ROV intervention and has most advanced products in the world, which 813 items 214 items multiple functions such as shut-in, diversion, fills domestic gaps. Over 90% components are well killing, dispersant injection and trap made in China. National Science and Provincial and ministerial Technology Progress science and technology Award progress award 1 52 items Technological innovation Standard Transformation of achievements to International increase reserves and production standard 1 item R&D investment in Panyu Oilfield National standard 7.27 billion RMB In 2019, two technological innovation 13 items achievements of CNOOC Shenzhen Branch have been successfully applied in tackling Industry standard key problems of dual directional imaging 23 items technology in Panyu dual ultra-high oilfield, pushing forward new potential reserves of 7.65 million m3 and 7 new potential wells in “Panyu 4-2” oil field. The research results make further suggestions of 5 adjustment well positions, expected to increase oil production by up to 505,000 m3. China’s first international standard in the field of coatings was led and drafted by Changzhou Institute 220,000 m3 in 2019 On April 11, 2019, the international standard China has led and drafted in the field of ISO 23168: 2019 “Paints and Varnishes coatings and will effectively improve the 160,000 m3 in 2016 Determination of Water Content Gas international influence of China’s coating First international Chromatographic Method” led and drafted industry and analytical and testing techniques, 30,000 m3 in 2012 standard of by CNOOC Changzhou Coating Chemical marking a historic step for Chinese coatings coatings field Research Institute was officially released, industry into the international standardization which is the first international standard that field. Tianjin LNG Project Phase I Fujian LNG Expansion Project Jiangsu LNG Project Successful application of LNG super-large full-capacity storage tank technology in CNOOC Gas & Power Group 24 25 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Promoting Economic Growth Pioneering Innovation In order to improve the clean energy supply capacity, CNOOC organizes research on the development path of new energy and digital Speeding up Deep-water Exploration and transformation technology, initiates research on the strategic direction of new energy technology development, and organizes research on Development in the South China Sea technical and development paths of natural gas hydrate, hydrogen energy, marine energy, offshore wind power and geothermal energy. In 2019, the Company compiled a technology development roadmap for the hydrogen energy industry. The first hydrogen refueling “Lingshui 17-2” gasfield is located in the southeast of Hainan Island, about 150 km away station project, is expected to be completed and put into operation in 2020. In view of the problems of “complex distribution, difficult from Sanya City, Hainan Province, with a water depth of 1,220-1,560 meters. It is the first development and low utilization efficiency”, CNOOC has formed a scalable industrial model of efficient development and utilization of large self-operated deep-water gas field in China, with over 100 billion m3 proved geological geothermal resources. reserves of natural gas, and 6.8 million tons geological reserves of condensate oil. The project creates the first development mode of deep water semi-submersible 10,000 tons class storage platform in the world. Detection equipment and technology for natural gas hydrate won the highest award of International Invention Exhibition At the 47th Geneva International Invention “Lingshui 17-2” is expected to be put into production in 2021, with a stable output of 10 Exhibition in 2019, CNOOC General Research years, and every year after completion, it will stably supply 3.3 billion m3 of natural gas to Institute’s “Onboard Online Detection Hong Kong, Guangdong, Hainan and other regions. Equipment and Technology for Natural Gas Hydrates Pressure Maintaining Core” won 1,500 meters 3.3 billion m per year the highest award of the exhibition—the jury’s gold award of special recognition (the 3 jury’s special award only accounts for 1% Design of China’s first floating Every year after completion, it will stably supply of all exhibition projects). This achievement platform with water depth of 3.3 billion m3 of natural gas to Hong Kong, has been successfully applied in the sampling 1,500 meters Guangdong, Hainan and other regions project of southeast Hainan. Design of the world’s first semi-submersible platform for condensate storage Design of China's first floating platform with water depth of 1,500 meters First use of polyester cable mooring system in China First application of steel catenary riser in China First self-developed underwater production system design integrating underground & underwater production systems and deep-water risers in China Successful development of Simulation Platform of Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion System Test By the advantages of University-Enterprise Alliance in production, learning and research, CNOOC carries out research with universities on key technologies of ocean thermoelectric power generation. After one year’s technical research, the first domestic Simulation Platform of Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion (OTEC) System Test, which integrates thermal calculation, simulation and equipment selection, has been successfully developed. 26 27 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Promoting Economic Growth Rongfeng Company builds a comprehensive marine energy system Intensifying Safe Operation CNOOC Rongfeng Energy Co., Ltd. is committed to building an integrated energy In 2019, centering on the work of increasing oil and gas exploration and development, CNOOC clarified the annual work focus system for offshore oil and gas, offshore wind of “improving the system, consolidating the foundation and deepening the safety production responsibility system for all staff”, power, hydrogen production and photovoltaic, established the annual management goal of “resolutely preventing major accidents and comprehensively preventing all accidents, to achieve integrated development and and always pursuing ‘zero death’”. Focusing on preventing and resolving the safety risks of increasing storage and production, the supply of overall energy. The company will Company continuously deepened the safety production responsibility system for all staff, strengthened the safety management center on offshore wind power, focus on new marine energy businesses, and give attention gateway, the management and control of safety production process, and implemented the safety inspection and supervision, to to promoting and investing in fixed-based promote the improvement of the safety management level. offshore wind power, floating-based offshore wind power, decentralized wind power, hydrogen production by water electrolysis, Oilfield and marine pasture development, so as to high-quality, form a complete industrial chain with the high-efficiency production characteristics of CNOOC. Pilot project of satellite communication The world’s first LNG 4D evolution earth station completed acceptance analysis technology I n o r d e r t o e ff e c t i v e l y e n h a n c e t h e LNG four-dimensional evolution analysis informationization management level of technology, proposed by CNOOC Gas & offshore production and solve the difficulty of Power Group, is an intelligent and systematic ship communication, CNOOC aims at creating solution for the entire life cycle of LNG low an “Internet +” ship communication plan with temperature plant. With the technology, all is high cost performance ratio by using big data, visible in the plant for the dynamic process, new Internet concepts and new technologies. mechanics and control parameters of all VSAT (very small aperture terminal) low-temperature equipment and facilities Digital results Safety Culture equipment can fully meet the communication throughout the life cycle, and the optimization Safe production is the foundation and June 2019 is the 18th “Safe Production at the grassroots level, implement the safety needs of internal and external information is realized in design, construction and development guarantee of the Company. Month” in China. CNOOC focused on production responsibility, and improve the management of ships, maritime satellite operation. The technology has been applied communication, satellite link and front-line to projects like Zhejiang LNG Phase II and Actively using the safety culture to play “consolidating the foundation, improving level of safe production. The Company staff at sea. Zhuhai LNG Terminal. a leading role, CNOOC is committed to the system, and deepening the safety promoted the safety culture construction creating a safety culture construction production responsibility of all staff”, through of “people-oriented, implementation and pattern of “Group company promoting, activities such as safety preaching, selection intervention”, and created a good safety First AI app served in exploration and CNOOC financial process robot subsidiaries being responsible, grass-roots of advanced figures for safe production, production atmosphere for increasing development launched online team implementing, and all employees and promotion of the construction of quality reserves and production. Employees were On January 4, 2019, CNOOC EnerTech C N O O C ’s “ R PA ( R o b o t i c P r o c e s s participating”, and promoting the formation safety engineering projects, and further encouraged to participate in various safety successfully developed the first artificial Automation) financial robot project” has been of a long-term mechanism for self-discipline enhanced the awareness of safe production activities, to contribute their safety wisdom intelligence application in the field of put into use. The first RPA is mainly used for and continuous improvement of safety and safety skills among all employees, in and work with tireless dedication for the exploration and development. The software data verification on the IAI platform. It only culture construction. order to promote strict safety management safe development of CNOOC. can build a full space model, execute takes 45 minutes to complete 3 persons’ daily automatically deep learning from test workload with high accuracy. It will provide Application of artificial intelligence productivity values, and then predict the 3D more practical experience for the Company The second “Advanced Individuals in Safe Production” selection and commendation spatial productivity index. The AI algorithm in large-scale exploration and application of has effectively supported the efficient process robot technology, and will strongly In 2019, the Company organized the second “Advanced Individuals in Safe Production” selection and development of Linxing gasfield. promote the Company’s digital development. commendation activities. 88 advanced and 10 outstanding individuals in production safety were selected. They are dedicated to their duties, work diligently, and faithfully practice CNOOC’s QHSE core value of “Safety First, Environment Foremost, People-oriented and Equipment Intact”. They always remember their original intention and mission, and practice the CNOOC safety culture of “people-oriented, implementation and intervention”. They are truly “safety guards” of CNOOC. 28 29 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Promoting Economic Growth CNOOC EnerTech carried out health and safety weekend activities Safe Production 700 10 times CNOOC EnerTech always pays attention to and genders, including fire emergency, high In 2019, in face of the complex situation investigated. CNOOC carried out safety employees’ health and safety outside working altitude descent, rope skills, first-aid bandaging, like the significant increasement of risk mapping for 1,287 storage tanks hours. By carrying out weekend activities of cardiopulmonary resuscitation, smoke “Safety Class” lectured by leaders workload and risks pressure while under the jurisdiction of the company, and Evacuation of platform health and safety, employees and their families experience in fire field, vehicle escape, food increasing production and storage, implemented hierarchical management can truly enjoy the “safety caring” from the health and safety, etc. More than 200 families CNOOC aimed at resolutely eliminating and control. Special access audits were 36,000 301 times company. To popularize safety emergency from Bohai and Zhanjiang have participated in major accidents, comprehensively conducted for 8 diving contractors. We skills and improve safety and health awareness, the activities. preventing all accidents, and always improved the maritime safety management the activities are designed for different ages Attendances Use of helicopters pursuing “zero death”, adhered to system, by taking the support ship i m p ro vi n g t h e Q HS E m an ag em en t information system as standard, checked 706 72 times system, strived to make safety and 12 support ships, and carried out 1,552 environmental protection take the lead inspections on liquid cargo access. 14 in building a world first-class company, group-level security inspections were Articles from grassroots units Use of ships reinforced basic safety management and organized, and typical security problems promoted characteristic safety culture, were timely notified to promote the 327 implemented a green and low-carbon development strategy, and successfully rectification of hidden dangers. In 2019, CNOOC conducted technical 10,634people Micro-video submissions in contest completed various missions of energy Evacuation of people audits (North) and management audits conservation and emission reduction. The (South) for all the helicopters in use, year-round production safety situation while focusing on the maintenance remained generally stable without major management and possible impact of production safety accident. China’s navigation reform. In November, In 2019, relevant control and management a helicopter safety management seminar measures were formulated and taken for was organized in Tianjin to discuss the key engineering projects, underground application of AW139, the transit to new operation safety, high-risk well control, airports, and the rescue with helicopter. production facilities and typhoon prevention In 2019, CNOOC organized superior safety. Special deployment for safety of safety audits on 8 subsidiaries and urged storage and capacity expansion was 445 issues to be rectified. The Company conducted. 11 key monthly inspection strengthened comprehensive management items such as operating permit, hot work, of hazardous chemicals, identified 60 major isolation and locking were determined. risks, and formulated 210 risk classification Special joint inspections were formulated management and control maps. The and implemented to key engineering Company strengthened the management projects, third-party certification and CNOOC Well Control Week activities held in Hainan Province of high-impact zones of long-distance inspection agency, underground operation pipelines, established “one area, one file” From November 25 to December 1, 2019, safety, high-risk well control, production files, and re-identified dangerous sources, activities of the 6th CNOOC Well Control facility anti-typhoon, as well as 13 land Week were carried out in Haikou with the and implemented management control terminals and 2 unconventional booster theme of “strengthening the concept of safe by levels, to comprehensively prevent stations, and the ignition facilities development and ensuring the development and mitigate the safety risks of increasing of 845 boiler heaters were specially of deep sea energy”. Experts from Ministry reserves and production. of National Emergency Management, major domestic oil enterprises, well-known emergency organizations at home and abroad, were invited to attend the activities, including Guangdong Pipeline Company was awarded for research achievement of mini fire station construction exchange of well control technology, display of well control equipment, promotion of well According to the characteristics of longconducted the construction of mini fire stations prize of the China Petroleum and Chemical control culture, emergency drills, as well as the distance natural gas pipeline substation, such in natural gas stations, of which the research Fire Technology Innovation and Development opening of Bohai base for National Offshore as the wide range of stations, the relatively achievement “Exploration on Construction of Forum. It was the only project shortlisted and Oil and Gas Emergency Rescue and the small staffing and the relatively weak force of Mini Fire Stations in Long Distance Natural awarded from CNOOC. inauguration ceremony of Nanhai base. firefighting, Guangdong Pipeline Company Gas Pipeline Substation” won the second 30 31 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Promoting Economic Growth Deep maintenance in “LvDa 10-1” “Bozhong 34-2/4” Oilfield continued overhaul in the snow COSL’s offshore platform staff keeps in mind the concept of “Safety First” Oilfield Considering the characteristics of winter production, and through measures such as combing the Construction personnel of “LvDa 10-1” Top Grade Safety Project agentia inventory in advance, adding new platform agentia in a timely manner, and rationally Oilfield inspected internal conditions of the adjusting the agentia concentration, “Bozhong 34-2/4” Oilfield ensured “non-stop agentia” in the motor stator and carried out deep maintenance Patrol inspection on production process. Production personnel overhauled the pneumatic diaphragm pump in the snow Self-examination Seven routine drills on the water injection pump motor, which Two safety and health to ensure the stable operation of chemical agent process. Daily Monthly consisted of core pulling inspection of motor weeks rotor, winding inspection of stator coil, etc., in order to ensure that the water injection pump was at its best and could inject enough water By fully establishing the concepts of “if everyone is a safety officer, there will be zero accident every day” and “once effective measures are taken, for the oilfield. all accidents can be prevented”, COSL offshore platform defined the comprehensive management system as the code, to strictly implement the safety management regulations and standards. They developed a detailed training plan, and verified the results through “system knowledge contest”, “knowledge assessment for key positions system”, “one-to-one assistance”, so as to improve employees’ awareness of system and safety. They carried out the activity of reciting “Safety Operation Procedures” and all pass for everyone, and strictly complied with the standards, to prevent habitual violations of rules and create a good safety culture. To ensure normal production operations on site, COSL’s offshore platform attached great importance to equipment safety management. To improve the equipment management level and ensure the intrinsic safety of equipment, platform equipment maintenance personnel adhered to the precise and standardized management of equipment and improving the equipment integrity, so as to ensure “zero accident” in safe production. COSL ships and captains won the honor of China Maritime Safety and Integrity On the lists of “Safe and Integrity Ship” and “Safe and Integrity Captain” published by China Maritime Safety Administration in 2019, 12 ships including COSL’s HYSY685 and 16 captains including Fan Canke won the honor. The ships and captains who have been awarded the titles of “Safety and Integrity Ship” and “Safety and Integrity Captain” will be issued certificates of “Safety and Trustworthy Ship” and “Safe and Trustworthy Captain” with a valid period of 24 months by China Maritime Safety Administration. The “Safe and Integrity Ship” can be exempted from ship safety inspection (including pre-departure inspection) for 24 months, or even 36 months if the ship is continuously served by the “Safety and Integrity Captain”, and granted the priority for inbound and outbound procedures. Therefore, this honorary certificate is also well known as the “free pass” for domestic ports. 1,000 days 3,000 days 4,000 days Mexico time August 21, 2019 Beijing time August 8, 2019 Beijing time March 25, 2019 COSL 7 HYSY 923 Bohai 5 They standardize the filling of stop card, In the living area of the platform, a safety They fully implement safety management strictly abide by the 12 safety rules, implement culture gallery is arranged. They carry out requirements without missing, strengthen the the JSA and safety permit system, realize signing and flop events for safe days, the training on three management tools such as the normalization of risk analysis on wrong signing occurs in the smoking room, and work permit, operation risk analysis, and STOP positioning and not working. Bilingual the flop outside the living area. They strictly card, and equip safety tools such as push-pull broadcasts with Chinese and Spanish are adopted implement the regulations, such as “safety rods and high-altitude fall prevention, to ensure to prompt large-scale and key operations, management tools”, “12 safety rules” and “red the continuous increase of the number of the conduct red zone management, study accident zone management”, to strengthen employees’ days without loss of working hours. warnings, and improve awareness of safety. safety awareness and skills. 32 33 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Promoting Economic Growth Emergency Management CNOOC set benchmark for public security and anti-terrorism 13,104 CNOOC continues to do a good job in responding to natural disasters and strengthening emergency preparedness, and by improving In September 2019, Tianjin LNG, as a to implement public security and anti-terrorism emergency capacity building and carrying out emergency duty and response in a timely and efficient manner, actively promotes benchmarking enterprise for Tianjin’s work at all levels. the compliance of public security and terrorism prevention. In 2019, the “Crisis Management Plan” was revised and issued twice in “Requirements for Public Security and Emergency drills accordance with changes of regulations and personnel, and the “Emergency Management Measures” was revised. Anti-Terrorism Prevention of Petroleum and Petrochemical System”, introduced its 260,076 In 2019, the national wide grading of key anti-terrorism targets for petroleum and petrochemical companies was carried out. 82 experience to Tianjin Public Security System onshore operation sites of CNOOC were rated as key targets 1 to 3, and work is carried out in accordance with the plan. In 2019, all and petroleum and petrochemical enterprises, subsidiaries of CNOOC carried out more than 300 special anti-terrorism inspections daily or before key events, and 116 various antiand was highly recognized by the supervision Participants in drills terrorism emergency drills. teams of National Anti-Terrorism Office and SASAC on the eve of the 70th National Day, which reflected the responsibility of CNOOC CNOOC took multiple measures to improve prevention level for major activities 16 Before the start of major national events in makes contributions to the smooth development 2019, CNOOC actively urged the territorial of various domestic diplomatic activities. By CNOOC promoted the application of CIMS units to carry out anti-terrorism prevention the 70th National Day, on behalf of the National Primary anti-terrorism key target company work and inspected the anti-terrorism Anti-terrorism Leading Group, CNOOC The ICS (Incident command system) emergency management mechanism. prevention work of subsidiaries in Hainan, supervised the anti-terrorism work in Qinghai emergency command system is an international 25 In 2019, the Company organized CIMS Guangxi, Tianjin and Shanghai. By improving and Ningxia, and urged the implementation of standard for emergency command. According training for midstream and downstream units. regulations, organizing drills, intensifying deployment requirements for the National Day to practice, CNOOC summarized the principle, More than 40 representatives from CNOOC Secondary anti-terrorism key target inspections, strengthening emergency duty, security and anti-terrorism work. framework and method of emergency Oil & Petrochemicals, CNOOC Gas & Power company and leading teams to supervise, the Company management that are in line with CNOOC’s Group, China BlueChemical and CNOOC characteristics and put forward the CIMS, EnerTech participated in the training. which effectively improved the existing 41 CNOOC applied new technologies to prevent new threats In 2019, CNOOC launched anti-UAV defense Third-level anti-terrorism key target system construction, conducted system pilots, company and formulated acquisition strategies for antiCNOOC Zhanjiang Branch carried out 2019 joint emergency response exercise CNOOC’s assistance in marine UAV defense system. The system has been rescue On June 28, 2019, CNOOC Zhanjiang Branch As the “fire point” was close to major hazard deployed in Tianjin LNG, Weizhou terminal, In 2019, all relevant units of CNOOC carried out the 2019 emergency response sources such as condensate storage tanks in Ningbo terminal and Guangxi LNG. fulfilled external rescue responsibilities and exercise at Dongfang Terminal. More than 70 the plant area, the risk situation was probably humanitarian obligations, and provided strong persons from various departments, Dongfang further expanding. Dongfang Terminal support for emergency actions of government terminal and China BlueChemical attended the reported immediately the situation to Zhanjiang CNOOC Gas & Power Group guaranteed natural gas supply in flood season exercise. emergency duty room, and requested agencies. During the year, the Company participated in 47 maritime search, rescue and In case of continuous heavy rainfall and flood Guangzhou. They attached great importance emergency support from nearby unit, the fullIn the exercise scenario, it was simulated assistance work, rescued 829 people in 19 disasters in many places in south China, to mountains, rivers and complex geological time fire brigade of China BlueChemical. that there was a condensate leakage risk in ships, dispatched 56 ships and 7 helicopters, Guangdong Pipeline Company of CNOOC Gas areas where pipeline passed, dredged flood condensate loading area and caused a fire. and received 5 external praises, including 2 & Power Group organized patrol inspectors to drainage channels, and clear silt and debris, in government commendations and 3 letters of conduct encrypted inspections to natural gas order to protect the natural gas “aorta” of the commendation. pipelines of 350 km in Zhuhai, Zhongshan, and Great Bay area. 34 35 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Improving Quality Management Enhancing Environmental Protection CNOOC adheres to the directives of “People-Oriented, Safety First, Honest and Law-Abiding, Reinforcing Foundation, InnovationDriven and Winning with Quality”, implements the national strategy of “Building a Powerful Country by High Quality Development”, carries out the quality improvement actions in an all-round way, identifies quality risks comprehensively, improves the quality management system, cultivates the quality culture and continuously improves product, engineering and service quality. On September 1, 2019, CNOOC launched the “Quality Month” activity with the theme of “carrying out quality improvement actions to improve the quality of product, engineering and service”, and focused on five topics: conduct quality publicity activities to improve the quality awareness of all staff, carry out special quality inspections to eliminate hidden quality hazards, implement spot checks on product quality to improve product supply quality, strengthen laboratory management to enhance inspection and testing capabilities, and carry out mass quality activities to enhance the quality awareness of employees. Quality Improvement Action 5,548 2,448 2,483 5,548 quality hazards discovered and 2,448 departments participating in the A total of 2,483 special inspections were handled launching ceremony carried out 77,734 40,567 1,647 77,734 participants in CNOOC’s Quality 40,567 people participated in the The total number of QC teams registered Month in 2019 Total Quality Management Knowledge by each unit reached 1,647 Competition of Central Enterprises held by SASAC and achieved excellent results 458 2 7 Won 458 outstanding QC achievements Obtained 2 National Excellent QC Teams In the 4th National Quality Innovation of the industry Competition of China Quality Association, 7 innovation projects were awarded CNOOC and COOEC were awarded the “Outstanding Promoting Unit for the 40th Anniversary of Quality Management Promotion” COSL was awarded the “Excellent Corporate Governance Enterprise” and “Excellent Enterprise of Sustainable Development of the Year” of 2019 Sina Gold Kirin Forum COSL’s “Quality Improvement and Efficiency Enhancement of Dynamic Triaxial Liquefaction Test” won the highest award “QIC-V Technical Achievement” of the 4th National Quality Innovation Competition 36 37 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Green Action Practicing the Concept of Ecological Civilization The construction of ecological civilization is the fundamental for the sustainable development of human beings. Green development is an inevitable requirement for building a high-quality modern economic system and a fundamental strategy for solving environmental problems. As the largest offshore oil and gas production operator in China, CNOOC actively practices the green and low-carbon development strategy, promotes the transformation of the Company’s development mode, strives to be a responsible supplier of clean energy and a Overall Objective promoter of green development, and is always committed to becoming an international first-class energy company that satisfies the public, makes employees proud and is By 2020, CNOOC’s main indicators of By 2035, CNOOC’s overall indicators of By 2050, CNOOC’s overall indicators respected by peers. green and low-carbon development would green and low-carbon development would of green and low-carbon development CNOOC formulates and implements the “Green Development Action Plan” as the Compahave reached the domestic leading level and have reached the internationally advanced would have reached the internationally ny’s guideline for green and low-carbon development in the new era. completed the pilot construction of green level and basically completed the green advanced level and completed the green manufacturing, laying a solid foundation manufacturing system. CNOOC initially manufacturing system. CNOOC builds for building an international first-class clean turns itself to be an international first-class itself into an international first-class clean energy production and supply company clean energy production and supply energy production and supply company with Chinese characteristics. company with Chinese characteristics. with Chinese characteristics in all respects. Specific Targets By 2020, the main indicators of environmental friendliness would have reached the domestic leading level; By 2035, the overall indicators of environmental friendliness would have reached the international advanced level; 2050 By 2050, the overall indicators of environmental friendliness would have reached the internationally leading level. By 2020, CNOOC would have built itself into a leading manufacturer and supplier of clean energy in China; By 2035, CNOOC would have built itself into an internationally advanced clean energy production and supply company; 2035 By 2050, CNOOC would have built itself into an internationally leading clean energy production and supply company. By 2020, CNOOC would have realized carbon emission reduction (CERs) of 3.2 million tons compared to 2015, the main indicators of green and low-carbon development would have reached the domestic leading level, and the pilot construction of green manufacturing system would have been completed; By 2035, the overall indicators of green and low-carbon development would have reached the internationally 2020 advanced level, and the green manufacturing system would have been basically completed; By 2050, the overall indicators of green and low-carbon development would have reached the internationally leading level, and the green manufacturing system would have been completed in all respects. 38 39 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Enhancing Environmental Protection Green Operation Energy Conservation and Efficiency-Increasing CNOOC earnestly implements the new energy security strategy, and actively promotes the construction of ecological civilization. CNOOC actively follows the trend of low-carbon transformation of global energy industry, effectively implements the policy of energy Guided by the green and low-carbon strategy, and by issuing “Green Development Action Plan”, creating green factories, launching conservation priority, continuously promotes the lean management of energy conservation, and enforces energy conservation energy-saving projects, and implementing contract energy management, strengthening energy efficiency control and low-carbon throughout the entire process and all fields of production and operation, to drive the company’s high-quality development with informationization construction, the Company conducts the integration of green operation and production control system, and minimum energy consumption. strives to promote the deepening of energy conservation and ecological environmental protection, to contribute green power to the In 2019, CNOOC achieved energy conservation of 278,000 tons of standard coal, with an integrated energy consumption of 0.3471 construction of beautiful China. tons of standard coal per RMB 10,000 turnover. Green operation management system The “Research of Low-pressure Natural Gas Retrieval by Jet Flow Technique Transformation of electric heat tracing in Bohai Oilfield and Its Application” has achieved initial success system on “Bozhong 26-2” platform In March 2019, achievements of “Research of Low-pressure Natural Gas Retrieval by Jet Flow Transformation of skin effect electric heat Implementing green and low-carbon strategy Technique in Bohai Oilfield and Its Application”, carried out by oil production service company of tracing system was implemented on “Bozhong CNOOC strives to enforce low-carbon management capacity and low-carbon competitiveness, vigorously CNOOC EnerTech, were put into use on “BZ34-2/4” CEPA central platform. 26-2” platform, including replacing the direct develops natural gas and LNG business, steadily develops new energy business, and intensifies the efforts start-stop power frequency cabinets with Strategy The platform recovers natural gas of 10,000 m3 per day, reducing carbon dioxide emissions of 7,884 to build low-carbon energy supply system. CNOOC strengthens the awareness of social responsibility, automatic controlled thyristor cabinets, to tons per year. 30% energy of the returned high-pressure gas produced by the export compressor is enhances the image of green development, and endeavors to build a world-class clean energy production realize soft start & stop, and adjusting the realrecovered on the platform, equivalent to saving electricity of 219,000 kWh. and service enterprise. time power by the control system according to the sea pipe outlet temperature, to achieve Energy saving transformation of circulating water system in Fudao Company energy conservation and emission reduction. Improving an ecological environmental protection system Under the condition that the new system is CNOOC resolutely implements the principle of “protection in development, development in protection”, In July 2019, the overall optimization and energy-saving transformation project for four circulating annually used for 200 days, the project will conducts whole life-cycle environmental protection management, and strengthens environmental water devices of Fudao Company was completed, achieving annual electricity saving of 35.45 save electricity of 626,000 kWh, and greatly protection management in various stages of project, such as feasibility study, design, construction, trial million kWh, equivalent to 10,635 tons of standard coal and CO2 emission reduction of 18,682 tons, improve the energy efficiency. System production, and production. At present, a relatively complete system of environmental protection has been and the power saving rate was 30.8%. formed. In 2019, the Company organized the formulation of “Detailed Rules for Enterprise Environmental The “Overall Optimization Technology of Vane Pump Based on 3D CAD-CFD” was adopted to Zhuhai LNG built intelligent Risk Management” and “Detailed Rules for Solid Waste Management” to strengthen the treatment management system design and process the high-performance impellers of recycling water pump, and greatly improved of environmental risks and hidden dangers, as well as the implementation of classified solid waste the pump efficiency. The project is replacing original fan motor by a gearless water turbine with the classification management, source reduction and full-process control. In 2019, intelligent operation and maintenance use of system’s residual pressure. Excess energy of the circulating water return flow was recovered, management system was put into use in Zhuhai and the overall energy efficiency of the circulating water system was greatly improved. Advanced LNG, and has reduced electricity consumption on-line monitoring system was used to optimize the flow of circulating water system to keep the Release of “Green Development Action Plan” by about 5 million kWh, with a direct cost operation staying best. On June 10, 2019, CNOOC issued the “Green Development Action Plan” and the “Implementation Plan reduction of about RMB 4.9 million. for Green Development Action Plan” to comply with the global energy transformation and development The company takes multiple measures to Action trend and the requirements of national ecological civilization, and defined the green development goals Waste heat recovery project was successfully put into use in Daxie save energy and increase efficiency. For key of CNOOC in the three stages such as 2020-short term, 2035-medium term and 2050-long term, and Petrochemical equipment in the plant, information technology formed the overall framework and development ideas, to promote the high-quality development of China’s In September 2019, “Waste Heat Recovery System of Process Hot Water in Ethylbenzene Plant”, is applied to monitor the energy consumption offshore oil industry. major energy-saving project in Daxie Petrochemical, was successfully put into operation at first and operating conditions in real time, and based trial, and expected to create benefits of RMB 15 million per year. on these conditions further creates energy consumption optimization model to scientifically Awards for green management This energy-saving technology is mainly composed of absorption heat pump units, flash tanks, guide the decisions on optimal production mode. water pumps, heat exchangers and other auxiliary equipment, can effectively reduce the overall In 2019, companies of CNOOC were selected into the 4th National Green Manufacturing list, including Through performance management methods energy consumption of ethylbenzene-styrene plant, will realize reasonable energy utilization in the Performance CNOOC Deepwater Development Limited, Dongfang Operation Company of CNOOC China Limited, like energy consumption assessment and cost plant and effectively promote cost reduction and efficiency increase of enterprises. Hainan Branch, CNOOC Refinery Co., Ltd., Huizhou Refinery Branch, COOEC-Fluor Heavy Industries accounting, the company improves operation Co., Ltd. teams’ awareness of energy saving. 40 41 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Enhancing Environmental Protection Transformation of permanent magnet motor in CUCBM to promote energy saving Environmental Governance In September 2019, 201 high-energyspeed, and low temperature rise. Through the consumption excitation motors, under the transformation project, CUCBM reduced the CNOOC continued to strengthen environmental governance and took various measures to fight against pollution. Subsidiary jurisdiction of 22 valve groups in Shizhuang motor loss and improved the overall efficiency enterprises in key areas such as the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region, the Yangtze River Economic Belt, the Pearl River Delta, and the South Block, were transformed by CUCBM of the motor. It broke through and solved Hainan Free Trade Zone (ports) strictly implemented the requirements for pollutant emission limits, and actively carried out the into high-efficiency energy-saving permanent the problems of existing traditional control upgrading of environmental protection facilities. In 2019, about 56 transformation projects for standard raising were constantly magnet motors. After transformation, the mode, such as increasing the torque lowcarried out in subsidiary enterprises, with an environmental protection investment of about RMB 230 million. In addition, CNOOC average power saving rate of all valve groups speed excitation, high heat, and high energy is 78.68%, and the annual energy saving is consumption, and achieved low-impact times further implemented the national special environmental protection requirements for blue sky, clear water and clean land by 1,250 tons of standard coal. stable operation of oil pumpers by 0.5 time per continuously strengthening the special supervisions on environmental protection, launching soil pollution investigations, conducting minute. The transformation saves production solid waste management and control investigations, and promoting the completion of anti-seepage transformation of underground Permanent magnet motors are characterized costs, improves the on-site production runtime oil tanks in gas stations. by high efficiency, high power factor, small rate, and improves the level of enterprise current, no slippage during operation, stable production management. Energy saving and efficiency improvement 9 secondary Special units 278,000 tons of standard coal 0.3471 tons of standard coal environmental Supervisory protection monitoring in 3 inspection in enterprises Energy saving Integrated energy consumption per 27 companies RMB 10,000 turnover Energy saving and efficiency improvement in natural gas power plant of CNOOC Gas & Power Group Zhongshan Jiaming BC Link Construction Project was put into operation smoothly and realized efficient operation. High-efficiency units of Phase III replaced lowefficiency units of phase II for power generation. As of December 31, 2019, the alternative surfer electricity quantity was 1.178 billion kWh, saving natural gas of Putian Power Plant starts and stops 8.959 million m3. The cost reduction was about RMB 22.1285 million with the natural 500 to 600 times per year on average. gas price of RMB 2.48 per m3 (including tax). By implementing the optimization scheme of shortening start-stop interval time of units, the shutdown Environmental Inspection and Monitoring In Zhuhai Electric Power, the condensate time is shortened by about 4 minutes, pump frequency conversion was and 786 tons of standard coal can be In 2019, CNOOC continued to implement environmental pollution risk investigation and treatment of potential environmental hazards, optimized, from the single pressure saved every year. deployed special environmental protection supervision and supervisory environmental monitoring work for the whole company, control of condensate main pipe to a including the application and implementation of emission permits, pollution prevention and control of air, water and solid waste, as dual control mode, which integrated the well as environmental risk management and control, environmental monitoring and other environmental protection business. Special frequency adjustment of low-pressure environmental supervision was carried out in a total of 27 enterprises subordinated to 9 secondary units and supervisory monitoring drum water level by condensate pump in 3 enterprises. Meanwhile, in order to make full preparations for the Central Environmental Protection Inspector to enter central with the pressure control of condensate enterprises, CNOOC sorted out the existing environmental protection management contents, and organized the establishment of main pipe. The optimization effectively reduced the operating current of environmental protection management account at all levels. condensate pump and greatly saved the Through the DLN1.0+ upgrading of unit 6 and unit 8 to improve the thermal efficiency, power consumption of power plant. Shenzhen Electric Power increased benefits of RMB 1.65 million. After inspection Investigation of Soil Pollution The frequency of the condensate pump and maintenance, weld treatment was carried out on the condenser throat of unit 7 According to the requirements of “Soil Pollution Control Law” and other national policies for soil pollution prevention and control, inverter is reduced by 3 Hz, the actual to improve the vacuum and unit efficiency. RMB 3.5 million in energy saving and operating current is reduced by 8 amps, CNOOC launched a full investigation on soil pollution to key subsidiaries. By the end of 2019, 40 enterprises subordinated to five efficiency improvement was realized throughout the year. and each unit can save the cost of RMB secondary units had taken the lead in completing the preliminary investigation of soil pollution. In addition, CNOOC compiled the 189,000 per year. “Compilation of Soil Environmental Management Requirements” and “Guidelines for Investigation of Potential Soil and Groundwater Pollution Hazards in Industrial Enterprises” to provide a basis for subsequent work of soil pollution risk control and remediation. 42 43 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Enhancing Environmental Protection Solid Waste Management Water Resource “Weizhou 12-8W/6-12” Oilfield strengthened water-saving culture Management construction In 2019, the Company formulated the “Regulations on Solid Waste Management”, and implemented source reduction, solid waste In rainy days, “Weizhou 12-8W/6-12” Oilfield desalination device and domestic sewage classification management and full-process control. At the same time, the review of 8 hazardous waste outsourcing units from 4 With emphasis on utilization efficiency of makes full use of rainwater in maintaining 6S treatment device. Through a series of measures, branches were carried out during the year. The management status and compliance with the whole process were understood. The water resources, CNOOC implements responsible area to strengthen the water-saving such as regular cleaning of the membrane subordinate units were urged to carry out extended management of their outsourced processing units. The main responsibility was water-saving activities and promotes the awareness. By establishing recovery tanks for group of domestic sewage treatment device implemented, and the standardized management of hazardous waste was effectively strengthened. The Company continued to recycling of water resources in order to air conditioning condensate and rainwater, and equipping ultraviolet sterilization device on increase efficient treatment of hazardous wastes from offshore drilling and completion. Through technical measures such as source enhance water resources protection. the oilfield company collected water for deck the seawater desalination device, the utilization reduction, process reduction and end disposal, a total of 117,000 tons of hazardous waste were processed throughout the year, with The Company continues to intensify cleaning and toilet flushing. The consumption efficiency and equipment life were greatly a reduction of 27,000 tons at sea and zero land inventory. technological innovation, strengthen of fresh water by tugboats was effectively improved, and the replenishment frequency of water use process management, take reduced. The oilfield company also organized fresh water by tugboat was reduced. comprehensive measures to reuse on-site personnel to carry out fine maintenance Anti-seepage Transformation of Underground Oil Tanks in Gas Stations wastewater and reclaimed water, desalinate on water-saving equipment, such as seawater Based on the anti-seepage transformation work of underground oil tanks in subsidiary gas stations in 2018, CNOOC continued to seawater and protect water ecosystem, promote the comprehensive completion of anti-seepage transformation of underground oil tanks in gas stations through monthly and comprehensively strengthen water follow-up of the progress and on-site inspection. By the end of 2019, all subsidiary operating gas stations had completed the resources management, to realize the Desalination technology of flash evaporation was applied in CNOOC transformations, with a completion rate of 100%. sustainable utilization of water resources. EnerTech In 2019, the Company’s annual fresh In 2019, achievements of the research on Desalinated seawater can be used as platform water consumption was 101.429 million flash evaporation desalination technology fresh water for personnel drinking, bathing and tons, saving 907,000 tons of water contracted by CNOOC EnerTech were deck washing, and greatly reduces the supply Huahe Company uses ash to treat applied in 4 offshore oil production platforms cost of platform’s onshore fresh water with Multi-dimensional pollution control and emission reduction in Bohai Oilfield resources. geological disasters including “Bozhong 34-1” platform and FPSO about RMB 250,000 per year. Bohai Oilfield controls the production and discharge of various pollutants from three aspects: space, (Floating Production Storage and Offloading). Huahe Company takes the initiative to time and total volume. In terms of space, for the operations of exploratory well in marine ecological participate in the treatment of geological sensitive area, CNOOC invested in drilling platform transformation. All the drilling cuttings and disasters around Hegang City, and carries out mud from the reservoir section were recovered, stored and transported back to the land for disposal ash and slag backfilling treatments for many Establishment of pressure test workstation in COOEC by qualified units, so as to realize “zero discharge” of drilling cuttings and mud from the reservoir abandoned sand pits in Xing’an District of section in the operation area. In terms of time, according to the spawning cycle of major economic Special Equipment Branch of COOEC intelligent water injection modules, the waterHegang. During the backfilling process, ash fishes in the sea area, environmental protection measures for avoiding fishing season were established a pressure test workstation to solve saving effect has reached a new level. As of and slag are compacted in layers and green implemented to reduce the impact of drilling operations on the marine ecological environment. the pressure test process problems and won December 2019, compared with that before the vegetation is planted. In addition to economic In terms of total volume, according to the EIA report, it was strictly controlled within the range of more sufficient construction time. Especially construction, the company has accumulatively and ecological benefits, it provides a practical discharge standards for production water and domestic sewage. after the pressure test station upgrade and saved 82,000 tons of water by recycling the solution for the comprehensive utilization of general solid waste. the installation of electric heaters and pressure test water. Pressure test station “Green manufacturing” Increase green and enhance efficiency Waste mud Filter cake 90% increase of Save water cost of Labor saving 165 94.6% reduction cyclic utilization rate RMB 122,400 per year days per year in single pressure test cost 44 45 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Enhancing Environmental Protection Innovative water-saving technology took root Tackling Climate Change The FPSO (Floating Production Storage and Offloading) of “Penglai 19-3” Oilfield recovered the waste heat from boiler flue gas. Boiler flue gas is imported into hot water heat exchanger, to generate hot water for the desalination machine, where seawater is finally desalinated. With the average daily As a responsible energy company, CNOOC responds to the Paris Agreement and actively tackling climate change, focusing on production of 100 m3 of freshwater, self-sufficiency of freshwater was achieved for production and living in FPSO facilities, which reduced the use of building a clean, low-carbon, safe and efficient energy system, continuously building a comprehensive low-carbon management ships for fetching water, and effectively saved production costs. system, and striving to achieve “Our Quality Energy for Your Blue Sea and Sky”. The boiler waste heat seawater desalination project on the FPSO HYSY117 (Floating Production Storage and Offloading), which was recently put into In 2019, CNOOC issued “Green Development Action Plan” to practice the idea of ecological civilization. The action plan is required operation in July 2019, has achieved to produce 1,500 m3 of fresh water in half a month. to implement “Green Oilfield” in the future in order to minimize carbon emission during the exploration and development of offshore oil and gas. CNOOC formulated the carbon emission index system and implemented emission reduction measures by making comparisons with global business leaders in terms of total greenhouse gas emissions, greenhouse gas emissions per unit product, control of torch release air and methane emission. CNOOC has integrated the idea of greenhouse gas emission reduction into the entire life cycle of new projects. Starting from the source, the Company carries out strict control over process selection and equipment selection during the project design stage, in order to ensure the maximum of energy utilization efficiency, the optimization of greenhouse gas emission reduction measures. Upon the completion, a strict post-evaluation will be conducted to meet low carbon requirements for new projects. “Internet celebrity” in new energy field In July 2019, CNOOC established CNOOC offshore oil and gas fields, and nitrogen oxide emissions. Meanwhile, as the pioneer of offshore Rongfeng Energy Co., Ltd. Based on the decentralized wind power development, it will also help improve the related procedures and development of offshore wind energy, the standards for China’s offshore decentralized wind power. company continued to expand new energy forms of and new formats of energy supply, to explore new force driving sustainable development. The first offshore wind power Huahe Company was selected as Industrial Water Saving Benchmarking Enterprise of Heilongjiang Province in 2019 project jointly developed by Rongfeng has smoothly started. Jiangsu offshore wind power On August 30, 2019, 10 units of the power project is under intense construction, and other generation project by circulating water return offshore wind power projects are also under residual pressure of Huahe Company were implementation. completed and put into operation, with a In order to give full play to the advantages power generation capacity of more than of the company’s industrial chain and realize 1,400 kW. This project creatively uses hydro integrated development, CNOOC is studying turbine power generation technology, and a power supply project scheme for oil & gas breaks the traditional Inertial thinking of fields by offshore decentralized wind power. recovering surplus energy by using turbines After the implementation, the project will to drive fans. It introduces bulb-type crosseffectively reduce the development cost of flow turbines from hydropower industry into the chemical industry, innovates and optimizes the turbine selection and structure, CNOOC continues conducting CUCBM laid the foundation for CBM to enter the carbon emission market to improve the technology applicability. carbon emissions impact assessment It is the first industrial application in the In 2019, with no applicable standard, Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions for CNOOC Research Institute has established industry, and of extensive significance in CUCBM led the completion of the “Research Coal-bed Methane Enterprises”, laying a solid a carbon quota price prediction model chemical, refining, power generation and on Greenhouse Gas Emission Accounting foundation for coalbed methane to enter the and summarized a set of adaptable and other fields. It can save electricity of 11.5 and Detection Methods for Coalbed carbon emission market. effective work ideas and methods for carbon million kWh each year, create economic Methane Enterprises”, identified the key assessment, forming a complete carbon benefits of more than RMB 6 million. elements of greenhouse gas emissions from emission assessment technology system. The Huahe Company was selected into the list coalbed methane extraction enterprises, and first “Guideline for Carbon Emission Impact of “Industrial Water Saving Benchmarking demonstrated the emission levels of key Assessment Report of Investment Project” of Enterprise of Heilongjiang Province in 2019”, emission sources (fugitive emissions). The CNOOC will be released in the near future, jointly issued by Department of Industry and company compiled the detection scheme of which will lay a solid foundation. Information Technology and Department of emission factors of coal-bed methane mining Water Resources of Heilongjiang Province. enterprises, and completed the “Guide to the 46 47 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Biodiversity Conservation Driving Social Progress The ocean is our blue homeland, a treasure trove of abundant resources, and the base for high-quality development of CNOOC. While pursuing the sustainable development of offshore oil industry, it is the unswerving promise of CNOOC to fulfill its responsibility for environmental protection. For many years, CNOOC has been a participant in and sponsor of enhancement and releasing activities. The Company actively fulfills the social responsibility of state-owned enterprises and strives to protect the marine environment and biodiversity. Case “Cute Assistant” in oilfield On June 12, 2019, the employees working on the WHPF platform of Caofeidian Oilfield in the Bohai Sea were surprised to encounter a “cute assistant”. A cute spotted seal jumping out of the sea, lying on the jacket and twisting the body with an eager look, as if to join the operation team immediately. Spotted seal is a national second-class protected animal, and has high requirements for marine water quality and environmental sound. Its constant appearance around Bohai Oilfield facilities, shows a perfect picture of harmonious coexistence between human and the nature. “Eye for the Mystery” infrared camera investigation project Since 2019, CNOOC Public Welfare Foundation has been funding the Forest Ecological Environment and Protection Research Institute of China Academy of Forestry Sciences to carry out the “Eye for the Mystery” infrared camera investigation project. 800 infrared cameras are sponsored to conduct special investigation of wildlife in 8 nature reserves across the country. The project is committed to enhancing the protection and management of biodiversity, assisting the scientific research of wildlife protection, which makes the public have better understand and pay more attention to the natural reserves and biological diversity, and enjoy the benefits of natural protection. Seagulls fly In March, 2019, there was a spectacular scene at the estuary of Haihe River. Thousands of seagulls were perching and foraging. CNOOC continues to contribute new momentum to building a beautiful China. The Company is not only a developer of blue territory and builder of marine economy, but also a protector of the marine ecosystem. In recent years, through actively participating in environmental protection actions such as comprehensive marine management, CNOOC has achieved remarkable results in building blue land and green oil fields. Enhancement and releasing to protect marine ecology Frequent appearance of finless porpoise in the waters around “Nanbao 35-2” Oilfield On May 16, 2019, the public welfare creature releasing activity of CNOOC was “Nanbao 35-2” Oilfield not only has launched. 1 million crab seedlings and 11 zero discharge of production water and million Penaeus chinensis seedlings were purification of domestic sewage, but released to the Liaohe River and the Bohai also collects rainwater falling on the Sea. As one of the sponsors, CNOOC has platform to avoid entering the sea. Once invested more than RMB 10 million in the the passing ship is oil spilled, the oilfield restoration of fishery resources in the Bohai will conduct emergency treatment at the Sea, which is the largest investment over first time and try every means to retain the past years. the blue sea and blue sky. 48 49 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Driving Social Progress Caring for Employees employees’ holidays and fully guarantees employees’ legal leave rights. On the throughout the year, and no complaints on human rights issues have been decision-making, administration and supervision. basis of guaranteeing employees to received. CNOOC always regards talents as the most valuable wealth of the company, actively promotes the development strategy of enjoy national statutory holidays, the “rejuvenating enterprise by talents” and creates an institutional mechanism with equal opportunities and fair rules. Through building a Career Development Company has made a series of efforts to Democratic Management dense atmosphere of respecting and attaching greater importance to talents, developing a positive and diligent environment for talent encourage employees to take vacations CNOOC will continue to optimize the development and creating a positive, initiative, healthy and inclusive enterprise culture. CNOOC improves employees’ sense of gain, and recuperation, and offer paid annual CNOOC constantly improves the career promotion channel and smooth happiness and security. leave and family visit leave. Settlement employee democratic management the career development of employees. allowance and comprehensive allowance system and makes full use of employees’ Adhering to the high-end guidance, the Protection of Rights and system, optimize the salary mechanism special instant incentives, to stimulate are provided for migrant workers, and roles in the democratic decision-making, Company further increases the selection Interests in accordance with relevant national the entrepreneurial enthusiasm of key transitional apartments are prepared in administration and supervision. The of two-level technical experts of the policies, focus on the main business talent officers, and promote “employees particular region for single employees to Company effectively protects employees’ Company and subsidiaries, carries out the CNOOC strictly abides by laws and development of oil and gas, ensure to empower enterprises”. Through help them quickly integrate into local life. rights to be informed, to oversee, to first selection of senior technical experts regulations of the UN and the host national energy security, and serve the exploring diversified incentive methods, participate and to be heard, safeguarding of the Company, sets up new post level countries where its business is located. overall situation of increasing storage the Company is actively promoting employees’ democratic and legitimate of chief technician, and gradually opens We faithfully respect human rights, Employment Policy and production. CNOOC improves equity and dividend in sci-tech units, and r i g h t s a n d i n t e re s t s . I n 2 0 1 9 , t h e up the career development channels for pursue equality and proactively advocate CNOOC earnestly abides by the its comprehensive remuneration building a mechanism linking employees’ employee satisfaction rate scored 8.93 technology and skills. our partners, suppliers and contractors international conventions ratified by Chinese management, strengthens the linkage income with the performance of the points (out of 10 points). Labor unions to make common efforts to comply with Government, such as the Convention on the between “bonus pool” and performance Company, with personal contribution. at different levels effectively protect relevant regulations. We strictly carry out Career Access appraisal, and forms a clear, sensitive Elimination of Discrimination in Employment employees’ legitimate rights and interests, various employment policies without any The Company establishes a and effective mechanism of incentives, and Occupation , and has established a and supervise the Company’s fulfilment CNOOC takes the opportunity of discriminatory provisions or behaviors comprehensively effective security gradually establishes a salary growth and relatively complete management system of responsibilities and duties. The the reform of scientific, technological to establish harmonious and stable system, which provides employees distribution mechanism that matches of employment according to the Chinese percentage of employees’ joining was s y s t e m a n d m e c h a n i s m , a d h e re s labor relations and maintain employees’ with five basic social insurances, the market. In order to encourage the Labor Law and relevant laws, regulations of kept at 100%. The Company improves to the orientation of “morality, ability, legitimate rights and interests. n a m e l y, e n d o w m e n t i n s u r a n c e , creation of better benefits, by comparing local authorities and listing place. the enterprise democratic management performance and potential”, fully mobilizes medical insurance, employment injury internal and external salaries, CNOOC system and the business affair publicity the enthusiasm, initiative, and creativity insurance, unemployment insurance Employees of different nationalities, Compensation and Welfare focuses on two-level technical experts and maternity insurance, as well as nations, races, genders, religious beliefs system with the basic form of workers’ of scientific and technical personnel, and skilled personnel for marine work and congress, strengthens the function of and effectively enables professional CN OOC co n tin u e s t o i mp rov e t he multi-level supplementary insurance, and cultural backgrounds are treated front-line staff. The Company will increase safeguarding rights of the labor union and and technical personnel with strong comprehensive salary management including personal accident insurance, equally, and recruiting or use of child p re c i s e i n c e n t i v e s a n d i m p l e m e n t enhances democratic management such ability, good performance and great commercial supplementary medical labor is firmly prohibited. Female has the as enlarging channels of transmitting contribution to obtain better career insurance, critical illness insurance and same rights as male in the Company. Improve employee experience by digital means decisions to lower levels and reporting development opportunities. CNOOC juvenile children supplementary medical The Company has been focusing on employees’ opinions to higher-levels so Zhanjiang Branch was selected as the insurance. The participation rate of social promoting the employment of local CNOOC takes digitalization as an opportunity and focuses on user experience to explore new “demonstration enterprise for deepening residents, women and ethnic minorities, as to help employees fully express their models of human resource service. The self-service terminal for employees is introduced to realize insurance reaches 100%. The Company opinions and participate in democratic the reform of talent development system “on-demand access” of relevant materials, such as on-the-job certificate and income certificate. joins hands with insurance companies, increasing employment opportunities Through mobile Apps, efficient services, including information query, salary query, online learning, actively follows up the implementation of in local communities, and improving performance assessment, training registration, vacation application, etc., the system is available 24/7 critical illness insurance, actively carries the coordination mechanism of labor for employees, particularly offshore and overseas employees. The system functions are so simple out the publicity work for employee relations, to promote the harmony of “100 Outstanding Craftsmen” of central enterprises and easy to use that everyone “knows how to use at a first glance”. The employee satisfaction is supplementary medical insurance and labor relations. The Company advocates Liu Hailin and Gao Dongbin, two of CNOOC’s outstanding employees, were selected into the constantly improving. critical disease insurance, innovates a kind of respectful, open and tolerant training support program of the first “100 Outstanding Craftsmen” of central enterprises. employee health digital services, culture, abides by the local laws and opens quick small claims services for regulations, and implements overseas supplementary medical insurance, and personnel management methods. In establishes the WeChat public service of addition, in order to attract local talents, “health home for employees of CNOOC”. the Company has been devoting itself In addition, the Company has established to developing and improving systems occupational pension and housing of employee recruitment, use as well as allowance for employees. incentives, and providing a broad career development platform. No violations such In order to help employees better balance as child labor and forced labor have been their work and life, the Company strictly found in any operations, in any regions enforces the relevant regulations on 50 51 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Driving Social Progress 87,500 Career Health and mechanism” by SASAC. Liu Hailin deployed Online China-Europe MBA, of COOEC and Gao Dongbin of CNOOC English College, Accounting College, Upholding the QHSE core value of Oil & Petrochemicals were selected as etc., and established a number of Online users “People-oriented” philosophy and closely “100 Outstanding Craftsmen” of central thematic contents, such as petroleum centering on the implementation of enterprises. spirit, digital knowledge, health, safety 57,400 occupational disease prevention law, and environmental protection, well CNOOC focuses on the source control control, etc. The platform was used to Employee Training of occupational disease hazards, and carry out various training activities such Offline training courses In 2019, CNOOC actively carried out staff according to the Company’s practices, as topical learning, talent selection, strengthens supervision and verification 990,600 training and continued to increase training and competition events. The number investment, an increase of 52.76% over of occupational health management of platform users reached more than the previous year. The Company held i n w o r k p l a c e , a n d a t t a c h e s g re a t 87,500, with a monthly average number 57,400 offline training courses, with of active users of 23,000, and the class person-times importance to promote standardized 990,600 person-times, and 8.07 million Person-times of training management in daily monitoring of hours per capita increased by 238% training hours (i.e. 94.86 hours per capita), o c c u p a t i o n a l h a z a rd s a n d h e a l t h . over the previous year. Continuous The Company develops occupational 8.07million hours an increase of 27.6% over 2018. investment in training and the online health network video training courses, The Company continuously promoted & offline blended learning mode have continuously deepens the information o n l i n e l e a r n i n g , s t re n g t h e n e d t h e effectively promoted the construction of Hours of training management of occupational health, and construction and promotion of the content learning organization. examination for employees exposing Assisting Employees in Need solidly promotes hazard classification resources of “Haixue” online platform, occupational disease hazards reached management. At the same time, the Adhering to the “Three No” Principle, 99.87%. Company pays attention to the physical namely, no employee lives below the and mental health of employees, and poverty line, no employee cannot afford continuously carries out health promotion Caring for Employees medical treatment, and no employee and psychological stress management cannot afford their children’s education, Employees are the essential source services for offshore staff. CNOOC's Leading Group for Poverty for sustainable development of the The craftsmanship of CNOOC shining in the “Weld World Cup” Alleviation and Relief Work builds a In 2019, CNOOC carried out 58 preCompany. CNOOC earnestly practices The “ARC CUP of 2019 Belt & Road and BRICS Skills Development and Technology evaluation projects of occupational the “people-oriented, caring for comprehensive poverty alleviation and Innovation Competition” was held on September 9, 2019. The “ARC CUP” is known as the disease hazards and 42 acceptance employees” philosophy, constantly relief system to earnestly help employees “Welding World Cup”. CNOOC’s delegation competed with more than 300 welding experts projects of occupational disease improves employees’ working and in need. Special funds of RMB 20 million from 10 countries and finally won 6 first prizes (including 5 championships), 4 second prizes protection facilities. A full coverage living conditions, carries out various was allocated for poverty alleviation and and 7 third prizes in individual events, as well as a group gold award. It is the best result since of regular surveillance of workplace caring activities, strives for ensuring that relief throughout the year. CNOOC attends the “ARC CUP”. occupation hazards has been achieved employees balance their work and life, According to their monthly income, and the rate of occupational health and enhance their sense of happiness. population and children’s schooling situation, 181 employee families in need got RMB 1.33 million for family assistance and children’s financial aid of education. In accordance with the principle of “reasonable medical treatment, appropriate and precise assistance” , proper medical assistance of RMB 7.156 million was distributed to more than 400 employees with serious illness. 1,330 disabled people in need (including employees and their families) got reliefs of RMB 3.895 million. Over 600 families got relif of RMB 3.5 million during the activity of “Warm Support to the Families of Employees in Difficulty”. 52 53 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Driving Social Progress Devoting to Public Interests CNOOC carries out targeted poverty alleviation in the fields of industry, housing, education, medical treatment and infrastructure, which provides sustainable and stable “blood” for local economic development and continuously improves local people’s lives. In 2019, CNOOC actively promoted poverty alleviation through education, consumption, and tourism in combination with the Company’s professional advantages, and took various measures to explore a new model for industrial poverty alleviation. The Company won the highest rating in the assessment of poverty alleviation work designated by the central unit for two consecutive years. A manager who served temporary positions won the “Innovation Award” of the National Award for poverty alleviation. By the end of 2019, Xiahe County and Hezuo City in Gansu Province, Baoting County in Hainan Province and Nima County in Tibet had successfully withdrawn from the poverty-stricken list. Zhuozi County in Inner Mongolia and Wuzhishan City in Hainan Province are under evaluation for acceptance. 4 2 Xiahe County in Gansu Province Zhuozi County in Inner Hezuo City in Gansu Province Mongolia Cities withdrawn Cities are under Baoting County in Hainan Province from the povertyevaluation for Wuzhishan City in Hainan Province stricken list Nima County in Tibet acceptance Investigation in Baoting County Promoting public welfare services with student assistance funds On November 29, 2019, Wang Dongjin, he highly praised the elderly for her spirit of Since the establishment of “CNOOC Chairman of CNOOC, investigated on consistent efforts and self-improvement, and University Student Assistance Fund” with targeted poverty alleviation work in Baoting blessed the elderly to live better. the China Soong Ching Ling Foundation in Li and Miao Autonomous County. He entered 2003, CNOOC Public Welfare Foundation has villages and farmers’ home, and made on-site donated more than RMB 50 million to help inspection on the Assistance Projects. 15,156 college students living in poverty. When Wang Dongjin visited Gao Jinxiong’s In addition to carrying out public welfare mother in Shiluo village, he crouched down to activities and helping college students to finish talk with the elderly about the living conditions their studies, the student assistance fund project and physical condition. Learning details about breaks through the simple model of poverty her livelihood, such as weaving and selling alleviation and aid, encourages the students to straw mats, from the 80-year-old woman, pay more attention to the society and people’s livelihood from a deeper perspective, and guides them to participate in public welfare The sea holding hands with the plateau undertakings, to help the students complete the transformation from being helped to helping On December 23, 2019, Nima County, the central heating, and cable TV into households, others, and pass the love on. counterpart support county of CNOOC, a modern small city has taken shape. withdrew from the list of poverty-stricken counties (districts). With the assistance of CNOOC, the GDP in Nima County has increased by nearly RMB 800 million compared with that before the counterpart assistance. The infrastructure and industrial structure have been continuously Balancing Work and Life improved. With the appearance of various CNOOC advocates the philosophy of “happy work, happy life” and cares for employees’ life in all-round way. The Company preserves cozy and leisure living facilities like schools, hospitals, shops, space and organizes various recreational sports activities for the employees to balance their work and life. cinemas, hotels along the streets, and tap water, 54 55 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Poverty Alleviation through Education Watering the Flower of Hope To help the poverty-stricken people, help them by education first. To alleviate poverty, alleviate ignorance first. In 2019, CNOOC continued to extend its responsibility and passed Poverty Alleviation through Education love on. Combining with its professional advantages, CNOOC actively carried out poverty 175.4% It is an important task for poverty alleviation and an important way to block the poverty alleviation training and education in Xiahe County and Hezuo City of Gansu Province, transmission between generations to help children in poverty stricken areas to receive good Zhuozi County of Inner Mongolia, Baoting County and Wuzhishan City of Hainan Province, education. In 2019, CNOOC launched many education activities of poverty alleviation to completion rate and Nima County of Tibet, so as to enrich local people in pockets and brains. sprout the seeds of knowledge. Poverty Alleviation Training In 2019, CNOOC customized trainings for poverty alleviation. 18 poverty alleviation trainings were originally organized to train 1,000 people, but at last 1,754 people actually participated, CNOOC employees help with a completion rate of 175.4%. poverty stricken high school students in pairs 05 Three-level Manager New Media Training for Personalized Project Management Training Poverty Alleviation Training 04 Characteristic agriculture “People’s Video Entering Gannan” technical Training of assistance teams in villages Targeted funding activities for training Build an inspirational bookstore Advanced enterprise management Eco-Tech commissioner training poverty stricken college New media application skills for children in remote areas 03 Poverty alleviation case to share Characteristic crop breeding training students in Xiahe County and “Internet + Poverty Alleviation” Zhuozi County publicity method 02 Inspiring by knowledge 01 —famous educators enter campus E-commerce Training for Engineering Project Poverty Alleviation Management Training Basic knowledge for e-commerce Basic knowledge of project management management Visiting CNOOC Construction project management method Multi-channel marketing approach —study camp for students in poverty Application of third-party trading platform 56 57 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Driving Social Progress Providing Voluntary Services Integrating into the Community With the goal of building harmonious mining areas, harmonious enterprises, and a harmonious society, CNOOC continues to deepen CNOOC is proactively committed to serving society, creating harmony and bringing benefits to people, establishes the regular and vigorously carry out the “Blue Force” youth volunteer activities, continuously promotes the systematization of volunteer service communication mechanism with communities and listens to optimization proposals of local governments and residents. The ratio teams, the scientification of project management, the standardization of organizational activities, and the diversification of service of environmental and social impact assessment for new projects is kept at 100%. The Company makes efforts to share resources fields, and cultivates the sense of responsibility and dedication of young people, to fulfill the corporate social responsibility, and give with communities, proactively carries out community building in a cooperative way and repays communities with its development sincere service back to the society. By the end of 2019, CNOOC had 145 “Blue Force” youth volunteer teams and more than 5,100 outcomes. The Company helps local residents solve difficulties in life, improve local ecological environment, create and maintain volunteers. Over 400 voluntary public welfare activities were carried out throughout the year. communal safety and harmony. CNOOC constantly advances the “Warm Hearts” projects to effectively improve the residents’ living standard, drive the community culture construction and build their beautiful home with cooperative efforts. The Company continued to innovate the organization forms of “Blue Force” youth volunteer activities. During important events such as Lei Feng Day, Environment Day and World Ocean Day, “Blue Force” youth volunteer teams from the whole system went to streets and communities, and actively implemented the “blue” commitment to carry out various types of public welfare activities, such as Maritime rescue, create green passage by sea-land-air relay popularization of marine science and environmental protection, educational assistance, community services and social assistance for the elderly, disability and weakness. In 2019, CNOOC fulfilled relevant external rescue responsibilities and humanitarian obligations, and strongly supported various emergency actions of local governments. In 2019, 15 youth micro-public welfare projects were selected and funded by more than RMB 500,000. Relying on the “Blue Force” youth volunteer teams, many public welfare projects were successfully implemented, such as “Visiting CNOOC”, “Assisting Poverty Alleviation”, “Marine Public Welfare and Environmental Protection”, “Marine Culture Publicity”, “Protecting Arable Land and Renewable Resources”, “Caring for the Empty Nest Elderly”, fully mobilizing young employees’ enthusiasm of serving the enterprise and society, 829 47 times 19 56 times 7 times and building a communicative bridge between young employees and enterprises as well as between enterprises and society. people rescued search & rescue ships rescued use of ships use of helicopter or assistance Emergency rescue of injured fishermen on offshore platform CNOOC Enterprises Co., Ltd. CNOOC Research Institute On December 28, 2019, a fisherman operating in East China Sea was cleans up community streets Co., Ltd. supports education in cut by fishing gear on the left major artery and needed urgent medical Dandelion Middle School treatment. After receiving the call from Taizhou Maritime Search and Rescue Center, the emergency center on the offshore platform of CNOOC Shanghai Branch immediately launched an emergency plan for personnel rescue, and dispatched helicopter to transport the injured to Putuo People’s Hospital for surgical treatment. “Blue Force” in Action CUCBM sends sympathy to poverty stricken residents in the community Langanbao town of Shenmu City is a key operation area for tight gas development of CUCBM. CUCBM is committed to community residents, and provides assistance to families in poverty. CNOOC EnerTech CNOOC Trust Co., Ltd. The company fixes contacts with 18 families cares for autistic children promotes education on in the community, frequently visits the elderly, waste separation the weak and those with mobility problems, and regularly delivers daily necessities like rice, noodle, oil to their homes. Huahe Company of China BlueChemical maintains pairing relationship with corporate community Since March 2017, Huahe Company has formed a co-construction partnership with the Xingsheng Community of Hedong Road Office, Xing’an District, CUCBM CNOOC Shanghai Branch Hegang City, and signed an “Agreement for Co-residence & Co-construction of Community”, to create a joint voluntary service mechanism for enterpriseassists villagers in need organizes marine knowledge community. The company innovated the “make-to-order” voluntary service model. On average, volunteer service was carried out once or twice a month to harvest cabbage popularization activities in the community, realizing the standardization, normalization of volunteer service activities and resource sharing between enterprises and community. 58 59 China National Offshore Oil Corp. CSR Report Overseas Condensation of every little bit keeps life endless CNOOC EnerTech organizing blood donation Thirty years of blood donation Li Gang is an ordinary 2019 employee of the strong electricity team of the CSR REPORT OVERSEAS Engineering Department Deeply Integrating into Global Economy • Joint Development for Bright Future in Shaoyaoju CNOOC Building Management Branch of CNOOC Enterprises Co., Ltd. During the 11,000 days since he participated in the public welfare, he has donated blood 32 times with a total of 12,800 ml Let love not be rare and all for free. If a patient needs 800 ml of blood on Lu Yunhui donated 3,200 ml of Rh negative average, his donation can type B blood (also known as panda blood due save more than 20 people. to rarity) over 10 years, which is close to the total blood volume of an adult. Love warms elderly CNOOC inherits the Chinese traditional culture of “respecting the elderly”, earnestly cares for the lives of the elderly, listens to their voices, and helps them solve practical difficulties. The Company organizes young volunteers to enter elderly institutions and elderly families to provide services such as medical care, housekeeping, nursing, counseling, and psychological counseling. The Company also cooperates with community hospitals, elderly canteens and other institutions to carry out a series of activities like “free consultations, dinners, cultural and sports entertainment, and festival warmth”, to ensure the elderly have “medical care, living care and entertainments”. “The Most Beautiful Physician” in community of CNOOC Enterprises Co., Ltd. CNOOC Shanghai Branch caring for the CNOOC EnerTech’s annual event of “Celebrating Double Ninth Festival” elderly by starting from their “heads” 60 61 China National Offshore Oil Corp. CSR Report Overseas CNOOC Brand Lighting up the “Belt and Road” Norway In 2019, focusing on customers, CNOOC attached great importance to the stable operation of overseas brands, kept close to markets and customer demands, and continuously optimized the quality of products and services, to strengthen the CNOOC brand. Netherlands United Kingdom CNOOC maintained great operating performance in the extremely severe market environment Russia and has made new breakthroughs in the markets of many countries and regions. COOEC and other companies have won several awards for overseas project contribution and safety constructions. The CNOOC brand lights up the “Belt and Road” and will boost the global sustainable development. Algeria China Iraq Pakistan Iran Kuwait CNOOC COSL COOEC CNOOC EnerTech India South Korea Qatar UAE Oil and gas field Geophysical prospectOffshore oil and gas Energy technology Oman exploration ing services production facilities services Saudi Arabia Bangladesh Vietnam Oil and gas field Onshore oil and gas FPSO production Myanmar Drilling services production production facilities technology service Chad Thailand Oilfield technical Oil sand well site Energy logistics Nigeria Ethiopia services facilities services Brunei Cameroon Malaysia Shipping services Safety, environmental protection and energy Uganda Singapore conservation services Gabon Congo Papua New Guinea Indonesia Australia New Caledonia Madagascar New Zealand South Africa 62 63 China National Offshore Oil Corp. CSR Report Overseas Creating Socioeconomic Value COOEC delivers anther world-class “offshore oil and gas processing plant” On December 4, 2019, FPSO P70, the largest tonnage-level in the world and integrated independently by China, was successfully delivered to the 36.14 million tons In accordance with the spirit of “consultation, co-construction and sharing”, CNOOC Brazilian owner at the Qingdao site of COOEC. The 18-month construction period has refreshed the international delivery record of super large FPSOs. It is another successful deliver of world-class FPSO by CNOOC after P67 in last year. adheres to the consistent “win-win” concept, strengthens communication and cooperation with governments, partners, media think tanks and other stakeholders, Overseas crude oil production and implements as always the projects in accordance with the principle of “Safety First, Maximum displacement Environment Foremost, People-oriented and Equipment Intact”, in order to bring real 10.6 billion m of 350,000 tons value to all stakeholders. 3 Design life: 25 years Overseas gas production The total length is more than 300 m and the total width is about 74 m Drive local economic development 34.4 % Operation water depth: 2,200 m Proportion of overseas assets Natural gas processing Build energy foundation capacity: 6 million m3 / day Open up the economic artery 31 st PIW’s World’s Top 50 Oil Companies Value 3 rd Oil reserve: 1.6 million barrels Creation Annual production accounts for 1/4 of Daqing Oilfield Provide better Guarantee national products and services energy supply Global LNG Importer Production of high-end products Carry out international China’s first overseas world-class natural gas supporting transport ship project completed successfully Contribute to quality cooperation service Supply stable On January 8, 2019, “Pan Africa”, the largest and most advanced LNG carrier, which was independently designed and built in China, was officially resources delivered. The vaporized LNG capacity of “Pan Africa” reaches 104 million m3. If calculated by resident’s standard consumption of 15 m3 per month, it can meet the use of 600,000 households for one year. After being put into use, it will work with Pan-Asia, Pan-America and Pan-Europe to open up the “Maritime Silk Road” and transport 8.6 million tons of LNG every year. CNOOC EnerTech contracted COSL successfully completed the first overseas abandon-disposal Missan water treatment plant integration project Signing cooperation agreement On May 17, 2019, COSL successfully completed the abandoned wellbore disposal integration Many achievements obtained in overseas business with ADNOC project of VESTIGO company (a wholly owned subsidiary of Petronas), and was highly recognized On January 2, 2019, the Egina Oilfield in OML130 block of Nigerian waters, of which CNOOC by the customer. The project is the first abandoned disposal integration project of Malaysia National On July 22, 2019, CNOOC practiced the participated in the construction, was put into operation successfully. The oil field is about 150 km Corporation and also the first overseas abandoned wellbore disposal integration project of COSL. “Belt and Road” initiative and officially away from the Nigerian Gulf, and is located underwater with the depth of 1,600 meters. It adopts The successful completion of the project marks that the abandoned disposal integration level of exchanged strategic framework agreements the development mode of FPSO with underwater production system. After being put into operation, COSL has reached a new high, and lays a solid foundation for the implementation of subsequent with Abu Dhabi National Oil Corporation the production has been stable and achieved a daily peak production of 200,000 barrels in the year. projects in Malaysia. (ADNOC). The two parties will jointly explore cooperation opportunities in the fields On November 6, 2019, CNOOC successfully obtained 5% equity of Buzios Oilfield in Brazil. of upstream exploration and development, Buzios Oilfield is the largest single oil and gas discovery of last decade in the world, with huge refining and chemical industry, and LNG. reserves. It was put into production in 2018 and is a well-known high-quality deepwater subsalt asset. It is another high-quality asset that CNOOC, together with PetroChina and Petrobras, has On August 13, 2019, CNOOC EnerTech The signing of this strategic cooperation successfully obtained in Brazil. officially took over the operation right of agreement is of great significance for CNOOC Iraq’s Missan water treatment plant (WTP). to promote the development of overseas oil On December 21, 2019, Liza Oilfield in Guyana, in which CNOOC participated, was safely put Its stable operation has a profound impact on and gas businesses, realize the diversification into production ahead of schedule. Liza Oilfield was discovered in May 2015 and became the the production of the terminal plant and the of resource imports, and optimize the layout largest oil and gas discovery of the year. The first-phase development project is located in Stabroek domestic water in the surrounding living areas. of the integrated industrial chains of upstream, block, about 190 km away from the coast of Guyana, with one FPSO and 17 underwater wellheads. midstream and downstream. The project is expected to reach a daily peak production of 120,000 barrels in a few months. 64 65 China National Offshore Oil Corp. CSR Report Overseas Strengthening Safety and Compliance Management CNOOC Iraq strengthened procurement plan management HYSY760 received awards for Canadian project In 2019, Iraqi Company strengthened the management and control of procurement plan, improved Safety and compliance management is the rationality of procurement plan formulation through the review system of procurement COSL was awarded an honorary medal management committee, and realized full range control of procurement plan. from Cobra, a North American Company, the very resource of CNOOC operating Safety First in recognition of the high-quality seismic business in the world. The Company Improve system Improve supplier acquisition services provided by its HYSY760 always pays close attention to the safety 01 construction 02 management fleet in the Canadian 2D seismic acquisition of overseas personnel and operations Iraqi Company strictly implemented Revisions of “Supplier Management project. and has gradually built up a set of safety Procedure”, “Supplier Registration the principle of “Registration first, Management Procedures” and then cooperation” to ensure the HYSY760 fleet completed the Canadian and compliance management system Equipment Core People“Contract Management Procedures” supplier’s qualification is complete that not only conforms to local laws and Intact oriented and bring competitive suppliers into Grand SPAN 2D seismic acquisition project Value w e re c o m p l e t e d , w h i c h m a d e up management loopholes and the company’s supplier database. on November 6, 2018. The operation lasted regulations of resource countries, but also At present, 177 suppliers have been improved management. selected into the supplier database. 122 days and completed data collection conforms to China’s relevant regulations, of 10,750.3 km, achieving the HSE safety so as to ensure the compliance, safety management goal of “zero injury and zero and stable operation of overseas projects. Environment Implement long-period leakage”. Foremost 03 project seminars Two seminars were held in 2019, and 9 key long-period procurement projects were successfully determined. Multiple measures taken to ensure safety at home and abroad Implement the Rules of Carry out integration of 04 overseas supply chain 05 Procedure for Procurement Management Committee Employees’ voice CNOOC employees at home and abroad earnestly participate in the “Safe Production Month” Realizing the entire chain real-time activities to jointly safeguard production safety. UK Company focuses on promoting “Step Change In August 2018, the “Rules of Procedure online management of “project f o r P ro c u re m e n t M a n a g e m e n t in Safety” activities, organizes fire drills, and continues to emphasize the importance of “Safety b u d g e t p l a n n i n g p ro c u re m e n t Committee of Iraqi Company” was planning-procurement executionFirst” for the company. North American Company organizes HSE conferences to disseminate HSE issued. 10 procurement management online bidding and evaluationcore concepts and discusses how to further improve the HSE performance. Iraq Company takes committee meetings were held in 2019. contract signing-contract the theme of “risk prevention, hidden danger elimination and accident suppression” to improve the management & execution”. safety awareness and safety management level of its employees. CNOOC UK won “Maritime Safety Award” CNOOC Uganda completed “CNOOC Overseas Benchmarking Project” Anne Macedo Land Negotiator, Canada Aiming to build the “CNOOC Overseas Benchmarking Project”, CNOOC Uganda takes “Excellent Project Management (IPMA)” as standard, and set At the end of August 2019, CNOOC UK won two honors of “Marine Safety Awards”. Among Department of North America specific quantitative requirements for implementation and measurement, so as to ensure project implementation to meet the requirements of compliance, Company them, the project of hydrocarbon release prevention (HRP) was awarded “Operational Integrity safety, health and environmental protection. Category Award”. The VR simulator technology for hazard warning developed in cooperation with ——I can always feel the Company’s the Norwegian Classification Society was awarded “Safety Innovation Award”. “Safety First” operation philosophy. Strengthening standardization management Small tasks or big projects equally are “Marine Safety Awards” is jointly organized by the British Industry and Trade Association, the The Company formulated and improved the project management system, comprehensively implemented standardization important to us, my team always put British Petroleum and Natural Gas Association and the “Step Change in Safety” organization, in management, and took the standardization of project management as the core of management. In 2019, 21 engineering regulations safety and environmental protection recognition of advanced individuals and enterprises committed to the safety of British continental were compiled, upgraded and issued. first. Having such a team to support shelf. me makes me feel at ease in my work. Promoting informationization construction Based on the EDISPIP system, the Company further improved and expanded its functions, established the project management platform portal, improved the standardization of project management process, and improved the efficiency of project management with reduction of the cost of project management. Promoting the communication of engineering solutions In 2019, a number of special meetings were held with government and partners, to conduct extensive and in-depth communication on energy balance research results, localization strategies of key service and equipment suppliers, and project implementation HRP project won “Operation Integrity VR simulator technology for hazard warning strategies, which were recognized by all parties, creating a foundation for the signing and implementation of subsequent contracts. Category Award” won “Safety Innovation Award” 66 67 China National Offshore Oil Corp. CSR Report Overseas Protecting a Balanced Ecosystem CNOOC Uganda protects chimpanzees CNOOC Southeast Asia HCML implemented activities in the UN’s “World Environment Day” During the Environmental and Social Impact Since 2017, CNOOC Southeast Asia HCML mangroves, HCML also planted local endemic CNOOC attaches great importance to protecting the balance of ecosystem in overseas areas where it operates, applies all kinds of Assessment (ESIA) of Kingfisher Oilfield and local NGO in Samudera jointly held the mango trees in the village of Semare. technological means for biodiversity protection, actively organizes and participates in environmental protection activities, continuously project, CNOOC Uganda specially invited “World Environment Day” events. Samudera improves the level of environmental protection management, and disseminates the concept of “Lucid Waters and Lush Mountains are experts in the field of chimpanzee research and is a mangrove community located in Semare Invaluable Assets” to every corner of the world. protection, to identify and comprehensively village, Pasuruan district. In order to form a analyze the possible impact of oilfield natural sea wind barrier for animal habitats development activities on chimpanzee forest and islands and prevent seawater intrusion reserve, put forward countermeasures and and coastal abrasion, in 2019, HCML planted CNOOC UK got the highest score in environmental audit make overall arrangements for all aspects of 15,000 mangroves in the village. Besides the the project. From March 24 to April 30, 2019, CNOOC UK was evaluated and inspected by the CNOOC Uganda implemented strict British Environmental Management System management measures, formulated detailed (EMS) Commissioner. According to the monitoring plans during the project evaluation results, CNOOC UK has no construction and operation period, proposed The record of zero hydrocarbon emission has been refreshed in CNOOC’s Buzzard Oilfield field for improvement and obtained the targeted monitoring indicators, and maintained best results of the audit. EMS system is an regular monitoring to ensure that the ecological By the end of 2019, Buzzard Oilfield of safety and environmental protection. With environmental management system based on environment in this area will not be affected CNOOC UK has kept zero hydrocarbon the continuous record of zero hydrocarbon ISO 14001 standard, covering all businesses by the construction of oilfield project, and that emission in more than 700 days and a safe emission, Buzzard Oilfield is growing into a of British Company, and helps minimize chimpanzees can continue their original life in production record of more than 800 days, real “green oilfield”. the company’s environmental impact. EMS a more natural state. creating outstanding performance on health, conducts independent verification and review for the units to be accredited every two years, and submits a report to the environmental regulator, the Department for Business, Energy COSL rescued trapped turtles & Industrial Strategy of UK. On February 26, 2019, HYSY760 fleet rescued The disembarkation personnel managed to garbage. After careful examination, the two two turtles trapped by fishing nets during the bring the two turtles onto the dinghy, carefully turtles were found to be healthy. Then the seismic acquisition operations in the waters of cleaned up the ropes and fishing lines around disembarkation personnel carefully put the Gabon, West Africa. their bodies, and recycled all the marine turtles into the sea and returned in peace. CNOOC implemented “Zero Emission Action Plan” When completing task and going back to In June 2019, the UK became the first major mother ship, the disembarkation personnel economy in the world to pass a law requiring Focus of Zero Emissions Action Plan found some unidentified matters floating on zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. In the sea. Immediately after reporting to the order to coordinate with the actions of British bridge, the disembarkation personnel went to Green Green government, CNOOC Europe and Africa verify the situation and found a pile of marine industry asset life business area has formulated a “Zero Emission chain cycle garbage and two trapped turtles. The two Action Plan” and played an important role in it turtles were entangled in fishing lines and ropes Integrating Green Greener to realize green development. zero emission on the garbage, unable to extricate themselves. culture operations on Green Green principle into existing assets In addition to reducing the impact on the management Diversify investment supply chain system Establish an Embed the portfolio portfolio offshore environment, the company also concept of through natural internationally “Green Growth” gas, renewable focuses on reducing the impact on the onshore recognized into every team energy and environment the UK business area. Aberdeen system Creating carbon sinks and Uxbridge’s offices derive most of their environmentally Focus on the sustainable future energy from solar and wind energy, reducing workplace greenhouse gas emissions. The Green future of green workplace development 68 69 China National Offshore Oil Corp. CSR Report Overseas Green Production in Longlake Oilfield Longlake Oilsand Project is located 50 km south of McMurray fort, a major oil town in northern Alberta, Canada. Wildlife protection measures: Longlake Oilfield is committed to the green production of oil sands, strengthening carbon Install fences and flags to prevent entering of ungulates such as deer, bears, foxes, coyotes, etc. emission management and water resources management. With the goal of protecting the Place predator model to deter birds and other small wildlife biodiversity around the operating area, air monitoring, oil spill impact monitoring, solid and fluid waste management, and wildlife protection measures were adopted, so as to achieve Employ wild biologist to observe work sites a highly adaptive, coordinated and unified state among all components of the ecosystem. t habita g bird Pr otectin roje ct tion p rotec eer p Reind drill safety Major 70 71 China National Offshore Oil Corp. CSR Report Overseas Building Platform for Employee Development CNOOC International UPP project helps internationalization of talents Employee of CNOOC Nigeria won the China-Nigeria friendship The UPP (Upward Potential Program) project In order to ensure the effective implementation “October 1st Prize” 4,771 Upholding the concept of “respect, mutual trust and win-win”, CNOOC optimizes is a talent plan of CNOOC for the training of UPP project, every process from selection, On January 20, 2019, Martin Adebiyi of “future managers” in overseas business. positioning, evaluation to training, and the overseas employment system, and treats equally the employees, regardless of Sonariwo, an employee of CNOOC Nigeria, The core of the project is to provide unique feedback is supervised and tracked by specially nationalities, nations, races, genders, religious beliefs and cultural backgrounds. The Foreign staff won the China-Nigeria Friendship “October management practice experience opportunities assigned persons. All Executives mentors, Company has been focusing on promoting the employment of local residents, women 1st Prize” as one of 48 award-winning for CNOOC youth. Each trainee of UPP will human resources teams, and UPP students and ethnic minorities, and increasing employment opportunities in local communities. representatives of Nigeria. Martin joined 80 % become the exclusive apprentice of a senior have their clear responsibilities. Throughout the year, no violations such as child labor and forced labor have been CNOOC Nigeria in 2010 and currently serves executive of CNOOC International, and will found in any operations or any regions, and no complaints on human rights issues have At present, the UPP project is continuously as the company’s business manager. have the opportunity to study abroad for global Localization rate of overseas employees promoted to provide a broader growth space been received. The Company currently has 5,988 overseas employees, including 4,771 management practices. Chinese National Day and Nigeria for more youths who are committed to foreign employees, with a localization rate of 80%. Independence Day are both on October 1st. international business. the Chinese Embassy in Nigeria has set up the “October 1st Prize” in recognition of Nigerian employees who have made outstanding COSL held the first technical training for overseas core employees contributions to Chinese companies in Nigeria. On June 21, 2019, COSL held the first Selection centralized training for overseas employees in technology business, in order to improve their I never expected that my work would technical skills and management capabilities of Feedback In place be recognized at such high level! I will overseas core employees, and further advance continue to work hard to make more the localization of overseas employment. contributions to the development of Key technicians gave 12 courses in English, CNOOC in Nigeria and the Chinaincluding corporate culture, new drilling Nigeria friendship. fluid technology and system introduction, to Training Evaluation —Martin Adeby Sonarivo core employees from Indonesia, Mexico and Myanmar. The training was also an actively respond to the national “Belt and Road” initiative and a brave attempt to implement the company’s internationalization development strategy for COSL. Employees’ voice Employees’ voice Employees’ voice CNOOC EnerTech Drilling & Production Testing and Training Center obtained API Q2 certification On May 31, 2019, CNOOC EnerTech Drilling & Production Testing and Training Center passed the American Petroleum Institute Service Provider ’s Quality Yulia Karnain Haider Fadhil Carla Pereira Management System (API Q2) certification. Department Secretary of CNOOC Head of Administration and Head of Administration and At present, 139 enterprises in the world Southeast Asia Human Resources Department Human Resources Department of CNOOC Iraq of CNOOC Brazil have passed API Q2 certification, including 11 enterprises from mainland China. ——I have been working in CNOOC Southeast Asia for more than 15 years. ——Since joining CNOOC Iraq, I ——I am the first local employee The certification will help CNOOC CNOOC provided me a very broad have learned a lot, gained knowledge of CNOOC Brazil. Here, I have EnerTech better explore the international growth platform and sufficient training and experience. The company gained knowledge and improved my markets, to provide advanced engineering opportunities, so that I can constantly provides me with training courses and ability. Since I joined the company, technology services for oil & gas fields, and practice and improve myself, enrich best working environment. I am proud I have obtained three promotion to enhance core competitiveness. myself, and realize the value of life. to be an employee of CNOOC Iraq. opportunities and the “Outstanding I really enjoy working in CNOOC. Thank you CNOOC. Youth” certificate. I am proud to work CNOOC, thank you! in CNOOC Brazil. 72 73 China National Offshore Oil Corp. CSR Report Overseas Promoting Enterprise-Community Common Development Donations to Students and Education CNOOC Congo renovated local primary school CNOOC lecturers in Indonesian It is a fine tradition of CNOOC to campus CNOOC Congo cared for local children possible, CNOOC Congo employees went to establish a harmonious relationship On November 13, 2019, reservoir experts and and actively carries out the renovation of the construction site regularly to push forward with local government and the public. human resource managers from HCML went Community Construction MOKEKO primary school facilities. The project and monitor quality. The project was The Company always keeps social Organizing voluntary to Airlangga University in Surabaya, East Java school was located in the outskirts of Pointe basically completed at the end of November. responsibility in mind, works closely services, improving of Indonesia, to give lectures for local students. Noire, Congo, and the condition was woeful. community conditions Seeing the happy faces of children reading with local government and supports and promoting cultural There were no gates, walls or even toilets. The lectures is just a part of the regular integration in new classrooms, company employees are the government to improve community The school building was just a few simple activities arranged by SKK-Migas, deeply proud for their contribution to the infrastructures. At the same time, the brick houses. In order to let the children Indonesia’s upstream oil and gas regulator. community. Company will promote the improvement have classes in the new campus as soon as Lectures mainly focused on the history and of public relations, create employment operation of HCML, the company’s footprint Job Creation Donations to Students opportunities, drive local economic and Education in Indonesia, the importance of oil and gas Providing employment development, maintain and continuously opportunities, conducting Carrying out public in daily life, and the theory of oil and gas internships and welfare donation, accumulation. Many students said that the enhance the Company’s image and renovating school organizing vocational lectures deepened their knowledge of oil and reputation, in order to form a longtraining facilities and holding tutoring lectures gas and benefited them a lot. term mechanism for social contribution projects. Community Construction CNOOC Iraq conducted safety education for students COOEC’s rescue action in Saudi Arabia On March 5, 2019, CNOOC Iraq led the delegation of its demining company into At 12:00 on February 6, 2019, the operation “Lanjiang” took the initiative to provide a local school, carried out a unique safetyship “Lanjiang” of COOEC found an accident emergency assistance equipment and a large themed education activities, and distributed tugboat in imminent capsizing danger of amount of manpower and material resources, football and learning supplies to children. near the wharf of Dammam, Saudi Arabia. helped control the danger in time. The rescue This event raised the safety awareness After clarifying the situation, “Lanjiang” action was sincerely appreciated by the of local teachers and students on mine immediately formulated a rescue plan. After shipyard. protection, promoted the integration of obtaining local official rescue permission, community, and reflected the good social image of CNOOC Iraq. CNOOC Southeast Asia assisted in building maritime emergency headquarters The sea area where the SES project of CNOOC Southeast Asia is located in an accident prone area. In order to fulfill its corporate social Job Creation responsibility, SES Company signed with local police station a construction assistance CNOOC North America encourages young women’s employment rights in STEM agreement with regard to building Maritime On May 2, 2019, CNOOC North America Emergency Headquarters on September held the “Minerva One Day Action” event, 5, 2019. The construction commencement inviting local female students to learn about ceremony was held on September 18. The employment opportunities in STEM (science, main body of the building was completed on technology, engineering, and mathematics). November 21 and was expected to be put into Students had the opportunities to do hands-on use in early 2020. Titiknol , a local media in practice, and through various interactions, to Indonesia, released a report about CNOOC’s learn about different aspects of the company’s assistance in building the joint Maritime business. Emergency Headquarters for the benefits of local people, and highly praised CNOOC’s The event has been held for 20 consecutive charity. years, creates a good learning environment for young women who are interested in STEMrelated fields. Commencement ceremony for the main building of Maritime Emergency Headquarters 74 75 China National Offshore Oil Corp. CSR Report Overseas Outlook On 2020 Standing at the new starting point of history, we will continuously uphold the persistent pursuit of “providing oil to China”, work In the year 2020, we need to extend cooperation for a bright future. We should continue to uphold the development concepts hard with one heart, forge ahead with solid work, actively practice the new concept of development, and write a new chapter of of innovation, coordination, greenness, openness, and sharing, respond to the national “Belt and Road” Initiative, and actively social responsibility. expand international cooperation with the concept of openness, inclusiveness, mutual benefit, and win-win results; ensure safety and compliance during overseas operations and deeply integrate into the world oil and gas industry; promote local common In the year 2020, we need to work harder. We should continue to encourage the Petroleum Spirit, take it as our duty to serve development, protect biodiversity, and be a practitioner committed to global sustainable development and building a community of the country with energy, scientific and technological innovation as the driving force, safety operation as the foundation, quality shared future for all humankind. management as the cornerstone, and promote the strategies with steel-like implementation capacity. We will make efforts to increase the investment intensity on R&D by at least 0.1 percentage points, maintain the reserve substitution rate of more than 130%, and In the new year, we need to forge ahead and overcome difficulties. We shall strengthen the situation research and judgment, actively strive to increase domestic oil and gas production capacity of 10 million m3, and become the main force in safeguarding national confront the challenges brought by the COVID-19 epidemic to the Company’s production and operation, properly resolve the energy security and building a strong maritime country. various difficulties and problems, and strive to maintain stable production and operation. We will carefully review and investigate major risks and hidden dangers, in order to prevent systematic risks. We will solidly carry out special actions to improve quality In the year 2020, we need to make stable progress with great planning and great determination. We should adhere to green and efficiency, strengthen market development, and do all to minimize the impact of epidemic, so as to secure a double victory in development, practice the concept of ecological civilization, solidly promote the “Green Development Action Plan” and the “Threepreventing and controlling the epidemic and achieving production and operation goals through practical actions. Year Action Plan for Environmental Protection Upgrading in Bohai Oilfield”, and extend the concept of green environmental protection throughout the entire life cycle of oil fields and refinery production. We will build a comprehensive low-carbon On the way to promote the high-quality development of CNOOC, we should keep in mind our patriotic feeling and ambitions management system, strengthen water resource management, and attach importance to protecting the ecological diversity around of serving to the country, be enterprising, work hard, go forward steadily with great strides, and contribute CNOOC’s strength to the operating area, doing a good job of fighting pollution, and being the guardian for protecting ecological environment and building building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and realizing the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation. a beautiful China. In the year 2020, we need to remember our initiative responsibilities. We should adhere to the strategy of “rejuvenating enterprise China National Offshore Oil Corporation by talents”, focus on implementing the “three major projects” for team constructions of managers and talents, respecting and March 18, 2020 attaching great importance to professional talents, and effectively improve employees’ sense of gain, happiness and security, to make contributions to social stable employment. We should continue to “serve the society, create harmony and benefit the people”, by using the platform of CNOOC Public Welfare Foundation, we continue to fully perform our duties in targeted poverty alleviation and counterpart support, in order to achieve as scheduled the goal that “all the rural poor people and counties withdraw from poverty stricken list”, strive to promote the implementation of the Rural Revitalization Strategy, and play a good role in winning the battle of targeted poverty alleviation. We will keep our enthusiasm in social public welfare, continuously carry out voluntary services, and make cooperative efforts to improve people’s lives and build beautiful homeland. 76 77 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Annex Third-Party Assessment Comparability ( ★★★★★ ) The Report discloses the comparative data on 37 indicators such as “crude oil production”, “natural gas production”, “investment in energy conservation and emission reduction”, “emission of sulfur dioxide”, “employment scale” and “social insurance coverage” for three consecutive years and compares horizontally data such as “ranking 63rd among Fortune Global Top 500 Enterprises”, “ranking Rating Report of “Sustainability Report 2019 of China National Offshore Oil Corporation” 31st among the World’s Largest Oil Companies” and “ranking 17th among the Ranking List of Global Oil and Gas Brand Values”, with Upon the request of China National Offshore Oil Corporation, the Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating invited experts to excellent performance in comparability. form a rating team to rate the “Sustainability Report 2019 of China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC)” (hereinafter referred to Readability ( ★★★★★ ) as “the Report”). The Report continues to adopt the theme of “contributing green energy and building a blue sea and blue sky”, and comprehensively interprets the concept, action and effect in fulfilling social responsibility from three dimensions of economy, environment and society, I. Rating Criteria with a clear framework and prominent topics. The cover design adopts the combination of grass-roots employees and offshore oil scenes to highlight the main business, show the demeanor of the employees, and enhance the appeal and recognition of the Report. “Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR 4.0)” of the Chinese Academy of Social The Report sets the “terminology explanation” section to interpret the professional terminologies, which has enhanced the legibility Sciences and “China Corporate Social Responsibility Report Rating Standards (2020)” of “Corporate Social Responsibility Report of the Report. The design is bright and clear in style and the combination of images and texts brings out the best in each other and Rating Expert Committee of Chinese Enterprises”. improve the readability of the Report, with outstanding performance in readability. Innovation ( ★★★★ ) II. Rating Process The Report actively responds to the current political hot spots such as the 70th Anniversary of the Founding of the People’s Republic 1. The rating team reviews and confirms the “Process Data Confirmation of Corporate Social Responsibility Report” submitted by the of China, poverty alleviation, ecological civilization and “One Belt and One Road”, which highlights the responsibilities of central “Report” writing group and relevant supporting materials; government-owned enterprises in implementing macro policies and enhances the sense of contemporaneity of the Report. Many third party testimonies are embedded to prove the effectiveness of corporate responsibility performance and strengthen the communication 2. The rating team conducts evaluation on the preparation process and the content disclosed by the “Report”, and then drafts the and dissemination value of the Report which facilitates excellent performance in innovation. rating report; 3. The Vice Chairman of the Rating Expert Committee, the leader of the rating team, and the experts of the rating team jointly sign the Overall Rating ( ★★★★★ ) According to the rating team’s assessment, “Sustainable Development Report 2019 of China National Offshore Oil Corporation” is of rating report. five-star rating, and it is an excellent corporate social responsibility (CRS) report. III. Rating Results IV. Improvement Suggestions Process ( ★★★★★ ) 1. Enhance the disclosure of core indicators of the industry and improve the integrity of the Report; The enterprise management department (policy research office) of the company takes the lead to set up the sustainable development report preparation team, with the chairman as the team leader to control the theme, topic and framework of the report and to be 2. Increase the disclosure of the inadequacy of corporate responsibility performance, and further improve the balance of the Report. responsible for the final review of the report. The various functional departments and the affiliated units shall be responsible for providing and reviewing the basic materials. The Report is positioned as an important tool to improve the level of social responsibility management, respond to the demands of the stakeholders, and enhance the brand image of the enterprise. The functional value positioning is clear. The substantive issues are identified through the national macro policies, the major issues of the company, industry benchmarking analysis, stakeholder surveys, etc. The subordinate enterprises such as China National Offshore Oil Corporation Limited, China Oilfield Services Limited, and CNOOC Energy Technology & Services Limited are guided to release social responsibility China National Offshore Oil Corporation Sustainability Report Won a Five-star Evaluation for the Sixth Consecutive Year reports and establish a multi-level reporting system. It is planned to publish the reports through the official website and in the forms of PDF, H5, presswork and Chinese and English version, with excellent performance in process. Materiality ( ★★★★★ ) 任姣姣 The “Report” systematically discloses the implementation of macroeconomic policies, product and service quality management, 祖志楠 sustainable energy supply, occupational health management, safety production management and emergency, science and technology and innovation, development of new energy, energy conservation and emission reduction, measures to respond to climate change, responsibilities of the supply chain, and other key topics for discussion of the oil and gas exploration, mining and processing Huang Qunhui Liu Weihua Zhang En Ren Jiaojiao Scan QR Code to View industries. The description is detailed and sufficient, with excellent performance in materiality. Vice President of Chinese Leader of the Rating Team Expert of the Rating Team Zu Zhinan Enterprise Rating Files Expert Committee on CSR Process Assessor Integrity ( ★★★★ ) Report Rating The main body of the “Report” discloses 76.5% of the core indicators of the oil and natural gas exploration, mining and processing industries from the perspectives of “accelerating economic growth”, “enhancing environmental protection”, “promoting social progress” and “overseas social responsibility report” etc., with excellent performance in integrity. Balance ( ★★★★ ) The “Report” discloses negative data information such as “number of death of employees”, “number of death of direct contractors”, “number of recordable injury incidents” and “employee turnover rate” etc., with excellent performance in balance. 78 79 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Annex Index of Reporting Indicators Continued CONTENTS CASS-CSR GRI IPIECA/API CONTENTS CASS-CSR GRI IPIECA/API Summary Biodiversity Conservation P5.1/E5.1/E5.2/E5.3/E5.5 103/304 E5/E7/E18 P1.1/P1.2/P1.3/P1.4/P1.5/P2.2/P2.3/P4.2/G2.4/ Special Topic: Green Action Inside Front Cover 101/102 P5.1/G1.1/G1.2/E1.1/E1.2/E1.4/E2.1/E2.2/E2.5/ G2.5/G5.4/M1.1/M1.2/M1.3/M2.7 Practicing the Concept of E1/E3 E2.23/E4.1 Ecological Civilization P3.1/P3.2/P4.6/P5.2/P5.3/M2.1/M2.2/M2.5/ Chairman’s Letter 101/102 Driving Social Progress M2.16/M3.3/S1.1/G1.1/G1.4/G3.2 P4.1/P4.2/P4.3/P4.6/G1.1/G1.2/G1.4/G2.1/G2.3/ P5.1/G1.1/S1.6/S1.7/S2.3/S2.4/S2.5/S2.6/S2.8/ HS1/HS2/HS3/SE6/ About Us 102/103 103/201/401/403/404/405/406/ G4.1/G4.2 Caring for Employees S2.11/S2.14/S2.18/S2.19/S2.20/S2.22/S2.23/ SE8/SE16/SE17/ 408/409/412 S2.25/S2.26/S2.29/S2.31 SE18 Corporate Governance and S1.1/S1.2/S1.3/S1.4 103/205 SE11 Devoting to Public Interests P5.1/P5.2 103/203/413 SE1/SE2/SE4 Operation Stakeholders P1.5/P2.3/G2.2/G5.1/G5.5/G5.6/M1.3/G1.3 102/415 Providing Voluntary P5.1/S4.14/S4.15 103/303/306/413/307 SE1/SE2/SE4 Services P5.1/P5.2/G1.1/G1.2/G1.4/M1.4/M1.5/M1.6/ Integrating into the M2.2/M2.5/M2.17/M2.18/M2.19/M3.7/S1.5/S2.1/ 302/303/304/308/401/402/403/405/ E2/E6/E8/SE4/SE6/ S4.1/S4.2/S4.4/S4.5/S4.10/S4.14 103/203/413/415/419 SE1/SE2/SE4 CNOOC and SDGs Community S2.11/S2.16/S2.17/S2.22/S2.29/S4.7/S4.15/ 406/408/409/419 SE15/SE16/SE17 E2.23/E2.26/E2.27/E2.35/E5.1 Special Topic: Poverty Alleviation through P4.5/P5.2/G4.1/M1.4/M2.2/M2.17/M2.18/M2.19/ P5.1/P5.2/S4.10/S4.14 SE1/SE2 E2/E4/E8/SE6/ Education Watering the Key Performance S1.5/S2.1/S2.4/S2.8/S2.9/S2.11/S2.15/S2.20/ 201/302/305/401/403/404 SE15/SE16/SE4/ Flower of Hope Indicators S2.22/S2.24/S3.6/S4.7/S4.13/E1.5/E2.4/E2.21/ SE17 E2.22/E2.26/E2.27 CSR Report Overseas Promoting Economic Growth Creating Socioeconomic SE1/SE4/SE5/SE6/ M2.2/M2.5/M2.16/M3.2/M3.3/E2.18 201/203/204/302/417 Value SE11/SE13/E7 P4.2/P4.3/P4.4/G3.2/M2.1/M2.2/M2.3/M2.4/ E8/SE5/SE7/SE9/ Ensuring Energy Supply M2.9/M2.13/M3.1/M3.2/M3.3/M3.4/M3.6/M3.7/ 102/103/305/308/414 SE12 Strengthening Safety and HS1/HS4/HS5/SE7/ M3.9/M3.10/M3.11/S3.8/E3.3 S3.1/S3.2/S3.3/S3.8 103/410/419 Compliance Management SE10 Emphasizing Sci-Tech M2.2/M2.16/M2.21/E2.5 103 E3 Protecting a Balanced E1.1/E1.3/E1.4/E1.6/E1.10/E2.1/E2.5/E4.1/E4.2/ Innovation 103/304/305/413/419 E1/E5 Ecosystem E4.3/E5.1/E5.2/E5.3 P5.1/G1.1/G1.3/G6.4/M2.6/S3.1/S3.2/S3.3/S3.4/ HS4/HS5/SE10/ Intensifying Safe Operation 102/103/201/410/413/414 S3.9/S3.10/S3.11/E2.7/E2.8/E2.11 SE17 Building Platform for 103/401/403/404/405/406/411/412/ SE1/SE2/SE6/SE8/ P5.2/S2.19/S4.6/S4.7 Employee Development 419 SE15/SE16/SE17 Improving Quality P5.1/G1.1/M2.6/M2.7/M2.21/S3.10/S3.11 103/416 HS4 Promoting EnterpriseManagement Community Common S2.19/S4.12 103/201/203/404/411/413/419 SE1/SE2/SE4/SE6 Special Topic: Persevering Development in Serving Our Country P5.1/P5.3/G1.1/G1.4/G4.3 Special Topic: CNOOC With Energy to Celebrate the PRC’s 70th Anniversary Brand Lighting up the P4.2/P4.4/P5.1/P5.3/M2.5 “Belt and Road” Special Topic: Discovery of 100-billion-m3-scale P5.1/P5.2/P5.3/G1.1/M2.1/M2.2/M2.21 Special Topic: Green G1.1/G3.1/E1.1/E1.8/E2.7/E2.28/E2.34/E4.1/ Gasfield in the Bohai Sea Production in Longlake HS1/E5/E9/E10 E5.1/E5.2/E5.3 Oilfield Special Topic: Speeding up Deep-water Exploration Outlook On 2020 A1 P5.1/P5.2/G1.1/M2.2 and Development in the South China Sea Annex Enhancing Environmental Protection Third-Party Assessment A2 P5.1/P5.3/G1.2/E1.1/E1.2/E1.4/E2.1/E2.2/E2.5/ Index of Reporting Green Operation 102/103/305/413 E1/SE1 A3 E2.23/E4.1 Indicators Energy Conservation and Glossary of Terms E2.1/E2.2/E2.3/E2.4 102/103/201/302 E1/E2/E4/E7/E10 Efficiency-Increasing Feedback Form P1.5/A4 P5.1/S1.6/S4.10/S4.11/E1.1/E2.2/E2.7/E2.17/ Environmental Governance E2.18/E2.23/E2.28/E2.30/E2.31/E2.34/E2.35/ 102/103/303/305/306 E6/E9/E10 E2.36 Tackling Climate Change P5.1/E1.1/E1.3/E2.1/E2.2/E2.3/E2.5/E2.23/E4.1 103/201/203/305 E1/E3 80 81 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Annex Glossary of Terms Drilling Platform LNG trapped within coal beds, mainly adsorbed to the surface of coal petrochemicals. It is a nonrenewable resource, which means Offshore drilling platforms are marine structures used mainly Liquefied natural gas or LNG in short refers to the liquid that matrix particles, and partly dispersed in the porosity of coal or that it can’t be replaced naturally at the rate we consume it and for drilling exploratory wells. Such platforms, generally divided forms when natural gas extracted from gasfields cools to a dissolved in the coalbed water. is, therefore, a limited resource. into mobile and fixed platforms, are essential for offshore oil and low temperature under high pressure after undergoing the fluid gas exploration and development operations and house drilling, and acid removal, drying and distillation processes. LNG is Natural Gas Hydrate Asphalt power, communications, navigation and other equipment, as predominantly methane and is colourless, odourless, non-toxic Natural gas hydrate is an ice like crystalline substance formed by A dark bituminous substance that is found in natural beds and well as lifesaving and accommodation facilities. and non-corrosive. natural gas and water at high pressure and low temperature in is also obtained as a residue in petroleum refining and that permafrost of deep sea sediments or continental permafrost. consists chiefly of hydrocarbons. Heavy Oil Recordable Production Safety Events Heavy oil is highly viscous crude oil that contains a relatively high According to the OSHA standards of the United States, FPSO Styrene level of asphaltenes and resins. This usually refers to those with recordable production safety events include medical treatment, FPSO is an acronym for Floating Production Storage and Styrene is manufactured from petroleum on a commercial scale. ground densities greater than 0.943 and underground viscosities work restrictions, lost time and deaths. Offloading. FPSO is a floating vessel located near an offshore oil It is an organic hydrocarbon used to manufacture rubber and greater than 50 centipoises. field, where oil is processed and stored until it can be transferred plastic components. Also known as vinyl benzene, styrene is a Occupational Disease to a tanker for transporting and additional refining. FPSOs can colourless liquid that quickly evaporates when exposed to the Oil Reservoir This refers to diseases that develop as a result of exposure to range in structure from a converted former supertanker to a air. Although it is an aromatic monomer with a slightly sweet This is the smallest unit for the storage of oil. Oil reservoir layer or occupational hazards at work. new purpose-built vessel. Such a vessel used for natural gas is smell, its odor can be unpleasant in high concentrations or when oil layer in short refers to the porous strata for the storage of oil. known as an FLNG, short for Floating Liquefied Natural Gas. mixed with other chemicals. If its molecules become linked to Not every part of an oil layer will contain oil. Oil reservoir refers to form long chains of styrene, it becomes polystyrene, an aromatic QHSE polymer with thermoplastic properties. those independent oil-containing areas within an oil layer. The abbreviation QHSE stands for Quality, Health, Safety and Refinery Environmental. Established on the basis of the principles of Petroleum refineries change crude oil into petroleum products Adjustment Well compatibility of similarities and complementarity of differences, for use as fuels for transportation, heating, paving roads, and Sodium Carbonate Adjustment wells refer to scattered or clustered wells drilled, in and on the basis of the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 standards, GB/T generating electricity and as feedstocks for making chemicals. Sodium carbonate is an organic sodium salt and a carbonate addition to existing well clusters, for improving the development 28000 family of standards and SY/T 6276 Petroleum and Natural All refineries have three basic steps: separation, conversion, salt. Sodium Carbonate is the disodium salt of carbonic acid of oil fields. Gas Industries-Health, Safety and Environmental Management treatment. with alkalinizing property. When dissolved in water, sodium System, the QHSE management framework usually refers to the carbonate forms carbonic acid and sodium hydroxide. As a framework that directs and controls the quality, health, safety and strong base, sodium hydroxide neutralizes gastric acid thereby Well Logging Ethylene environmental aspects of an organization. acting as an antacid. Well logging usually refers to geophysical well loggings, in A colorless flammable gaseous unsaturated hydrocarbon which different forms of well loggers made based on electrical, C2H4 that is found in coal gas, can be produced by pyrolysis COD of petroleum hydrocarbons, and occurs in plants functioning Delayed Coking magnetic, acoustic, thermal, nuclear and other physical principles, enter wells through the use of well logging cables, Chemical oxygen demand or COD in short refers to the amount especially as a natural growth regulator that promotes the Delayed coking is one of the chemical engineering unit to allow the ground electrical measuring instruments to record of oxidant consumed when treating water samples using a ripening of fruit. processes used in many petroleum refineries. The main objective continuously along the well bore the various parameters that certain amount of strong oxidants under certain conditions. The of the delayed coking unit is to convert low value residual usual use of COD is to determine the extent of contamination of products to lighter products of higher value and to produce a change with changes in depth. Underground rock formations, Methanol including oil, gas, water, and coal layers and metal deposits, can water bodies by reducing substances. coke product. Methanol is a liquid chemical. It is colourless, volatile, flammable, then be identified through curves representing these parameters. and poisonous. Methanol is made from the destructive distillation In brief, the process heats the residual oil from the vacuum CNOOC of wood and is chiefly synthesized from carbon monoxide and distillation unit in a petroleum refinery to its thermal cracking Oil Spill Response The abbreviation CNOOC stands for China National Offshore Oil hydrogen. Its principal uses are in organic synthesis, as a fuel, temperature in the heat transfer tubes of a furnace. This partially Corporation. solvent, and antifreeze. vaporizes the residual oil and initiates cracking of the long chain Oil spill response is the formulation of plans and adoption of hydrocarbon molecules of the residual oil into hydrocarbon measures to control and prevent oil spills and reduce pollution gases, coker naphtha, coker gas oil and petroleum coke. damage, based on the environment and resources in the Coalbed Methane Crude Oil The heater effluent discharges into very large vertical vessels potential spill sources and waters within the designated sea Crude oil is a naturally occurring, unrefined petroleum product Coalbed methane, which is a coal-associated mineral resource (called “coke drums”) where the cracking reactions continue to areas. This sees common use in offshore oil exploration and composed of hydrocarbon deposits and other organic materials. and considered an unconventional form of natural gas, refers completion, forming solid petroleum coke which deposits out development activities. A type of fossil fuel, crude oil can be refined to produce usable to a kind of hydrocarbon gas (predominantly methane) found and accumulates in the coke drums from which the product products such as gasoline, diesel, and various other forms of coke is subsequently removed. 82 83 China National Offshore Oil Corp. Feedback Form In order to improve the social responsibility engagement of CNOOC on an on-going basis, we would like to hear your thoughts, which will form an important basis for us to do better. We thank you very much that you could spare some time to give us your valuable feedback on the report and suggestions to the theme and issues of 2020. Your Information: Name: Company: Tel: E-mail: Your Feedback: 1. What is your overall opinion of the report? □ Very good □ Quite good □ Average □ Quite poor □ Very poor 2. What do you think of the information disclosed in the report? □ Very abundant □ Quite abundant □ Fair □ Quite little □ Very little 3. What do you think of the quality of the information disclosed in the report? □ Very high □ Quite high □ Average □ Quite low □ Very low 4. Which form of design would you like to be used more in the 2020 report? □ Expression of management thought □ Data graph □ Case introduction □ Special topic □ Picture 5. Which theme would you like to be presented in the 2020 report? □ Our quality energy for your blue sea and sky □ Our clean energy for lucid waters and lush mountains □ Our clean energy for clear water and blue sky □ Our clean energy for a beautiful life 6. Which issue would you like to be added to the 2020 report? □ Economic growth, specifically □ Environmental protection, specifically □ Social progress, specifically □ CSR overseas, specifically CONTACT US: CNOOC Corporate Management Dept. (Policy Research Office) Postal Address: CNOOC Building, No. 25 Chaoyangmenbei Dajie, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100010, P.R. China Tel: 86 (10) 84521103 Fax: 86 (10) 64602830 E-mail: report @ cnooc.com.cn Designed by Beijing Ideal Media Corp. http://www.bjideal.com 84
