SANTA FARMA GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT DECEMBER 2019 This report covers the Communication on Progress in order to explain the performance of our company under the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome your opinions about the content. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Message of President................................................................3 Promotion of Employees’ Rights............................................28 About the Report...................................................................... 4 Rights of Santa Farma Employees........................................28 About Santa Farma................................................................... 5 Working Environment at Santa Farma..................................29 Corporate Culture..................................................................5 Employment.........................................................................31 History....................................................................................7 Equal Opportunity................................................................33 Business Field.........................................................................9 Professional Training.............................................................35 Offices and Plants.................................................................10 Occupational Health and Safety...........................................38 Corporate Scale....................................................................14 Environmental Management...................................................41 Products...............................................................................15 Environmental Management System....................................42 Overseas Markets and Partnerships.....................................17 Waste Management.............................................................43 Corporate Governance............................................................19 Anti-Corruption........................................................................45 Economic Performance........................................................20 Santa Farma’s Progress Targets..............................................46 Santa Farma and Stakeholders.............................................21 United Nations Global Compact.............................................47 Social Responsibility.............................................................23 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals..................48 Human Rights Management....................................................26 Contact Us................................................................................49 Access to Medication...........................................................26 Patient Rights.......................................................................27 SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 3 MESSAGE OF PRESIDENT Founded in 1944, Santa Farma celebrated its 75th anniversary in 2019. Santa Farma has upheld the principle of “giving healthy service to health” ever since it was incorporated. In that respect, it is determined to undertake Hence, we share the pride and glory of “giving healthy service to health” its operations based on the same principle in the future. Our company is of our community with our stakeholders for 75 years. We sincerely hope distinguished for the importance it gives to human rights and labour. Santa to extend this pride to our future efforts. Our company undersigned the Farma has never engaged and will never engage in discrimination based on “Global Compact” on May 26, 2010. The Global Compact is “an invitation language, religion, race and gender. to all Employers in the World to adopt a shared culture of development.” In that respect, our company has proudly received its 9th award for “respect Acceptance of the invitation is based on voluntariness. Once the invitation for human”. 55.5% of the total headcount and 29% of the senior management is accepted, however, the undersigning parties are required to comply with consists of women in our company. This is far above the average ratio in the principles and uphold the goals of this platform. The Global Compact is Turkey and we hope and strive to increase the relevant ratio further. Our based on 4 pillars which are: employees enjoy all of the legal rights along with extra benefits. In practice, our company fully complies with the labour legislation. Human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. One of those pillars is environment. This crucial civil society initiative has also set 17 objectives As for anti-corruption, we have not come across any charge throughout our 8 of which are directly or indirectly related to the protection of environment history. Our company performs eco-friendly operations in its state-of-the-art and nature. As a United Nations organization, this platform was launched in MANUFACTURING and R&D plants commissioned in 2015. Eco-friendliness 2000 with a view to setting targets proactively based on the insights as to is our priority. Indeed, Covid-19 pandemic has demonstrated the importance the current and future condition of the world and addressing employers to of a good balance in nature once more. Santa Farma has demonstrated and attract attention world to those pressing global matters. will always demonstrate a proactive approach to this matter. And yet, it is quite apparent that the entire world is desperate in the face In short, we uphold the principles of the Global Compact and perform our of this unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic. This pandemic is certainly commitments thereunder. At this point, we would like to underline that all unparalleled in terms of its scale and characteristics. manufacturing plants in the world should take especially environmental The pandemic has affected and continues to affect the socio-economic matters very seriously. This is because the World Health Organization dynamics of all communities in the world without any discrimination. It is also declared in its announcement on May 2, 2020 that the virus is natural in distinguished from former pandemics in terms of its contagiousness. origin. This implies that this virus might herald other viruses and pandemics The high mobility arising from the level of communication in global economies which will follow. A microscopic enemy has caused and continues to cause and lack of vaccination and treatment options have further exacerbated the destruction far beyond the world wars in extent. As a matter of fact, Covid-19 already dramatic impact of the pandemic. might be considered as the outcome of insensitivity of communities towards nature. Therefore, this pandemic might be taken as a meaningful message As a result of the grave impact of the pandemic on the socio-economic from nature to humanity. In that respect, we are all expected to comprehend structures, all countries have had to embrace the new normal in terms of this message well. living and working conditions. While individuals have started to deal with the effects of solitude in their private lives, the business world has gone digital We remain convinced that pandemics may not be prevented through the technologies in order to sustain its efforts through virtual media. This has led efforts of governments and non-governmental organizations alone and that the countries to question the significance of globalization. the humanity should have increased awareness about the importance of The world is going through a global economic crisis. And no one knows how joining the efforts to save our planet. long this crisis will last although there is a consensus that it will have serious effects on the world. I would like to express our gratitude and wish good health to all our stakeholders who have taken pains to stand by us in both happy and That being the case, the strategic importance of pharmaceutical industry as challenging times. a critical instrument of the healthcare industry is once more. Sincerely yours Erol Kiresepi SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 4 ABOUT THE REPORT Santa Farma İlaç Sanayii A.Ş. adopted the UN Global Compact on May 26, 2010. Santa Farma undertakes to regularly communicate its performance in relation to the 10 principles of the Global Compact on an annual basis. This is the tenth progress report issued by the company. Santa Farma 2019 Communication on Progress provides information about the progress on Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption in line with the requirements of the UNGC. The report covers all of the activities conducted by Santa Farma in relation to those specific matters. Although the reporting period is set as 1.1.2019 – 31.12.2019, the report makes reference to the important previous data since this is the ninth report submitted by the company. The first part of the report provides an overview of Santa Farma along with the corporate and governance details, its economic value and communication with stakeholders. The second part, on the other hand, offers detailed information about the corporate actions taken in relation to the principles of the UNGC. This part is comprised of chapters dedicated to Human Resources, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. This report has been prepared based on G3 Sustainability Reporting Principles of Global Reporting Initiative with a view to communicating the corporate performance transparently in line with the principles of accountability in addition to facilitating potential comparisons with the future communications on progress. Your opinions and suggestions about 2019 Communication on Progress Report will be highly appreciated. Please feel free to contact Sema Yetkiner, Director of Human Resources, for all kinds of questions, opinions or suggestions via [syetkiner@santafarma.com.tr]. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 5 ABOUT SANTA FARMA CORPORATE CULTURE Our mission is to remain in constant search for better in order to offer favourable solutions for human health and quality of life. Our mission is at the root of our existence. Our vision is to grow faster than the market average. Our vision is the manifestation of the future aspiration of our company. Our values make us who we are and they are the linchpins of our corporate culture. RESPECT FOR THE INDIVIDUAL • Recognize that the organization consists of a group of human beings above all • Remember that human is the sole address for development and improvement • Keep a balance between real business life and human values OPENNESS TO DEVELOPMENT • Search for better • Work for achieving better constantly • Work on innovations for the future RATIONAL POWER • Remain aware of the intrinsic power of the organization • Focus on long-lasting and constructive results • Take knowledge as the basis for all efforts RESPECT FOR THE WORK, WORKPLACE AND COMMUNITY • Recognize employees, community and organization as pieces constituting the whole • Form collaboration among employees, organization and community based on mutual respect • Promote a peaceful and safe working atmosphere SPECIAL CLAUSE: The following special clause in the articles of association of the company clearly reveals the company’s values and respect for human beings as well as its solid founding principles. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 6 STORY OF OUR LOGO: • The logo of Santa Farma rests on a pyramid which embodies its spirit. The pyramid symbol is portrayed in the form of a triangle in the logo. • Pyramids are comprised of four triangles which rise from the base only to unite above. • Each of those triangles symbolizes the four elements constituting the source of life. That is what makes pyramids so powerful. In that respect, pyramids have stood for “power, longevity and stability” throughout history. • The four triangles constituting Santa Farma pyramid symbolize its values which rise on a solid base to become united above. BLUE Colour of stable union, loyalty and strong faith. Symbolizes eternity and farsightedness. This is a colour with high therapeutic, conciliatory and healing properties. Blue is used in the logo of Santa Farma because it is a colour that depicts the business field in the best manner, points out progressive development and improvement and symbolizes harmonious, stable and peaceful business relationships. RED Colour of energy and power. Stands for agility, vigour, and determination and passion to continue till the end. The vision of Santa Farma is to “grow faster than the market average”. Red symbolizes the willpower required for this vision. Still, Santa Farma will always cling to its rational power while striving for growth and development. Therefore, red is embedded in the curves of the snake which symbolizes reason so that the vast energy stemming from the colour might be limited. WHITE Colour of cleanliness, purity, peace and stability. White is used in the logo of Santa Farma because it reflects our business culture and values. SNAKE Throughout the history, snake has symbolized good health and reason. In mythology, two intertwined snakes are used for symbolizing eternity of life. It is used for preparing drugs for ages. Hence, we use the curves of a snake in the middle of the triangle. Snake indicates that Santa Farma exists for serving human health and it will make use of rational power while providing this service. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 7 ABOUT SANTA FARMA MILESTONES • October 22, 1953 – The foundations of the plant in Edirnekapı were laid. HISTORY OF SANTA FARMA • May 7, 1954 – The first license manufacturing agreement was executed (Spalt tablet). • Late 1954 – The company changed its title to ‘’Santa Farma İlaç Fabrikası Kollektif Şirketi’’. • 1964 – The first contract manufacturing agreement was executed with Organon Holland Having been founded as Farma which paved the way for technological advance in Santa Farma. Laboratory in 1944, Santa • 1973 – The company changed its title to Santa Farma İlaç Sanayii A.Ş. Farma took a leap forward by completing its merger with Santa • 1982 – The company adopted Food Manufacturing Practices (GMP) Quality standard and Laboratory. Santa Farma İlaç completed the technological infrastructure of the plant. Fabrikası Kollektif Şirketi was • 1983 – The plant started the institutionalization process following the technological incorporated in 1954, followed modernization. with the incorporation of Santa • 1987 to 1989 – The Company made technological progress. Farma İlaç Sanayi A.Ş. in 1973. • 1989 – The company released the first biotechnological import product in Turkey (Eprex). • 1994 – Santa Farma moved to its current head office building. • 1997 – Reorganization of Marketing Department. In addition to its licensed products, Santa Farma has • 2008 – Reorganization of Human Resources Division. enriched and will continue to • 2009 – The Company started “ERP” and “Corporate Identity” projects. enrich its range of products by • 2010 – The company undersigned the United Nations Global Compact. manufacturing several drugs licensed for leading multinational • 2010 – The new logo was launched and “ERP” project was finalized. companies in Turkey. • 2011 – The corporate website was redesigned. • 2012 – The foundations of the new Manufacturing Plant and R&D Centre were laid. Having been incorporated in 1944, the company has been • 2015 – The foundations new Manufacturing Plant and R&D Centre were opened to service. able to create a reliable and • 2016 – The Croatian Ministry of Health issued the EU-GMP Certificate. good standing brand in the industry thanks to its motto of • 2016 – The R&D Centre was accredited by the Ministry of Industry and Technology. “offering healthy services to • 2017 – ISO 9001 Quality, ISO 14001 Environment and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health healthcare”. Our next objective and Safety certifications. is to support “sustainable • 2018 – Beginning of FORA transformation project to enable the company to achieve its development” with all our might goals for 2024. by clinging to our value and • 2018 – The Jordanian Ministry of Health issued a GMP Certificate as a result of the audits. corporate strategy in addition to contribute to a bright future. • 2019 – The Croatian Ministry of Health confirmed the extension of EU-GMP Certificate. • 2019 – Santa Farma celebrated its 75th anniversary. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 8 ABOUT SANTA FARMA 75TH ANNIVERSARY IN THE INDUSTRY Founded in 1944, Santa Farma, one of the most wellAnother target is to achieve a turnover of TRY 1 billion. established pharmaceutical companies in Turkey that The third target is to become one of the most popular, operates under 9 therapeutic categories and with a total attractive, inspiring and innovative pharmaceutical of 73 products across 50 markets under these categories companies in Turkey. is celebrating its 75th anniversary. The Company’s primary objectives in 2019 include evaluating its existing The manufacturing premise of company that was product portfolio in line with its goal of maintaining commissioned at the end of 2015 with an investment of both its local and global positions, making a difference EUR 150 million boasts of the capacity to manufacture with new products, expanding to new geographies and 150 million boxes in a single shift. Having acquired moving its local experience to a global scale. Positioning in June 2015 its production license and GMP (Good itself as a strategic partner in domestic production Manufacturing Practices) certificate from the Ministry of through its investments, Santa Farma enters into Health of Republic of Turkey, the company acquired in partnership with companies that make a difference in the 2016 its EU-GMP certificate (European Union Compliance pharmaceuticals manufacturing industry with its cuttingwith Good Manufacturing Practices) and ISO 9001:2015, edge manufacturing premises and its team showing a ISO 14001:2015 and OHSAS 18001:2007 certificates in meticulous approach to its work. The company’s objective July 2017. is to ensure that the world’s leading pharmaceutical companies manufacture their products in Turkey through 56 full-time employees work at Santa Farma R&D its new and modern premises. Center, which operates in a four-storey building over an Increasing the number of its business partners which will established area of approx. 3 thousand sqm. Santa Farma be beneficial for opening up new markets for export, the allocated approx. 2 percent of its turnover in 2019 to R&D company primarily aims to become one of the top three activities and aims to develop strategic products that companies in terms of export in the industry by 2024 can meet the needs of the society and contribute to the when the company will celebrate its 80th anniversary. national economy through its R&D activities. Below are some of the international meetings attended by Mr Erol Kiresepi, Chairman of Board at Santa Farma, as the first Turkish President of the International Organization of Employers (IOE) in 2019: On the occasion of the centenary of the Mr Erol Kiresepi, Chairman of Board of Mr Erol Kiresepi, President of InterInternational Labour Organization (ILO), a Directors of Santa Farma and President of national Organisation of Employers, series of events was held on April 10th in the IOE, took the stage at the Meeting of G20 Deputy President of KİPLAS and UN Headquarters in New York. Delivering Labour Ministers held in Japan on September Chairman of Santa Farma, addressed the inaugural speech in the UN General 1-2 on behalf of international business world. the participants of Joint Exchange Council, Mr Erol Kiresepi, the Chairman of Mr Kiresepi underlined that the rate of global Forum organised by Turkish ConBoard at Santa Farma and the President of progress with regards to 8th Sustainable federation of Employer Associations the International Organization of Employers, Development Goals of the United Nations has (TISK), where he underlined the vital highlighted the strong and long-lasting cobeen rather sluggish and has not kept pace importance of social dialogue, an operation with ILO and that they supported with the ambitions of the 2030 Agenda so offspring of democracy and partictrilateral management, involving governfar before attracting attention to the key role ipation, as an indispensable part of ment, workers and employers. assumed by the business world in that regard. economic stability and growth. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 9 ABOUT SANTA FARMA BUSINESS FIELD Santa Farma is engaged in manufacturing, import, Drugs which are scientifically proven to be bioexport, marketing and sales of drugs in pharmaceutical equivalent are also therapeutically equivalent at the industry. It is recognized as a deep-rooted and same time. In that respect, Santa Farma complies important company dealing with “manufacturing with all the laws and regulations enforced by the of original and equivalent drugs” in Turkish Ministry of Health, which is in charge of registration pharmaceutical market. The company invested EUR procedures to be conducted for release of drugs. 150 million in its state-of-the-art manufacturing plant Furthermore, it abides by the principles of “Current which was commissioned for the benefit of Turkish Good Manufacturing Practices” (cGMP). pharmaceutical industry with a closed space of 44 thousand sqm in Dilovası, Kocaeli in 2015. Currently, a great many of governments encourage The manufacturing plant which boasts of the capacity manufacturing of equivalent drugs in order to reduce to manufacture annually 150 million boxes in a single public healthcare costs. This makes it possible to “Santa Farma shift based on EU-GMP, TR-GMP and Jordanian allocate higher funds to other public concerns with GMP certificates not only manufactures products a view to contributing to the welfare of the country manufactures not only for our country and countries of export but also in general. Manufacturing of equivalent drugs also original drugs but also provides localization support to global and domestic increases the global competitive power of the relevant equivalent drugs in pharmaceutical companies which are engaged in country as it provides the manufacturing companies order to contribute importing pharmaceutical products. with opportunities for export. to cost effective An equivalent drug, or generic drug, contains the methods in health same amount of the same active ingredient with After manufacturing equivalent drugs by means of the reference (original) drugs and therefore, offers R&D activities, Santa Farma conducts bio-equivalence costs while making the same pharmaceutical effects. The effect of such studies in order to confirm the therapeutic equivalence drugs accessible to drugs is confirmed through bio-equivalence studies. of those drugs to reference drugs. Following the more people.” Equivalent drugs are released after the expiration of completion of registration processes by the Ministry the patents and date concessions for reference drugs. of Health, the products are released to the use of patients and healthcare professionals. Use of equivalent drugs makes it easier to have access to treatment as it offers the same effects with reference drugs for more affordable prices. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 10 ABOUT SANTA FARMA OFFICES AND PLANTS Santa Farma is headquartered in Okmeydanı, Şişli-Istanbul while the manufacturing plant is located in Dilovası-Kocaeli. The company conducts the marketing and sales activities through 8 regional offices all over the country. Marketing R&D Centre Head Office Manufacturing Plant SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 11 REGIONAL OFFICES MANUFACTURING ACTIVITIES QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM With an annual manufacturing capacity of 150 million boxes, The Quality Management System is based on: Santa Farma manufactures its licensed products in addition to • Regulations of Turkish Ministry of Health (all of the applicable several drugs licensed for leading multinational companies. laws and regulations, GMP, GDP Guidelines) • PIC/S, The manufacturing plant conducts its operations in full compliance • Eudralex Volume 4, with the Current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) • ISO 9001 Quality Management System Standards, introduced by the EU-GMP and World Health Organization • WHO Guidelines, and (WHO) and embraced by Turkish Ministry of Health in order to • The International Council for Harmonisation (ICH) / Santa Farma aims promote international standards in drug manufacturing activities. Pharmaceutical Quality System (Q10). to provide people with the best Santa Farma aims to provide people with the best means for TRGMP CERTIFICATE means for health by health by manufacturing high quality products. Santa Farma Gebkim Manufacturing Plant and R&D Centre, which was awarded a GMP Certificate by Turkish Ministry of Health on manufacturing high Available pharmaceutical forms; 26.06.2015, became entitled to extension of the GMP certificate quality products. • Tablet, film coated tablet, pills, capsules, sachets, powder following satisfactory conclusion of the audit conducted on 05filling, effervescent 06.05.2019. • Syrup, solution, suspension • Mouthwash EU-GMP CERTIFICATE • Oral, nasal spray and drop Similarly, Santa Farma Gebkim Manufacturing Plant, which was • Pomade, ointment, gel, cream, and lotion. awarded the EU-GMP Certificate by Croatian Health Agency HALMED on 11.11.2016, became entitled to extension of the CONTRACT MANUFACTURING SERVICES certificate following satisfactory conclusion of the audit conducted Santa Farma Gebkim Manufacturing Plant undertakes contract on 02-06.09.2019. manufacturing services for and on behalf of MSD Turkey, Janssen, Angelini, Yenişehir Laboratuarı, Bilim İlaç, Astellas, DNC Pharma ISO CERTIFICATES and LIBA Laboratories. Santa Farma was awarded ISO 9001 Quality, ISO 14001 Environment and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety certificates in 2017. Those certificates remained valid throughout 2019 during which necessary audits were performed. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 12 R&D In general, Research and Development (R&D) activities focus on boosting innovation to offer new services to people and increase their quality of life. In pharmaceutical industry, R&D activities are even more important because they have a direct impact on human health. The primary goal of Santa Farma R&D Centre is to conduct studies to formulate drugs with high added value in international standards in order to improve life quality of patients by presenting alternative means of treatment and contribute to national economy. To that end, Santa Farma R&D Centre conducts: • Patent studies, • Active ingredient research and evaluation, • Alternative active ingredient evaluation, • Pharmaceutical technology development, • Development of pharmaceutical analytics, • Bio-equivalence and Clinical Studies, • New product stability studies, • CTD application file preparation activities based on Quality by Design (QbD) approach in line with the internationally recognized EMA, US-FDA and ICH guidelines. The know-how derived from the studies conducted at R&D Centre is used for developing future products through information sharing based on human oriented principles with a view to improving new product reliability and effectiveness thanks to the increasing know-how of the company. Situated on a land of 3.000 m2 and comprised of 4 levels, the R&D Centre was accredited by the Ministry of Industry and Technology in recognition of the fulfilment of all requirements on 18.11.2016. This accreditation displays the high quality of the facility as well as the studies conducted in the “R&D Centre”. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 13 The quality of Santa Farma R&D Center is widely accepted and has eligibility leading the world. The R&D Centre is comprised of pharmaceutical anAll departments get involved in those studies through alytic development laboratories (instrumental analysis a multi-disciplinary approach so as to meet the prodand wet chemical laboratory), pharmaceutical technoluct needs of several countries throughout the world. ogy laboratories, warehouses and offices. Out team In that respect, the ultimate goal is to contribute to of professionals with B.Sc., M.Sc. or Ph.D degrees on national economy and help finance the current deficit pharmaceutical chemistry, pharmaceutical technology, by increasing the national export volume. Santa Farma patent and clinical research perform studies to create R&D Centre is globally recognized for its high quality innovative products with high added value with the and leading innovation. use of high technology equipment. Santa Farm scientists keep up with the scientific and technological imWAREHOUSES provements and advances thanks to the internal and The Representative Pharmaceutical Warehouse availexternal training offered to them based on the human able in the New Manufacturing Plant and R&D Centre oriented approach of the company. This makes it poswas audited by the Ministry of Health on 31.12.2014. sible for Santa Farma R&D staff to improve their scienFollowing the audit, the Ministry of Health issued a litific knowledge as necessary. cense on 05.03.2015. The warehouse is used for storage and shipment of products since 01.08.2015. Lateral project groups monitor every single step of the new product development activities with great care Located in the New Manufacturing Plant and R&D and attention as the studies are conducted through Centre, Santa Farma Representative Pharmaceutical alternative dosage forms meant to increase patient Warehouse boasts of a capacity for 10,098 pallets. Fincompliance and comfort in line with cGMP (Good ished products and raw materials / packaging materials Manufacturing Practices) and cGLP (Good Laboratory are stored in the same warehouse but in different secPractices) in addition to GCP (Good Clinical Practices) tions separated with wires. The warehouse has a storfor clinical studies. age section of 70 pallets for the raw materials which have to be stored in cool or warm temperatures. Also, Santa Farma R&D Centre acts in collaboration with unithere is a storage section of 30 pallets for cold chain versities for projects sponsored by TUBITAK and TEYfinished products. BMS system is used for measuring DEB based on the understanding that Public & Private and monitoring the temperature and humidity levels partnership is a cornerstone of innovation. Hence, it in the warehouse on 24/7 basis. Finished products are not only contributes to development of science and distributed through the shipping section in the same technology in Turkey but also takes action to diversify warehouse. Combustible/inflammable raw materials the product range of the company. are stored in a different warehouse of 70 pallets. Santa Farma R&D Centre aims to reinforce the position of Santa Farma in both domestic and global markets by continuously improving the quality of the products. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 14 ABOUT SANTA FARMA NEW INVESTMENT The foundations of the New Manufacturing Plant and R&D Centre were laid in GEBKIM Organized Industrial Zone in 2012. The plant which is located on a land of around 80.000 m² boasts of a manufacturing capacity of annually 150 million boxes. With its 45.000 m² indoor spaces, the plant began to perform manufacturing operations after it was ed the GMP certificate of conformity on 26.06.2015 following the necessary audits. After the quality audits were conducted, the plant received 3 ISO certificates (ISO 9001 Quality, ISO 14001 Environment, OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety) in 2017. The company was able to achieve extension of the certificates as a result of the audits which were concluded satisfactorily in 2018 and 2019. New Manufacturing Plant and R&D Centre Thanks to its plant investment, Santa Farma was awarded Golden Vessel Drug and Pharmaceutics Success Award for “Investment of the Year” by Pharmaceutics Magazine during the third award ceremony held on November 05, 2012. CORPORATE SCALE Santa Farma İlaç Sanayi is a joint stock company. The chart below summarizes its major shareholders, magnitude and sales-cost statement as of December 2019: Headcount 1,071 Net Sales TRY 677,474,940.62 Shareholders’ Equity TRY 249,966,392.48 Quantity of Product & Service Supply 83,199,779 boxes of drugs Total Assets TRY 726,288,078.09 Major Shareholder Erol KİRESEPİ Golden Vessel Award SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 15 PRODUCTS The company manufactures and imports drugs in several therapeutic categories digestive system and metabolism, musculo-skeletal system, respiratory system, gastroenterology and infection, dermatology, nervous system, haematology, cardiovascular system and immune system. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM AND METABOLISM Apikobal Film Tablet Manufacturing Tribudat Forte Tablet Manufacturing Apikobal Plus Enteric Coated Tablet Manufacturing Tribudat Granule Manufacturing Juvelta Granule Manufacturing Tribudat Tablet Manufacturing Pinix Film Coated Tablet Manufacturing Ukra® HR Film Tablet Manufacturing Spanol Film Coated Tablet Manufacturing MUSCULO-SKELETAL SYSTEM Acetudil Forte Capsule Manufacturing Paraflex Tablet Manufacturing Dicloflam Pill Manufacturing Parafon Tablet Manufacturing Elektra Ampule Manufacturing Quando Film Coated Tablet Manufacturing Elektra Film Tablet Manufacturing Sempriban Film Tablet Sanofi Manufacturing Elektra Fort Film Tablet Manufacturing Sempriban Ampule Sanofi Manufacturing Elektra Plus Gel Manufacturing Thermoflex Cream Manufacturing Flexo Ampule Manufacturing TioRelax Ointment Manufacturing Flexo Gel Manufacturing TioRelax Tablet Manufacturing Flexo Spray Manufacturing GASTROENTEROLOGY AND INFECTION Evasif Film Tablet Manufacturing Zenticavir Film Tablet Sanofi Manufacturing Sidatria Film Coated Tablet Sanofi Manufacturing SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 16 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM NERVOUS SYSTEM Allerset Film Tablet Manufacturing Flurend Oral Spray Manufacturing Cralium Tablet Manufacturing Lev-End Film Coated Tablet Manufacturing Allerset Oral Drop Manufacturing İliadin Merck Drop Manufacturing Cogito Oral Solution Manufacturing Lev-End Oral Solution Manufacturing Allerset Syrup Manufacturing İliadin Merck Paediatric Spray Manufacturing Cogito Film Tablet Manufacturing Phocuss Tablet Manufacturing Anthix Tablet Manufacturing İliadin Merck Dosage Spray Manufacturing Cogito Treatment Initiation Pack Manufacturing Phocuss Treatment Initiation Pack Manufacturing Bronchorest Capsule Manufacturing Nazoster Nasal Spray Manufacturing Duloxx Capsule Manufacturing Sayfren Tablet Manufacturing Buğuseptil Vapour Solution Manufacturing Pulmistat Syrup Manufacturing Elepsi Film Tablet Manufacturing Sayfren Oral Solution Manufacturing Crebros Film Coated Tablet Manufacturing Pulmistat Fort Syrup Manufacturing Etkinia Tablet Manufacturing Secita Film Tablet Manufacturing Fluibron Paediatric Syrup Manufacturing Pulmorest Fort Syrup Manufacturing Gyrex Film Tablet Manufacturing Zhedon Film Coated Tablet Manufacturing Fluibron Syrup Manufacturing Pulmorest Syrup Manufacturing Forflu Tablet Manufacturing Sulfarhin Nasal Pomade Manufacturing HAEMATOLOGY Flurend Mouthwash Manufacturing Usyex Spray Manufacturing Eprex Prefill Import Santafer Ampule Manufacturing Ferlos Tablet Manufacturing Santafer Fort Film Tablet Manufacturing DERMATOLOGY Ferlos Oral Solution Manufacturing Santafer Oral Drop Manufacturing Codermo Cream Manufacturing Magnis Cream Manufacturing Ferroven I.V. Ampule Manufacturing Santafer Syrup Manufacturing Codermo Lotion Manufacturing Oly Cream Manufacturing Oxfet Film Coated Tablet Manufacturing Codermo Ointment Manufacturing Oly Plus Cream Manufacturing Dermacutan Gel Manufacturing Oly Spray Manufacturing CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM Locoderm Cream Manufacturing Terbisil Tablet Manufacturing Calbicor Tablet Manufacturing Modet Film Tablet Manufacturing Locoderm Lipocream Manufacturing Terbisil Cream Manufacturing Hirudoid Forte Gel Manufacturing Trentilin Retard Film Tablet Manufacturing Locoderm Ointment Manufacturing Terbisil Spray Manufacturing Hirudoid Forte Cream Manufacturing Trentilin Ampule Manufacturing Modet Capsule Manufacturing UROGENITAL SYSTEM Eccury Film Tablet Manufacturing Longis Film Tablet Manufacturing Komox Capsule Manufacturing SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 17 Santa Farma has proudly extended its successful domestic operations to overseas countries. The company is currently marketing its innovative equivalent products in overseas markets thanks to its longABOUT SANTA FARMA term marketing experience as well as registration files updated in line with the international standards. In that sense, it steadily extends OVERSEAS MARKETS AND PARTNERSHIPS its operations in overseas markets every year. Santa Farma provides its business partners with training, product info, advanced marketing methods and strategies, management advice and guidance for preparation of registration application files. Santa Farma will continue to focus on export operations as an indispensable part of its growth strategy in future years as well. As of 2019, the company is involved in business partnerships in the following countries: • Afghanistan • Kyrgyzstan • Albania • Colombia • Azerbaijan • Kosovo • Western, Eastern and Central • Myanmar Africa countries • Uzbekistan • Dominican Republic • Tajikistan • Philippines • Turkmenistan • Georgia • Pakistan • Hong Kong • Jordan • Iraq • Vietnam • Kazakhstan • Yemen The company aims to form new business partnerships in the following countries in 2020: • China • Mexico • Chile • Ethiopia • Mongolia • Uganda • Kuwait • Moldova • Ukraine • Malaysia • Sri Lanka Also, the company is likely to execute joint development and contract manufacturing agreements for 3 products with a European-based Pharmaceutical representative training in Azerbaijan global company in 2020. October 17-18, 2019, Baku SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 18 LICENSORS LICENSE AGREEMENTS Santa Farma steadily renews and improves its product range by executing license agreements with leading global companies in order to serve the community and healthcare industry in the best manner possible. The chart below provides a list of the companies with whom the company has executed license agreements: Santa Farma attended CPhI Worldwide 2019 in line with its goal of becoming a leading domestic exporter in Turkish Pharmaceutical Industry, a preferred contract manufacturer and a preferred business partner of global drug manufacturers in Turkish market. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SENIOR MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION CHART AT SANTA FARMA Management of Santa Farma is entrusted to: Board of Directors, Executive Committee, and Board of Directors Senior and Functional Managers at various levels. Board of Directors: consists of one President and three Chairman & CEO directors. The Board of Directors is responsible for making strategic decisions about the company, and finding and allocating resources related to those decisions. Executive Committee Executive Committee: consists of one Chairman and four Vice Presidents. Vice Presidents are senior managers of Marketing and Sales, Strategic Planning and Operations, Vice President Vice President (Marketing & Sales) (Strategic Planning and Operations) Technical Operations and Finance divisions. Executive Committee is responsible for setting corporate targets and organizing the required actions, making decisions Vice President Vice President about the management systems and business processes (Finance) (Technical Operations) required for attaining corporate targets, analysing and evaluating business results and taking actions as necessary. Senior and functional managers of various levels: consist of Legal and Compliance the functional managers reporting to the Chairman & CEO Regulatory Affairs Director Manager and Vice President. They are responsible for administering the existing management systems in line with the strategies set for the corporate targets. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Below is the economic value created by Santa Farma İlaç Sanayi A.Ş. in 2019: Gross sales TRY 879,188,259.50 Revenues TRY 23,008,446.74 Wages due to Employees TRY 115,327,052.42 Payments due to the Government TRY 67,665,061.34 Payments due to the Funders and Banks TRY 45,554,567.23 We were able to fulfil our mission to become a company growing faster than the market average by increasing our turnover by 45 per cent in 2019. Besides, we achieved our sales target for 2019 by 100 per cent. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS SANTA FARMA AND STAKEHOLDERS EMPLOYEES We communicate with our employees by means of meetings and HR processes: Ekol Santa Farma considers all of the communal parties as its stakeholders communication platform, annual meetings, company picnic, orientation training, general to the extent such parties have any relationship with the company training, technical training, video conference system, cctv system, teleconference and affect the company with their actions or get affected from our meetings, several project studies, hiring interviews, performance assessment system, actions. primary stakeholders are our employees, shareholders, sporting events, volunteering projects, social club activities and similar processes and healthcare professionals, patients and relatives, journalists, methods are used for communicating with employees. suppliers, distributors and business partners, associations, community and non-governmental organizations. SHAREHOLDERS The board of directors communicate with the shareholders through monthly/annual etc. meetings. They exchange information and make strategic decisions about the future of the company. Those meetings help us communicate with the shareholders on a regular basis. HEALTHCARE Physicians: Medical representatives pay regular visits to physicians. PROFESSIONALS Treatment alternatives and molecules are evaluated through scientific meetings. Therapeutic websites are created to provide up-to-date information to physicians. We also attend the national congresses, symposia and meetings organized by relevant associations in Turkey. We hold satellite-based symposia in order to offer scientific support with the help of domestic and international lecturers. We organize training programmes on specific therapeutic fields in order to contribute to professional development of physicians. We provide unconditional support to several projects of associations in order to raise awareness regarding specific diseases. Pharmacists: Medical representatives pay regular visits to pharmacists. We undertake one-to-one training sessions about diseases, treatment options and molecules in order to help them increase and update their professional knowledge. We have launched special websites for pharmacists so as to provide them with refresher training on professional regulations. Pharmacists are offered web-based training about diseases, treatment options and molecules. PATIENTS AND The company communicates with patients and their relatives indirectly through various RELATIVES awareness raising projects conducted in collaboration with specific associations. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 22 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRESS Journalists are regularly contacted through press releases, special reporting activities SANTA FARMA AND STAKEHOLDERS and press meetings. SUPPLIERS We perform audits at suppliers for improvement purposes in addition to paying visits to their plants. DISTRIBUTORS AND We communicate with distributors and business partners through agreements, training BUSINESS PARTNERS sessions and meetings. ASSOCIATIONS Pharmaceutical Industry Association of Turkey (TİSD) (TO WHICH THE Istanbul Chamber of Industry (İSO) COMPANY IS A Istanbul Chamber of Commerce (İTO) MEMBER) Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey (TOBB) Foreign Economic Relations Board of Turkey (DEİK) Swiss Chamber of Commerce in Turkey Italian Chamber of Commerce in Turkey Union of Chemical Petroleum Rubber and Plastic Industry Employers of Turkey (KİPLAS) Kocaeli Chamber of Industry United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) COMMUNITY AND Corporate social responsibility projects, corporate website and corporate social media NON-GOVERNMENTAL accounts form the most important of our communication with the community. Besides, ORGANIZATIONS we collaborate with TEMA, ÇEVKO, AÇEV, KAÇUV, Tohum Autism Foundation, TOFD, Alzheimer Association of Turkey, GEA, İyimser Abla, KIZILAY and similar NGOs for several projects. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Santa Farma’s marathon team attended the 40th Istanbul Santa Farma provided unconditional support to the We removed the office bins and began to use the Marathon in order to collect donations for “Don’t Forget Viral Hepatitis Control Association’s awareness project common space unit zones under the Zero Waste Project Yourself” project conducted in collaboration with Turkish “Leave a Yellow Note to Life”, which intends to increase initiated at the Head Office and Gebkim office buildings. Alzheimer Association in 2018. With a team of 97 emploawareness about Hepatitis B and encourage more people Thanks to efficient recycling actions, we were able to yees, Santa Farma was distinguished as the leading comto take tests and take measures. The project was awarded reduce our greenhouse gas effect by 41,4 tons while pany in pharmaceutical industry. During the celebration at Golden Spider and Felis Awards. saving 1 million 134 thousand 303 kilowatt hours of held at the refurbished Day Care Centre, Turkish Alzheimer power. Besides, the recycling activities made it possible Association presented the certificates of appreciation and Under the project “Leave a Yelow Note to Life” which to save 3,562 trees in addition to saving 44.1 kilograms of thank you letters written by relatives of patients to the mawas extended to almost 4 million people in just four raw materials and around 733 barrels of oil. rathon teams which were able to collect the highest sums months, Santa Farma made a cooperation with the of donation for the benefit of the association. Yellow Microphone, which is Turkey’s most watched street interviews channel. Street interviews were made by the famous actor Hayreddin. In the viral videos, people were asked “What does ‘B’ mean for 1.8 million people in Turkey?” and informed about Hepatitis B. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 24 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Under a joint project with KAÇUV, children’s drawings which Another social responsibility project supported by Santa We are convinced that economic, humanitarian and social characterize doctors as their super heroes were presented Farma employees is the “Kapak Olsun” campaign development will not be possible without encouraging to the doctors. The donations made under this exclusive initiated by TOFD for donating wheelchairs to individuals women who constitute half of the society to become project were used for the benefit of children receiving with orthopaedic disability so that they can independently involved in all aspects of life. Under the initiative taken cancer treatment and their families. and freely go around, make shopping and discover the in 2018, we provided support to women’s cooperatives world around them. Accordingly, we collect plastic bottle from all over Turkey on the occasion of 8th of March this caps in the collection units available in our head office, year, as well. We presented the sets prepared by İyimser plant and other corporate offices and send them to TOFD Abla, a non-governmental organization, to all male and at regular intervals. female employees in order to underline our conviction that female labour is invaluable for the society. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Santa Farma employees assigned at the head office and plant decided to give Santa Farma is committed to the success of joint projects Santa Farma chooses a different NGO for the Corporate presents to children receiving conducted with Turkish Red Crescent. The company Picnic organization held every year. The company picked cancer treatment instead of has launched another project, stem cell donation, to Laughter Heals Association for the Traditional Santa organizing a draw with their the existing blood donation campaigns. Santa Farma Farma Picnic in 2019. Laughter Heals Association was colleagues for celebrating employees at Dilovası Manufacturing and R&D Centre given the opportunity to explain its activities in order to the new year. Each employee voluntarily donated stem cells under the project. raise awareness and collect funds by selling its specially picked a name from the Tree designed products to the employees during the picnic. of Hope and bought a gift according to the age of the child. The gifts were given to children receiving cancer treatment with the help of KAÇUV. Santa Farma made a donation to Haçiko Association in the name of all Santa Farma employees on April 4, World Stray Animals Day. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 26 HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT ACCESS TO MEDICATION Equivalent drugs make it possible to offer effective treatment options with more affordable prices than reference drugs. Hence, Santa Farma facilitates access to medication and improves public health by manufacturing equivalent drugs. Currently, a great many of governments encourage manufacturing of equivalent drugs in order to reduce public healthcare costs. This makes it possible to allocate higher funds to other public concerns with a view to contributing to the welfare of the country in general. Santa Farma distributed around 61 million boxes of drugs directly in domestic market in 2019. It ranks among top 10 companies in terms of distribution volume. Those activities conducted by Santa Farma conform to the Human Rights Guidelines for Pharmaceutical Companies in relation to Access to Medicines issued by the United Nations. Santa Farma contributes to savings on healthcare costs and makes medication accessible to more people by manufacturing equivalent drugs. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 27 PATIENT RIGHTS Santa Farma is responsible for manufacturing reliable consumers, healthcare professionals or the literature in products in order to promote the healthcare services Turkey and reports those cases to the Pharmacovigilance extended to patients. In other words, it is dedicated to Centre of Turkey (TÜFAM) within fifteen days at the latest. “giving healthy service to health”. Also, it monitors the progress in relation to those cases which have to be reported to TÜFAM within fifteen days. To that end, Santa Farma has set up a pharmacovigilance system which is meant to enable the company to perform c) Takes note of adverse reactions observed in other its obligations regarding product safety and take suitacountries where the drugs are registered as well as all ble actions if necessary. This system is administered by kinds of changes which might affect the benefit/risk aspharmacists who are assigned as the “Pharmacovigilance sessment of the respective drug including the restrictions Executive and Representative” in charge of the “Pharand prohibitions introduced by competent authorities, macovigilance Unit” under Registration Department in archives the relevant details and report them to TÜFAM Turkey. Having been selected from qualified candidates if necessary. Hence, it keeps the drug information up-towho are able to perform the duties arising from the phardate in line with the existing scientific data. macovigilance system in line with the regulations and guidelines in force, the Pharmacovigilance Executive d) Takes note of all minor adverse reactions observed and Representative are responsible for product safety in Turkey and other countries where the drugs are regat Santa Farma and they remain available on 24/7 basis. istered and arising from the literature and archives the Pharmacovigilance Executive and Representative attend relevant information to be included in the Periodical Benthe training programmes organized by Turkish Ministry of efit/Risk Assessment Report. Health on pharmacovigilance. e) Prepares the “Periodical Benefit/Risk Assessment ReSanta Farm performed a risk/benefit analysis with respect port”, which is a scientific form of evaluation report, imto adverse reactions (side effects) arising from Santa Farmediately upon request or 18 months after registration ma products in 2019 reporting period. The outcome of and during renewal of registration (5th Year) for any drug this analysis was reported to both the Ministry of Health registered in Turkey and submits the same to the Turkish and licenser companies in line with the relevant regulaMinistry of Health. tions and guidelines. f) Minimizes the risk by evaluating the information deSanta Farma Pharmacovigilance Unit: rived in relation to pharmacovigilance activities and takes a) Monitors product safety on a continual basis. To that necessary measures. end, it provides pharmacovigilance training to all emg) Undertakes pharmacovigilance activities by means of ployees. Through those training organizations, the unit a validated system in line with the requirements of the provides up-to-date information about the applicable current regulations and guidelines. regulations and guidelines, explains the actions to be taken in case of any adverse reaction report, and raises awareness regarding pharmacovigilance. b) Takes note of all suspicious and serious adverse reactions (side effects) which might be attributable to SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 28 PROMOTION OF EMPLOYEES’ RIGHTS RIGHTS OF SANTA FARMA EMPLOYEES Santa Farma has implemented an Employee Rights In addition to monthly wages, we provide our and Human Resources Policy since its incorporation. employees with several benefits such as religious The company prioritizes employee rights and holiday allowance, fuel allowance and leave working environment. As we have already noted, allowance. Also, the company funds a significant Santa Farma upholds article 23 of the Universal Santa Farma endeavours to create a working portion of the private healthcare insurance extended Declaration of Human Rights which provides that: environment where employees may voluntarily put to the employees. their knowledge and skills to use and expects the management staff to uphold this principle. “Santa Farma respects the employees’ right to rest “Everyone, without any discrimination, has the and free time based on the understanding that this The company does not make use of forced and right covers a reasonable limitation of office hours right to equal pay for equal work. child labour and does not encourage those two and extension of the right to paid leave at specific Everyone who works has the right to just and forms of labour in any organization. We execute intervals.” favourable remuneration ensuring for himself an employment contract with each employee and and his family an existence worthy of human respect the legal probation period. We treat all Santa Farma employees are entitled to benefit from dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by employees equally and support the principle of paid leave period provided in the law applicable in granting equal right of protection to everyone legally other means of social protection.” our country. As a matter of fact, the leave period without discrimination. granted to the employees is well above the legal period. As it might be inferred from the following “Santa Farma respects the employees’ right to chart, our employees enjoy a leave period extending freedom of peaceful assembly and association.” the legally required period. Santa Farma uses a Job Assessment System to determine wages in line with the principle of “equal pay for equal work”. We compare the wages applied in the company with the market wage reports annually and conduct the necessary analyses in order to make wage increases in line with the corporate Leave Period Duration of Legal Leave policies as well as economic indicators. Applicable at Employment Period Santa Farma 1-5 years 14 days 20 days 6-15 years 20 days 26 days 15+ 26 days 30 days SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 29 PROMOTION OF EMPLOYEES’ RIGHTS We recognize that creating a favourable working environment in addition to mitigating our impact on nature by reducing is crucial for employee’s well-being and performance. greenhouse gas emissions. WORKING ENVIRONMENT AT SANTA FARMA Hence, we took action to create modern working offices in In 2019, we renewed and commissioned our Ekol Internal our head office building in 2016. The head office is home Communication Platform in the form of a corporate to 13 meeting halls and a conference hall. Also, there are communication portal powered through Microsoft Sharepoint 7 meeting halls and a conference hall at the manufacturing Online infrastructure. Ekol Social Microsoft Yammer, our plant and R&D Centre. As a company dedicated to creating a internal social media platform, was launched for allowing favourable social environment, we encourage our employees all employees to interact through the same platforms. All We endeavour to provide a to engage in sporting activities at football-basketball and Medical Sales Representatives are provided with mobile favourable working environment volleyball fields. We believe that such activities will also devices which enable them to have online access to all kinds to employees while also creating improve the personal relationship between employees. of information about our human medicinal products. Hence, suitable social means and we have managed to eliminate the use of printed materials in opportunities to improve social We have installed CCTV system at the canteens in our head order to minimize the number of trees cut for our operations bonding between employees. office and manufacturing plant in order to share up-toin line with our environmental commitments. Also, we use date information about the company with our employees. Ekol in order to provide our employees with free online The system is used for disclosing monthly sales figures, training and information in addition to enabling them to meet manufacturing information, training organizations, news, for achieving joint objectives by means of social clubs and meetings, awards, sporting achievements, environmental events. activities, and social responsibility projects to our employees so that our internal stakeholders will remain knowledgeable The Enterprise Resource Planning (SAP-ERP) Project which about the corporate actions. was launched in November 2011 aims to promote cost traceability, standardize business processes and control We effectively use a video conference system and Skype all of the processes from raw material supply to actual for Business between regional offices and head office in manufacturing phases. The fully validated processes enable order to enhance our communication with our employees. the company to manage all operations in a well-integrated Recognized for boosting our capacity for communications, manner. the available systems ensure end-to-end encryption by means of WILDCARD SSL. This contributes to reducing travel costs Launch of Ekol Bowling Tournament Table Tennis Tournament Picnic SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 30 PROMOTION OF EMPLOYEES’ RIGHTS Also, the transition to Central Procurement organization, which was implemented in line with the goal of improving business processes, enabled us to adapt the Supplier Relations Management (SAP SRM) module as necessary. WORKING ENVIRONMENT AT SANTA FARMA The Digital Quality Management System QMex software which is used since 2014 makes it possible to promote data security and integrity by means of a validated system created for quality processes so as to conduct and monitor the process more rapidly with less human intervention. In addition to SAP-ERP and QMex systems, the company makes effective use of support systems such as business acumen and several operational systems integrated with each other meant to increase effectiveness of business processes. Those systems are continually updated in order to keep pace with changing needs. In that respect, we developed B2B Order Integration infrastructure for our domestic customers in 2018. The company organizes annual meetings at the end of each year in order to disclose corporate strategies to employees and improve the communications between employees. During those meetings, we evaluate the previous year, set the targets for the next year, offer trainings on several issues, launch our products and support teamwork by means of various activities. Also, we create a social environment where employees may relax and have fun together. Respect for the individual, openness to development, rational power, and respect for the work, workplace and community remain at the core of our human resources policy. With this in mind, we are dedicated to undertake projects which will satisfy the needs of the new generation and increase satisfaction of employees. In that respect, we launched the “Take Action” project for our employees and their families in order to help them maintain a good balance between their business and private lives. The project covers a wide range of arts and culture activities to provide support to our employees and their families about various fields including nutrition, sports, stress management, parenting and child care support. Also, employees who have a child attending the kindergarten and first grade at primary school are given a half-day leave during the back-to-school and end-of-school days so that they can share the excitement and joy of their children. As part of our 75th anniversary celebrations, Santa Farma employees created the image of a Turkish Flag of 62 square meters by holding pieces of cardboards. After that, they used the same cardboards to create the logo of Santa Farma while a music band played several songs and anthems. Those exclusive moments of visual feast were recorded with the help of a drone. Santa Farma employees enjoyed the celebrations of the 75th anniversary to the full thanks to this special project which was meant to turn the celebration into a real festival. Launch of Take Action Back-to-school Conference End-of-year Meeting 75th Anniversary Celebrations SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 31 PROMOTION OF EMPLOYEES’ RIGHTS As of December 2019, Santa Farma employee profile is: EMPLOYMENT TOTAL WORKFORCE UNDER EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS Total Number of Employees with Contracts of Definite Duration 2 Number of Employees with Contracts of Indefinite Duration 1069 Total Number of Employees 1071 TOTAL WORKFORCE PER GENDER Company Total Total Head Office Total Manager Positions Total Number of Female Employees 293 Number of Female Employees 80 Number of Female Managers 38 Number of Male Employees 778 Number of Male Employees 64 Number of Male Managers 91 Total Number of Employees 1071 Total Number of Employees 144 Total Number of Employees 129 293, %27 38, %29 80, %56 64, %44 778, %73 91, %71 Company Total Head Office Manager Positions Number of Male Managers Number of Male Managers Number of Male Managers Number of Female Managers Number of Female Managers Number of Female Managers NUMBER OF TERMINATIONS IN THE REPORTING PERIOD Number of Employees Subject to Termination Female Male 65 86 Total 151 SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 32 We think of the company as a big family and each employee is a member of this family. Since our employees have worked at the company for a long time, they remain committed to the company with an outstanding sense of belonging. As of 2019, the average service duration is 7 years. We recognize our employees who have worked for more than 10 years by offering recognition plates and underlining their importance to the company at the annual meeting every year. The employee transfer rate is 11.85% in 2019. AVERAGE SERVICE AND EMPLOYEE TRANSFER RATE Average Service Duration (Years) 7 Employee Transfer Rate (%) 11.85% EMPLOYEE TRANSFER RATE PER GENDER Employee Female Male Total Transfer Rate (%) 4.84 7.01 11.85 SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 33 PROMOTION OF EMPLOYEES’ RIGHTS At Santa Farma, we uphold the principles of equal opporcompany. Santa Farma admitted 98 interns in total 78 of tunity and respect for the individual in all Human Resourwhom were assigned at the Plant divisions in 2019. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY ces processes beginning from the hiring without making Total number of positions, number of applications, stadiscrimination as to ethnic background, religion, languatistical data about the interviews, fulfilment of positions, ge, race, political affiliation or gender. candidate selection, evaluation and feedback processes are evaluated and reported on an annual basis. This maWe evaluate the professional experience and expertise kes it possible to define the points for development and of candidates objectively during hiring, promotion and set objectives for betterment and improvement of hiring similar processes in order to promote equal opportunity. processes. Hiring management system of Santa Farma aims to recBeginning from the announcement of job advertisement, ruit qualified individuals who adhere to the corporate culall hiring processes from the initial interview of the Human ture and values, meet the requirements of the position, Resources to the filling of the position are monitored baand have the competences required to contribute to the sed on the relevant objectives. organization and therefore, select the suitable candidate in line with the principle of equal opportunity. The company encourages hiring of local employees at the manufacturing plant as well as wide-scale site operaEveryone who wants to work at Santa Farma may file an tions throughout Turkey. 72% of the new hires were from application for the vacancies or potential vacancies on our provinces outside Istanbul in 2019. Below is the breakonline and other platforms. The vacancies are announced down of employees in different provinces. at web portals and corporate web page of Santa Farma. All applications are evaluated in line with the criteria speEMPLOYMENT IN PROVINCES cified in the vacancy announcements and suitable candidates are invited to an interview. The interview process is Number of Number of Provinces Employees in Provinces Employees in held for evaluating the candidates according to the obje2019 2019 ctive criteria and competences required for the position and each candidate is given a score in order to hire the Adana 5 İçel 1 candidate with the most suitable qualifications. Also, we Aksaray 2 İstanbul 55 perform evaluations through case studies and simulations Ankara 11 İzmir 3 KARIYER.NET RESPECT (e.g. foreign language tests, personality and behavioural Antalya 5 Kahramanmaraş 2 FOR HUMAN AWARD tests) and similar methods. After that, we perform reference checks and extend our job offer to candidates who Aydın 2 Kayseri 1 2019 succeed in all of the abovementioned processes. We give Balıkesir 1 Kocaeli 64 Santa Farma maintained its popularity negative feedback to candidates, when applicable, via inBurdur 1 Kırklareli 1 ternet portals and e-mail. Bursa 5 Konya 7 with jobseekers by receiving 80,806 applications in 2019. Having responded to Diyarbakır 1 Manisa 2 As a company dedicated to show respect for the indiviall of the applicants within 3 days on average and dual, Santa Farma gives feedback to all candidates about Elazığ 1 Muğla 1 thereby achieving 100% response rate, the company was the progress of the hiring process based on the criteria of Erzurum 3 Ordu 1 awarded the Respect for Human Award by Kariyer.net objectivity and transparency. Eskişehir 2 Samsun 1 for the 9th year in 2019. As a company dedicated to Gaziantep 5 Sivas 2 Santa Farma admits interns to the plant and head office upholding principles of equal opportunity, Santa Farma Hatay 1 Şanlıurfa 2 in cooperation with universities. Interns are provided with hired female employees for 38% of all vacancies and the opportunity of technical and professional developIsparta 2 Tekirdağ 1 76% of vacancies at the head office in 2019. ment. Following the completion of the internship, they Zonguldak 2 are recruited based on the employment needs of the Total 193 SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 34 PROMOTION OF EMPLOYEES’ RIGHTS Collaborative Protocols with Universities EQUAL OPPORTUNITY The company signed a joint training collaboration protocol with the Faculty of Pharmacy at İstanbul University. The company offers theoretical and practical training and mentoring support under the “360 Degrees at Pharmaceutical Industry” project which is intended to promote the personal and professional development of students. Intern Programme In 2019, the company admitted interns from undergraduate students at Boğaziçi University, Bahçeşehir University, Altınbaş University, İstanbul Bilgi University, Biruni University and Kocaeli University. The students were given the opportunity to serve their internship at different departments of the company. Following the completion of the internship, we offered career coaching sessions to the students. Career Days In January 2019, Santa Farma attended the “Chemistry of My National Career” conference organized by Yıldız Teknik University in order to act as a career coach by making one-to-one interviews with students at the departments of Chemistry and Pharmacy. Interns and fresh graduates had the opportunity to apply to positions at the company by using the general application forms throughout this significant day. Kocaeli Employment Expo and Career Days at Altınbaş University Career Days SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 35 PROMOTION OF EMPLOYEES’ RIGHTS PROFESSIONAL TRAINING As a company that values its employees, Santa Farma organizes social activities to improve sense of belonging and commitment of employees, offers personal and professional development training programmes to increase their motivation and creates suitable means for enabling the enterprise to keep up with the changing conditions along with the employees. We organize Orienteam Orientation Programmes to facilitate the adaptation of new hires to the corporate culture and organization. In that respect, new hires are informed of the organizational structure, functions of divisions, and practices of Human Resources during those programmes. Training programmes are scheduled in line with the organizational requirements, developmental plans and functional needs of the enterprise. Also, we offer OHS training in order to evaluate the risks in working environments and to raise awareness in employees in that regard. We ask participants to give feedback about the training programmes in order to evaluate and report satisfaction of participants. The following chart summarizes the training provided to the Head Office, Central Marketing Office and Site employees by the Human Resources along with the training duration per employee in 2019. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 36 TRAINING PROGRAM IN 2019 AVERAGE TRAINING DURATION PER EMPLOYEE – HEAD OFFICE 2019 TRAINING TOTAL NUMBER OF NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS x TRAINING DURATION PER EMPLOYEE PARTICIPANTS TRAINING DURATION (HOURS) (HOURS) Area Management/SYS Training 10 80 0,08 Safe Driving Techniques Training 55 110 0,11 HR Seminars 6 72 0,07 Time Management and Motivational Training 7 56 0,06 Conferences 220 550 0,54 EYS Information Training 9 60 0,06 Effective Communication Training 137 1888 1,86 Orientation Training 111 780 0,77 Awareness of First Aid 102 204 0,2 Fire Fighting Training Leader in Managing People 15 240 0,24 OHS Training 114 1744 1,72 Take Leadership of Your Business 16 256 0,25 Self-Managing Leader 15 240 0,24 Mentor Training 47 292 0,29 Interviewing Techniques and Performance Management 10 80 0,08 Performance Assessment System 41 102,5 0,1 Performance and Feedback Training 52 416 0,41 Dream Team Coaching 11 176 0,17 Selling Techniques Training 10 80 0,08 Leader Steering Strategy 15 240 0,24 Presentation Skills Training 10 80 0,08 Basic First Aid Training 10 160 0,16 Story Telling for Product Launches 36 576 0,57 First Aid Training Fire Training 17 136 0,13 Competence Based Interviewing Techniques 1 16 0,02 Mental Journey to Management 10 80 0,08 AVERAGE OF SF EMPLOYEES: 1013 1.087 8.714 8,61 SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 37 TRAINING PROGRAM IN 2019 AVERAGE TRAINING DURATION PER EMPLOYEE / PLANT 2019 TRAINING TOTAL NUMBER OF NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS x TRAINING DURATION PER EMPLOYEE PARTICIPANTS TRAINING DURATION (HOURS) (HOURS) Behavioural Rules 378 378 0,58 Equipment / Maintenance System / Qualification Training 170 234 0,61 Awareness Training 589 1.586 2,39 Entrance-Exit Authorization 20 600 0,93 GxP Training 528 409 1,07 Heliport Training 7 126 0,19 Firs Aid Certification Training 5 90 0,14 Occupational Health and Safety & Environmental Training 1.531 4.287 11,18 Personal Development Training 66 50 0,13 Story Telling For Product Launches Professional Training 10.220 784 2,04 Orientation/Rotation Training 1.282 2.579 2,77 QMex Training 231 135 0,35 SAP Training 183 219 0,22 SOP Training 6.470 2.842 7,41 Fundamental Occupational Health Training 172 2.064 3,19 Product Safety Training 14 6 0,02 Time Management and Motivation 4 36 0,06 TOTAL 21.870 16.423 33,27 Effective Communication Master’s Degree Project Mentree Santa Farma initiated a Master’s Degree Project in collaboration with Mentree is a mentoring programme which was launched in 2018 with a view Bahçeşehir University under EKOL Academy in 2017. Since then, seven to contributing to the development of our employees while improving our employees of Santa Farma have participated in the Master’s Degree Project corporate competencies at the same time. Our directors and managers who which is intended to support the personal development and academic volunteer for acting as mentors take ownership of the development of the improvement of employees with a promising potential for the future. Also, mentees through one-to-one meetings held for 6 months. This programme Bahçeşehir University offers special discounts for all employees of Santa is highly popular with the employees since it allows them to work with the Farma who choose to pursue a master’s degree in business administration managers of different functions and learn to evaluate incidents through (MBA) and attend other master’s degree programmes. different points of view. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 38 PROMOTION OF EMPLOYEES’ RIGHTS OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT In 2019, Santa Farma İlaç Gebkim OSB Plants underwent follow-up audits in relation to ISO 9001 Quality Management System, ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System while the Head Office was subject to audits concerning ISO 9001 Quality Management System. Santa Farma performs a number of occupational health and safety activities in order to minimize or restrict the risks arising from its activities throughout all processes ranging from new product development to delivery to endcustomers, improve the designated performance indicators steadily and meet requirements of GMP and Integrated Management System. Santa Farma plants also take a number of occupational health and safety measures which are summarized below. The senior management has adopted an OHS policy which is meant to reinforce, implement and uphold the OHS objectives and criteria. The OHS policy shall be revised under ISO 45001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System in 2020. The OHS Policy of Santa Farma aims to determine the risks to be avoided for protecting employees against occupational accidents and diseases, take necessary measures and improve the performance continuously. Target based training and periodical reviews on occupational health and safety form the basis of Occupational Health and Safety agenda. Employees are given periodical training to raise awareness on relevant matters. The company undertakes to improve its occupational health and safety performance constantly and comply with the legal regulations on occupational health and safety as well as other requirements in force. The OHS policy is disclosed to employees through several channels including several monitors and panels inside the buildings, common areas, orientation and basic training programmes. Also, the policies are shared with the employees and relevant stakeholders on the corporate website. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 39 ASSIGNMENT OF OHS PROFESSIONALS and evaluating the risks related to occupational health and 1. General Santa Farma has assigned an Occupational Physician and safety matters arising from any and all activities (routine a) Information about employment regulation, Occupational Safety Specialist to work at the head office and non-routine activities including those performed by b) Legal rights and responsibilities of employees, during the office hours designated in the “Regulation on sub-contractors and visitors). The team defines the relevant c) Workplace hygiene and order, Duties, Powers, Responsibilities and Training of Occupational areas and processes and evaluates them according to the ç) Legal consequences of occupational accidents and Physicians and Other Paramedics” and “Regulation on Environmental Impact / Occupational Health and Safety Risk diseases Duties, Powers, Responsibilities and Training of Occupational Evaluation Procedure in order to decide on the corrective 2. Health Safety Specialists”. Santa Farma Gebkim OSB Plants, on the and preventive actions to be taken in that regard. The a) Reasons of occupational diseases, other hand, engage such professionals to work above the Occupational Health and Safety Committee may review the b) Principles for protection against diseases and legal period by assigning a full-time Occupational Physician findings of that evaluation to the extent necessary. implementation of protection methods, and Occupational Safety Specialists on site. Also, Santa Risk and Environmental Impact Evaluation Team is comprised c) Biological and psychosocial risk factors, Farma GEBKİM OSB Plants engage Other Paramedics and of the individuals nominated by the relevant process ç) First aid, Occupational Safety Technicians although it is not legally owners. The team holds a meeting every 2 months along d) Harmful effects of tobacco products and passive smoking required to assign those professionals. with the members of the Occupational Health and Safety 3. Technical Committee in order to perform an annual review about a) Chemical, physical and ergonomic risk factors, the risks arising from the activities, review and extend the b) Handling and transportation, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE experience derived from the implementation of procedures c) Protecting against combustion, explosion and fire, Formed in line with the “Regulation on Occupational Health and guidelines in line with the requirements of the current ç) Sage use of work equipment, and Safety Committees”, the occupational health and safety regulations, promote efficiency of implementation, design d) Working with digital equipment, committee met and performed functions regularly in 2019. and conduct activities for improvement areas. The team e) Electricity and threats, risks and measures, According to the Hazard Classification List, the workplace is may hold extra meetings if necessary. f) Reasons of occupational accidents and implementation of classified as hazardous according to which it is required to protection principles and methods, hold Occupational Health and Safety Committee meetings HEALTH SCREENING g) Safety and health signs, regularly every 2 months. Managers of relevant departments Issued under the “Regulation on Duties, Powers, ğ) Use of personal protective equipment, are invited to those meetings in addition to the individuals Responsibilities and Training of Occupational Physicians and h) General rules about occupational health and safety in indicated in the abovementioned regulation. Matters arising Other Paramedics”, the Occupational Health and Screening addition to safety culture, from the requirements of the regulations are discussed at Procedure requires the employees to undergo regular health ı) Eviction and rescue the meetings. In that respect, the committee discusses and checks and examinations in addition to the pre-employment 4. Other (specific training provided about the tasks of resolves such matters as improvement activities necessitated checks conducted on new hires. Employees assigned at employees) by the analysis of the current condition, Occupational Health manufacturing sites and cafeterias also undergo periodical and Safety activities required under the annual budget examinations for infectious diseases every 6 months. In addition to fundamental occupational health and plans, corrective and preventive activities determined as safety training, work-related training and certified training a result of the evaluation of OHS risks, consideration and OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING programmes are offered to employees. Also, professional review of amendments to regulations of public authorities, Employees and sub-contractors are provided with training/qualification certification programmes are feedback given by stakeholders, findings and suggestions occupational health and safety orientation training before conducted based on the amendments to the regulations. of employee representatives and committee members, they are engaged on site. The training sessions to be Refreshing training is provided to employees on occupational accidents, diseases and near-misses, organized for all employees are determined in the annual Occupational Health and Safety either directly or through emergency plans, training activities etc. training plan pursuant to the “Regulation on the Principles online platforms in line with the “Regulation on the Principles EVALUATION OF RISKS FOR OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH and Procedures of Occupational Health and Safety Training and Procedures of Occupational Health and Safety Training AND SAFETY for Employees”. The Fundamental Occupational Health and for Employees”. Santa Farma has formed an environmental impact/risk Safety Training programme is provided to inform employees evaluation team which is in charge of defining the threats about the following matters. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 40 OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS AND NEAR-MISSES internal assemblies and elevators are also periodically AWARDS FOR GOOD PRACTICES ON OCCUPATIONAL In case of occupational accidents, hazardous conditions controlled by technicians of the contracted organization. HEALTH AND SAFETY and near-misses, OHS requirements are evaluated in Santa Farma İlaç Sanayii A.Ş. Gebkim Plant was awarded the cooperation with the relevant units in line with the Accident INTERNAL AUDITS grand prize for its Closed Raw Materials and Transfer System and Incident Procedure. The actions determined as a The company plans and implements annual internal audits Project at the Occupational Health and Safety Best Practices result of the evaluation are conducted with due regard for on occupational health and safety for all units and processes Awards organized by KİPLAS (Union of Chemical Petroleum the Procedure on Corrective and Preventive Activities for in line with the Internal Audit Procedure. The incongruities Rubber and Plastic Industry Employers of Turkey). Environmental and Occupational Health/Safety. detected at the internal audits are reviewed in order to plan Following the investigation of the accidents or incidents the required Corrective and Preventive Actions. The results through teamwork, OHS committee meets to discuss the of the prior audit are taken into account in order to discover findings of the investigation and determine the corrective the significant OHS risks. Internal audit results are duly actions required to be taken. Trend analyses of the accident evaluated and reported to the senior management. and incident investigations are monitored and evaluated every 3 months. EMERGENCIES The modifications required for the corrective and preventive The Emergency Procedure defines the actions to be taken actions are performed in line with OHS Change Control in emergencies in line with the applicable regulations. Procedure. Emergency planning process is conducted by the Emergency Employees who wish to report any hazardous condition and Management Team. near-miss incident may use the Hazardous Condition/ NearEmergency team staff is required to attend practical Miss Reporting Boxes available at the common spaces. The emergency training at regular intervals. In that respect, incidents reported by employees are evaluated before the search and rescue, fire response, first aid and basic disaster necessary actions, responsible parties and deadlines are awareness training programmes are conducted. planned. Emergency drills are planned and performed every year. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY EVENTS The observations and consequences of emergency drills Santa Farma İlaç Sanayii A.Ş. held an Occupational Health EVALUATION OF WORK HYGIENE are reported to the Emergency Management Team so as and Safety Forum Theatre Event at its Gebkim Plant in 2019. The company analyses the environment, personal exposure to be evaluated by the Occupational Health and Safety and thermal comfort levels in order to determine the threats Committee. arising from the working environment and take measures as necessary. Those analyses are performed periodically every RULES FOR VISITORS AND SUB-CONTRACTORS year. The results are evaluated by the Occupational Health Visitors and sub-contractor employees are admitted to the and Safety Committee so that corrective and preventive plant by the security staff. Those people will be subject to actions may be planned if necessary. visitor procedures. In that respect, they will be informed about the workplace rules by means of leaflets summarizing PERIODICAL CONTROLS those rules. Visitors and sub-contractor employees will not All periodical controls are performed under the Guideline be allowed to act independently inside the plant in that they on Monitoring, Measurement and Evaluation of Conformity will be escorted by the relevant Santa Farma employees. Regarding Environment & OHS in line with the “Regulation Sub-contractor companies need to receive training required on Health and Safety Conditions for the Use of Work for being allowed to work on side in line with the Procedure Equipment”. on Work Permission for Occupational Health and Safety The work equipment at the plant undergoes periodical Purposes. controls conducted by accredited institutions. Also, grounding works, lightning rods, racks, ventilation, electrical SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 41 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT It is our duty to entrust nature to future generations in the same manner as we received it from prior generations at the very least. We prioritize environmental health as much as human health. In that respect, we undertake manufacturing processes with the use of eco-friendly technologies in our state-of-the-art manufacturing plant. Santa Farma monitors exploitation of natural sources in line with the principle of sustainability under the environmental policy which is meant to protect environment during the business operations. The company undertakes to use suitable technologies in order to protect environment, raise awareness in employees regarding the protection of environment, conform to the applicable laws, prevent pollution with due regard for the needs and expectations of the stakeholders, and steadily improve its environmental performance. To that end, the company: • Offers training to its employees and sub-contractors in order to raise awareness about the protection of environment, • Uses eco-friendly technologies in order to control and minimize its environmental impact, and • Acts in full compliance with all legal regulations and ensures fulfilment of customer requirements. Equipment lines with high production capacity are used for manufacturing higher volume of products in order to reduce the amount of wastewater and energy consumption arising from manufacturing processes. Solid manufacturing sites are equipped with special impermeable dust collection systems. Those systems are checked online through BMS (Building Management System). SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 42 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Santa Farma aims to minimize or restrict the risks arising from its activities throughout all processes ranging from new product development to delivery to end-customers, improve the designated performance indicators steadily and meet requirements of cGMP and Environmental Management System. Achieving a sustainable environment requires an effective management which is coordinated with all other processes. Environmental management issues are determined at the Management Review meetings. In addition, Risk and Environmental Impact Assessment Team assumes an active role in performance of the relevant activities on a wide scale basis. All employees are encouraged to actively participate and contribute to the management in order to ensure effective performance of the process in coordination with the other processes. Under the Environmental Management System, Environmental Impact Assessment as well as risks and opportunities are determined regarding activities, products and services with due regard for the life cycle of any such activity, product or service. Life cycle covers the consecutive phases related to a product or service beginning from raw material supply or production with natural resources to the disposal thereof. Life cycle actually spans the phases of raw material supply, design, production, shipment/delivery, consumption, end-of-life processes and final disposal of products. It should be noted that the risks and opportunities are determined for each process. Also, Risk and Opportunities are also considered under the Environmental Management System. Determination of Risks and Opportunities makes it possible to guarantee the outcome/ outcomes expected from the Management System, develop the intended effects, prevent or reduce undesired effects and ensure continuous improvement of the system. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 43 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT We provide up-to-date information to our employees, suppliers, business partners and WASTE MANAGEMENT visitors in order to increase efficiency of waste management system. Below is a breakdown of the waste materials disposed by Santa Farma plants in the last 3 years according to the waste type and disposal method. Under the “Waste Management Procedure”, wastes are segregated as hazardous waste, industrial waste, recyclable and recoverable waste after which they are disposed in cooperation with the companies accredited by Turkish Ministry VARIETIES OF WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL METHODS of Environment and Urbanization without damaging environment provided Waste Disposal Method 2017 2018 2019 that recoverable wastes will be given priority for that purpose. The wastes are Pharmaceutical Waste Incineration 37,094 kg 62,357 kg 45,920 kg continually recorded according to their classification and monitored in terms of Contaminated Waste Incineration 33,940 kg 39,549 kg 28,520 kg monthly trends. Significant indicators such as amount of hazardous waste per box Fluorescent Lamp Waste Special Treatment 126 162 109 should be monitored as an indicator of the waste management performance. Waste Oil Incineration 50 kg 20 kg Lab. Chemical Waste Incineration 32,582 kg 42,309 kg 58,067 kg Contaminated Package Recovery 38,687 kg 32,153 kg 34,954 kg Electronic Waste Recovery and Disposal WASTE RECOVERY The company recollects a certain amount of the packaging wastes released to the market in order to recover those wastes in line with the Regulation on Packaging Wastes enacted under the Environment Act. The company collaborates with accredited institutions such as ÇEVKO for recovery purposes. The recoverable wastes resulting from manufacturing operations are segregated in line with the Waste Management Procedure before they are recovered in collaboration with institutions licensed by Turkish Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. ÇEVKO endeavours to collect and recover the packaging wastes by means of a sustainable system in collaboration with local governments, enterprises and consumers. Santa Farma has legally authorized ÇEVKO, an accredited institution, to recollect and recover the packages released to the market. Below is a breakdown of the packaging wastes released by Santa Farma in the last 3 years according to the waste type, amount and recovery percentage: PACKAGING WASTE Waste Volume Released to the Market (kg) Recovery Percentage Recovery (kg) 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Plastics 5,549 25,641 28,000 54% 54% 55% 2,997 13,847 15,401 Paper -Cardboard 843,479 850,355 823,083 54% 54% 60% 455,479 459,192 493,850 SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 44 ENVIRONMENT AND OHS INVESTMENTS Santa Farma allocated TRY 1,307,455.00 in its budget Environment and BIODIVERSITY Occupational Health & Safety in 2019. The enterprise is located in the Organized Industrial Zone (OSB). The enterprise underwent an environmental impact assessment (EIA) before commencing its operations Santa Farma made a profit of TRY 148,388.15 as a result of the recovery of so that potential negative impacts of the operations could be duly ascertained. The the wastes at the plant. reports held that the enterprise would not inflict any negative impact on flora and fauna. Emissions and discharges are constantly monitored by professional institutions accredited by the Turkish Ministry of Environment and Urbanization in order to make sure that the emission and discharge levels are kept below the legal limitations. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND RISK ASSESSMENT UTILITY CONSUMPTION The Risk and Environmental Impact Assessment Team consists of the managers and The following chart indicates the consumption levels of electricity, water and natural gas qualified employees designated by the relevant process owners in line with the in 2019. Environment and OHS Management systems. The team meets once a week or more, if necessary, in order to perform an annual review Electricity 15,410,701 kW about the risks arising from the activities, review and extend the experience derived from Water 104,088 m3 the implementation of procedures and guidelines in line with the requirements of the Natural Gas 1,838,011 Sm3 current regulations, promote efficiency of implementation, promote waste management practices, consider environmental reports, design and conduct activities for improvement GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION-CARBON FOOTPRINT areas. According to the calculations, operations conducted by Santa Farma resulted in the As a team conducting activities for protecting environment and reducing the use of following greenhouse gas emission values in 2019. natural resources, it aims to increase energy efficiency in addition to promoting the use Total carbon footprint of Santa Farma equalled to 13875,65 of CO2 in 2019. of renewable energy sources. Scope 1 Direct Emissions: consumption of natural gas used in heating and production MONTHLY ACTIVITY REPORT and INTERNAL AUDITS line, consumption of LPG, inner burning sources, generator fuel, forklift fuel and cooling The company issues Monthly Activity Reports which include assessments about the gas leakage. Environmental Management actions taken throughout the plant. In that respect, internal environmental audits are planned and implemented in line with Scope 2 Indirect Emissions: consumption of electricity and heat or steam purchased by the Internal Audit Procedure every year. The incongruities detected at the internal audits the company. are reviewed in order to plan the required Corrective Actions. The results of the prior audit are taken into account in order to discover the significant environmental risks. Scope 3 Other Indirect Emissions: business travels (land-air), commuting, car leases, shipment and waste transportation. ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING Employees and sub-contractors are provided with general environmental awareness orientation training before they are engaged on site. Based on the annual training plan, all employees are trained about Environmental Awareness, Life Cycle, Waste Management, and Actions Required for Chemical Spillage in addition to the matters required under the Regulation on Transportation of Hazardous Chemicals on Road and ISO 14001 Environmental Management Standard. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 45 ANTI-CORRUPTION COMPLIANCE, ETHICAL PROMOTION AND MARKETING Santa Farma has remained dedicated to performing its operations objectively in line with the ethical principles since it was incorporated. We aim to remain a transparent company which is accountable to all. As a pharmaceutical company working for offering drugs to patients, Santa Farma is aware of the negative consequences which might arise from corruption and bribery involved in commercial activities. Therefore, it does its best to fight corruption and bribery. The Legal and Compliance Department which directly reports to the President of the Board of Directors takes a leading role in implementation of ethical rules. The Legal and Compliance Department creates internal procedures and guidelines in line with the applicable regulations and updates them to the extent necessary. The company aims to publish those procedures and guidelines in order to form the cornerstone of ethical rules in 2020. We comply with all anti-bribery and anti-corruption rules in our relationships with our domestic and international customers and business partners in addition to our internal stakeholders. We undertake to observe the anti-bribery and anti-corruption rules as well as codes of ethics in our agreements with customers and require our employees and suppliers to act accordingly. We undertake marketing activities in the same manner in line with the rules introduced by the Ministry of Health in addition to the principles of Anti-Corruption Regulation, UN Global Compact, Association of Research Based Pharmaceutical Companies (AİFD), Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association of Turkey (İEİS) and Pharmaceutical Industry Association of Turkey (TİSD). Both the Legal and Compliance Department and Marketing and Promotion Department take diligent actions in order to comply with the regulatory requirements. Santa Farma remains dedicated to observing ethical principles and anti-bribery and anticorruption rules in an uncompromising manner. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 46 SANTA FARMA’S PROGRESS TARGETS Employees’ Rights Revision of Career Management System Revision of Leadership Development Programme Environment Launching Ekomod 1 and Ekomod 2 Projects Qualifying for Zero Waste certification Occupational Health and Safety Fulfilling requirements for ISO 45001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System certification in 2020 Implementing exemplary practices in order to be nominated to National and International OHS Awards Anti-Corruption Ensuring that the internal procedures and guidelines which have been already updated and revised in line with the legal requirements by the Legal and Compliance Department are published in order to form the cornerstone of ethical rules in 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Further extending the “Leave a Yelow Note to Life for Hepatitis B”, a corporate social responsibility project started in collaboration with VHSD (Viral Hepatitis Control Association) in 2018 in order to improve the satisfactory results achieved in 2019 Further extending the “Don’t Forget Yourself”, a project launched in collaboration with Turkish Alzheimer Association in 2018. SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 47 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) 10th Progress Report Having undersigned the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2010, Santa Farma confirms its commitment to the principles hereunder. This Communication on Progress Report 2019 is the 10th progress report issued by Santa Farma under the United Nations Global Compact. The company’s performance for each of the 10 principles is summarized in the following chart which includes references to the relevant sections. GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS İLGİLİ SAYFALAR Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the declared human rights. Corporate Culture Human Rights Management Principle 2: Businesses should not be complicit in human rights abuses. About Santa Farma Human Rights Management LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. About Santa Farma Human Rights Management Principle 4: Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Human Rights Management Principle 5: Businesses should ensure effective abolition of child labour. Human Rights Management Principle 6: Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and hiring processes. Human Rights Management ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Environmental Management Social Responsibility Principle 8: Businesses should support initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Environmental Management Social Responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental Management Working Environment at Santa Farma ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-Corruption SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 48 UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS No Poverty Affordable and Clean Energy Climate Action >> Corporate Governance >> Environmental Management >> Environmental Management Zero Hunger Decent Work and Economic Growth Life Below Water >> Corporate Governance >> About Santa Farma >> Environmental Management Good Health and Well-Being Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Life on Land >> Human Rights Management >> About Santa Farma >> Environmental Management >> Social Responsibility Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Reduced Inequalities Quality Education >> Corporate Governance >> Human Rights Management >> Human Rights Management >> Human Rights Management >> Social Responsibility >> Social Responsibility Partnerships for the Goals Sustainable Cities and Communities Gender Equality >> Santa Farma and Stakeholders >> About Santa Farma >> Human Rights Management >> Social Responsibility >> Social Responsibility >> Overseas Markets and Partnerships Responsible Consumption and Clean Water and Sanitation Production >> Environmental Management >> Environmental Management >> Social Responsibility SANTA FARMA | GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 49 CONTACT US Should you have any questions, opinions or suggestions about Santa Farma Communication on Progress Report for 2019, please feel free to contact Sema Yetkiner, Human Resources Director in charge of preparation of this report via [syetkiner@santafarma.com.tr]. Santa Farma Head Office Halide Edip Adıvar Boruçiçeği Sok. No:16, 34382, Şişli, İstanbul Phone: +90 (212) 220 6400 Fax: +90 (212) 222 5706 Santa Farma Manufacturing Plant and R&D Centre Gebze V (Kimya) İhtisas OSB, Erol Kiresepi Cad. No:8 41455 Dilovası Kocaeli Phone: +90 (262) 674 2300 Fax: +90 (262) 674 2321 Legal Disclaimer This Communication on Progress Report for 2019 is issued in line with the United Nations Global Compact adopted by Santa Farma İlaç Sanayi A.Ş. on 26.5.2010. This report is solely meant to inform our stakeholders in that it does not constitute basis for any investment decision. The information contained herein is, to the best of our knowledge, accurate and reliable and all the data are disclosed in good faith. However, Santa Farma İlaç Sanayi A.Ş. does not make any commitment regarding the relevant data. Santa Farma İlaç Sanayi A.Ş. or its directors, employees or advisors may not be held liable for any direct or indirect losses and damages which might be sustained by any person or entity as a result of the use of the information contained herein.
