2019 RESPONSIBILITY REPORT TRAFIGURA GROUP PTE. LTD. Performance indicators Employees trained Employees trained Average number of employees1 on anti-bribery and corruption on anti-money laundering 6,469 2,519 1,654 2019 6,469 2019 2,519 2019 1,654 2018 5,591 2018 995 2018 989 2017 4,857 2017 570 2017 565 Fatalities Lost-time incidents Lost-time injury rate 1 60 1.76 2019 1 2019 60 2019 1.76 2018 4 2018 64 2018 2.40 2017 2 2017 104 2017 3.62 Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse Volume of oil spills in litres Environmental incidents reported gas emissions Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions 3,823 116 1,035,690 tco2e 6,959,378 tco2e 2019 3,823 2019 116 2019 1,035,690 2019 6,959,378 2018 4,725 2018 146 2018 472,161 2018 5,894,037 2017 43,351 2017 115 2017 356,721 2017 2,421,642 Aggregate first purchases from Aggregate first purchases from NOC’s in non-EITI countries in NOC’s in EITI countries in 2018 2018 Know Your Counterparty checks $3.2 bn $35.8 bn 8,672 2018 3.2 2018 35.8 2019 8,672 2017 2.7 2017 30.0 2018 6,475 2016 1.1 2016 20.1 2017 5,975 1 Total employee numbers are calculated as an average over the financial year that runs from 1 October to 30 September. Employee numbers include assets where Trafigura retains management control, e.g. MATSA (Spain), Porto Sudeste (Brazil) and the Mawson Trafigura Group Pte. Ltd. and the companies in which it directly or indirectly owns West mine (DRC). Such assets are deconsolidated from Trafigura’s balance sheet and as investments in are separate and distinct entities. such the average number of employees reported will vary between the Responsibility In this publication, the collective expressions ‘Trafigura’, ‘Trafigura Group’, ‘the Company’ Report and Trafigura’s Annual Report. and ‘the Group’ may be used for convenience where reference is made in general to those New additions to our Group are only included if they are integrated within the first half of companies. Likewise, the words ‘we’, ‘us’, ‘our’ and ‘ourselves’ are used in some places our financial year. On 31 July 2019, Trafigura became a 98 percent owner of Nyrstar. Due to refer to the companies of the Trafigura Group in general. These expressions are also used to the date of this acquisition, two months before the end of our financial year, Nyrstar’s where no useful purpose is served by identifying any particular company or companies. data will not be included until the 2020 Responsibility Report. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 1 Global trade brings the world closer together. It expands the wealth of nations, forges common interests and builds mutual trust. Trafigura makes trade happen. And we make it our mission to do that responsibly. We deploy infrastructure, skills and our global network to move physical commodities from places they are plentiful to where they are most needed. We have been connecting our customers to the global economy for over a quarter of a century. We grow prosperity by advancing trade. Find out more www.trafigura.com Contents Overview Conduct and Society Health and Environment and Our people compliance safety climate change 03 Statement from 10 Performance 14 Performance 32 Performance 42 Performance 60 Performance the Executive and targets and targets and targets and targets and targets Chairman 12 Responsible 16 Stakeholder 34 Health and 44 Managing 62 Forging a and CEO business engagement safety environmental responsibility 04 Statement from conduct 18 Responsible risk culture the Co‑Chairs sourcing 58 External voice: 70 Trafigura of the HSEC Prof. Alan Foundation 24 External voice: Steering McKinnon LME Committee 26 Transparency 06 About this report 30 External voice: OpenOil 07 Our approach 08 Responsibility framework 09 Mapping what matters For more information on the way we manage corporate responsibility, including videos and case studies, please visit www.trafigura.com/2019RR and www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ 2 Overview Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 3 Trading responsibly Statement from the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer “Our stated The impact of climate change and need to accelerate the transition towards a low carbon economy has already objective brought significant changes to global trade. Our business model and the way in which we manage assets and trade to take a commodities is fast evolving to rise to, and capitalise on, leading role this challenge. The establishment of Trafigura’s Power and Renewables Division is just one example of the steps in corporate that we have taken. We look forward to reporting on in its responsibility progress in future years. At an operational level, acting responsibly requires an in our sector undivided commitment to safe operations and a relentless has never focus on robust behaviours and compliance practices. We continue to strengthen our compliance programme been more as our business has grown and adapted. In the last year, we have, for example, eliminated the practice important.” of using intermediaries for business origination and development purposes an important step expedited by the geographical scale that Trafigura has now reached. Technology is increasingly playing an important role when reviewing, monitoring, identifying and flagging Jeremy Weir I am pleased to present Trafigura’s fifth Responsibility high-risk counterparties and activities. However, it will Report. The report accounts for our environmental, not replace the need for human oversight, systematic Executive Chairman training and due-diligence. We will continue to reassess and Chief Executive social and governance (ESG) performance in 2019. It complements our Annual Report, as well as the wide our compliance programme in the year ahead and Officer work with industry on improvements as technology, range of additional information available online at Trafigura.com. The report presents a frank and practical regulations and stakeholder expectations evolve. perspective on what responsibility means for Trafigura. Our stakeholders have welcomed efforts made by It explains how we are working independently, and in Trafigura in recent years to build trust through greater collaboration with others, to manage our social and engagement and transparency. Maintenance of that environmental impacts. trust will increasingly rely on our ability to leverage our 2019 was punctuated by climate activism and real entrepreneurial flare, market intelligence and logistics traction in ESG financing. Our stated objective to take a network in pursuit of a low carbon economy. leading role in corporate responsibility in our sector has I look forward to reporting on further progress in never been more important. advancing the responsibility agenda in 2020. 4 Overview Embedding responsibility across the organisation Statement from the Co-Chairs of the HSEC Steering Committee “We are We revised and strengthened our Road Transport Risk Management Guidance, ran a road safety campaign pleased across the Group and fitted in-vehicle monitoring to report systems in all company owned and leased vehicles. improved Climate change and emissions reporting accuracy of International seaborne trade is of critical importance to our business model. It is also our greatest source measurement of emissions, accounting for 89 percent of our total of all emissions in 2019. emissions for Given that Trafigura operates a small fleet of controlled vessels, our emissions are predominantly generated by which we are third parties. In a fragmented industry, characterised by responsible.” small margins, there is a pressing need for industry and regulators, amongst others, to come together urgently to mitigate the climate-related risks posed by shipping. For Jonas Moberg and This Responsibility Report marks our fifth annual this reason, Trafigura is an active supporter of the Global Andrew Vickerman account of our environmental, social and governance Maritime Forum. Co-Chairs of the (ESG) performance. Further to growing interest from In 2019, we spoke out in favour of a series of initiatives HSEC Steering stakeholders, we give emphasis in this report to four areas. in support of climate risk mitigation. These included the Committee First, the safety of those impacted by our operations. introduction of a carbon levy for the maritime sector, Second, our climate change strategy and emissions which we consider necessary to drive the development reporting, reflecting the priorities and principles of the of zero carbon emitting fuels. We favour regulations in Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Disclosure (TCFD) support of slow steaming, meaning that there would be Third, our growing responsible sourcing programme, international rules capping vessel speeds – substantially and fourth, our efforts to enhance transparency and cutting emissions. And we have joined the Global engagement with our stakeholders. Maritime Forum’s “Getting to Zero Coalition”, calling Safety for accelerated decarbonisation of shipping through the Despite the many achievements of 2019, in terms of development and deployment of commercially viable safety, we regrettably fell short of our objective of no zero-emission vessels by 2030. fatalities associated with our Group’s activities. In May, There are actions the shipping industry can take to a mariner on a vessel off the coast of West Africa died improve efficiencies: through route optimisation and having contracted malaria. Following this tragic fatality, better planning; building new fuel-efficient vessels; emergency plans have been reviewed, new guidance and, the chartering of vessels with lower emissions. We issued, and malaria self-diagnosis kits provided. are working to reduce the emissions intensity of our Our serious injury rate continued to fall over the course shipping fleet. of 2019. Our lost time incident rate fell by 27 percent Demands for environmental impact data have grown in this follows reductions of 38 percent in 2018 and 12 recent years. This year, we are pleased to report improved percent in 2017. Our efforts to ensure a safe working accuracy of measurement of all emissions for which we are environment remain unrelenting, and this report offers a responsible. Better accuracy gives us greater confidence timely opportunity to thank colleagues for their work in in our ability to report and benchmark our emissions support of this objective. intensity: the greenhouse gas emissions attributable to Following a serious road traffic accident in 2018, a key each tonne of commodity moved per kilometre. safety focus has been reducing road transport risk. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 5 Responsible sourcing In 2019, the scope of our Responsible Sourcing activities extended from Trafigura’s worldwide purchases of gold concentrates and copper and cobalt from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Zambia to cover other geographies and products. Such developments reflected a growing industry trend, bolstered by the efforts of the London Metals Exchange, towards enhanced supply chain diligence. We continue to engage and support this drive, reflecting our own policy position and market demand. We recognise that the evolving ESG agenda requires new skills and knowledge: measuring and reporting our emissions; incorporating responsible sourcing due diligence into trades; and, developing new safety competencies. We would like to thank our colleagues on the HSEC Steering Committee and across the Group for their continued contribution throughout 2019 and we look forward to reporting further progress. Transparency and engagement Over recent years, Trafigura has played an active role in support of commodities trading transparency and, in particular, the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). In 2019, we became the first commodity trading company to join the board of the EITI. Trafigura is committed towards advancing the mission of the organisation and extending its reach internationally. Multi-stakeholder forums (MSFs) have become an integral part of Trafigura’s approach to transparency and engagement. Such opportunities enable us to build a greater understanding of our impacts, positive or negative, real or perceived. We recognise the importance of our stakeholders’ views and this helps us identify, inform and prioritise our actions. We look forward to enhancing our engagement programme in 2020 and reporting extensively on matters of concern and interest to those around us in future years. 6 Overview About this report Our 2019 Responsibility Report sets out Trafigura’s methodology was applied to re-calculate our wet spot progress during the year implementing responsible charter GHG emissions for 2018. This resulted in an business practice. It presents our performance against increase of 1,000,000tCO2e in emissions for 2018. This objectives set in previous years in managing our social, change in 2018 emissions data is reflected throughout health and safety, and environmental impacts. The report this report. also indicates future areas of focus. Contributing to the Sustainable This report has been prepared in accordance with the core Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Development Goals Reporting standards and is accompanied by our GRI Trafigura’s approach to the United Nations Sustainable content index which maps our reporting against GRI Development Goals (SDGs) is to focus on the specific framework guidelines. targets where we can have greatest impact, appropriate to our activities, operations and position in the global The report also represents our United Nations Global value chain. Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress in implementing the UNGC’s Ten Principles as well as Whilst we make a moderate contribution to a number of mapping our activities against the UN Sustainable the goals, our sphere of influence is most closely aligned Development Goals (SDGs). to the following SDGs: Boundaries and scope Goal 8 (Decent work and All data reported runs as per our financial year from economic growth): 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019 with the exception By fulfilling the commitments in our of EITI data. It includes information and data for those Corporate Responsibility Policy and Business divisions, subsidiaries or investments where Trafigura has Principles, we contribute to decent work a majority shareholding and/or management control and economic growth across the globe. or significant influence, including MATSA (Spain), Porto Information on relevant initiatives can be Sudeste (Brazil) and Mawson West mine (Democratic found, for example, in the Society section on Republic of the Congo). page 14 and the Health and safety section on page 32. As referred to in our 2019 Annual Report, on 31 July 2019, Trafigura became 98 percent owner of the operating Goal 9 (Industry innovation and business of leading zinc and lead smelter, Nyrstar. We infrastructure): will report on Nyrstar’s social, health and safety, and By developing infrastructure and managing environmental performance on a consolidated basis for logistics routes, we promote inclusive and the first time in our 2020 Responsibility Report. sustainable industrialisation. In this report we The greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data in this report detail how we are developing new and more includes those generated from our owned or controlled efficient logistics routes to support economic sources (Scope 1), the indirect emissions from the development in developing countries. generation of purchased energy (Scope 2) as well as Goal 12 (Responsible consumption those indirect emissions across our value chain, where and production) and Goal 13 (Climate our service providers are undertaking logistics on our action): behalf (Scope 3). Through our efforts to support responsible In 2019, we took delivery of 39 new-build vessels that procurement of commodities, many of which we had committed to on long-term bareboat charter are essential in driving the commodities agreements in 2017. Throughout this report, these newtransition, we encourage sustainable build vessels are referred to as ‘new-build’ or ‘controlled’ production patterns and facilitate efforts to and their GHG emissions are included in Scope 1. combat climate change. We also adopted a new methodology when calculating Goal 17 (Partnerships for the Goals): our wet spot charter GHG emissions inventory due to We collaborate with those around us to a substantial increase in the number of actual voyages help mobilise resources for sustainable reported. In order to compare like-for-like, the same development. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 7 Our approach We are committed to conducting business with a high Policies and governance degree of integrity, professionalism and responsibility. Our policies and guidelines define how we conduct As one of the world’s largest independent physical business and what we expect of ourselves and our commodity trading and logistics houses, with an counterparties. annual revenue of USD171.5 billion and employing over Governance and oversight of our policies and guidelines 6,400 people across 41 countries, we recognise our are enforced by the various committees listed within our impacts, both positive and negative, and the importance Responsibility Framework. of acting responsibly. Trafigura constantly strives to create this value, basing Responsibility framework our efforts and measuring our performance around the In order to embed responsible business practices in our following five key responsibility objectives that reflect day-to-day operations, our policies need to be put into our business values: practice in a consistent and coherent way. To this end, we have developed a comprehensive framework that Conduct and compliance translates our commitment to responsible business To ensure activities comply with all applicable laws and into practical activities that guide our operations (see regulations and that employees abide by our Code of following page). Business Conduct. Mapping what matters – our salient issues Society In order to support our Responsibility Framework, To avoid infringing on human rights, to address harms Trafigura identifies and assesses actual and potential that may occur, and to earn and maintain a social licence adverse impacts with which the Group could be involved, to operate. either through our own activities or as a result of our Health and safety business relationships. This process, reviewed annually, To perform operations safely, to reduce and manage risk. draws on expertise within the Group and involves extensive consultation with potentially affected groups Environment and other relevant stakeholders. To minimise adverse impacts on the natural environment and respond to the effects of climate change. Stakeholder engagement Ongoing engagement with our stakeholders is a vital part People of our commitment to responsible business practices. It To attract, develop and retain the best people in a working enables us to identify actual and potential salient issues environment that promotes integrity, equal opportunity and to constantly improve how we operate. and mutual respect. Our strategies, initiatives and targets are informed by the feedback received from the groups relevant to our business operations, including investors, customers, suppliers, governments, NGOs, industry peers, educational institutions, communities and our employees. A full list of our salient issues is included on the following page. Our engagement with these groups takes a number of forms; from bi-lateral meetings, to participating in industry discussions, to multi-stakeholder forums. Further information on our stakeholder engagement activities throughout 2019 can be found in the Society section on page 14. 8 Overview Responsibility framework CONDUCT AND HEALTH AND SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMPLIANCE SAFETY OUR COMMITMENTS To ensure activities To avoid infringing on To perform operations To minimise adverse To attract, develop and Trafigura measures its comply with all human rights, to safely, to reduce and impacts on the natural retain the best people performance against its applicable laws and address harms that manage risk environment and in a working responsibility objectives regulations and that may occur, and to earn respond to the effects environment that in the following five employees abide by and maintain a social of climate change promotes integrity, key areas our Code of Business licence to operate equal opportunity and Conduct mutual respect GOVERNANCE* Our governance structure aims to ensure COMPLIANCE HSEC STEERING CLIMATE CHANGE OPERATIONAL RISK that each of our policies COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP GROUP is implemented consistently across our organisation Code of Business Conduct Responsible Sourcing and HSEC Business Principles Climate Change Strategy The Way We Work POLICIES Supply Chain Expectations Trafigura’s policies articulate our approach to corporate responsibility. Our governance structure Transparency Policy Corporate Responsibility aims to ensure that Policy each of these policies is implemented consistently across our organisation Know Your Counterparty Responsible sourcing due diligence programme Checks ASSURANCE HSEC Assurance programme Annual Report Responsibility Report PUBLIC DISCLOSURES Carbon Disclosure Project Regulatory transaction reporting United Nations Global Compact World Economic Forum International Swaps and Extractive Industries Global Maritime Forum Derivatives Association Transparency Initiative Futures Industry Global Business Initiative Global Logistics Association on Human Rights Emissions Council MEMBERSHIPS Commodities Markets Global Battery Alliance Oil Spill Response Ltd Council Europe OECD Multi-stakeholder Steering Group Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) * Further information on the initiatives taken by each of these committees in 2019 is available via the link below www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 9 Mapping what matters Natural Transformed Source Store Blend Deliver resources commodities Direct relationships – where Trafigura has control • Majority-owned mines • Group-owned oil storage (e.g. by Trafigura Trading) and • Transportation by (e.g. by Trafigura Mining metals and minerals warehousing (e.g. by Impala Terminals) Group-owned and operated Group) • Oil storage on transport assets, e.g. Group-owned vessels vessels and barges Indirect relationships – where Trafigura doesn’t have control but engages with its counterparties • State-owned oil producers, • Third-party-owned oil storage (including Puma Energy) and • Transportation by refiners and marketers metals and minerals storage leased in part or in full on a state-owned rail network BUSINESS • Multinational and regional shortor long-term basis and pipeline providers RELATIONSHIPS oil producers, refiners and • Oil storage on • Transportation by thirdtraders third-party-owned vessels party-owned rail, vessels, Trafigura has leased in part or in full on a barges, trucks and pipelines • Trafigura Group relationships with minority-owned refiners time-charter or leased on a shortor multiple entities in its voyage-charter basis long-term basis • State-owned mining value chain linked to companies, smelters and • Oil and petroleum product its operations, marketers consumers (e.g. refiners, products or services power generators, shipping • Multinational, regional and industry, aviation small-scale mining companies, petrochemical companies, smelters and industry, major traders manufacturers and • Minority-owned mines and fuel retailers) smelters • Metals and minerals consumers (e.g. galvanisers, alloy producers, mills and fabricators, construction and automotive sectors, aerospace and utilities) Payments to governments Climate change Responsible sourcing Nuisance smells Dust exposure Community consent SALIENT Seafarers’ rights ISSUES* Access to grievance mechanisms Example issues that could be faced by a Vapour capture commodity trader Unsafe conditions such as Trafigura directly or indirectly, Oil storage e.g. via our business relationships Transportation safety Dry cargo liquefaction Tailings dam management Union recognition and labour rights Pollution prevention Impact of product Bribery and corruption * Further information on our salient issues and the potential rights holders impacted is available via the link below www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ 10 Conduct and compliance Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 11 Conduct and compliance Wherever we operate, we aim to ensure our conduct is in line with all applicable national and international laws and relevant internationally recognised standards. 2019 2020 Performance Targets PurpleTRAC system adopted to better Due diligence monitor vessels associated with sanctioned To continue to develop our Know Your Counterparty countries, entities or individuals. (KYC) programme by introducing efficiencies, improving 742 new start, office-based employees trained on intelligence and maintaining comprehensive coverage. Code of Business Conduct in 2019. (2018: 570) Training 1,654 anti-money laundering training To continue to develop and extend training on key risk sessions delivered in 2019. (2018: 989) areas to all staff members across all Group companies. 2,519 anti-bribery and corruption training Regulatory engagement sessions delivered in 2019. (2018: 995) To continue to engage with regulators on key issues relating to the commodities trading sector. Stakeholder engagement To continue to engage with a wide range of stakeholders in depth. To contribute to the debate on compliant business conduct in international forums, on industry bodies and with trading counterparties. 12 Conduct and compliance Responsible business conduct Managing compliance is a top priority for an organisation with our size, scope of activities, geographic spread and number of relationships. Our approach Compliance activities Trafigura’s Compliance department oversees Group Financial markets compliance activities. It operates in partnership with front and back CODE OF Trafigura accesses both exchange-traded and overfunctions to ensure our controls are relevant, robust BUSINESS CONDUCT the-counter derivative markets to manage the risks and in keeping with the latest international standards. associated with our physical market activities. As such, Trafigura’s Head of Compliance reports directly to the we comply with the relevant rules and requirements at Group’s Chief Operating Officer. The Group’s Compliance various exchanges. Committee meets twice a year. Our controls and systems meet all applicable regulatory We aim to maintain a responsible compliance culture and exchange rules. We apply both exchange-set and where all staff recognise both personal and collective www.trafigura.com/ brochure/trafiguraregulatory-compliant position limits and report derivative responsibility. The high standard of behaviour we expect transactions as required. code-of-businessfrom our people is enshrined in our Code of Business conduct Conduct (the Code). Market conduct We continue to refine TradingHub’s Market Abuse Principles of sound business conduct Every member of staff must attest to receiving, understanding and complying with the Code which sets 313 Surveillance Tool to monitor for suspicious futuresrelated trading activity. We have put a structured programme in place to monitor and analyse outputs and, out expected behaviours in all our business activities. All Market Abuse as needed, escalate our responses. management teams are charged with promoting these Regulation training behaviours across the Group. They are supported by our courses completed Commercial compliance Compliance department. in 2019 Commercial compliance is founded on the application of (2018: 663) Trafigura’s Code. All employees are bound by the Code, which encompasses: Four key principles •• Anti-money laundering; inform our approach: •• Know Your Counterparty due diligence (KYC); •• Anti-trust and competition law; •• Sanctions and trade restrictions; 1 Integrity •• Anti-bribery and corruption; •• Gifts, hospitality and entertainment; 2 Care and diligence •• Political contributions and charitable donations; •• Reporting violations and grievance procedures. 3 Best practice 1,508 Anti-competitive practices Our people operate in many different jurisdictions and 4 Management often interact with competitors. We provide detailed and control Anti-competitive guidance on how to adhere to relevant competition Practices training law principles and what they should do to prevent courses completed the inappropriate exchange of commercially sensitive in 2019 information. (2018: 75) Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 13 Sanctions and trade restrictions As a company operating globally, compliance with applicable economic and trade sanctions is a legal Developing our KYC programme Counterparty due diligence 8,672 Trafigura continually reviews its KYC methodology requirement. The sanctions landscape is constantly KYC checks to ensure that it remains up to date with developing shifting; we ensure we remain compliant by paying during 2019 international standards. We are increasingly utilising (2018: 6,475) close attention to developing policy. During 2019, the technology to review, monitor, identify and flag high-risk US administration tightened sanctions against Iran and counterparties and activities faster and more accurately. Cuba. It also targeted Venezuela with new measures. We We screen counterparties using Thomson Reuters’ have reviewed and revised our policies accordingly. Accelus enterprise risk management software. We The Compliance department works closely with the Legal continually monitor the changing status of people and team to track the introduction and evolution of sanctions, organisations to keep our KYC methodology up to date. to raise questions where clarity is required and to ensure We receive daily updates from Thomson Reuters Worldthat we have correctly understood and applied the rules. Check on the evolving status of all counterparties. During 2019, we adopted the PurpleTRAC vessel tracking Anti-money laundering system. This provides multi-layer screening and tracking Our KYC and screening procedures aim to highlight to check the voyage history and sanction compliance of prospective counterparties that might pose any risk to vessels and their associated companies. Time-stamped, our business. We have implemented a range of measures tamper-proof records provide an official record of the to raise awareness internally, including mandatory online vessel’s history and status. training, to give employees a detailed understanding of Monitoring developing issues anti-money laundering and associated control processes. Trafigura seeks not just to keep pace with, but also to Trafigura continues to apply the principles set by the Joint anticipate changing regulatory conditions. We maintain Money Laundering Steering Group (JMLSG). JMLSG is relationships with advisors in various jurisdictions to widely seen as embodying global industry best practice. monitor developments that may impact our business. Our KYC procedures delivered 8,672 KYC checks during 2019 (2018: 6,475 checks). In 2019, Trafigura eliminated the Broader and deeper stakeholder practice of using intermediaries or engagement agents for business origination and The banking community is a key stakeholder group. We development purposes. invest significant time in explaining and documenting our compliance systems and processes. Over the course of 2019, our Compliance department met with over 20 leading banks across the world’s financial centres. We engage with regulators to assist in the development of appropriate regulations for our industry. We also participate in industry advisory bodies, such as the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, the Futures Industry Association and the Commodity Markets Council Europe. 14 Society Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 15 Society We strive to promote closer links with communities and drive greater levels of transparency locally and internationally. 2019 2020 Performance Targets To deliver improvements on the To consolidate and enhance Trafigura’s handling of operational-level grievances stakeholder engagement programme. against the Trafigura standard. To adapt, as necessary, targeted due diligence, To conduct and support, as necessary, targeted impact mitigation and reporting in support of the due diligence and impact mitigation activities responsible sourcing of all metals and minerals in support of the responsible sourcing of by Trafigura, in line with LME requirements. all metals and minerals by Trafigura. To establish the Mutoshi Pilot Project as the benchmark To continue to support Chemaf in establishing example of cross-sector collaboration in pursuit of the Mutoshi as a benchmark site for responsible, formalisation of artisanal small-scale cobalt mining. large-scale semi-mechanised mining. To directly contribute to the mandate of the EITI and To support stakeholder dialogue in advancing its extension to the commodities trading sector, for the responsible sourcing of metals and minerals, example, through active participation on the EITI Board. including but not limited to active liaison with Pact, the OECD, Global Battery Alliance To develop Trafigura’s EITI disclosures reflecting and the London Metals Exchange (LME). more detailed reporting by EITI countries in their efforts to implement the revised EITI Standard. To continue to support and promote the activities of the EITI and the application of the EITI Standard to the commodities trading sector. Not achieved Improving Achieved $3.2bn $35.8bn Aggregate first purchases from NOC’s in EITI countries Aggregate first purchases from NOCs in non-EITI countries in 2018 (2017: USD2.7bn) in 2018 (2017: USD30.0bn) 16 Society Stakeholder engagement We rely on the support of local communities, host nations and international stakeholders to perform effectively. To build that support, we must communicate openly. Our approach Multi-stakeholder forums Earning and maintaining our social licence in Multi-stakeholder forums (MSFs) are an integral part of communities where we operate reduces risk, supports the Trafigura’s approach to transparency. Importantly, they development of our business and enhances our access to enable us to build a greater understanding of our impacts talent, capital and liquidity. Promoting greater linkages – either positive or negative, real or perceived. These with the community and driving improved transparency extended meetings provide the opportunity to engage in locally and internationally are vital components. Where dialogue with a diverse range of stakeholders. our activities impact others, we act to address adverse The more we understand about what our stakeholders impacts with which we are involved. regard as important, the more accurately we can identify and prioritise our approach towards mitigating salient Engagement and transparency issues. Forums are typically held at the end, or the Since its establishment in 2010, Trafigura’s Corporate beginning of each financial year, so as to directly inform Affairs department, which incorporates both our strategy and rotate between major hub offices and other Corporate Responsibility and Health, Safety, Environment Group-related operational locations. Trafigura intends to and Communities (HSEC) functions, has played an active continue to hold MSFs in 2020. role in engaging with, amongst others, counterparts and financiers in the interests of charting and responding to Locations in which Trafigura has held MSFs in the past: matters of concern. The frequency and substance of these conversations has grown markedly over recent years affording us the opportunity to communicate, test and enhance our approach on a diverse range of matters. Three growing areas of interest over 2019 related to Trafigura’s Geneva, 2016 response to climate change (see p.42), our Responsible Sourcing programme (see p.18) and sustainable finance. Mexico, 2019 Nairobi, 2019 Singapore, 2018 Barrancabermeja, 2017 Johannesburg, 2017 “The sector has come of age, and with that comes a need to ensure that we act responsibly and are prepared In 2019, we held MSFs in Mexico City and in Nairobi. to communicate with our many Both events were attended by senior representatives stakeholders […] We may consider ourselves of government, multilateral financial institutions, nongovernmental organisations, commercial counterparts, as transmitters of market signals – but we banks and investors, along with key personnel also need to be greater receivers and from Trafigura. responders to social signals. We have to On each occasion, we aired topical issues with particular do better to demonstrate the value we resonance at each location. bring to those around us.” Jeremy Weir, Executive Chairman View our video with our Head of Corporate Responsibility who and Chief Executive Officer, discusses the purpose of our Keynote speech during the FT Global multi-stakeholder forums Commodities Summit, Lausanne, www.trafigura.com/2019RR Switzerland. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 17 Kenyan MSF, Nairobi, October 2019 Trafigura has and will continue to engage with the This was the first MSF that Trafigura had held in a location Voluntary Principles Secretariat, under the Chairmanship in which Trafigura has no current physical footprint, but of the Swiss Government in 2020. In 2019, our liaison has from time to time engaged in the supply of refined with the Swiss Government on such matters included oil products. hosting a visit by the Swiss Ambassador for the Human The objective of the meeting was to outline the activities Security Division to the operations of a major supplier of the Group and present ourselves as a responsible to Trafigura that operates in the Democratic Republic of partner in the event that a commercial opportunity the Congo. arises in the future. Topics of particular focus included an Promoting responsible business in Switzerland overview of Trafigura’s oil trading business on the African As part of our commitment to implement the UN Global continent, as well as a presentation on PASH, an investor Compact (UNGC), Trafigura continued in 2019 to play an in the clean energy sector majority-owned by Trafigura active role on the Board of the Swiss branch of the UNGC and with a considerable African footprint. Network. This Responsibility Report represents Trafigura’s Topics of discussion also included: Communication on Progress relevant to advancing the •• The advent of Kenyan oil production; agenda of the UNGC. “MSF meetings •• Refined product supply; Grievance management provide the •• Geothermal and wind power generation in Kenya’s We believe that every grievance must be acknowledged, opportunity Turkana region; logged and managed consistently, with due respect for the to engage in •• Other opportunities for renewable energy production complainant. We operate a variety of channels for these dialogue with a e.g. solar; purposes both at an operational level, where all major installations are required to manage a comprehensive diverse range of •• Regional trade finance; grievance process against an established Group-wide stakeholders” •• Anti-corruption policies and procedures. standard, and at an international level through ‘Expolink’ Mexican MSF, Mexico City, August 2019 our anonymous 24/7 multilingual telephone hotline, Trafigura has a variety of trading and asset-related web reporting and email service. Expolink is promoted business interests in Mexico incorporating both oil and and explained via several channels, including on petroleum products, as well as metals and minerals. Trafigura’s website where it is readily accessible from the The objective of the meeting was to outline the activities landing page. of the Group and to discuss the impact of government Trafigura received a range of grievances in 2019 – we policy under the leadership of President Lopez Obrador. sought to handle each with due sensitivity to the Topics of discussion included: complainant. In 2018, we reported a concern that the use of Expolink appeared limited ‘due to the fact that logistics •• Energy reform; operations are typically carried out by third parties and •• The strengthening of state-owned oil enterprise as such negative impacts are not immediately attributed ‘PEMEX’ as well as public utilities; to Trafigura’. In 2019, the geographical dispersion of •• Cross-sectoral collaboration between government, reported grievances and the range of issues brought to our civil society and the private sector; attention indicated that awareness of the tool had grown. •• Anti-corruption; For the first time, for example, we received a grievance related to the welfare of seafarers on a chartered vessel. •• Women and indigenous peoples’ rights; The issue was duly investigated and the matter closed •• Environmental concerns, including climate change. shortly thereafter. International best practice In 2018, we reported the reopening of our Mawson West mine in the DRC. Activity associated with this operation Acting on UNGP sector guidance has the potential to impact neighbouring communities With the support of the Swiss government, the Institute and villages through which vehicles travelling to and for Human Rights and Business (IHRB) published specific from the mine will pass. In order to identify any concerns guidance on implementing the UN Guiding Principles on early, we established a network of Community Liaison The Commodity Trading Sector Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) in the commodities Officers (CLOs). In 2019, we conducted a third-party Guidance on Implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights trading industry in November 2018. We welcomed the review of our community liaison activities. A number publication and during 2019 have sought to implement of recommendations were tabled for consideration, adjustments within day-to-day operations. With regard including the need to improve the management of CLOs to UNGP 17 concerning due diligence, this included a in the region. In 2020, we will endeavour to report on full review of third-party security providers appointed at how such improvements have been made. www.ihrb.org/ uploads/reports/ operational installations worldwide. Our objective was Commodities_Trading_ to understand whether existing due diligence measures UNGPs_Guidance_-_ were sufficiently robust and, for example, aligned with Nov_2018.pdf the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. 18 Society Responsible sourcing Mitigating the potential social or environmental impacts associated with extraction Management approach OECD Due Diligence Guidance OECD Due Diligence OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas for Responsible supply Chains of Minerals Guidance for Responsible Our Responsible Sourcing programme is led by Trafigura’s from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas THiRD EDiTiOn Contents supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected Head of Corporate Responsibility, who works closely Recommendation of the Council on Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply and High-Risk Areas Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas THiRD EDiTiOn Supplement on tin, tantalum and tungsten with senior traders and operations managers. Our Heads Supplement on gold of HSEC and Compliance provide advice and input as required. Delivery of programme activities is supported by retained external advisors, including Kumi Consulting and Our Responsible Sourcing programme recognises the ERM, and through our relationship with the international Consult this publication on line at http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/9789264252479-en. This work is published on the OECD iLibrary, which gathers all OECD books, periodicals and statistical databases. Visit www.oecd-ilibrary.org for more information. potential for adverse social or environmental impacts development NGO, Pact. isbn 978-92-64-25238-7 20 2016 02 1 P associated with extraction, processing and trading Our responsible sourcing approach is based on the OECD’s commodities. Such impacts can affect the Trafigura ‘Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from mneguidelines.oecd. Group both directly, in the case of our owned assets org/mining.htm Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas’ (OECD Guidance). and managed operations, as well as indirectly through It incorporates four sets of standards that define our the activities of business relationships. The focus of specific expectations of suppliers, including our: our Responsible Sourcing programme is not limited to specific metals, minerals or geographies. •• Corporate Responsibility Policy; METALS AND MINERALS Over recent years we have reported on our Responsible •• Business Principles for Health and Safety, RESPONSIBLE SOURCING AND SUPPLY CHAIN EXPECTATIONS Sourcing programme; in so doing we have sought to Human Rights, Community Relations and present progress and challenges experienced along the Environment (HSEC); way. Our 2018 Responsibility Report was presented •• Our Metals and Minerals Responsible Sourcing by the OECD’s Responsible Business Conduct Unit and Supply Chain Expectations; and to delegates of the “OECD Forum on Responsible •• Our Artisanal and Small-scale Mining (ASM) Mineral Supply Chains” in Paris as a leading example Expectations for Suppliers. of reporting by a company on diligence efforts. www.trafigura.com/ brochure/responsiblesourcing-and-supplychain-expectations “In 2019, our activities extended to aluminium, lead and zinc, reflecting a welcome industry trend towards enhanced supply chain diligence.” Scope of activities In 2019, the scope of our responsible sourcing activities In 2019, we developed a bespoke online extended from Trafigura’s worldwide purchases of gold data management module within Trafigura’s concentrates, and copper and cobalt from the DRC existing HSEC data system, ‘Sphera’, devoted and Zambia, to other products such as aluminium, lead to responsible sourcing. The module, and zinc, reflecting a welcome industry trend towards scheduled to be implemented across enhanced supply chain diligence. the business in late 2019, will The key supply chain due diligence activities with our significantly improve our ability responsible sourcing programme are detailed on the to track the performance of our following page. suppliers against our expectations and report back to stakeholders as required. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 19 Summary of supply chain due diligence within Responsible sourcing Activities Outputs DESK-BASED REVIEW •• Review of publicly available information on social, •• Initial risk evaluation human rights and environmental risks/impacts •• Tailoring of Level 1 assessment questionnaire to (media reports, NGO reports, etc.) address specific identified risks, as appropriate •• Trafigura Responsible Sourcing Expectations issued to the supplier LEVEL 1 ASSESSMENT •• Level 1 questionnaire issued to the supplier and •• Risk rating and identification of priority required to be completed and returned, with high-risk suppliers supporting evidence as appropriate •• Information gained informs the Level 2 •• This includes specific questions in relation assessment of prioritised suppliers to mineral origin and management of health and safety, labour practices, logistics, security provision and community relations LEVEL 2 ASSESSMENT •• Level 2 Assessment Protocol guides the scope and •• Supplier risk categorisation consistency of the assessment process •• Report on findings and recommendations for •• Level 2 site-based assessment of prioritised actions to address identified risks provided to both suppliers; typically two days in duration and Trafigura management and the supplier encompassing a visual inspection of mineral •• Provides basis for ongoing risk mitigation and production and processing areas, interviews with monitoring management and workers, and reviews of relevant documentation RISK MITIGATION AND MONITORING •• Follow-up engagement with suppliers to •• Informs the nature and scope of continued understand progress made in addressing supplier engagement including, where identified risks appropriate, follow-up site visits •• Where appropriate, provision of assistance to •• Supplier risk management recommendations suppliers to support risk mitigation activities made and performance improvements monitored 20 Society James Nicholson Enhancing stakeholder engagement “Trafigura’s In 2019, Trafigura’s Responsible Sourcing programme Responsible Head of Corporate has increasingly generated interest amongst business Sourcing Responsibility relationships and wider stakeholders. In response, we have programme has held multiple in-depth meetings with the compliance and sustainability teams from international banks, as well as increasingly existing and potential commercial counterparts. Such generated meetings have enabled us to explain our approach to interest amongst Reflections on a fast-evolving agenda supply chain risk assessment and risk mitigation. In 2019, business we held two half-day workshops for banks in Paris and in relationships When we originally embarked on our Responsible London with a specific emphasis on managing business Sourcing programme, some counterparts regarded and wider responsibly in the DRC. the activity as onerous and without immediate stakeholders.” commercial relevance. That view is fast changing for To support engagement with key stakeholders, and a number of reasons. bearing in mind that the details of our site assessment reports remain confidential to Trafigura and the Firstly, our commercial counterparts are increasingly counterpart concerned, in 2019 we developed a aware that the market has evolved. The London standalone summary report that provides observations 2019 United Kingdom Metal Exchange (LME) for example is in the process Modern Slavery Act Statement made by third-party assessors against the key risks of introducing Responsible sourcing standards and identified in OECD Guidance. By providing such Background The United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act 2015 requires companies carrying on a business in the UK, which supply goods or services and have a total annual turnover of GBP36 million or more, to publish an annual statement describing the steps it has taken to ensure that slavery Statement The services Trafigura Limited provides to its clients are office-based. The large majority of work undertaken is by Trafigura Limited’s own staff. Our assessment is that this represents a very low risk of those services being involved in slavery and/or human trafficking. requirements. The impact of this initiative will extend and human trafficking are not occurring in its supply chains or in any parts of its own business. On the occasions where Trafigura Limited contracts others to assist in the provision of services we take steps to ensure they have any relevant information we aim to support our counterparts in better This statement is made pursuant to section 54 of the Act and constitutes accreditations and are appropriately qualified. Given the nature of these Trafigura Limited’s modern slavery and human trafficking statement, as relationships, Trafigura Limited also considers them very low risk and, required by the Act, for our financial year ended 30 September 2019. as such, does not consider any additional steps are required beyond our existing supplier review and approval process. Scope well beyond LME producers and brands – it will fastTrafigura Limited is a subsidiary of Trafigura Group Pte. Ltd. It is In 2019, as part of the supplier review and approval process, a periodic incorporated in England and Wales (Company number: 02737924) and re-assessment was undertaken of all service providers (“counterparts”) understanding the findings of site assessments and any may be within the scope of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the “Act”). to Trafigura Limited In summary, it was concluded that all counterparts Other subsidiaries do not carry on business, or part of a business, in provide software services, IT maintenance and consulting services. the UK. Accordingly, they are not subject to the Act and, therefore, are Such activities require highly-skilled workers and, as such, are not excluded from the ambit of this statement. typically prone to modern slavery risks. track the adoption of responsible sourcing initiatives The principle activity of Trafigura Limited is the provision of services in In conclusion, given the low risk profile of anyone supplying us with consultancy, administration and data collection. services being involved in slavery and/or human trafficking, we believe our current procedures and reliance on regulatory oversight in relation key actions that are being undertaken as a result. Reports to the provision of services is sufficient. This statement, which will be reviewed annually and updated as required, has been reviewed by key stakeholders, senior management and has been approved by the Directors of Trafigura Limited. by all market participants, regardless of their scale. Signed by Mike Wainwright, Director, for and on behalf of the Trafigura Limited Board of Directors. also assist entities in the value chain in meeting their own 30 September 2019. It will also drive the need for more due diligence Trafigura Limited’s financial year runs from 1 October to 30 September. reporting obligations, such as those related to the UK www.trafigura.com/ assessments. Those of our counterparts that have Modern Slavery Act. brochure/2019contributed to our Responsible Sourcing programme modern-slavery-actare prepared for this and will not be disrupted. Engagement activities during 2019 have also statement incorporated support to various academic institutions Secondly, regulations are evolving. For those banks both in contributing towards debate as well as the with registered offices in, for example, the UK and development of case studies. We see this activity Australia, due diligence is now required by law in as offering an important opportunity to contribute order to ensure that supply chains are free from to, and be challenged on, our approach. In 2019, ‘modern slavery’. our collaborations included work with Switzerland’s Tailing Storage Facilities Under the Direct and Indirect Management of Trafigura Thirdly, investors are becoming increasingly aware Graduate Institute of Geneva, University of Geneva and and sensitive to risks associated with mining. In 2019, University of St. Gallen, the NYU Stern School of Business, this trend was exemplified by the Investor Mining as well as the University of Queensland, Australia. TAILING STORAGE FACILITIES UNDER THE DIRECT AND INDIRECT MANAGEMENT OF TRAFIGURA and Tailings Safety Initiative – whereby a group of 96 institutional investors (representing more than USD10.3 trillion assets under management) requested specific disclosures on Tailings Storage Facilities from 683 listed extractive companies. Trafigura responded 1 to this initiative both by disclosing information www.trafigura.com/ relevant to its own tailings dams and related facilities, brochure/tailingas well as through adapting our diligence of suppliers storage-facilitiesduring desk-based and site-based assessments. under-the-direct-andindirect-managementLastly, the attention of the media and civil society of-trafigura organisations has never been more focussed on the metals supply chain and its vulnerabilities. Amnesty International’s ground-breaking report on cobalt, published in January 2016, set the tone for the cobalt market. Concern has also, quite logically, spread to other metals and minerals – in part reflecting demand from end-consumers. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 21 Collaborating for change Gold Over recent years an increasing number of standalone, In 2018, we reported that Trafigura had a small but product specific, responsible sourcing initiatives growing business portfolio in trading gold concentrates. have been developed. In some cases, our commercial During 2019 we: counterparts have encouraged us to align with their •• Completed desk-based due diligence of all current preferred association; however, given the broad spectrum and prospective gold suppliers; and of products traded by Trafigura, we enter into such •• Completed ‘Level 1’ supplier assessments for nine discussions cautiously. Our preference, whilst accepting counterparts. that social and environmental impacts can be varied across products, is for industry alignment. In 2020, we will continue to prioritise diligence efforts in support of our gold trading activities – as a means both Trafigura is a customer of the London Metal Exchange of enhancing our own risk management, and of ensuring (LME) and serves on the Aluminium and Traded Options that future regulatory changes, for example Committees. In 2019, Trafigura actively contributed those related to the EU Conflict Minerals to a consultation overseen by the LME in relation to legislation coming into force in 2021, are the proposed introduction of responsible sourcing fully catered for. standards across all LME-listed brands. These rules would implement standards that are consistent with, or build upon, OECD Guidance. We have made various verbal and written contributions to the process. While, with the exception of Trafigura’s stake in Nyrstar, Trafigura does not own any LME brands, we do on occasion supply them with products and, as such, intend to ensure that, in addition to the provision of physical material, we can also demonstrate and leverage the value of our chain of custody. In 2019, Trafigura engaged with the following voluntary responsible sourcing initiatives. All are global and multistakeholder in nature. Industry initiative Date joined Function Trafigura’s objective Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 2019 Defines standards for sustainability To ensure that the impacts, activities and interests of our performance and material business and the wider commodities trading sector are Aluminium chain-of-custody for the aluminium appropriately integrated into the ASI Performance Stewardship Initiative value chain, including an associated Standard and Chain of Custody Standard, both of which assurance and certification system. are due for imminent revision. World Economic Forum Global 2018 Drives transparency, company To give particular support to the efforts of the GBA’s Battery Alliance (GBA) management systems and public Cobalt Working Group (CWG) in scaling-up support for the policies for due diligence and formalisation of ASM and the acceptance of responsibly responsible mining practices across sourced ASM-produced cobalt into the global supply the battery value chain. chain. Trafigura serves on the Executive Board of the GBA and in 2019 served as co-Chair of the CWG. OECD Multi-Stakeholder 2018 Liaises with international or regional To ensure that the impacts, activities and interests of our Steering Group bodies with respect to the business and the wider commodities trading sector are implementation of OECD Guidance, appropriately integrated into the OECD responsible outreach and the provision of support sourcing agenda. to the OECD Secretariat. Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) 2018 Develops tools and resources To support the standardisation of responsible sourcing including the Responsible Minerals processes and protocols with a particular emphasis on Assurance Process, the Conflict supporting improvements to audit standards in the cobalt Minerals Reporting Template, and a supply chain. range of guidance documents on responsible minerals sourcing. 22 Society Copper and cobalt suppliers in the DRC Some of the key challenges our Responsible Sourcing and Zambia programme faced during the year included: By the end of FY2018 we had completed site-based •• In certain market conditions, many producers, assessments on a majority of our copper and cobalt regardless of their scale, supplement ores from their suppliers in the region, so our activities in 2019 primarily own mining operations with supplies from third focused on assessing new suppliers, or evaluating the parties, including purchases from open markets. risk mitigation progress made by suppliers whom we had These activities are difficult to track. We encourage previously assessed. all suppliers that do this to adopt Trafigura’s During 2019 we: Responsible Sourcing Minimum Expectations and apply this to their assessments of their third-party •• Completed and then refreshed desk-based due ore suppliers. Suppliers that we re-assessed during diligence of all current and prospective copper and the year had introduced due diligence processes as a cobalt suppliers. Important to note is that our chosen result of recommendations made following our first assessment format mirrors, in part, the type of assessment visits in 2018; however in many cases assessments that the industry’s financing banks are we found that counterparties’ own due diligence increasingly conducting, as standard; required improvement. •• Completed multiple ‘Level 1’ supplier assessments, •• Many of our counterparties in the region are controlled whereby 29 counterparts have now been requested to from headquarters based overseas. For several complete bespoke questionnaires for our review since of our counterparties their internal management the programme began; structure is such that approval must be obtained from •• Conducted site based ‘Level 2’ assessments of headquarters in order to implement new management certain suppliers, in some cases on multiple occasions, processes or to invest their company’s resources in that were deemed to present a higher risk to Trafigura’s responsible sourcing risk mitigation activities. Where supply chain; and those operating from headquarters are unfamiliar •• Engaged with a limited number of suppliers on an with responsible sourcing initiatives this can mean ongoing basis to help raise their capacity to mitigate that the pace of change at some companies can be salient social and/or environmental risks. slow. In such cases, Trafigura has engaged with staff at central office locations in order to build awareness of Level 2 assessments of ‘high-risk’ suppliers that required the programme and of Trafigura’s expectations. ‘close ongoing monitoring’ were conducted, however the risk status of those suppliers at the time of reporting •• Over the course of 2019, the cobalt price plummeted. “We have remained unchanged. It is regrettable to report that, This led to considerable social volatility within the seen growing while no evidence of serious abuses (such as child labour) ASM community resulting in a migration of workers interest from were identified, their risk status remains unchanged. from exploiting cobalt rich ores to alternatives such as In light of this challenge, in 2019 we sought to deepen copper and gold. This incidence had a profound impact downstream our relationship with the NGO Pact – leveraging and on the ability of project counterparts at the Mutoshi companies in Pilot Project to retain personnel (see over page). deploying their expertise in the mitigation of certain understanding risks. We have confidence in this model and will continue •• As reported in 2018, there remains a need for many potential risks to exercise commercial leverage to support enhanced companies in the region to make a greater investment relating to cobalt supplier performance. We did not disengage from any in health, safety and environmental management production suppliers during the year and have active dialogue with practices, and in structured and systematic in the DRC.” high-risk suppliers on options for risk mitigation. community engagement. In our 2018 report we noted that our due diligence We have seen growing interest from downstream engagement with suppliers on responsible sourcing was companies, particularly some automotive brands, the first time many of these companies had experienced in understanding potential risks relating to cobalt in-depth enquiries on these types of issues. During production in the DRC. We welcome this development 2019, we have found that general awareness has grown and the focus it brings to all aspects of responsible significantly amongst producers operating in the region – sourcing under the OECD guidance. this has been propagated in part by the LME’s responsible sourcing initiative. Nevertheless, the need for constant reinforcement remains. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 23 Case study: Over 2019, Trafigura continued to support the work of Chemaf, COMIAKOL and Pact in the development of the Mutoshi Pilot. Progress and challenges at Formal assessments were conducted against our Responsible Sourcing expectations on a Mutoshi Cobalt mine quarterly basis by third-party assessor Kumi Consulting. Some of the greatest challenges the pilot faced over the course of 2019 In 2018, Trafigura entered into a three-year “There is a need were constraints to finance, resulting in marketing agreement for cobalt hydroxide for even greater limited capital expenditure, as well as the with Chemaf, a leading DRC based mineral awareness considerable migration of workers from the exploration, mining and processing company. controlled cobalt pilot site to exploiting gold within the global In light of Chemaf’s intention to develop its and copper in an uncontrolled, unobserved industry, in fashion elsewhere on the concession. Mutoshi concession, initially through the appointment of COMIAKOL, an artisanal particular that Chemaf does not purchase this material. and small-scale mining (ASM) co-operative, responsible Both issues occurred directly as a result of Trafigura engaged internationally respected production also the dramatically reduced price of cobalt, a NGO Pact in January 2018, to support and means sourcing situation that in and of itself led to heightened oversee operational activities in line with social unease and, at times, unrest. responsibly from Trafigura’s standards. A full outline of the Trafigura will continue to support the efforts conflict areas project, including extensive video footage, of the Mutoshi pilot participants in 2020. can be found at Trafigura.com. and supporting While the future of the project remains under artisanal miners review, and indeed, cobalt ore recovered from in their efforts the area currently devoted by Chemaf to semito meet the new mechanisation will likely be depleted over demands of the the year, one of the greatest contributions Trafigura can make to advancing responsible market”. sourcing in this context will be in sharing its www.trafigura. learnings with stakeholders. 2019 com/responsibility/ The As noted by the OECD in Trafigura’s 2018 responsible-sourcing/ Mutoshi Pilot Responsibility Report “there is a need for even Project greater awareness within the global industry, www.trafigura. in particular that responsible production also com/responsibility/ responsible-sourcing/ means sourcing responsibly from conflict areas mutoshi-report/ Local economic impact of a project aimed at and supporting artisanal miners in their efforts to meet the new demands of the market.” formalizing artisanal and small-scale mining. Sara Johansson de Silva Tove Strauss Nene Morisho 24 Society External voice: The London Metal Exchange on responsible sourcing Matthew Chamberlain, CEO of the London Metal Exchange and a member of the Management Committee of HKEX Group. The global focus on responsible sourcing has gained car. This increased awareness has heightened the increasing momentum over recent years, with an commercial incentive for those in the metals value escalation of interest driving both public awareness and chains to understand and conduct due diligence across consumer demand for assurances as to the provenance their supply chains effectively. of resources and materials. Corporate initiatives to address environmental, social, and governance (‘ESG’) concerns in supply chains are a central feature of The role of the trading industry financial reports and business planning, and responsible Unsurprisingly, whatever direction the mining industry takes will affect the investing generates growing attention. The global and commodities trading industry. This is, in part, due to the growth of fully physical nature of the mining industry positions it at integrated mining companies which incorporate trading units, as well as the the forefront of this debate, and given the LME’s role increasing numbers of merchants owning (and operating) mine sites. As a at the centre of the metals value chain, we felt it useful result, any company dealing with physical metal in any form will likely be to outline why we believe responsible sourcing has subject to conflict minerals legislation to ensure that the whole supply chain become more in focus, a brief overview of our journey is compliant. in responsible sourcing and what we believe lies ahead Further, given the role of traders and merchants as the ‘intermediaries’ for the metals and mining industry in this area. between different points of the value chain, they will play an absolutely vital The responsible sourcing agenda is not new – think of role in the collection and transmission of supply chain information; many fair trade coffee which has been around since the 1980s smelters and consumers will not be able to complete supply chain mapping – and many metals miners and refiners have been without their input. working for years to ensure that the metal they produce The combination of these factors will mean that trading firms’ engagement is sourced responsibly. Credit too goes to downstream with existing standards and initiatives (whether they be legislative, industries (in the LME world, this can include anyone in regulatory or industry-led) should provide a helpful foundation to comply the value chain after the smelting process, from with all requirements. packaging plants or car manufacturers to end-consumers) where the ongoing demand for responsibility has ensured Regulation has not been far behind. Section 1502 of the “An escalation that progress from the production Dodd Frank Act was passed by U.S. Congress in 2010, industry does not stand still. Our of interest is and although we note that there is uncertainty about downstream customers have spoken driving demand its future, it required publicly listed companies to check of the increasing engagement from and report on their supply chains for tin, tungsten, for assurance end-consumers when choosing tantalum and gold for the first time. In Europe, the as to the which products to purchase; for Conflict Minerals Regulation is due to go live in January provenance of example, looking for a responsible 2021. Legislation has increased the pressure on metals resources and sourcing symbol on an aluminium can market actors and encouraged further care when or enquiring as to the source materials.” sourcing metal. Commercial drivers and legislative and of cobalt in a new electric regulatory pressures have therefore combined with the ethical imperative felt by numerous individuals in our industry who recognise the need to ensure safe and fair working conditions for those who are most vulnerable. For over 140 years, the LME has set requirements for metallurgical standards and shapes (e.g. cathode or ingot) when approving brands that can be used to deliver against LME contracts (and consequently, the brands that make up the LME price). It is only more recently that the market demand for responsibly sourced metal has meant that we have the remit to extend those Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 25 requirements to include conditions for how that metal likely to increase and develop as large institutional “We firmly is sourced. We believe we have a key role in facilitating investors with long-term investment outlooks believe our the adoption of responsible sourcing principles, and that maintain and increase demands on mining companies we can no longer accept the possibility that our users to prove the sustainability of their projects. industry should be placed in a position where they can take delivery of contribute to When this is combined with the added pressure metal from one of our listed warehouses that does not from metal purchasers, it is clear that responsible development meet those principles. Furthermore, we need to ensure sourcing will not simply be a passing trend. At the challenges in a that the LME price reflects the value of responsibly LME, we have worked hard with our market to proactive sourced metal, and is not artificially depressed by metal leverage existing industry practices and expertise to manner.” which is not sourced in the same way. develop robust processes that will ensure an enduring To achieve this, we have grounded our approach in the responsible sourcing framework for the metals OECD’s Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of industry. We remain hugely grateful to all those who Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas have contributed so generously of their time and (“OECD Guidance”) as we believe this is the most experience to achieve this. globally-accepted approach to responsible sourcing. Our responsible sourcing requirements will leverage the OECD-aligned metals standards already available (or in development) to conduct due diligence on brands that operate in conflict affected and high-risk areas (“CAHRAs”). It is our aim that in the not-too-distant future we will be in the position where all our LME registered brands will have undertaken appropriate responsible sourcing work corresponding to the OECD framework for risk based due diligence. On the environmental side, we are also introducing requirements for all LME-listed brands to hold a valid certificate for ISO 14001 (or equivalent), to ensure Finally, we firmly believe our industry should contribute that environmental management systems are firmly to development challenges in a proactive manner. embedded in the operations of all brand-producing As such, the LME Board has allocated USD2 million, companies. As the sustainability agenda continues to funded by market enforcement proceeds, to charitable develop we will keep working with the industry to see initiatives in the responsible sourcing sector. how the LME can best reflect evolving market demands, We are taking action because the value of our market including possibilities for low carbon aluminium, or is based on providing metal which meets globallysustainability concerns to be incorporated within the accepted standards for responsible sourcing, and LME’s broader responsible sourcing requirements. because the metals sector looks to us to provide We are also spending some time thinking about ways leadership on these important topics; mostly, however, the LME can help with the difficulties in supply chain we are taking action because we believe it is the right traceability for companies. A number of exciting and thing to do, and we are proud to serve a market that innovative companies have been trialling distributed demands nothing less. ledger technology (“DLT”) and Internet of Things (“IoT”) approaches to help overcome some of the issues. We For more information believe it likely the solutions they could yield could A more detailed outline, including the LME’s final present excellent opportunities to contribute to the proposal, is available on their website. tracking and assurance of metals and are excited about the possibilities here. www.lme.com/en-GB/ The projects mentioned above represent only a About/Responsibility/ fraction of the areas of interest, and these are only Responsible-sourcing www.trafigura. Core features of LME responsible sourcing proposal com/responsibility/ •• Utilising twin tools of transparency and standards: The LME believes that improving transparency will allow external-voices for consumers to understand the steps that brands will be taking, and that in conjunction with OECD-aligned standards, they can deliver an optimised toolbox to protect consumers. •• No discrimination between large-scale and artisanal/small-scale mining: Both large and small-scale mining carry differing risks. In acknowledging these risks, the LME does not favour any specific form. It believes that risk assessment must be tailored to circumstances; therefore, it sets out to provide equally meaningful protections. •• Building on well-established work in the sector: The LME’s approach is grounded in the globally relevant OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas and will allow for brands to make use of existing standards. •• Defining a pragmatic and clear process: Our approach is aimed at the feasibility for global producers of all metals, ensuring that requirements are clear and achievable. 26 Society Transparency Transparency the EITI. Our first disclosure, published in 2015 (covering The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) 2013) was followed by disclosures with an expanded is a global standard that promotes transparency and scope, providing increasingly more comprehensive and accountability in the oil, gas and mining sectors. The granular data. In our 2018 Responsibility Report, covering EITI Standard is currently implemented in 52 countries data from 2017, the company reported USD2.7 billion worldwide and requires countries to report on the sale of of payments (disaggregated by individual seller and the state’s share of production or other revenues collected commodities) for purchases from national oil companies in kind, a form of revenue of paramount importance for in EITI countries. The 2018 report also included aggregate many resource-dependent governments. purchases from national oil companies of EITI countries with a load port outside the EITI, as well as aggregate Private businesses also play an important role, as purchases from national oil companies from non-EITI highlighted by the EITI principles.1 The EITI Standard, countries. adopted in 2013, required that EITI implementing countries present in their reports data regarding ‘volumes Since 2013, Trafigura has disclosed USD20.6 billion of sold and revenues received’ for ‘the sale of the state’s payments to EITI countries and since 2014, USD113.6 1 See, for instance, EITI share of production or other revenues collected in-kind’ by billion of payments to non-EITI countries – the differential Principle 1, underlining the commitment the government and any state-owned enterprise.2 between the two clearly underlining the need for greater to ‘encouraging transparency outside of the 52 participant countries of Because of the complex nature of the business, and high standards of the EITI. transparency and reflecting the 2013 EITI Standard, transparency in accountability […] commodity trading has received increased attention Trafigura is committed to advancing the mission in business’, and EITI Principle 2, requiring both at the EITI and in other international forums in of the EITI and extending its reach internationally. the involvement of ‘all recent years. In 2019, Trafigura’s Head of Corporate Responsibility stakeholders’ in the was appointed to the Board of the organisation as a search for solutions. In 2014, Trafigura became the first independent representative of the investor community. 2 See EITI Standard 2013, commodity trading company to publicly support the EITI Requirement 4.1.c. and to develop a disclosure policy in collaboration with Purchase from EITI National Oil Swaps with EITI NOCs Purchase from EITI NOCs Companies (NOCs) (load port outside the EITI) Volume (thousand barrels) Value (USD in millions) Volume (thousand barrels) Value (USD in millions) Volume (thousand barrels) Value (USD in millions) 60,000 3,500 30,000 1,200 25,000 1,000 3,000 50,000 25,000 1,000 20,000 800 2,500 40,000 20,000 800 15,000 600 2,000 30,000 15,000 600 1,500 10,000 400 20,000 10,000 400 1,000 5,000 200 10,000 5,000 200 500 0 0 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Figures do not include purchases or swaps of gas. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 27 The 2019 EITI Standard The most recent version of the EITI Standard, published during the EITI Global Conference held in Paris in June In 2018, Trafigura’s aggregate first purchases of oil and petroleum products from NOCs in EITI countries amounted to USD3.2 billion (2017: USD2.7 billion). These $20.6 bn 2019, explicitly encouraged buying companies to payments compare to total payments of USD35.8 billion payments to EITI disclose information regarding the volumes received to NOCs in non-EITI countries (2017: USD30 billion). countries since 2013 and payments made to governments and state-owned Relevant to our EITI disclosures, we can confirm that in enterprises (SOEs) for the purchase of oil, gas and/ or mineral resources. This clarification was the result the 2018 calendar year, Trafigura did not enter into spot prepayment arrangements with any EITI countries. $113.6 bn of discussions triggered by targeted efforts of certain EITI countries and of consultations within the Working Our extractive activities and payments to non-EITI countries since 2014 Group on Transparency in Commodity Trading – tax disclosures a multi-stakeholder group that Trafigura has contributed Trafigura does not operate and is not a majority towards since its inception. The governments of shareholder in extractive projects in the oil and gas sector. Switzerland and the United Kingdom provided financial As is standard global industry practice, no taxes were assistance to the project. directly levied on Trafigura’s purchases of crude oil, As a result of the revised Standard and improved dialogue refined products and gas from NOCs. between, for example, SOEs, commodity traders and In the 2018 calendar year, Trafigura’s Mining Group civil society, the disclosure of commodity trading data was a shareholder in a mining project in Peru through is becoming more granular. As countries shed more Catalina Huanca Sociedad Minera. A fund managed by light on the sales process, stakeholders are better able Galena Asset Management (which is wholly owned by to understand how the national share of oil, gas and the Trafigura Group) owned a majority stake in Mawson minerals is being sold and how the proceeds of those West. Both the DRC and Peru are EITI-implementing sales are managed. Trafigura’s disclosures will continue to countries. develop in the future reflecting more detailed reporting The DRC Government received payments of by EITI countries in their efforts to implement the revised USD3,610,836 (2017: USD213,594) relevant to Mawson EITI Standard. West. The Peruvian government received payments View our video with Our trading disclosures from Trafigura of USD2,805,583 (2017: USD6.9 million) our Head of Corporate Our policy commits Trafigura to disclosing payments to relevant to Catalina Huanca Sociedad Minera. Responsibility on our approach to National Oil Companies (NOCs) from EITI-implementing The details of 2018 payments will be published in relevant transparency countries for crude oil and petroleum products, including EITI country reports when reconciled. www.trafigura. gas, as well as associated corporate taxes and licence com/2019RR payments to governments. Trafigura’s disclosures for transactions executed in the 2018 calendar year, as outlined in full on page 28, were limited to trades undertaken with NOCs of EITIimplementing countries, and where the load port of the product that was purchased was situated in that same country, i.e. targeted at the ‘first purchase’ of ‘equity oil’. On this basis, Trafigura’s disclosures exclude data relevant to purchases from EITI-country NOCs that operate in buying and selling oil on international secondary markets. 28 Society 2018 Aggregate first purchases from EITI country NOCs where the initial load port is inside the EITI implementing NOC home country1 Parcel load Government port owned Volume Volume Volume country Counterparty percentage Product type (thousand tonnes) (thousand barrels) (MMBTU2) Value (USD) Argentina YPF SA 51.00 Crude Oil 25 195.1 0 11,641,959 YPF SA 51.00 Refined 60 641.1 0 24,186,466 Colombia Ecopetrol SA 92.70 Crude Oil 574 3,883.2 0 258,599,860 Ecopetrol SA 92.70 Refined 570 3,591.9 0 198,891,021 Refineria de Cartagena S.A. 92.70 Refined 920 6,880.3 0 592,225,020 Indonesia PT Pertamina (Persero) 100.00 Refined 26 217.1 0 15,657,240 PT Pertamina EP 100.00 Refined 18.3 155.0 0 10,988,900 PT Pertamina Hulu Energi Tomori Sulawesi 100.00 Refined 67.7 574.9 0 38,121,787 Mexico PMI Trading Ltd 100.00 Refined 287.0 2,588.6 0 161,185,889 Nigeria Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation 100.00 Crude Oil 1,662.9 12,335.6 0 847,568,850 Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation 100.00 Refined 48.6 418.4 0 23,766,797 Peru Petroleos del Peru Petroperu S.A. 100.00 Refined 109 795.4 0 54,157,178 Trinidad and Heritage Petroleum Company Tobago Limited 100.00 Crude Oil 70.4 482.6 0 22,035,327 Petroleum Company of Trinidad and Tobago Limited 100.00 Crude Oil 71.1 494.5 0 31,553,423 Petroleum Company of Trinidad and Tobago Limited 100.00 Refined 810.1 6,440.1 0 508,426,152 Others3 778.5 6747.9 475,473,012 Grand Total 6,097.6 46,441.7 0 3,274,478,880 1 Our disclosures relate to purchases of crude oil, refined products and gas by Trafigura Group majority owned companies over the course of the calendar year. NB: Trafigura’s financial year runs from 1 October to 30 September. 2 One million British Thermal Units. 3 ‘Others’ includes Trafigura purchases from counterparts that, at the time of this disclosure, had not approved inclusion of such purchases. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 29 2018 Aggregate swap4 of crude oil and corresponding delivery of refined products from and to NOCs in EITI countries where the initial load port is in the EITI implementing NOC home country Parcel load Government port owned Volume Volume Volume country Counterparty percentage Product type (thousand tonnes) (thousand barrels) (MMBTU) Value (USD) Nigeria Nigerian National Petroleum Crude Oil Corporation (NNPC) 100 (received) 1,711.4 12,754.0 0 871,335,647 Nigerian National Petroleum Refined Corporation (NNPC) 100 (exchanged) 900.0 7,562.6 0 602,163,976 2018 Aggregate purchases from NOCs of EITI countries with a load port outside the EITI (i.e. likely to be non-equity oil)5 Parcel load Government port owned Volume Volume Volume country Counterparty percentage Product type (thousand tonnes) (thousand barrels) (MMBTU) Value (USD) n/a n/a n/a n/a 1,744.8 13,113.7 3,197,950.0 925,683,443 2018 Aggregate purchases from NOCs from non-EITI countries Parcel load Government port owned Volume Volume Volume country Counterparty percentage Product type (thousand tonnes) (thousand barrels) (MMBTU) Value (USD) n/a n/a n/a n/a 69,675 526,495 190,420,741 35,768,746,165 4 A value for value arrangement where the operators deliver corresponding net product value, i.e. inclusive of demurrage cost, to the net value derived from the crude oil loaded, i.e. exclusive of associated costs – demurrage. Any imbalance between crude oil exported and refined products imported is addressed on a rolling basis over the duration of the swap agreement. 5 When transacting with an EITI country NOC, many of which have international trading arms, we may take title of product in a non-EITI country. As such, it is unclear whether indeed the product is ‘equity oil’ or is in fact sourced from another location. 30 Society External voice: OpenOil on the benefits of enhanced transparency Johnny West, Founder and Director of financial and commercial advisory on natural resource assets for public policy, OpenOil; member of the Association of International Petroleum Negotiators and member of the advisory board of the FAST Standard Organisation. Commodity trading – a promising start international borders every day is between pure third Commodity trading has made it on to the transparency parties with arms-length pricing. Second, even in agenda. This in itself is a considerable achievement, with markets which are extensively traded, such as crude oil, the adoption of trading into the Extractive Industries the role of benchmarks is often misunderstood. Of the Transparency Initiative over the past couple of years. roughly 1,200 grades of crude oil that are sold around But if it is to contribute to public understanding of the the world, only a dozen or so are themselves benchmarks oil and mining industries, which is the ultimate goal of with prices easily available. The others are all priced at transparency, there is a long way to go. premium or discount to them, with those differentials varying day by day as demand for the underlying slate Trading information is vital because the valuation of finished products shifts. Third, not all commodities of commodities is an essential part of figuring out have thick spot markets with benchmark prices. Mineral the project economics of natural resources. In order sands and rare earths, coal, and arguably even natural to ascertain whether a government is securing a fair gas lack a single global market which provides a like-forshare of profits from the resources it owns, we need like comparison. Bulk commodities such as iron ore or to calculate production, revenues, profits before and copper are also hard to evaluate if, as in many producing after taxes, an investor’s rate of return and the countries, some form of intermediate commodity is ‘government take’. exported for further processing rather than a finished For a long time, it was assumed among activists that sellable product. price was the most straightforward component of the Finally, because the economics of mining and oil are picture, and so a lot of attention was focused on the dominated by high fixed investment up front, and the pure upstream – the actual sums paid to government by need to strike deals to recover those costs early in producers and the licences and contracts that governed the life of the project, relatively small differences in them. The general thinking was: if you need the price valuation can have an outsized impact on both investor of gold, why not just look it up on the London Metal return and government take. In one case in Chad, for Exchange? Or Brent crude on the London market? Only example, an uncertainty over whether a particular over time, thanks largely to the EITI move into the area, grade of crude should be valued at a five percent or did the realisation dawn that price – or valuation – a nine percent discount to Brent created a USD200 can be complex. million gap in estimates of revenues to government, “Transparency First, because both oil and and impacted the investor return considerably. mining can be highly creates a The EITI work on commodity trading has served to ‘new normal’ vertically integrated, bring all these factors into public awareness. In the producing companies where first report from Indonesia, for example, activists were are often selling to competitive highly sceptical when data from the LNG terminal in their own affiliates. It Tanguhh revealed shipments leaving, on the same day, businesses has been estimated for three different destinations with price differentials thrive” that less than half of 150 percent. But in fact this served as an opportunity of all trade crossing to educate the public about the way LNG markets work, with most sales agreed up front through term contracts that can last for decades, and highly regionalised markets. This then started a discussion about Indonesia’s own internal gas market, where, unlike liquid products which are highly standardised by a quasi-state monopoly, prices for piped gas can also vary by over 100 percent from one part of Jakarta to another. But there again, it turned out that other factors were at work than ‘skulduggery’: the gas market had been Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 31 chaotically liberalised, leading to many intermediaries •• Trading companies like Trafigura should take in “Sub-soil owning or controlling pieces of the infrastructure, and some of the experience of the upstream companies resources are transit fees which varied drastically from each other. in EITI and the transparency movement over the What started as a discussion about corruption evolved last decade. It might seem like these demands public goods… into a policy debate about regulation of the market. encroach on operations in a way which makes this is about EITI has begun with the so-called ‘First Trades’ of statemany executives uncomfortable, because it providing full owned companies – those cases where parastatals is not business as usual. But in case after case disclosure to the are entrusted with selling the share of commodities transparency creates a new normal where the largest group of produced in partnership with upstream international sky does not fall in, and well-run, competitive shareholders” companies. This has brought some sprawling statebusinesses continue to thrive. run business empires, such as the Nigerian National In trading specifically, there will be the strong instinct Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) or Pertamina in that revealing prices and valuations wholesale is Indonesia, under some form of public scrutiny for the commercially sensitive. There are two answers to this. first time. But to accomplish the mission – to provide The first is a technical one: the time scales needed data which enables investment-grade analysis in the for commercial edge, and public accountability, are public space – the initiative needs to be expanded in a different and compatible. Markets move so dynamically number of ways. that information on trades that are 12 months old is •• Beyond state-owned companies to international rarely going to be sensitive today – certainly not in some companies. State ownership is insignificant in the way which is unique and goes beyond the competitor production of many minerals and even where analysis all major players already run. it is considerable, such as crude oil, it is only But the second answer is perhaps the more important part of the picture. Research reveals all kinds of one: although the best actors in the private sector complex relationships between state companies realise that transparency is part of business, the full logic and international trading partners over selling the in the natural resource area is often buried beneath the state share. detail. The simple fact is that all over the world sub-soil •• Beyond pure sales transactions into valuation. resources are public goods, legally. This therefore means Because of the complexities of trading, many that the government is the manager for a public who in projects have valuation mechanisms defined in a very real sense are themselves investors. The agenda upstream contracts which may be linked to, but of providing enough data – and the economic analysis exist independently of, open markets. It is these to run on top of it – is therefore about nothing more (or mechanisms that are used for assessment of less) revolutionary than providing full disclosure to the royalties, revenues for the corporate income tax largest group of shareholders. base, and so on. The business logic of this is clear: it allows the private sector partner maximum openoil.net flexibility in operations and marketing which, under OpenOil is a consultancy based in Berlin providing normal circumstances, is in everyone’s interest. But financial analysis of natural resources for public www.trafigura. so long as these arrangements are not public, it policy. It hosts the largest library of investmentcom/responsibility/ leaves the fiscal base of taxation unclear. grade financial modelling for oil, gas and mining external-voices •• Beyond direct sales transactions to any associated projects on the Internet. Clients include governments, resource-based loans. If commodities are changing international development banks, the UN, bilateral hands as part of overall business relations which development agencies, and think tanks. include large loans, it is clear that the valuation of those commodities in the narrow upstream deal may be influenced in a way which takes them “off market”. 32 Health and safety Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 33 Health and safety Performing our operations safely is of fundamental importance. We are committed to minimising risk wherever it occurs. 2019 2020 Performance Targets To achieve zero fatalities To achieve zero fatalities 20 percent improvement in Group lost‑time A further 20 percent improvement in Group incident rates (LTIR) on 2018 data lost-time incident rates (LTIR) on 2019 data To achieve an improvement in the number To achieve an improvement in the number of near misses reported and lessons to of near misses reported and lessons to be be learnt (L2BLs) shared Group-wide learnt (L2BLs) shared Group-wide To deliver further enhancements to our To reduce the average time taken to complete contractor due diligence and GroupLevel 3 incident investigations to 28 days wide assurance programme Not achieved Improving Achieved 60 1.76 258 Lost-time incidents (LTI) Lost-time incident rate (LTIR) Lessons to be learnt (L2BLs) shared (2018: 64) (2018: 2.40) (2018: 167) 34 Health and safety Health and safety Protecting the wellbeing of our employees, suppliers, contractors, collaborators and the communities within which we operate is of the utmost importance to the Trafigura Group. Our approach Three health and safety objectives determine our approach. First, we aim for zero work-related fatalities; We are improving health and safety performance on multiple fronts, but we are acutely conscious that there is always more to do. This was underlined by the death of 27% second, we seek to reduce the number of serious incidents a crew member on one of our controlled vessels in 2019. Reduction in overall we experience; and third, we work to share lessons from An enquiry followed and we continue to draw lessons to Group-wide lost-time incidents and near misses, with a view to continually eliminate the risk of a recurrence. incident rate1 improving our performance. Our strategy aims to improve safety overall. One aspect We seek to embed health and safety objectives into the of our approach is informed by the Frank E. Bird safety 1 LTIR: Lost-time incident operational ethos of the Group. We aim to promote a model, which suggests that the number of serious rate. The number of culture where all colleagues regard health and safety accidents is curtailed when actions to prevent repeat incidents that resulted in at least one day (or objectives as indivisible from our commercial objectives. events are taken following minor accidents and near shift) being lost from misses. We aim to ensure all minor incidents and near work, divided by actual Integrating health and safety misses are recorded and reviewed so that we can total hours worked over one year, multiplied by into operations learn lessons and disseminate these across the Group. one million. Adopting practices that support a healthy and safe Encouraging active reporting of near misses and minor working environment for employees and contractors incidents promotes shared responsibility and a problemshould not be seen as a distinct task for managers, but as solving attitude, thus improving behavioural safety and integral to their overall working methodology. reducing the likelihood of repeat incidents. An active international network of Group Health, Statistical analysis to date indicates that this has Safety, Environment and Communities practitioners is delivered concrete safety improvements. Our actions and taking the lead in embedding a safety-conscious culture initiatives contributed to a 27 percent reduction in the Our Head of Health, throughout the organisation. Our 450-person strong lost-time incident rate (LTIR)1 in 2019. Safety, Environment and HSEC network includes full-time HSEC practitioners Communities, giving a and those that combine HSEC responsibility with other presentation on the duties. Operational managers are highly receptive to the importance of safety performance at a meeting Group’s philosophy, which embraces good HSEC practice of the Global Trading and regards it as reinforcing rather than detracting from Operations team in commercial objectives. Montevideo. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 35 Vigilance and preparedness Tailing Storage Facilities Under the Direct and Indirect Management of Trafigura The LTIR is a key safety metric for Trafigura. But we also recognise that, on its own, it is an incomplete measure of safety performance. Not all accidents follow the linear TAILING STORAGE FACILITIES UNDER THE DIRECT AND INDIRECT MANAGEMENT OF TRAFIGURA structure put forward by Bird, where minor incidents precede larger ones. There are numerous examples of companies with excellent LTIR performance that still experienced unexpected, catastrophic events. It is vital that we continue to invest in maintenance and 1 technical and organisational safety improvements, even www.trafigura.com/ where existing arrangements appear satisfactory. brochure/tailingWe develop emergency plans to manage accidents storage-facilitiesfrom high-risk activities. We also rehearse our under-the-direct-andindirect-managementresponses to worst-case outcomes by conducting realistic of-trafigura simulations. Tailings storage facilities (TSFs) have come under increased scrutiny. The Mining Group has close oversight of all TSFs and they participate in the Trafigura Group HSEC Assurance programme as well as being subject to close monitoring and regular inspections. The Church of England Pension Fund launched its own review of TSF management and the Mining Group provided them with a full submission, which is available for review online. 36 Health and safety Health and safety governance Our operations develop and maintain management systems appropriate to the nature and scale of their 1 Reported fatality In May 2019, a crew member on a Trafigura-controlled Fatality associated 1 vessel, died from a malaria infection contracted while activities. Each division and operating company is with Trafigura operating off the coast of West Africa. expected to: operations Trafigura has re-enforced Technical Managers who •• Identify and evaluate health and safety risks; crew our owned fleet of the importance of fully •• Implement controls that eliminate or reduce risks to 1 Includes fatalities of implementing industry guidelines when dealing as low as reasonably practicable; any employee of a with potential cases of malaria. We are advising all Trafigura Division or •• Take action to prevent repeat incidents; Operating Company contractors in malaria-endemic areas to issue their •• Report all incidents and near misses; as a result of an employees with self-diagnosis kits. We are also occupational injury or disease sustained distributing kits for employees travelling to these •• Investigate serious incidents and high-potential near or contracted whilst areas. We have been reviewing our medical emergency misses; undertaking a workrelated activity; and of plans, including due diligence for pre-approved •• Plan for emergencies; any contractor working hospitals in countries where there are similar risks. •• Set improvement targets and track performance; on Trafigura-owned Group-wide, we are raising awareness by recirculating or managed sites or •• Ensure the workforce has the appropriate level of undertaking a workadvice on avoiding mosquito-borne diseases. related activity on competency and adequate resources; behalf of Trafigura. •• Undertake periodic checks and audits to verify the effectiveness of these measures. Senior managers and facility managers are incentivised to achieve HSEC goals within their specific areas of responsibility. Both quantitative and qualitative targets form part of their performance assessments. These are tailored to their individual responsibilities but may include, for instance, getting LTIR below a target level, ensuring a minimum number of lessons to be learnt (L2BLs) are developed and shared, and delivering tangible improvements in contractor risk management. Whilst we endeavour to conduct our operations within national and international laws and regulatory frameworks, unfortunately incidents can still occur. In 2019, a total of USD20,875 (2018: USD55,781) was paid to governmental authorities in relation to health and safety fines and penalties. Health and safety summary report Oil & Petroleum Metals & Shipping & Trafigura Impala Mining Group (aggregate) Products Trading Minerals Trading Chartering Desk Corporate Terminals Group KPI 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Number of fatalities: employees and contractors 1 4 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 Value of HSE related fines and penalties (USD) 20,875 55,781 0 0 0 0 17,125 0 0 0 750 0 3,000 55,781 LTIs 2 60 64 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 27 34 32 29 LTIR 1.76 2.40 0.34 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.59 1.92 0.00 0.00 1.87 2.70 2.32 3.08 2 LTI: the number of incidents that resulted in time lost from work amounting to at least one day (or shift) by employees and contractors working on Trafigura-owned or managed sites, or contractors undertaking a work-related activity on behalf of Trafigura. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 37 “Near miss Reducing injuries potential consequences suggest opportunities to avert reporting is an In order to reduce the incidence of injury, we use an accidents in future. They are, in effect, consequence free evidence-based approach, managing operational risks lessons. The more near misses that are reported, the important tool for by analysing data and making appropriate decisions. more we are able to learn and develop our HSE policies improving safety and practices. We have standardised reporting on the Safeguard performance and platform, Trafigura’s online HSEC data reporting system. Stressing the importance of reporting near misses is enshrined in Improvements in data collection have strengthened the strengthens our safety-conscious culture. Trafigura Trafigura’s HSEC quality of our data, enhancing our ability to spot patterns employees and contractors have come to understand Golden Rules.” and trends. Incidents and near misses are recorded that they will not be blamed for mistakes but are instead according to both actual and potential severity based on credited with being ready to share valuable learning a five-level system, with relatively minor incidents being experiences. This is promoting transparency within the level 1 incidents, to level 4 and 5 events where there may organisation, which is improving not only safety but be serious injuries or death. operational efficiency. We exceeded our 2019 Group-wide target of a 20 percent With more frequent reporting, we are also extending our reduction in the lost-time incident rate. LTIR fell by 27 understanding of what qualifies as a near miss event. percent to 1.76 per million hours worked (2018: 2.40). As the recognition of near misses improves, we are able LTIR has fallen by 62 percent in the last three years (2016 to identify new types of risks and reinforce risk-averse LTIR: 4.58). In addition, total recordable case frequency behaviours. (TRCF) fell by 15 percent to 2.60 cases in 2019, compared A paradigm shift in reporting provides firm evidence that to 3.07 cases in 2018. contractors now recognise that data sharing is in their Although there is no room for complacency, these are interest. In Colombia, contractors working for Impala tangible improvements that statistically translate into Terminals transport hydrocarbons over long distances fewer serious injuries and safer working conditions by road. Even though this is an inherently high-risk for our people. They indicate that our strategy, which activity, only one near miss was reported for the whole 258% combines encouraging active reporting, developing and of 2016 and just 36 in 2017. There has since been a sea disseminating lessons to be learnt, investing in health change in attitudes. HSEC staff in Colombia have led and safety training and resources, incentivising local training initiatives to sensitise managers and drivers Increase in near miss management with HSEC KPIs and improving the quality to the importance of near miss reporting and extend reporting frequency of HSEC leadership across our workforce, is helping to their understanding of what constitutes a near miss. In embed a safety-conscious culture. February 2019, Colombia’s trucking operations enhanced the checks they do of trucks and began reporting all near Near miss reporting misses through our Safeguard system. These actions Our health and safety strategy puts considerable have contributed to a striking increase in the number of emphasis on near miss reporting. This important tool for near misses reported. Colombia’s trucking contractors improving safety performance is enshrined in Trafigura’s reported 3,259 near misses in 2019, 90 times as many as HSEC Golden Rules. in the previous year. This huge discrepancy underlines the We monitor and manage incident and near miss reporting importance of high-quality data. Equipped with better on Safeguard. Near misses, like actual incidents, are quality information, Impala Terminals has been able to logged and assessed for their potential severity. We pay put targeted safety measures in place, including particular attention to high-potential near misses. checkpoints along main routes and random These are defined as near misses that in different testing for fatigue and alcohol consumption. circumstances might have resulted in serious injury, In other locations, we see a correlation FOLLOW SAFETY PROCEDURES OBEY LAWS AND REGULATIONS COMPLY WITH OUR STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES death or extensive environmental damage (level 4 between improved near miss reporting LOOK OUT FOR EACH OTHER HELP EACH OTHER STAY PROTECTED and 5 incidents). and reduced injury incidents. For example, Recorded near misses more than quadrupled in in 2019 fluvial operations in Colombia EQUIP WEAR PROTECTIVE GEAR ENSURE EQUIPMENT AND TOOLS YOURSELF CORRECTLY ARE FIT FOR PURPOSE SPEAK OUT IF SAFETY PROCEDURES 2019. Over the last two years, there has been have reduced LTIR by 21 percent while CHALLENGE ARE NOT BEING FOLLOWED UNSAFE ACTS INTERVENE WHERE SITUATIONS MAY CAUSE HARM more than a twelvefold increase in the improving near miss reporting frequency STOP WORK IF IN DOUBT, STOP YOUR WORK OR THE WORK OF OTHERS IF UNSAFE MAKE SURE SAFETY IS A PRIORITY number of near misses reported. This by 267 percent. Similarly our Catalina SHARE FOR THOSE AROUND YOU GOOD PRACTICES SHARE SAFE PRACTICES AMONGST YOUR PEERS ALERT YOUR TEAM LEADER exponential growth is indicative of a Huanca mine in Peru has reduced LTIR REPORT OR HSEC MANAGER IMMEDIATELY ALL INCIDENTS REPORT ALL INCIDENTS ON SAFEGUARD The following ‘golden rules’ apply across all those operations and activities controlled by Trafigura. Rules are non-negotiable wider cultural transformation that is rate by 46 percent to 1.47 compared and are central to our strategy to apply and embed safe working practices deep into the daily work of our organisation. BE VIGILANT THINK SAFETY OUR EMPLOYEES AND PARTNERS DESERVE THE BEST IN SAFETY STANDARDS improving safety performance and to the rate of 2.72 in 2018 while Trafigura’s HSEC delivering operational benefits for improving near miss reporting Golden Rules the Group. frequency by 45 percent to 133.67 www.trafigura.com/ compared to 92.37 in 2018. resource-centre/ Near misses, by definition, come close to being actual incidents. In almost every case, their causes and 38 Health and safety 258 Lessons to be learnt (L2BL) The L2BL programme encourages everyone to share lessons learnt from near misses and incidents. Root Accelerating incident investigations We have a 450-person strong HSEC practitioners network across the business which includes full‑time Lessons to be learnt causes have to be identified and lessons learnt. We call HSEC employees and those that combine HSEC shared in 2019 across the process ‘lessons to be learnt’ to emphasise that the responsibility with other duties. We have enhanced our the Group lesson is only learnt when action is taken. internal competency to conduct incident investigations, (2018: 167) In 2018, we shared 167 L2BLs; this rose to 258 in 2019, including issuing guidance and delivering training courses on conducting quality incident investigations. 450 an increase of 54 percent. The process has been extended to cover not only HSEC incidents but also operational Each investigation presents a different challenge or loss occurrences. set of challenges. In some cases, we may need to HSEC practitioners We have refined the L2BL process by improving our deploy international teams of specialists and bring in across the Group follow-up and targeting the lessons we share more independent expert assessors. precisely so that managers and HSEC practitioners only At the same time, we want to learn any lessons quickly so receive L2BLs with specific relevance to their operations. that we can apply them swiftly elsewhere. We are working on reducing the time it takes to investigate incidents. Road Traffic Accidents (RTAs) Road-based transportation continues to be one of the GUIDANCE FOR CONDUCTING QUALITY most hazardous areas of our international activities. Many Trafigura drivers operate in areas with poor infrastructure, INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS where other road users do not always observe the rules of the road. Truck drivers in the DRC and Tanzania, for Health protection instance, are transporting commodities on the world’s for travelling fifth and sixth most dangerous road networks. employees This makes it all the more important that we do everything Guidance for Conducting Trafigura employees travel possible to minimise and mitigate the risks. Making road Quality Incident all over the world. They Investigations transportation ever safer, both for our own people and for often visit remote locations www.trafigura.com/ other road users, is a key area of focus. where medical services are resource-centre/ We approach this task systematically. Our starting point hard to access. We aim to equip business travellers is to understand the nature and extent of the risks. with the resources they need to protect themselves We have been improving our ability to quantify risks in unfamiliar surroundings and stay healthy and safe. by collecting increasingly accurate data. Road traffic This includes ensuring they have access to the latest accident frequency (RTAF), defined as the number of advice. All travellers have access to the latest data on RTAs per million kilometres, is a key metric. Group-wide, disease incidence and recommended precautions in “The measures RTAF fell by 22 percent in 2019 to 0.76, compared to the regions they are visiting. we are pursuing 0.98 in 2018. Some of this reduction can be attributed In 2019, there was a dramatic increase in dengue fever to improved reporting of kilometres driven. However, are delivering worldwide. Many cases were reported in Bangladesh, this also suggests that the measures we are pursuing are concrete road delivering concrete road traffic safety benefits. India, Malaysia and Vietnam. The Philippines traffic safety suffered a national epidemic, with 146,000 cases We also monitor RTAFs regionally and by individual and over 600 deaths. We updated and circulated benefits.” contractor. Different locations carry different levels of our advice on prevention, symptoms and treatment risk and we adjust accordingly. This allows us to target and incorporated prevention advice into the visitor resources and measure the relative success of local road briefings in affected locations. safety campaigns. Since August, all employees travelling to malaria -affected regions have been provided with malaria Rapid Diagnostic Test kits to allow for early selfdiagnosis. An instructional video is also available to all staff on our company intranet. The only way to prevent malaria is to avoid being bitten, but as this is difficult to achieve, we also recommend that employees take anti-malarial tablets. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 39 Case study: We have also introduced in-vehicle monitoring systems (IVMS) in all TrafiguraROAD TRANSPORT owned and operated road vehicles. The IVMS RISK MANAGEMENT Road safety initiatives GUIDANCE units monitor, as a minimum, the time spent PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT PLANNING over preset speed limits, number of rapid acceleration and deceleration events and the kilometres driven by each driver. Data on driver behaviour is downloaded in real time We are addressing the causes of RTAs by and vehicles are tracked online. identifying and eliminating unsafe practices. Road Transport Our ‘Staying Alive’ road safety campaign Our approved system allocates a key to Management Guidance launched in 2019 seeks to prevent road each assigned driver and immobilises the www.trafigura.com/ traffic accidents. vehicle unless this key is used. This allows us resource-centre/ to monitor every individual’s driving style. We have distributed risk management In each location, driver behaviour can be guidance documentation to all locations quantified, scored and ranked. By looking at that use Trafigura-owned, operated and average versus individual performance, we contracted vehicles on public roads. This GUIDANCE ON REWARD, RECOGNITION AND are able to reward safe drivers and support CONSEQUENCE PROGRAMMES includes both mandatory and recommended PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT PLANNING underperforming drivers with additional actions that reduce road transport risk. training in defensive driving techniques. Among the requirements is that all drivers of the company’s vehicles must undergo We have developed Guidance on Reward, defensive driving training before being Recognition and Consequences to support allowed to drive on public roads. Trafigura this approach to behavioural safety. This aims also conducts due diligence to check that to ensure that reward and consequences Guidance on Reward, programmes are fair, just and more or less Recognition and its contractors observe its road safety risk Consequence management guidelines. consistent across the company. The guidance Programmes helps managers recognise why the deviation Wearing seatbelts is one of the most costwww.trafigura.com/ from expected performance occurred. Then resource-centre/ effective health and safety measures understanding whether what went wrong available. A recent WHO report concluded was due to a mistake or to recklessness helps that wearing a seatbelt reduces the risk of determine the type of consequences to be a fatality among front seat passengers by applied. 40-50 percent and by 25-75 percent for rear seat passengers. Yet this is only a legal Most RTAs involve contractor trucks carrying requirement in just over a third of lowour commodities. We have been improving income countries. data capture to gain a clearer picture of the risks they face. In 2018, 125 RTAs were We launched the “Staying Alive” road reported, while in 2019, 138 RTAs were safety campaign in May to coincide with reported, with the majority occurring View our video on our the United Nations Road Safety Week. This in Africa (90) and Colombia (28). RTAF road safety campaign stressed the importance of wearing seatbelts. declined, however, as there was a 41 percent www.trafigura. The campaign supported our global policy com/2019RR increase in kilometres driven. This was partly that makes seatbelt wearing mandatory in attributable to more accurate reporting, but all Trafigura-owned and operated vehicles also the result of increased volumes being as well as for all employees travelling transported. on business. It has been made clear to employees that not wearing seatbelts puts Find out more about our road safety them in breach of company policy. initiatives here: www.trafigura.com/responsibility/case-studies 40 Health and safety HSEC assurance “Our assessment Category 1 reviews In 2017, we introduced an assessment process that ranks process takes Category 1 assurance is applied to locations or activities all of our installations and facilities from low risk to account of all considered high-risk from an HSE or social perspective. high risk. Category 1 sites benefit from periodic, on-site assessments various factors to The risk rating is based on three components. We look first from a Group-led specialist team, supervised by the Head categorise every of HSEC. The team’s findings and recommendations at the inherent risk associated with the environmental, social and economic setting of the asset. Secondly, fixed location are shared with local managers. The managers agree an we rate the operations being conducted at the facility, facility from high action plan in response to the review. These actions are with more hazardous activities ranked higher. The third risk to low risk.” tracked at Group level, with overdue actions reported component of the risk assessment is its operational to the HSEC Steering Committee. Category 1 audits are performance. supplemented by more frequent Category 2 reviews at all locations and Category 3 reviews of specific contractors. We also incorporate a tiered approach to asset ownership and control. This allows us to make a distinction between The Head of HSEC led assurance teams with expertise assets we control directly and those under joint venture from across the Group in four Category 1 assessments in or similar structures in which our influence is achieved 2019. The teams reviewed the Callao warehouse in Lima, through applicable corporate governance rules. Peru, which handles copper and lead-concentrate. The subsequent recommendations included the installation Our assessment process takes account of all of these of fire detection equipment on its conveyor belt and factors to categorise every fixed location facility low risk clearer demarcation of human and machine-based to high risk. This informs our contractor management and activity so as to reduce the risks associated with roving HSEC assurance processes. heavy lifting equipment. The structured approach to assurance introduced in 2017 We conducted a joint review of the MATSA mines in has aligned site-based assurance with the perceived risk Seville, Spain along with our joint-venturer Mubadala. status of operational locations and activities, and allowed This identified improvement opportunities in relation of more assessments to be completed. Specific assurance the control of work systems and in hazard recognition. protocols have been introduced for contractors, suppliers and potential merger and acquisition counterparties. We also completed a desk-based review of our vessels that are controlled from our office in Athens. Improvement opportunities here included better mechanisms for HSEC assurance categories aligning HSE targets and objectives between the company and Technical Managers who operate our vessels. Four Category 1 assurance reviews are conducted HSEC ASSURANCE PROCESSES The fourth review was of our fluvial activities in Colombia. annually at high-risk locations. This looked at occupational safety issues associated with working on the river. Category 2 assurance reviews are far more frequent. These are supervised by HSEC Managers with high-risk locations or activities under their area of responsibility. HSEC Assurance Processes Category 3 reviews focus on high-risk contractors www.trafigura.com/ and assess the degree to which Group-level policies, resource-centre/ principles and standards have been adopted. Category 4 assurance is supplier focused, assessing supplier performance against Trafigura’s responsible sourcing and supply chain expectations (see p16). Category 5 is merger and acquisition assurance. This integrates HSEC liability assessment into the due diligence that Trafigura conducts into prospective acquisition targets. Category 6 is external assurance, the third-party certification of our operational facilities. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 41 Contractor HSEC management Trafigura conducts a formal, two-phase due diligence process which includes minimum HSEC expectations for Those that pass the Phase 1 assessment by meeting minimum expectations receive an on-site inspection within a set timeframe. This Phase 2 inspection is 683 the following high-risk activities: designed to verify the Phase 1 assessment. Contractor HSEC Contractors that fail the due diligence but are willing and assessments •• Waste slops handling; considered able to work with Trafigura to upgrade their processes can •• Ship-to-ship hydrocarbon transfers; (2018: 403) gain temporary approval for an interim period. Those that •• Trucking contractors; fail due diligence and are unable or unwilling to improve, •• Oil and bulk liquid terminals; •• Warehouse and bulk storage. are rejected. In 2019, our worldwide due diligence activities resulted in: 183 Our requirements have been designed to identify and •• 683 contractor HSEC assessments considered; Contractors rejected avoid using underperforming contractors as they are •• 454 approved providers worldwide; (2018: 176) more likely to have an incident. •• 183 contractors rejected (27 percent of When a new contractor is under consideration, Trafigura those considered); conducts a KYC check and performs a Phase 1 HSEC •• 435 new contractors being actively assessed assessment, comprising an initial desk-based review. at year-end 2019. The contractor is asked to confirm its ability to meet our minimum HSEC expectations, including whether it has competent staff, sound maintenance procedures and the necessary equipment to perform safely. Contractor workflow status (as at 30 September 2019) 500 454 400 300 321 200 193 202 176 183 162 158 136 144 100 115 101 25 46 0 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 New notifications Awaiting Pending reviews Approved Phase 1 Approved Phase 2 Rejected In renewal contractor response 42 Environment and Climate change Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 43 Environment and Climate change We aim to minimise any adverse impacts from our business operations on the natural environment. This includes building our understanding of climate change and responding to its effects. 2019 2020 Performance Targets To achieve zero Level 4 and Level To achieve zero Level 4 and Level 5 5 environmental incidents environmental incidents To implement the Group climate change strategy To set a GHG reduction target To report on carbon intensity in kilogrammes per To benchmark and improve greenhouse tonne of commodity moved per kilometre gas (GHG) performance Expanded environmental performance reporting To monitor and seek to reduce GHG emissions To report on carbon intensity in kilogrammes per tonne of commodity moved per kilometre by 2020 Not achieved Improving Achieved 1,035,690tCO e 6,959,378tCO e 6 2 2 3,823l Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions Scope 3 GHG emissions Total number of Volume of oil spills (2018: 472,161 tCO2e) (2018: 5,894,037 tCO2e) oil spills (2018: 10) (2018: 4,725l) 44 Environment and Climate change Managing environmental risk We recognise our duty to prevent, minimise or remediate negative impacts to the natural environment that occur as a result of our operations. We are committed to setting indicators and targets and strengthening our management of environmental impacts. Our approach Environmental management “We extended our Trafigura divisions and operating companies handle Environmental performance is increasingly inseparable environmental significant volumes of commodities, including oil from commercial decision-making. Many of our banking reporting in 2019, and petroleum products, ores, concentrates and counterparts have integrated environmental, social, and which is helping refined metals. We see it as our duty to manage our corporate governance (ESG) metrics into their policies operations safely and eliminate or mitigate any adverse and these are often included in their lending criteria. us meet more environmental impacts. We are committed to setting We extended our environmental reporting in 2019, detailed data targets and strengthening performance. which is helping us meet more detailed data requests requests from We strive to respond effectively to climate change. from banks and other stakeholders. Since August 2019, banks and other We are working to reduce both our own emissions and all divisions and industrial assets have been required to stakeholders.” those across our supply chain. We aim to take a leading record their environmental performance in greater depth role on greenhouse gas (GHG) transparency by reporting in Safeguard, our HSEC data management application. on our GHG performance and adopting and advocating All divisions and operating companies are required for internationally recognised standards. to maintain environmental management systems appropriate to their activities. Our operating centres and facilities now report monthly on the production and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, water usage and its discharge, and five different categories of emissions. They report quarterly on any grievances, complaints and environmental penalties and on any projects seeking to improve our environmental performance. Tracking this data centrally raises the visibility of good performance, highlights areas of potential concern and allows us to benchmark and improve our performance. See the ‘Avoided emissions’ section on page 57. Many of our offices, industrial assets and operational activities are certified under local, national or industryspecific management systems. We recognise the value that these external assurance schemes bring to our operations and will continue to support certification where it makes business sense. Oil & Petroleum Management certification scheme Impala Terminals Mining Group Products Trading ISO 9001 – Quality Management 10 1 2 ISO 14001 – Environmental Management 6 1 1 ISO 14064-2 – Greenhouse Gas Monitoring 6 – – ISO 31000 – Risk Management – – 1 OHSAS 18001 / ISO 45001 –Occupational Health and Safety Management 4 1 2 Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 45 Pollution prevention We trade commodities that are essential to the smooth running of the global economy. We are acutely aware Also, in Argentina, we strengthened the investment and maintenance programme at the Bahia Blanca refinery, following a review of its environmental and safety 116 that these can pose significant social and environmental systems. As a consequence, measures have been put in Environmental risks if not handled correctly. The severity of those risks place reducing the refinery’s voluntary organic compound incidents reported varies according to the type of commodity, the activity (VOC) emissions. As part of this, we conducted an infrain 2019 and the location. Preventing and minimising such risks red camera survey, which identified 104 unwanted VOC are key priorities. emissions. These have now been remedied, improving safety, enhancing efficiency and reducing the refinery’s We focus on preventive measures and ensuring that VOC emissions. the appropriate systems and tools are available locally. For instance, the Category-1 assurance audit we We are reviewing our emergency preparedness across conducted in 2018 of the Impala Terminals-operated our operations to ensure that plans are fit for purpose fluvial operations connecting Argentina, Bolivia and and up to date. We held an oil spill response exercise in Paraguay identified sections of the 5,000km Paraná Singapore in 2019 to test the preparedness of Trafigura’s River whose remoteness made it desirable to improve Oil Operations team there. The actions taken following our capacity to act robustly in the event of an accident. the exercise are being applied not only in Singapore, but Oil-spill response equipment has now been placed at across all our Oil Operations Trading teams. strategic locations along the river to help mitigate the As our bunkering operations are growing, we have now environmental consequences of any such event. joined the International Bunker Industry Association. This is helping us to contribute to the development of new standards and network with other industry players. Key Performance Indicators Oil & Petroleum Metals & Group Products Minerals Shipping & Trafigura Impala Mining (aggregate) Trading Trading Chartering Desk Corporate Terminals Group KPI 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Number of environmental incidents reported 116 155 14 28 6 1 3 5 0 0 62 94 31 27 Number of oil spills 6 10 3 6 0 0 1 2 0 0 2 2 0 0 Associated spill volume in litres 3,823 4,725 2,972 1,763 0 0 200 1,213 0 0 651 1,749 0 0 Value of HSE related fines and penalties (USD) 20,875 55,781 0 0 0 0 17,125 0 0 0 750 0 3,000 55,781 ISO 14001 certified facilities 8 7 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 6 1 1 Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO 2e emissions (tCO 2e) 1,035,690 472,161 42,172 0 0 0 742,633 251,717 6,441 7,973 87,680 89,116 156,764 123,355 Scope 3 CO 2e emissions (tCO 2e) 6,959,378 5,894,037 94,314 64,784 228,141 148,279 6,395,539 5,527,994 13,777 12,573 160,299 93,232 67,309 47,175 46 Environment and Climate change “Trafigura Transitioning to a low-carbon economy Responding to climate change Man-made greenhouse gas emissions are causing supports efforts The world is shifting to cleaner forms of energy and as to implement such the commodities industry faces a period of dramatic climate change. It is going to take a range of efforts by change. Traders have a key enabling role and Trafigura governments, companies and civil society to transition new policies that intends to play its part. to lower carbon economies. will result in We supply many of the commodities the world needs for Trafigura seeks to reduce its emissions and is robust actions to the transition. Copper is a critical metal for electrification. exploring ways in which we can improve supply chain address climate The latest batteries require lithium, lead, nickel and efficiencies. Where we manage industrial assets, we change.” cobalt. Aluminium allows for lighter vehicles that use aim to mitigate adverse environmental impacts. less energy. LNG is a low carbon fossil fuel required We are committed to setting targets, improving, during the transition. As traders, our aim is to supply tracking and reporting on our performance. these commodities as efficiently as possible, reducing the We recognise that governments and regulators have carbon footprint associated with their delivery. an important role in setting increasingly stringent We are positioning ourselves to take advantage of the standards. Trafigura supports efforts to implement opportunities which will arise during the transition to new policies that will result in robust actions to a low-carbon economy. We are supporting countries address climate change. in meeting their Nationally Determined Contribution Trafigura’s climate change strategy is underpinned targets, which is revealing new business opportunities. www.pashglobal.com by our conviction that policies and procedures that In late 2019, we established a new Power and Renewables support sustainability are in our own economic Trading Division and have acquired a strategic stake interest. It is cognisant of the priorities and principles in PASH Global, an investor in clean energy projects. set out by the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on We expect a number of projects to be announced Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). throughout 2020. The strategy sets out Trafigura’s ambitions and includes policy initiatives in four main areas: governance, strategy, risk management and metrics and targets. In 2019, we focused on defining specific commitments and actions and identifying areas for improvement. In December 2018, we established The Climate Change Group to guide our strategic approach to climaterelated risks and opportunities. Its main priorities in 2019 were initiating investigations into new opportunities, reviewing existing proposals, examining and challenging our quarterly climate change reports and ensuring Trafigura is positioned to adapt as the world transitions to a low carbon economy. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 47 International collaboration Inland, where feasible, we are investing to accelerate a Climate change poses complex challenges and demands shift from road-based transportation to more efficient effective action. Rapid progress is needed to achieve modes of transportation. In Colombia, we have replaced climate goals. Delivering this transformation will have trucks with barges. In Africa, we are shifting more loads to widespread repercussions, especially in emerging rail as it is more efficient than trucking. economies. Ensuring a just transition is a competing Transparency imperative. In this report, we measure and publicly report our Individual governments are pursuing a range of policy emissions with increasing accuracy, including Scope 3, measures to help achieve their emission reduction and what we are doing to manage them. objectives. We aim to respond to government policies in We are leading the way in our peer group by understanding a coordinated way. We advocate a clear and consistent our emissions intensity (defined as emissions associated international approach on carbon pricing and have with moving one tonne of commodity one kilometre or introduced our own internal carbon pricing mechanisms. nautical mile) and intend to set GHG emission reduction detailed more on page 49. targets in 2020. We collaborate with industry groups and others so that we can influence the debate and remain informed on climate change. We are active participants on key Coal industry bodies, including the Global Maritime Forum, The shift away from coal as an energy source to, for the Global Logistics Emissions Council and the Global example, gas and renewables will continue, but we Battery Alliance. must acknowledge that for a period of time coal will “We are leading Improving efficiency continue to be required to provide baseload energy, particularly in some developing countries. Coal the way in our We support the development of new technologies and processes that improve the way Trafigura manages its accounts for less than three percent of Trafigura’s peer group by global turnover. Most of this is exported to developing GHG emissions. Within our own operations, we focus on understanding reducing emission intensity by using fuel more efficiently countries. We aim to ensure that all of the coal our emissions in all our operations. we handle is transported as efficiently as possible. intensity and Ship-based transportation accounts for the majority of We expect to maintain our current coal customer intend to set footprint but given the long-term challenges facing Trafigura’s CO2 emissions. Various operational initiatives, this resource, we have no current plans to invest in GHG emission including route optimisation, are improving the fuel increasing our exposure in this market. reduction targets efficiency for our controlled and chartered vessels. We in 2022.” are also building new vessels, specified to exceed Energy Efficiency Design Index (EEDI) efficiency requirements. 48 Environment and Climate change Managing operational risks Impala Terminals’ storage facilities in Mexico and the Both the effect of climate change and the policies that US were also considered. Our Manzanillo warehouse on seek to address them are potential threats to a number the west coast of Mexico was impacted by Hurricane of our activities and operations. We seek to understand Patricia in 2015. Projections from the National Oceanic how and where these might occur and take steps to and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) suggest an mitigate them. increase in tropical storm intensity and the possibility of an increase in frequency in the Northeast Pacific The Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5 °C basin, where Manzanillo is situated. The American (SR15) published by the Intergovernmental Panel on Meteorological Society recently predicted that under Climate Change (IPCC) in 2018 stated that there is a 2°C rise scenario hurricane intensity will increase by high confidence that global warming has resulted in an 3.5 percent, the frequency of category 4 and 5 hurricanes increase in the frequency, intensity and volume of heavy (the most intense) will increase by approximately 29 precipitation events globally. percent and precipitation associated with these events We are at risk of such events affecting our operations. will increase by approximately 18.5 percent. This location Therefore we have looked into how we need to adapt is clearly at risk of both high wind speeds and extreme to climate change. We have screened our portfolio to precipitation and flooding events associated with higher identify which assets are most at risk from a range of category hurricanes. Measures are being taken to improve climate-related events, including extreme precipitation. the resilience of the warehouse and its recovery time. We searched the Global Precipitation Climatology Impala Terminals’ US coal export facility at Burnside, Project (GPCP) data set to identify which of our locations Louisiana was another location identified as exposed to globally have experienced intense precipitation events climate change risk. The terminal is located within the in the past. The extracted data was combined with the North Atlantic hurricane basin and within the last 40 latest predictive climate change modelling, based on the years has been within 100 km of seven hurricane tracks. Coupled Model Inter-Comparison Project framework (CMIP5), to assess projected changes in precipitation. The NOAA’s research laboratory assesses that climate The assessment calculated the potential effects out to change will likely cause Atlantic hurricanes in the future 2030 using Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP) to “have higher rainfall rates than present-day hurricanes, 8.5, a worst-case scenario which assumes GHG emissions and medium confidence that they will be more intense.” growth continues unabated at current levels. Data suggests that the intensity of hurricanes in the region could increase by four percent by 2030. The predicted This assessment identified our barging operations on the additional lost revenue from increased hurricane intensity Magdalena River in Colombia as being exposed to climate is considered manageable. However, based upon an change risk as they are sensitive to river depth, which is assumption that a single hurricane may cause up to 14 influenced by rainfall in the river’s catchment area and days of lost output, it is estimated a major hurricane has the rate of siltation. High intensity precipitation can the potential of causing a loss of up to USD12.5 million. increase siltation, which reduces river depth. We are reviewing our Hurricane Preparedness Plan and These factors could impact our barging operations and considering how we can make our Burnside terminal even impose additional operating costs. We are working with more resilient to hurricanes. the Colombian government to mitigate the risk which will Road transportation from Katanga, in southern Africa’s require dredging the river to maintain the required depth. Copperbelt region, was another activity assessed for Similar forecasts apply to our barging activities from impacts from a changing climate. Climate change models the Campana Terminal in Argentina via the Paraguay estimate a 5.7 percent increase in rainfall in the DRC and and Paraná Rivers to Paraguay and Bolivia, which are southern Africa. We currently predominantly use roads, likely to be increasingly affected by low flow events. some of which are poor quality, to export copper and Climate models predict an increased frequency cobalt out of the Katanga Copperbelt region. These are of droughts and considerable decreases in particularly susceptible to disruption during the rainy water run-off along the Middle Paraná season. The implied increased costs of additional rainfall River that will reduce water depths are unwelcome, but manageable. Our strategic decision and increase sedimentation, both to shift from road to rail transportation reduces this risk of which will increase the likelihood as railway systems typically have a lower exposure to for grounding. New double hulled increased rainfall. barges with grounding protection are being ordered. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 49 “Carbon Factoring carbon pricing into strategy efficiency The economic advantages of lower carbon projects are improvements recognised and integrated into our business model. In 2019 we have quantified our exposure to future carbon can enhance pricing by incorporating a shadow carbon price into M&A the financial and new project appraisals. viability of a Some of our locations are already subject to carbon project.” taxes, such as those in the EU and South America, and Offsetting emissions from we pay almost USD700,000 per annum on our Scope 1 business flights emissions. The total carbon tax paid on the products we In August 2019, we introduced an internal carbon handle (Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions) is currently about emissions offsetting scheme designed both to make USD3.5 million per annum. our commitment to reducing GHG emissions visible to employees and to generate funds for carbon reduction The cost of carbon emissions is expected to rise initiatives. The Carbon Emissions Reduction Incentive significantly in future years as more countries seek to (CERI) applies a fixed charge of USD15 per tonne of incentivise the transition to a low-carbon economy with CO2 emitted on business flights taken by employees. more punitive carbon levies. We estimate that by 2025, The extra cost is charged to each department. This our Scope 1 tax liability will have increased tenfold, to currently raises about USD17,000 per month and USD7 million per annum. The total carbon tax on Scope 1, is expected to generate more than USD200,000 2 and 3 emissions could reach as much as USD100 million annually. The amount raised is held in a centrally per annum. managed fund overseen by the Head of HSEC, which Our sensitivity to different levels of carbon pricing is will be used to provide financial support for internal, integrated into the cost-benefit analysis we undertake carbon-reduction projects that may otherwise not be for M&A opportunities and investment projects. This cost-effective, with employees encouraged to submit approach identifies projects that are more sensitive to qualifying proposals. While it is a relatively small effort future carbon pricing. Such projects are reassessed to in comparison to the company’s total operations, it identify carbon reduction opportunities. is one of hopefully many in years to come aimed at Carbon-efficiency improvements can often enhance reducing our carbon emissions, generating awareness the financial viability of a project, with efficiency and spuring future leadership. improvements that have good paybacks and returns on investment when future carbon pricing is applied. However, carbon-efficiency measures are not all yet financially viable. In these situations, the project can still be future-proofed by planning for the installation of carbon emission reduction techniques when higher carbon prices are levied and the measure can be justified. This may involve modifying the original design to include hook-ups and leave space for equipment to be retrofitted at minimal cost. View our video with Trafigura’s Head of HSEC on our approach to climate change www.trafigura,com/2019RR 50 Environment and Climate change Case study: Rail links connect with strategically located warehouses at Dar es Salaam in Tanzania, Durban in South Africa and, now too, Lobito in Angola. A reopened rail line has Putting Copperbelt production cut costs and journey times significantly from the fastgrowing production region in DRC to Angola’s west coast. on the line In September 2018, Impala Terminals delivered the first consignment of copper to make the 1,800 kilometre journey from Kolwezi to Lobito by rail in the 40 years since Angola’s civil war shut down the line. We have been shipping increasing volumes ever since. The challenge Bonded warehousing facilities in the main Copperbelt The African Copperbelt contains some of the world’s mining areas, at Ndola in Zambia and Kolwezi and richest copper reserves and is the source of two-thirds Lubumbashi in the DRC, act as collection hubs for all of the world’s cobalt. These are essential raw materials materials and manage loading and onward despatch for the transition to a low-carbon economy. But getting to trains and trucks. Over the last 12 months, the hubs metals out of the ground in these land-locked producing have been developed to receive import cargoes such as areas is only the start of the story. To be of use, they have chemicals, mining media and equipment. This additional to be transported thousands of kilometres to ocean ports service is improving the efficiency of our logistics assets and onward to international consumers. and providing a round-trip solution for importers and Our approach exporters. In April, Impala Terminals opened a second Traditionally, inland transportation has relied heavily on warehouse in Lubumbashi, an 80-hectare mega-site, trucking, but the roads in the region are in poor condition, to cope with expected volume increases and to act as a notoriously congested and often dangerous, especially in staging ground for rail exports and imports. the rainy season. With production increasing rapidly – it We currently transport over half a million metric tonnes is expected to grow by more than 50 percent in the next of metal exports annually from the Copperbelt, including few years – this is not sustainable. copper, cobalt and zinc in concentrate and refined forms, Additionally, climate forecasts suggest precipitation along five separate export corridors to the east and west will increase 5.7 percent, which will in turn increase the coasts, as well as a growing number of imports. Around challenges of moving commodities by road. 20 percent of all freight goes by rail and this proportion is expected to grow rapidly. We are working with rail Rail offers significant economies of scale over long companies to refurbish wagons and locomotives to distances; it is faster and more secure than trucking. support this additional capacity. Critically, the emissions linked to rail are far lower and there is considerably less impact on the environment and We estimate that shipping commodities by rail instead local communities. of trucks avoided approximately 15,000 tCO2e in 2019, a figure that we expect will increase in coming years. Impala Terminals has been investing in rail-based logistics in Africa for over a decade. Our trans-continental rail www.trafigura.com/responsibility/case-studies network is the result of years of painstaking negotiation with regional rail companies and regulators, and significant investment in rolling stock and infrastructure. We are now the largest rail freight-forwarder in Africa and the only company in the region to offer rail transport to the east, west and south coasts. We offer five logistics corridors which maximise strategic optionality for producers in the Copperbelt. Three are rail-based. 15,000tCO e 2 Avoided through the use of rail in Africa Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 51 Reporting GHG emissions We invest significant resources in our reporting of GHG emissions. Internally, we report our emissions quarterly. 26% Scope 1 + Scope 2 + Scope 3 = Total emissions We report annually in this publication and benchmark Increase in reported performance via the CDP. It is only by understanding the emissions due to increased volumes composition of our portfolio at a granular level that we can prioritise the best emission reduction initiatives and traded and improved reporting 7.99mtCO e 2 measure their effectiveness. Total reported emissions 2019 We report direct emissions from owned or controlled sources as Scope 1 emissions. Under Scope 2, we report 6.38mtCO e 2 indirect emissions from the generation of purchased 2018 energy. We also report indirect emissions incurred across our value chain, where contractors and other counterparties are undertaking logistics operations on our behalf, as Scope 3 emissions. 2019 2018 Our total reported emissions increased by 26 percent Scope 1 883,006 Scope 1 367,016 in 2019 to 7.99 million tCO2e (2018: 6.38 million Scope 2 152,685 Scope 2 105,146 tCO2e). The increase was due to increased volumes Scope 3 6,959,378 Scope 3 5,894,037 traded, changes in Trafigura’s asset portfolio and more comprehensive Shipping reporting. and Chartering GHGMaritime Inventoryemissions form the largest component of Trafigura’s GHG inventory, 89 percent in 2019. 2019 2018 We introduced carbon intensityWetmetrics in 2019 freight, owned and will vessels 13% 5% be applying these across the Group fromtime-chartered Wet freight, 2020. This will 41% 33% allow us to benchmark and track improvements Wet freight, in the spot-chartered 18% 29% GHG efficiency of our operations. Dry freight, time-chartered 13% 14% Dry freight, spot-chartered 15% 19% Trafigura GHG Inventory 2019 2018 Oil & Petroleum Products Trading 2% 1% Metals & MineralsTrading 3% 2% Shipping & Chartering 89% 91% Trafigura Corporate 0% 0% Impala Terminals 3% 3% Mining Group 3% 3% Shipping and Chartering GHG Inventory 2019 2018 Wet freight, owned vessels 13% 5% Wet freight, time-chartered 41% 33% Wet freight, spot-chartered 18% 29% Dry freight, time-chartered 13% 14% Dry freight, spot-chartered 15% 19% Trafigura GHG Inventory 2019 2018 Oil & Petroleum Products Trading 2% 1% 52 Environment and Climate change Improving data collection Our ability to manage our GHG performance successfully In 2019, we improved the accuracy of the list of wet spot relies fundamentally on accurate and comprehensive charters shared with UMAS, although we recognise we assessment of the emissions we produce, both directly need to further improve our internal processes to track and indirectly. We are working across the company each wet spot charter journey. UMAS combines this data to ensure consistent and accurate reporting that fully with the International Maritime Organization (IMO) captures the complexity and diversity of our operations. Automatic Identification System (AIS) database on We promote best practice reporting internally and aim global shipping voyages to determine the route, tonnage, to encourage continuous improvement across the Group. implied fuel use for each vessel and emissions associated Emissions are reported quarterly to enable anomalies with each voyage. We have used the UMAS calculations and mistakes to be identified and rectified rapidly. Where to estimate emissions from wet spot charters and these emissions are more than 20 percent above or below the are included in our Scope 3 GHG figures. previous quarter, this has to be explained. For chartered vessels, we have further to go before we Using an internal qualitative protocol, we rank the have the access required for the data we need. Where reporting quality of our submissions as gold, silver or we purchase the fuel and have control of the route, we bronze. Bronze-level reports rely on assumptions to can calculate the resulting emissions. However, with arrive at a best-guess GHG emissions figure. Silver-level spot-chartered vessels, the contractor is responsible for reporting is significantly more accurate, but also uses fuel consumption and route management. This makes it estimated data. Our ultimate objective is for all reporting difficult for us to identify the related emissions. to reach the gold standard, the actual figures for fuel To address this, we now request that vessel owners report consumption and other carbon-generative activities. It bunker fuel use directly to us as we believe this is the best is challenging to achieve this reporting in some parts of way to obtain reliable data. While it will take a year or “We promote our operations. so for this process to be fully implemented, ultimately best practice There were significant improvements in the depth and it will enable us to report accurately on emissions from quality of reporting during 2019, with submissions now chartered vessels. reporting at gold and silver level in most areas of the business, with There were also improvements in the way we report internally and increasingly accurate estimates of emissions intensity emissions from the transportation of refined metals. encourage being derived for many locations and activities. However, The 2018 figure had been based on best-guess, realistic continuous we sometimes find errors in reporting. This was the case assumptions (bronze level). Reported data in the current improvement.” with wet spot charters where we realised that the number financial year tracked both fuel use and distances of these, and hence their emissions, were under-reported travelled (silver level). This revealed a significant uplift in in 2018. We are working to improve the accuracy of reported emissions. Although some of this is accounted emissions reporting from wet spot charters. Wet charter for by increased volumes, much of the discrepancy was reporting improved in 2019, though it remains bronze due to past under reporting. rated. We work with an external consultancy, University Maritime Advisory Services (UMAS) to calculate the emissions resulting from wet spot charters of vessels. We provide UMAS with details of spot-chartered oil tankers, including the start and end date of each charter period. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 53 Scope 1 and 2 emissions On an aggregate Group level our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, amounted to 1,035,690 tCO2e in 2019 (2018: The majority of the increase, 1.07 million tCO2e, is from shipping activities, although this is predominantly due to improved accuracy and reflects under reporting of 119% 472,161 tCO2e), an increase of 119 percent. The increase emissions from wet spot charters in 2018. increase in Scope 1 and reflects additional emissions from a larger controlled fleet Impala Terminals Scope 3 emissions rose 72 percent in Scope 2 emissions of vessels, increased mining activity and changes in our 2019. This was mainly due to more throughput of tonnage portfolio such as the Bahía Blanca refinery in Argentina in Colombia and Africa and the addition of emissions and Ipe Mine in Brazil, both of which were new additions associated with the shipment of containers. to the Scope 1 inventory this year. In 2019, we have included, for the first time, emissions By far the most significant contributing factor to the associated with commodities transported in containers increase in Scope 1 emissions was the fact that thirty nine and emissions associated with material moved by train in vessels joined our controlled fleet in 2019 which resulted Africa. There were 30,211 tonnes of emissions associated in a 195 percent rise in Scope 1 shipping emissions. with container transportation. This figure was derived Emissions from Nyrstar facilities will be included next through our membership of the Clean Cargo Working year. We expect this to significantly increase our Scope 2 Group. Trains in Africa accounted for 7,688 tonnes of and Scope 3 emissions. emissions in 2019. This was derived by multiplying the average diesel consumption for African trains by Scope 3 emissions recognised emission coefficients. The GHG Protocol lists 15 categories of Scope 3 Mining Group Scope 3 emissions increased by 16 percent emissions and we currently report on four of these. While with the now fully operational Mawson West mine some Scope 3 categories will never apply to us, it is likely generating more trucking activity, activity at MATSA that in the future we will extend our Scope 3 reporting. mine increasing and the scope addition of Ipe mine. For instance, we do not currently report on the emissions Oil and petroleum operations Scope 3 emissions rose from making the goods and services we purchase, from by 46 percent, mainly due to more trucking activity in waste we dispose of, or from employee commuting. North America. For metals and minerals, the move from Neither do we report on emissions caused by goods estimated Scope 3 figures to actual figures contributed to we supply being processed (for instance, copper) or a 54 percent increase. consumed (for instance, coal); both of these figures are significant. We therefore expect our Scope 3 emissions to rise in the coming years. For the same reason, year‑on‑year comparisons of total Scope 3 emissions have little value. Trafigura’s currently reported Scope 3 emissions, which account for 87 percent of our total emissions (2018: 93 percent), amounted to 6.96 million tCO2e in 2019 (2018: 5.89 million tCO2e). The 18 percent increase year‑on‑year was largely due to emissions associated with additional volumes traded and improved accuracy, but the figures are not directly comparable as portfolio changes also contributed. 54 Environment and Climate change Carbon intensity We need to understand the intensity of all our emissions The initial data indicates that, for wet freight, our Global Future Council on Mobility in order to manage them effectively. In 2019, we began new‑build vessels are more carbon efficient than Corporate Mobility to track GHG emissions in kilogrammes per tonne of chartered vessels. Transport Challenge commodity moved per kilometre or nautical mile. For inland logistics, the data confirms that barges and Platform on Shaping the Future of Mobility December 2019 This requires us to bring together three sets of data for trains are significantly more efficient than trucks. This each voyage or trip: the tonnage moved, the distance, and was the rationale for introducing fluvial operations on the emissions associated with each movement (usually the Magdalena River in Colombia and switching to rail derived from an accurate estimate of fuel use). We are in Africa. initially applying this to emissions from owned ships We are pleased that the World Economic Forums (WEF) and mining and plan to expand this approach across our Image source: Dan Calderwood (Instagram: @dancalders) selected our Colombia barging operation as one of www3.weforum.org/ activities in 2020. 18 case studies featured in their Corporate Mobility docs/WEF_Corporate_ Mobility_Transport_ Having a standard metric across all operations makes Transport Challenge to spotlight sustainable product Challenge_Report.pdf it possible to measure our performance internally distribution efforts. The compendium can be seen on the and against our peers, monitor GHG emissions across WEF website. the supply chain and, crucially, drive performance improvements. Calculating emissions intensity Tonnage t CO2e/t/Km Distance Fuel consumption Km CO2e Emissions intensity Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 55 Evolution of our GHG Inventory KPI Material emission sources Scope 2019 2018 2017 2016 Shipping & Chartering Desk Wet, owned/controlled vessel 1 Partial Partial Wet and Dry time charters 3 Partial Partial Wet spot charters 3 Partial Partial Dry spot charters 3 Wet and Dry vessels in port 1 and 3 Containers on container vessels 3 Mining Group Power generation 1 Purchased electricity 2 Trucking 3 Impala Terminals Power generation 1 Barges 1 Purchased electricity 2 Trucking 3 Rail 3 Oil & Petroleum Products Trading Trucking 3 Partial Partial Barges 3 Metals & Minerals Trading Trucking 3 Partial Partial Barges 3 Trafigura Corporate Offices 2 Flights 3 56 Environment and Climate change 87% Responsible chartering Trafigura is one of the largest charterers of vessels worldwide. We regularly review our policies to counter GHG emissions the threat of marine spills and lower our carbon footprint. generated through We actively participate in the Global Maritime Forum and chartered vessels New-build vessels in other initiatives that seek to reduce global shipping During 2019 we took delivery of 39 new-build tankers emissions. We advocate the introduction of a carbon – all built with the latest environmental technology, pricing mechanism on marine emissions in order to including sulphur scrubbers to meet the IMO’s 2020 ensure a level playing field to incentivise fuel efficiency, regulations on sulphur-oxide emissions. In August lower and no carbon emitting fuels. We support the and September, we concluded agreements with shipmandatory introduction of slow steaming, which will owners Frontline Ltd. and Scorpio Tankers Inc. to reduce the emissions intensity of the global fleet. We transfer long-term leasing obligations on 29 of these consider both initiatives would be significant steps vessels for equity in Scorpio and Frontline. towards achieving the IMO GHG reduction targets, but we also acknowledge the difficulties in introducing and The vessels we launched in 2019 are designed to enforcing global initiatives on marine shipping. meet or exceed the current Phase 1 EEDI efficiency expectations. We launched 35 vessels of which 27 (77 We are also taking our own independent action to reduce percent) exceeded Phase 1 EEDI expectations to meet emissions and improve emissions intensity reporting from Phase 2 EEDI efficiency expectations that come into the fleet we own and charter. Chartered vessels account effect on 1st January 2020. Indeed, 11 of those vessels for 87 percent of Trafigura’s GHG emissions. It follows met EEDI Phase 3 expectations which come into force that improving the fuel-efficiency of our chartered fleet in 1st January 2025. In 2019, we also commissioned 2 will have a significant impact on our overall emissions. We LNG tankers which will be launched during the Phase have begun a six-month trial with dry freight chartering 2 period. These tankers will be designed to meet EEDI using the RightShip A to G GHG rating system to exclude Phase 3. the least efficient F and G rated dry freight vessels from our fleet. This approach is anticipated to reduce emissions Emissions from these vessels are Scope 1 and from the dry chartered fleet by 11 percent, although this contributed to a 109 percent increase in Scope 1 and will be verified during the trial period. Scope 2 emissions. However, with more new wet freight vessels operational in our controlled fleet, our “We continue We continue to enhance the range of optimisation emissions intensity is lower and we are less reliant on to enhance techniques across the fleet that minimise bunker usage spotand time-chartered wet freight vessels. and improve operational efficiency. Vessels at anchor are the range of required to minimise bunker usage while maintaining safe optimisation operations. Recommended measures include switching techniques off vent fans, halting certain pumping operations and across the fleet addressing airflow and temperature regulation. that minimise We are reviewing our internal processes to determine how bunker usage we can encourage slow steaming and minimise occasions and improve when vessels are speeded up above their optimal speed. For vessel route optimisation, external counterparts at operational weather-related navigation consultancies plot the most efficiency.” bunker-efficient routes. Our ships share real-time voyage and vessel data. Their analysts plot a preferred route ahead of each journey that factors in predicted tides, currents and meteorological conditions, and recommend course adjustments once the vessel is underway. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 57 The Getting to Zero Coalition Global Logistics Emissions Council (GLEC) International shipping carries around 80 percent of The GLEC has led the international effort to bring global trade and accounts for 2-3 percent of global consistency to emissions reporting. It was formed by greenhouse gas emissions annually. Emissions are Smart Freight Centre (SFC) along with freight and logistics projected to grow between 50 and 250 percent by 2050 industry leaders. A grant from the Trafigura Foundation if no action is taken. supports the work of GLEC. In 2019, it published the In April 2018, the UN International Maritime Organization GLEC Framework version 2, which provides a consistent (IMO) adopted a global climate change strategy to lower methodology for calculating logistics emissions across GHG emissions for shipping. The IMO GHG Strategy transport modes and regions. aims to reduce the total annual GHG emissions from The GLEC Framework aims to standardise the reporting of international shipping by at least 50 percent by 2050 emissions across the logistics industry. The Framework is compared to 2008. consistent with the GHG Protocol that most companies September saw the launch of The Getting to Zero already follow. It is also included in the CDP’s reporting Coalition, a partnership between the Global Maritime guidance. Its accounting approach has been adopted by Forum, the Friends of Ocean Action, and the World many companies, including Trafigura, and it is emerging Economic Forum. Trafigura is a Coalition member, along as the industry standard. with leading public and private companies operating Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) within the maritime, energy, infrastructure and In line with our conviction that transparency and finance sectors. disclosure promote long-term sustainability, we submit The Coalition aims to help the IMO realise its strategy annual Climate Change reports to the CDP. This is our with an ambitious plan to accelerate maritime shipping’s second year of reporting which builds on last year’s decarbonisation. We are calling for the development annual report by extending disclosure on GHG emissions and deployment of commercially viable deep-sea and providing new data on carbon intensity. In 2018, we zero-emission vessels by 2030. We strongly support received a D rating and the 2019 rating was not available this initiative. at the time of going to press. Our commitment to CDP aligns the business with best practice reporting and Avoided emissions reflects our determination to monitor and manage our We have begun recording where we have taken action environmental performance more effectively. that results in emissions being avoided. In total, we identified more than 80,000tCO2e of avoided emissions. Our ongoing barging activity in Colombia accounts for The role of ERM 55,000tCO2e of this, while moving commodities by In its capacity as a specialist sustainability advisor rail instead of truck in Africa contributed 15,000tCO2e. to Trafigura, ERM supported the development of the www.cdp.net Optimisation of vessels and routes avoided more than Group GHG strategy and reviewed the completeness 10,000tCO2e. Optimisation of processes in our Impala and accuracy of the GHG data and the associated Terminals and mining operations contributed the balance. statements included in the 2019 Responsibility In the coming year, we will bring increased rigour and Report. The data review was undertaken as part of assurance to the determination of avoided emissions. the internal Trafigura data validation process and covered all Trafigura divisions and entities included in the scope of the Responsibility Report, with a focus on the material GHG emission sources from operations and logistics. This involved testing the data accuracy, checking that the appropriate conversion factors have been applied and advising on the emission sources to be included in the GHG inventory, as well as supporting Trafigura in its aim to adhere to the GHG Protocol, CDP and Global Logistics Emissions Council (GLEC) reporting standards. www.erm.com 58 Environment and Climate change External voice: Climate change mitigation in the logistics sector Professor Alan McKinnon Kuehne Logistics University, Hamburg. “Emissions from Climate change is receiving extensive news coverage and social wellbeing. There has traditionally been a the movement these days. Scarcely a day passes without news of a very close relationship, at a national level, between major new discovery by climate scientists, an extreme economic growth and the growth of freight tonne-kms. of freight could weather event, an environmental protest or a new Governments are therefore afraid that any attempts more than initiative to cut greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Some to curb freight traffic growth might have an adverse double by 2050 industries are regularly accused in the media of being effect on the economy. Research has shown, however, unless radical climate-unfriendly; the fossil fuel industry obviously, that it is possible to decouple both GDP from freight new policies are but also livestock farming, aviation, fast fashion, etc. tonne-kms and tonne-kms from carbon emissions in Logistics has so far avoided coming under this climate ways that are cost-effective, at least in the short to adopted.” scrutiny. This is surprising as it represents around 10‑11 medium term. So it would be wrong to take the current percent of global CO2 emissions, around 90 percent and forecast amounts of freight traffic, and the related of which come from freight transport. According to emissions, as a given and seek to exempt logistical the International Transport Forum/OECD, global CO2 activities from climate change mitigation efforts. In emissions from the movement of freight could more terms of decarbonisation, logistics as a sector must than double by 2050 unless radical new policies and ‘pull its weight’. practices are adopted. So the decarbonisation of This has already been recognised by, for example, the logistics really merits a bit more attention. International Maritime Organization. In April 2018, There may be several reasons for logistical activities this United Nations body committed to cutting CO2 not featuring more prominently in climate change emissions from international shipping by 50 percent discussions. In the first place, logistics, by which I mean by 2050 against a 2008 baseline. It is estimated that the movement, storage and handling of materials, is this will require a daunting 70 percent reduction in highly diffuse and often not seen as an industry in its the carbon intensity of shipping by then. This presents own right. For the vast majority of companies, though a formidable challenge for a sector with assets that clearly not Trafigura, logistics is an ancillary activity that are typically replaced on a 25-30 year cycle, with represents a relatively small share of their total carbon an addiction to cheap bunker fuel and with footprint. Their natural inclination is to concentrate limited scope for a major switch to zero decarbonisation efforts on the core activities from carbon energy sources. Nevertheless, which most of their GHG emissions emanate. a recent review of 150 maritime A second reason may be that logistics emissions are decarbonisation studies offers perceived as being relatively difficult and expensive to grounds for hope. It suggests that mitigate. Logistics is, after all, very heavily dependent CO2 emissions from ships could on fossil fuels, particularly liquid fuels that will be be reduced by 39 percent by hard to replace with low-carbon electricity and 2030 and 73 percent by 2050 sustainable biofuels. Logistics facilities like warehouses, relative to business-as-usual ports and freight terminals drawing power from emission levels in those years. national electricity grids indirectly benefit from the The gradual phasing out of fossil 1 Bouman, E. A., decarbonisation of these grids and can supplement this fuel traffic, which according to UNCTAD Lindstad, E., Rialland, with ‘micro-generated’ zero-carbon electricity from represented just over 40 percent of all A. I., & Strømman, A. H. (2017). State-ofon-site wind turbines and solar panels. But collectively maritime trade in 2017, will the-art technologies, these fixed assets account for only around 10 percent also help to bring down measures, and of logistics’ carbon footprint. The real challenge lies in these emissions. potential for reducing GHG emissions from decarbonising the movement of freight, particularly by shipping – A review. sea, air and long distance road haulage. Transportation Research Part D: Another possible reason for logistics not yet coming Transport and under the climate change spotlight is the fundamental Environment, 52 (Part A), 408–421. contribution that it makes to economic development Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 59 The prospects of achieving low, or even zero, carbon and supply chain managers will also need to alter their “Worldwide, rail freight movement by road and rail over the next few views on the subject. First, they need a greater sense already has an decades look much more promising. In some countries, of urgency. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate average carbon the electrification of local delivery operations is already Change in its highly influential report of October 2018 well underway and taking advantage of the diminishing emphasised that global warming must be kept within a intensity many carbon content of grid electricity. It used to be thought 1.5°C temperature rise between 1850 and 2100 and that times lower than that battery power would be confined to small trucks this will entail a 50 percent reduction in CO2 emissions that of trucking.” and vans with a limited range and stop/start duty cycles. by 2030. Failure to achieve deep CO2 reductions by then Now the powering of heavy, long haul trucks with lowwill result in us exceeding the ‘carbon budget’ for 1.5°C carbon electricity is considered a viable proposition. and having to invest heavily in expensive and, in some This is partly because of quantum improvements in cases, risky ‘negative emission’ schemes to remove battery technology but also because the electrification much of the CO2 already in the atmosphere. So great of highways and development of a new generation of is the risk of crossing climatic tipping points that the trolley trucks has been shown to be a relatively costcurrent generation of managers cannot leave tough effective option. Prototype fuel-cell trucks are also decarbonisation decisions to the next. being trialled using electrolysed hydrogen as a lowCorporate views also need to change on targets, carbon energy carrier. All three of these technologies economics and priorities. Almost all the carbon will contribute to the decarbonisation of long-haul reduction targets currently being declared for logistics trucking though it is unclear in what proportions. are expressed in terms of carbon intensity – i.e. emissions The railways are by far the most electrified freight relative to the level of activity. This is understandable transport mode with around half of all rail freight as businesses are naturally reluctant to set targets moved by electrically-hauled trains. This permits the that might constrain their future growth. However, direct transmission of low-carbon electricity into much governments – and the planet – require absolute of the rail network. The proportion of the network that reductions, preferably leading to net zero emissions is electrified has been steadily rising, except in North by 2050. This will require a fundamental change in the and South America where it is tiny and stable. In the way targets are defined and delivered. Carbon intensity US, locomotives powered by batteries and hydrogen targets will need to be aligned with efforts to keep total fuel-cells are being trialled and may offer an alternative emissions within particular limits by specified dates, route to rail freight decarbonisation. something that the Science Based Targets initiative Worldwide, rail already has an average carbon intensity (SBTi) is currently promoting. On economics, it is now “Climate change many times lower than that of trucking, which largely widely accepted that many carbon-reducing measures mitigation (must explains the strong desire of government policy-makers also save money and so fall into the virtuous category of become) one of to shift as much freight as possible from road to rail. ‘low-hanging fruit’. Regrettably, harvesting all this fruit the overriding Analysis of the Nationally Determined Contribution will not solve the problem. Keeping logistics-related emissions within 1.5°C, or even 2.0°C carbon budgets goals in the (NDC) statements submitted by signatories to the 2015 Paris Climate Accord reveals that modal shift was in the medium term and driving them down to net-zero coming decades.” by far the most frequently mentioned decarbonisation by 2050 will require economic trade-offs and sacrifices. initiative for freight transport. In most countries, This in turn will demand a re-ordering of corporate however, rail has actually been losing market share priorities to make climate change mitigation one of the www.trafigura. to road, despite government campaigns promoting a overriding goals of businesses in the coming decades. com/responsibility/ reversal of this trend. Historical experience suggests external-voices that using freight modal shift as a decarbonisation policy tool is going to prove much harder than many politicians think. It is not only policy-makers that will have to change their mindsets on freight decarbonisation. Many logistics 60 Our people Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 61 Our people Long-term business success is built on a highly skilled and productive workforce. We invest in attracting, developing and retaining the best people. 2019 2020 Performance Targets To build the technical capabilities and To build and implement 30 in-house modules, interpersonal skills of our staff. including e-learnings, that develop the core technical and interpersonal skills of our employees. To develop people management and leadership skills within the organisation. To continue the roll-out of the existing people management and leadership modules To improve the efficiency and productivity of and coaching across the business. our workforce through continuous improvement of processes, systems and work organisation. To improve the efficiency and productivity of our workforce through continuous improvement of To provide career development opportunities for processes, systems and work organisation. employees who have demonstrated they are ready and able to take on increased responsibilities. To provide career development opportunities for employees who have demonstrated they are ready To achieve a 50:50 gender split on all and able to take on increased responsibilities. interviewees for the graduate programme. To achieve a 50:50 gender split on all To roll-out new workshops focusing on resilience interviewees for the graduate programme. to further develop our managers’ skills. To roll-out training to further develop employee’s skills in accountability, communicating effectively, planning and aligning, and customer focus. Not achieved Improving Achieved 62 Our people Forging a responsibility culture Our meritocratic and collaborative work environment promotes an atmosphere of integrity, ethical conduct, equal opportunity and mutual respect. Our approach Developing our culture We have a high-performance culture where people are Trafigura’s non-hierarchical organisation emphasises the encouraged to flourish and maximise their potential. importance of teamwork. We encourage all employees to We set high standards and place a premium on respect, take responsibility for their decisions and consult widely THE WAY WE WORK diversity and communication. We require all our with their colleagues. This promotes joined-up thinking employees to act as team players. While individual success and actions that are in the best interests of the company is welcome and rewarded, value stems from contribution as a whole rather than any individual or group. We aim to the long-term success of the entire Group. to promote a culture where all colleagues consider the Trafigura will succeed in the long term by trading wider consequences of their actions and are prepared commodities that meet the world’s evolving needs to question practices that may expose the business to Read more about ‘The reliably, efficiently and responsibly, while considering the social, environmental or commercial risk. Way We Work’: impacts of its activities on local communities, national Our employee handbook entitled ‘The Way We Work’ https://www.trafigura. economies and the environment. articulates the defining characteristics of Trafigura’s com/brochure/theculture and our expectations of all employees. It is way-we-work Responsibility is, for us, an important competitive differentiator. We have set ourselves the strategic provided to all members of staff and is available in ambition of becoming a corporate responsibility leader English, Spanish and Chinese. within the commodities trading sector. As one of the world’s largest global commodity traders, it is essential that our stakeholders and all those who work with us have confidence that our employees can always be relied on to conduct themselves responsibly and act with integrity. Our people are at the heart of our business. We have structured our organisation to devolve decisionmaking as much as possible. We believe our employees are more effective when they are given significant autonomy and are expected to take ownership of their decisions. We retain control centrally and ensure global accountability through robust systems, processes and www.trafigura.com/ operating principles. An accompanying video, aimed at new starters, can be way-we-work found online. In this, senior managers recall their own Our people strategy aims to motivate staff, promote early experiences at the company and offer insights into agility and allow close-knit teams to operate across how Trafigura people can be most effective. There is diverse businesses with differing needs and in varying strong emphasis throughout on teamwork within a nonsocio-economic conditions. Trafigura’s Human Resources hierarchical organisation. (HR) team oversees our people strategy. The Global Head of HR reports to Trafigura’s Chief Operating Officer All new starters receive the guide and video, together with CODE OF who sits on Trafigura’s Management Committee and Trafigura’s Code of Conduct as part of their induction. BUSINESS CONDUCT Board of Directors. They are also required to take the ‘Responsible Trading’ training course. ‘The Way We Work’ codifies our values and describes the behaviours we expect of our employees. www.trafigura.com/ brochure/trafiguracode-of-businessconduct Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 63 Supporting our people The Trafigura Group creates and manages world-class operations around the globe. Everywhere we operate, we recruit and invest in local employees. Trafigura’s average headcount increased in 2019 following the acquisition of the Bahía Blanca Refinery and other Pampa Energía downstream assets in Argentina in 2018. Responsible Trading e-learning Our (average of) 6,469 employees in 2019 (2018: 5,591) In July 2019, we launched Responsible Trading, an perform a diverse range of tasks across the Group*. Fifty e-learning tool that aims to delineate and define why five percent are office-based and 45 percent operate responsibility is a central concern for all employees. in the field – working in terminals, in transportation and The course is introduced by an address from CEO in mines. Further information of our employees can be Jeremy Weir, highlighting the importance of the found on page 66. topic. It goes on to emphasise the Group’s strategic Keeping everyone safe and healthy is a priority. Trafigura commitment to responsible trading, demonstrates engages both with individual employees and workforce why responsibility is a commercial differentiator and representatives on health and safety. shows how it underpins our commercial relationships We oppose discrimination of any kind. Management with banks, trading counterparts and stakeholders. prioritises treating all employees fairly and with dignity The course also articulates what responsible trading and respect. means in practice and how it extends across the supply chain. We engage with employees and contractors, directly and through their trade unions and other representatives, on To complete the course successfully, participants issues that may affect them. Where there are employee must score 100 percent in a summary review testing * Our 2019 employee grievances – whether individual or collective – we aim to data does not include their understanding of the concepts raised. Seventy address them promptly and thoroughly. Nyrstar employee three percent of the target audience, nearly 2,600 numbers. All Nyrstar people, had successfully completed the course by the HSEC data will be end of September 2019. Our employees by region reported in our 2020 Responsibility Report. Encouraging teamwork Trafigura has experienced rapid growth in dynamic markets. Maintaining that growth and sharpening our competitive edge depends on maintaining a steady flow of information between teams. 6,469 We achieve this by focusing on teamwork. Our teams need to coordinate their efforts to perform consistently across Employees a complex supply chain. This calls for close international and multi-disciplinary collaboration. Embedding this across the organisation requires continual attention. We stress open channels of communication, emphasise career progression within the Group and invest consistently in learning and development programmes to broaden and Africa 737 North America 291 deepen our skills. Europe 1,347 Asia & Australia 1,090 LATAM 2,966 Middle East 37 64 Our people “We enter all Extended responsibilities The company saw this as an opportunity to engage negotiations In some of the communities where we operate, there in detailed conversations with the union, set out its are very few other major employers, sometimes none overall approach, address grievances and make the in a spirit of at all. In these places we have a particular responsibility. case for not taking industrial action. The parties found cooperation, common ground. They agreed to continue to collaborate Our presence is helping to sustain the local economy as focusing on well as support employees and their families. to promote better relations, strengthen collective arriving at In addition to those we employ directly, we work onbargaining and reduce the likelihood of future conflicts. affordable, and off-site with numerous contractors and suppliers. In September, the FNTMMSP announced an indefinite sustainable We encourage all our commercial counterparts to uphold strike and mining industry workers from 102 unions agreements terms of employment conditions. across the country halted work and marched to protest about their working conditions. The union representatives that promote Collective bargaining at the Catalina Huanca chose not to take industrial action workforce Where our people have union representation, we aim and the mine continued to operate. stability.” to resolve concerns about working conditions with As part of our daily business, we regularly renegotiate their representatives by maintaining open channels of collective agreements with union representatives. communication. We enter all such negotiations in a spirit of cooperation, For instance, in 2019 we held a two-day workshop focusing on arriving at affordable, sustainable agreements with union representatives in the city of Huamanga in that promote workforce stability. 1,774 Peru. Fifteen union representatives of employees at the Catalina Huanca mine joined 15 company representatives to discuss how they could build better relationships and Employees covered by help promote stability at the mine. collective bargaining The mineworkers’ union there is affiliated with the agreements globally National Federation of Miners, Metal and Steel Workers (2018: 1,588) of Peru (FNTMMSP). This workshop came in the context of a call by the FNTMMSP for a national strike by all Peruvian miners in pursuit of better working conditions, increased salaries and improved employment contracts. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 65 1,807 Attracting talent We aim to attract the most talented people, irrespective of age, gender, sexual orientation or ethnicity. Experience, Although we sometimes make use of external recruitment firms, we source most candidates directly. We advertise positions online and in newspapers and industry Employees joined skills and attitude are our primary criteria. publications. We received over 100,000 job applications the Trafigura Group in 2019, a 10 percent increase on the previous year, and in 2019 (2018: 2,150) Where the right people are available, we prefer to recruit hired 1,807 new employees (2018: 2,150). locally so that our workforce reflects the community in which we operate. Cultural fit is another important We have an increasingly active social media presence factor. We look for candidates who will respond well in where we advertise individual job positions and our Trafigura’s dynamic environment. regular recruitment drives. We occasionally recruit “Our people come Our people come from across the globe and many externally for specialist senior positions, but more from across the walks of life. This breadth of experience enriches and often, we promote from within. Many of our top globe and many managers have worked their way up through the ranks. informs our approach. People with diverse backgrounds In the past financial year, 330 employees changed roles walks of life.” contribute differing perspectives. within the Group. We are committed to gender equality and seek to Our International Trader Opportunity initiative aims encourage more women to take on senior roles within to recruit experienced external traders and identify the Group. However, addressing gender disparity is promising internal candidates for trading desk roles. Any a challenge in our industry where women have been employee, with the support of their manager and a senior significantly under-represented for many years. We trader, can apply. need to help develop skills and experience for those in senior roles and, inevitably, this takes time. Trafigura will Our Future Talent programmes provide a pathway into continue to develop and promote able female managers the industry. The main pathway for new talent is our twoand seek to attract female lateral hire applications. year graduate programme. This is built around structured placements in different parts of the business. In 2019, we received over 15,000 applications for the programme. We selected 35 people, four of whom were graduates from our apprentice programme. In addition, five recruits joined the Impala Terminals Graduate Programme. We also recruit recent school leavers who have chosen not to pursue degree level education through the Global Commodity Trading Apprenticeship. This one-year programme culminates in a place on our graduate programme for successful participants. Six people were accepted on to the apprenticeship programme in 2019 (2018: 6). View our video with Wendy Moss, Head of Attracting female applicants is an important step towards Strategic Management achieving a more equitable gender balance at all levels and Development for our Oil Division. within the Group. We have now instituted a policy that www.trafigura.com/ at least 50 percent of first-round interviewees for our careers/ International Graduate Programme should be female. We received many excellent applications in 2019, and focused on selecting the most qualified and motivated. 35 6 Graduates recruited to People recruited to our our Future Talent Global Apprenticeship programme in 2019 programme in 2019 (2018: 32) (2018: 6) 66 Our people “Mentoring Managing our people Demographics play a part in this. Younger employees and on-the-job The breadth of the career opportunities that we are able typically change their employer more frequently. Around to offer as a global company has encouraged many high23 percent of our staff are under 30 years of age. training have quality people to make a long-term commitment to the We have taken steps to reduce attrition. Our interview always been Group. process puts more emphasis on cultural fit; we get early a core part of feedback from new recruits; we signal internal career Those working at Trafigura can benefit from tremendous Trafigura’s open opportunities, but they also face high expectations. opportunities more clearly; and we invest in developing and collaborative Our dynamic culture does not suit everyone. people management skills in team leaders. culture.” In 2019, 1,026 employees left the Trafigura Group (2018: 961). Of this figure, 62 percent of staff were whitecollar workers, while 38 percent were blue-collar workers. This level of attrition (circa. 16 percent of the average headcount excluding fixed-term contracts ending) is 90 broadly in line with expectations. Employees relocated internationally (2018: 102) People summary report Oil & Petroleum Metals & Shipping & Trafigura Impala Mining Group (aggregate) Products Trading Minerals Trading Chartering Desk Corporate Terminals Group KPI 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Average no. of full time employees 6,469 5,591 1,330 886 702 596 108 95 1,005 909 1,805 1,755 1,519 1,115 Male (%) 79 79 78 78 65 60 75 78 60 61 87 87 90 89 Female (%) 21 21 22 22 35 40 25 22 40 39 13 13 10 11 Under 30 years (%) 23 26 26 34 38 38 31 34 28 26 25 28 7 10 30 – 50 years (%) 67 63 63 55 59 59 67 64 64 65 65 61 76 72 Over 50 years (%) 10 11 11 11 3 3 2 2 8 9 10 11 17 18 White collar (%) 55 58 62 80 98 100 100 100 99 98 29 29 28 31 Blue collar (%) 45 42 38 20 2 0 0 0 1 2 71 71 72 69 Full time (%) 100 99 100 100 100 100 100 100 98 98 100 99 100 100 Part time (%) 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 2 0 1 0 0 Permanent contract (%) 91 91 98 91 90 81 100 100 96 95 85 87 90 88 Temporary contract (%) 9 9 2 9 10 19 0 0 4 5 15 13 10 12 Covered by collective bargaining agreements 1,774 1,588 505 138 0 0 0 0 0 0 623 975 646 476 Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 67 Managing skills We use a variety of techniques to ensure that we have the right people in the right places and that they possess the Developing leadership skills Trafigura can only flourish by continuously improving productivity and efficiency. We are operating in 330 requisite skills to be effective in their roles. increasingly competitive markets. We have to be agile. Employees changed To do that, we need to be able to collaborate seamlessly roles within the Group We undertake competency reviews every two years in in 2019 our trading support departments to measure skills gaps across borders and disciplines. Teamwork is critical. (2018: 484) and put corresponding action plans in place. Office-based Team management is a core leadership skill, which our inemployees also participate in a biannual performance house training develops. The ‘Managing High-Performing assessment with their managers. Teams’ programme introduces key principles then puts We share best practice internationally and regularly them into practice. relocate employees and their dependents to broaden An initial workshop introduces four key aspects for team and deepen their skills. We supported 90 (2018: 102) managers to consider: building effective relationships, international relocations in 2019. team processes, work organisation and team direction. “Trafigura’s Mentoring and on-the-job training have always been a This is followed up with a practical, two-hour case study business interests core part of Trafigura’s open and collaborative culture. session where the managers are asked to apply these four elements to turn around an underperforming business. continue to grow. Line managers devote significant time and energy to developing teams with strong specialist skills. As our business grows, more of our managers are We want our being promoted at an early age. They are highly skilled people to grow We have run a series of ‘Audience With…’ presentations over several years to share knowledge on different parts and motivated, but sometimes lack life experience. Our with us.” of the business. At these well-attended sessions, senior Global Training and Development Manager coaches colleagues discuss how their departments operate and up-and-coming managers Group-wide in workshops respond to questions on key topics. These events are and on a one-to-one basis to help develop their team open to all employees on a first-come first-served basis. leadership and communication skills. In 2019, 1,564 employees attended 60 sessions in our hub offices (2018:1,266 at 43). 68 Our people Case study: The company designed in-house a classroom training on people management and effective communications. External training facilitators from Kinshasa were engaged Improving working practices at to deliver the training material. It sought to change the working culture and provide guidance for managers Mawson West, DRC on leadership skills and strategies. Training courses were run for supervisors in all four departments to help them articulate their challenges and identify how they could lead their teams more effectively. These focused particularly on the importance of raising morale, The challenge developing skills and winning the support of team The Mawson West copper mine in Kapulo in the DRC, members. which Galena acquired in 2016, recommenced operations The training programme has raised managers’ awareness in April 2018 following an extended period of care and of their responsibilities in promoting a positive working maintenance. When the mine became operational again, environment. There has been a cultural shift towards more tensions arose in the workforce, which compromised collaborative working with consequent improvements safety and led to delays in production. in productivity and health and safety with 60 percent Our approach reduction in the lost-time incident rate from that of the The Mawson West mine is very remote, situated north of previous year. Lake Mweru over 500km from Lubumbashi. It employs Daily or weekly team meetings now take place in all 410 full-time employees and another 350 contractors. four departments to explain procedures, provide health Three-quarters of them are based locally and had worked and safety briefings and take on board any feedback and there in the past when it was operated by its previous suggestions on how operations could be improved. owners. After the restart of operations, it was soon Employees now feel more committed and engaged in evident that legacy working practices were impeding the business. There is less absenteeism and punctuality productivity, compromising safety and damaging morale. is much improved. They are participating more actively On further investigation, it was apparent that site and are increasingly willing to flag operational issues. supervisors and workers communications were not fluent The resulting better oversight has reduced avoidable on the ground. delays and helped stabilise production. The obvious lack of communication between the two https://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/case-studies groups was having tangible effects in each of Mawson West’s four main departments. For example, in the maintenance department, which is responsible for managing plant equipment, daily production targets were being missed. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 69 47,460 Learning and development The quality and range of formal training opportunities at Trafigura is continually improving. Over 47,460 learning There were introductory workshops and soft skills sessions for managers and office staff at the Buenos Aires regional head office. At the Bahía Blanca refinery, all employees Learning and and development-related activities were completed were taken through the Corporate Overview to help development-related across the Group in 2019, including e-learnings, contextualise their position within the global Group. activities completed structured on-the-job training, classroom training and Other Trafigura courses, such as Communicating across the Group skills evaluations. Effectively, Being Resilient and Ensuring Accountability, (2018: 26,736) Our online Learning and Development system is have helped inform employees about the responsible, enhancing the learning experience. Training activity performance-led processes and principles that distinguish and performance are now managed on the same online Trafigura. These are delivered alongside programmes for system. Employees and their managers can track progress managers, such as Leading for Results, that are helping and direct their own learning needs. to embed our flexible and highly collaborative working culture. Our library of over 200 in-house e-training modules is available online. It includes a 12-module trade lifecycle Retaining talent e-learning pack, which presents an A-Z review of The scope and scale of Trafigura’s business interests commodity trading processes, with a further 30+ under continue to grow. We want our people to grow with us. development. In all, over 1,400 e-training modules are The Group aims to drive efficiency and productivity. available globally. Our track record of strong performance and growth Workshops and live training sessions are held at all our enables us to reward employees competitively. Salaries hub offices. The Trading for Non-Traders programme and conditions compare well with industry benchmarks. helps colleagues in trading support roles understand Ownership is shared across the management team. Trafigura’s core activity. We also hold responsibility Over 700 employees from around the organisation own a workshops globally. These are building awareness of stake in the business. It means that key decision-makers social and environmental risk across the Group. are incentivised to act in the Group’s long-term best Our global learning and development initiatives are interests. complemented by specific programmes that meet local The career development prospects implicit in our operational needs. meritocratic, empowering style of working appeal Trafigura Argentina was a particular focus in 2019. to people with entrepreneurial flair, who welcome After the acquisition of the downstream oil assets responsibility – these are the kind of people we wish to of Pampa Energia in 2018, there followed an intense attract and retain. restructuring period. In 2019, attention turned to Our integrated approach to people management integrating these assets into Trafigura Argentina. A key focuses on hiring the right people, developing element in this process has been aligning employees at their capabilities, incentivising performance, the Bahía Blanca refinery, the Campana terminal and 700+ providing constructive feedback and other business units with Trafigura’s way of working. prioritising job opportunities for qualified, A learning and development programme was internal candidates. designed for the region that included multiple Company shareholders This has helped us maintain a healthy training activities for the administrative, operational talent pipeline in markets that often and management personnel at the different have a shortage of suitably skilled locations and business units. people. Our approach will remain consistent in 2020. 70 Trafigura Foundation Trafigura Foundation We provide long-term funding and expertise to improve the socio-economic conditions of vulnerable communities around the world, driving positive and lasting transformational change for those who need it the most. Our areas of action The Foundation supports programmes in the fields of Fair and Sustainable Employment and Clean and Safe Supply Chains. Fostering Fair and Sustainable Employment We promote the creation of quality jobs and incomegenerating opportunities for the most marginalised Promoting Clean and Safe Supply Chains The Foundation aims to support projects that mitigate the social and environmental issues related to the sourcing $8.5m groups, with the ultimate aim of helping them live worthy, of commodities, transportation and waste disposal. Disbursed in autonomous lives. We consider ‘fair and sustainable’ By ‘clean and safe’ we understand those activities that philanthropic actions those job opportunities that are underpinned by decent reduce emissions and carbon footprint of supply chains; wages, safe working conditions, and are aligned with tackle the social and health issues affecting communities international ethical principles of employment. impacted by transport and industrial infrastructure, such as workers and communities living along main logistics Meet some of our collaborators roads and hubs. Perspektiva: In the Russian Federation, the Trafigura Foundation is supporting Perspektiva’s unique disability Meet some of our collaborators employment programme. Its success is determined by International Seafarers’ Welfare and Assistance the NGO’s ability to work with the two sides of the job market. On one hand, Perspektiva helps job seekers with Network (ISWAN): ISWAN works to promote and support the welfare of seafarers all over the world. 26 disabilities get the skills and confidence to find a job; on Its comprehensive set of services includes a 24-hour Countries of the other hand, it works with the business community to multilingual helpline, dedicated support to handle operation challenge negative stereotypes and improve employment issues such as health and mental wellbeing, response opportunities for people with disabilities. Over the period to armed robbery, ship detention and the organisation April to September 2019, 694 job seekers with disabilities of awareness-raising campaigns in the maritime sector. benefited from Perspektiva’s training and 129 secured The support is also extended to seafarers’ families. The part-time or full-time job positions. Trafigura Foundation is backing ISWAN’s operation Photo courtesy of LEM https://www.trafigurafoundation.org/programmes/perspektivaacross India, the Philippines and West Africa. Between Peter Cornelissen russian-federation/ 2018 and 2019, ISWAN has helped over 8,000 seafarers. for ISWAN. https://www.trafigurafoundation.org/programmes/iswan-worldwide/ Youth Empowerment Project (YEP): YEP is a community-based organisation in New Orleans International Council on Clean Transportation (ICCT): (USA) providing support for vulnerable youth through The ultimate objective of ICCT’s project is to reduce education, training and mentorships. YEP’s collaboration fuel consumption and emissions from the logistics with the Trafigura Foundation led to the creation of sector in Latin America through better truck ecothe Trafigura Work and Learn Center (W&L) in 2013, driving practices. The Trafigura Foundation is an employment readiness training programme aimed supporting ICCT’s research and implementation at 16 to 24 year-olds. The Greater New Orleans region plans across five countries. In 2019, ICCT designed continues to struggle with extremely high rates of a complete eco-driving curriculum adapted to youth unemployment which correlates to high crime the Latin American context and rates. YEP’s W&L programme focuses on reducing youth reached an agreement with the disconnection by providing young people with hard and governments of Argentina, Chile, soft skills that they gain through work experience in one Costa Rica, Mexico and Peru to of YEP’s businesses. In the first semester of 2019, 73 implement it at national level. youths participated in YEP’s programme and 24 are now https://www.trafigurafoundation.org/ in externships or in employment. programmes/the-international-councilhttps://www.trafigurafoundation.org/programmes/yep-usa/ on-clean-transportation-latin-america/ Trafigura Responsibility Report 2019 71 What the Trafigura Foundation does Fair and sustainable employment Clean and safe supply chains 36 Programmes Building people’s Supporting social enterprises Mitigate the environmental Tackle the social and employability and in becoming levers of issues caused by health problems affecting strengthening access to development and creating transportation and populations impacted by sustainable and dignified jobs jobs for surrounding infrastructure at land and logistics and supply chains communities at sea The Trafigura Foundation partners with experienced organisations to offer • Vocational, management • Incubation and acceleration • Reduce emissions caused by • Improve the health and and entrepreneurship services the transport sector social conditions of miners, training • Seed funding and financial • Improve industrial waste truck drivers, seafarers • Job placement services support management • Promote road safety in • Network and awareness• Technical assistance critical countries building with prospective • Access to markets and • Eradicate child labour in employers networks artisanal mining • Material capital • Promote last-mile delivery and access to basic services (health, education, access to markets) for remote populations 34 Target beneficiaries Target beneficiaries collaborators Disenfranchised youth, smallholder farmers, micro-entrepreneurs, People working all along the supply chains, communities living people living with disabilities, women in vulnerable situations, along the main logistics roads and hubs, hard-to-reach groups facing discrimination, exclusion and poverty. communities lacking access to basic services. Encouraging staff engagement The Foundation supports employee fundraising efforts As a corporate foundation, an essential part of our by matching the amount collected for each initiative and mission is to promote philanthropy as a corporate by providing grants to ‘Charities of the Year’ elected by value and practice among Trafigura employees around local offices. the world. The Foundation dedicates time In 2019, the Foundation disbursed circa USD900,000 to and resources to help local staff gathered match staff donations and support organisations selected All Trafigura Foundation figures updated in in ‘Charity Committees’ organise by Trafigura employees. November 2019. philanthropic initiatives and give back www.trafigurafoundation.org/ to the communities among which they live and work. Printed by Pureprint on Vision Superior which is FSC certified. Pureprint is certified to ISO 14001 environmental management system, is registered to EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme, is a Carbon Neutral Company and has been awarded the Queen’s Award for Enterprise: Sustainable Development. Designed and produced by Group Charlescannon SARL Geneva, Switzerland Photography by Group Charlescannon, Knightstorm Productions, Gareth Bentley, Captured Images, WMP, Rory Lindsay, Foto-Io Istanbul, Persi, Visual Inc ISWAN, Youth Empowerment Project Trafigura Group Pte. Ltd. 10 Collyer Quay #29-00 Ocean Financial Centre Singapore 049315 Email: enquiries@trafigura.com www.trafigura.com TJ/0310.1e
