Index Sustainability Report 2019 1 Index Sustainability Report 2019 2 CONTENTS Message from the CEO p.3 Our Achievements The ELIX Summary 2019 Polymers team p.5 p.59 ELIX Polymers, Our commitment a key player in the to safety and the environment transformation of the p.68 thermoplastics industry p.9 Responsible A competitive company economic with values management p.25 p.95 Our Commitment to About the report p.100 Sustainable Development Goals p.33 Innovation and circular Index of GRI standards economy, we are p.103 making a difference p.46 Message from the CEO Sustainability Report 2019 3 Message from the CEO For the fourth consecutive year, we present the ELIX Polymers sustainability report, which provides a balanced reflection of the company’s performance, explains the most relevant aspects that affect the business and its progression, and presents strategic plans for upcoming years. 2019 marked the start of a new phase of consolidation and growth for ELIX Polymers as a member of Sinochem Group, facing the challenge of expanding our global presence as benchmark suppliers of ABS solutions. To take on this challenge, we defined a new strategic plan to support our regional expansion into new markets, offering our customers a value proposal based on services and products adapted to their needs. This strategic plan incorporates the challenges we will be facing in society as well as in the industry in upcoming years: sustainability, digitalisation and talent development, and the skills needed by the people who form part of our teams to respond to these challenges. During this year, thanks to the trust of all our stakeholders and the involvement of the people who form part of ELIX’s team, we managed to take the first steps in our new direction, increasing our presence in the markets of NAFTA and APAC, defining our digitalisation plan for the upcoming years and integrating sustainability into the company’s mission. Our commitment to sustainability is documented in this report, but the development and application of this commitment have been progressive, paralleling our growth. We know that sustainability requires a longterm perspective and commitment that translate into concrete actions in order to guarantee its progress and respond to changing needs. With the presentation of this report, I would like to take the opportunity to offer a preview of the plans and principles around which the ELIX Polymers sustainability strategy is being developed, with a projection up until 2030: to boost our transition towards a circular economy, reduce our ecological footprint, adopt ethical values and commit to the development of our human capital. During the last months of the year, we worked on defining our sustainability strategy, based on Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), in addition to an action plan for the period of 2020-2025 which will allow us to improve the overall sustainability of the company. We also designed the layout of our circular economy strategy, in which we established a policy and action plan for upcoming years. It is only through collaboration among the different participants of the value chain that the transition to a circular economy model can be accelerated, converting waste into new raw materials and responding to the urgency to reduce the environmental impact of plastics in our society. These programmes will impel ELIX’s ambitious sustainability goals. To achieve this, we will involve our stakeholders in our challenges and we will establish partnerships as part of our sustainability programmes centred on: developing a portfolio with more sustainable solutions, stimulating responsible innovation, taking action on climate change (GHG reduction), responsible supply chain and operations, ethics, and people’s personal and professional growth. Message from the CEO Sustainability Report 2019 4 In this context, for yet another year, we renewed our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. Proof of that is this report, which demonstrates our aim to consolidate, develop and implement good practises which are in alignment with our business and which help us to progress in our commitment to sustainability. In 2019 we continued to make advances in reducing our environmental impact, investing in projects that allowed us to reach a reduction of our greenhouse gases (GHG) by almost 10%. As part of our commitment to circular economy, ELIX participates in initiatives such as Styrenics Circular Solutions or the project PLAST2bCLEANED for ABS recycling. For us, responsible innovation is related to the way we define new solutions with sustainability criteria. Therefore, we continue promoting the use of Value Sensitive Design (VSD) and in 2019 we evaluated five new projects with this method. With the slogan “People make ELIX”, we want to highlight the importance of our team as a key factor in the success of our business. Along these lines, in 2019 we launched the programme “Talent management and performance assessment”, supporting the internal promotion of our employees and talent recruitment. Another key aspect of our team management at ELIX is health and safety. We continued with our Organization-Based Safety Plan (Plan E) initiated in 2017, and we defined our Healthy Company strategy, focused on physical, social and emotional well-being. We continue to support joint collaborations with our suppliers, having them participate in our sustainability strategy, and we continue to support the development of the local environment we operate in; 62% of our overall expenditure for suppliers is local. Our motivation to continuously improve year after year, has earned us the Best Polymer Producers Award for Europe 2019 prize in the category of Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene (ABS) for the second consecutive year, achieving a final score of excellence. In addition, we renewed our Gold level Ecovadis certificate, positioning ourselves among 2% of the highest rated companies and reaffirming our commitment to sustainable growth. Our plans are long-term and our ambition is to continue firm-footed on our path towards excellence, advancing and pursuing our commitment to sustainability, with the aim of creating value from the present into the future. We want to continue sharing this commitment with our customers, suppliers and our team, as well as all the stakeholders we interact with. We thank them all for their trust in us. David Castañeda, CEO Our Achievements Summary 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 5 Our Achievements Summary 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 6 OUR COMPANY + 4% +40 NET SALES (CAGR 2016-2019) * COUNTRIES * Calculated according to CAGR (Compound Annual Growth Rate). OUR TAILOR-MADE SOLUTIONS AT A GLANCE + 300 0,48 % CUSTOMERS CONTINUOUS INVESTMENT IN R+D+I + 40 GRADES 24,4 % + 300 (COMPARED TO 2018) INVESTMENT IN R+D+I COLOURS PRODUCTS 98.8 % RATE OF CUMULATIVE SUCCESSFUL SALES 92.3 % PERFECT ORDER RATE 94.4 % IMPROVEMENT IN OTIF RATE Our Achievements Summary 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 7 OUR TEAM 248 EMPLOYEES (−1.6 % COMPARED TO 2018) 97 CONTRACTORS (+24.4 % COMPARED TO 2018) 6,931 HOURS OF TRAINING FOR EMPLOYEES 0 24.4 % 94.7 % OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS WITH WOMEN ON STAFF EMPLOYEES WITH MEDICAL LEAVE (+1.1 % COMPARED TO 2018) INDEFINITE CONTRACTS (+1.3 % COMPARED TO 2018) Our Achievements Summary 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 8 OUR BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY €733k 0.22 INVESTMENT IN ENVIRONMENTAL GHG EMISSIONS PER PRODUCTION PROTECTION (+206 % COMPARED TO (TCO2EQ / T ABS PLUS SALES) (+1.19 2018) COMPARED TO 2018) €1,531k 3.20 % EXPENDITURE ON ENVIRONMENTAL WASTE GENERATION (T WASTE / T PROTECTION ABS PRODUCED) (−9.1% COMPARED (NO DATA FOR 2018) TO 2018) 96.8 % 91.1 % RATE OF EFFICIENT RAW MATERIAL RECOVERED WASTE CONSUMPTION (+1.1 % COMPARED TO 2018) (−0.1 POINTS COMPARED TO 2018) 1094.57 ENERGY CONSUMPTION (KWH / T PRODUCED) (+16.8 % COMPARED TO 2018) OUR SUPPLIERS 741 48 % 62 % SUPPLIERS EXPENDITURE PAID EXPENDITURE PAID TO LOCAL SUPPLIERS TO LOCAL SUPPLIERS (TARRAGONA) (CATALONIA) ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 9 ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 10 We produce a wide range of high-quality thermoplastics adapted to the specific needs of our customers. What differentiates us is our continuous commitment to responsible innovation and our personalised service, which allows us to develop tailor-made, customer-centred solutions. 2.1 We are prepared to face new challenges The incorporation of ELIX Polymers into Sinochem Group gives us the opportunity to consolidate our international projection and grow in Asia. ELIX Polymers (hereinafter, ELIX) is a leading manufacturer of acrylonitrile butadiene styrene resins (ABS) and derivatives in Europe. 2019 was a year of many changes, challenges, marked by our integration into Sinochem as well as factors related to the macroeconomic environment (economic deceleration and the demands of conscientious consumers, among others) which posed an important challenge to the chemical industry and affected our decision-making as an organization while striving for the sustainability of the company. At the end of 2018, Sun Capital Partners announced the sale of our company to Sinochem International (Overseas) Pte. Ltd., a Chinese state-owned enterprise which is part of Sinochem Group, a business group with presence in various strategic sectors including the chemical industry. In January of 2019, we embarked on a new phase under Sinochem International, which opened up an excellent opportunity to grow in the Asian market and continue strengthening ELIX Polymer’s business relations in the European and American markets. One of the greatest challenges in 2019 was the integration of our company into the structure and operations of Sinochem International. ELIX’s role as overseas headquarters is strategic for the Sinochem group as well as the long-term business future of ELIX, which could likely evolve beyond the production of ABS resins and derivatives to become a new business unit within Sinochem International where other product lines are also developed. ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 11 At the end of the year we worked on preparing ELIX’s strategic plan for the next three years. We reviewed the current global and European macroeconomic context as well as our raw materials’ markets of origin and our strategic position with respect to competitors. Sustainability is a pervasive element of our business plan. We identified three core strategic areas which will help us generate value for all the stakeholders we interact with: / Circular Economy is a key core strategy. We defined a new business model able to take on the challenges of sustainability (scarcity of resources such as water, raw materials and energy) and respond to market and societal demands. / We attract talent based on our organizational and people-centred culture. We ensure strong leadership and performance within the company. / We understand that digitalisation is essential in improving efficiency and bringing value to our customers. Circular Economy is an opportunity to create a different plastics economy which is able to drastically reduce its negative environmental impact as well as its accumulation in ecosystems through the creation of closed cycles. This new economy encourages inter-company collaborations, the reuse of products, the mechanic and chemical recycling of thermoplastics and the use of organic-based materials. ELIX is one of the main European companies specialising in high-quality ABS production and adapts to the specific needs of its customers. Strategically, in order to maintain this position, it is necessary for us to form part of a group of companies also working towards a circular economy. In 2019, we began to work in this direction by supporting different projects both internally as well as in collaboration with other companies. In addition, we began to define a circular economy strategy specific to ELIX, which we will consolidate in 2020. Talent attraction is related to the expectations of new generations in terms of how a company works and the positive social and environmental impact it can have, as well as the incorporation of young people with technical degrees and training. ELIX handles talent recruiting and retaining internally through continuous feedback and training programmes, and externally through partnerships with research centres, universities and institutes. ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 12 DIGICOM is a project which represents a clear commitment to the digitalisation of ELIX with the aim of achieving better traceability and transparency, bringing value to customers and establishing collaborative relationships with suppliers. This is a brand-new project initiated in the middle of the year which will be developed further during the course of 2020. Digitalisation will span across the whole company, involving people, technology, processes and organization, and will be carried out in different ways throughout the value chain, from suppliers to end customers. WE ARE AN INTERNATIONAL COMPANY We maintain our sales positioning in the European market, which makes up about 90% of our sales. However, we are looking towards new international markets such as the United States and Asia. With a trajectory of more than 40 years in the manufacture of ABS and derivatives, we have the necessary resources, capacity and experience to create value for our main stakeholders. Our production site located in the Southern Industrial Park (Polígono Industrial Sur) of Tarragona is the main petrochemical hub in the south of Europe. We share a strategic location with other companies who are global leaders in their respective industries and we form part of ChemMed Tarragona, the most important chemical, industrial, academic, scientific and logistics cluster in the south of Europe. We have significant international presence, with two logistics hubs -one in Germany and the other in the United Statesas well as an extensive network of sales representatives and distributors who work with over 300 customers in more than 40 countries. WE ARE A GLOBAL ORGANIZATION ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 13 2.2 Leaders in the thermoplastics industry We work side-by-side with our customers, even in the product design phase, which allows us to develop high-quality, tailor-made solutions. This has consolidated our position as a leading and trustworthy company in the ABS market. We develop tailor-made solutions together with our customers to ensure that we satisfy their specific needs. We accompany them throughout the whole process: orders, product development, delivery and postsales technical service. Other factors contributing in a decisive way to the success and positioning of ELIX within the thermoplastics industry are the commitment of our team, our strategic orientation towards respect for the environment, people’s safety and well-being, and continuous innovation for sustainability. CUSTOMERS OUR TEAM SHAREHOLDERS We offer a wide range of We promote the personal and We generate sustainable high-quality, tailor-made professional development of growth with a solid return on solutions. our employees. investment. ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 14 OUR CUSTOMERS GIVE US POSITIVE REVIEWS ELIX won the Best Polymer Producers Award for Europe 2019 in the Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene (ABS) category for the second consecutive year achieving a final score of excellence. This award is granted by the European Polymer Alliance to polymer manufacturers whose performance in different areas received positive reviews by polymer converters and users for a period of three months on an online survey. These awards were created in 2016 to establish constructive dialogue and open communication between polymer manufacturers and users in Europe. The growing number of voters each year highlights the success of these awards. ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 15 OUR PRODUCTION PROCESS AND VALUE CHAIN ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 16 OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO We have an extensive catalogue of thermoplastic products to satisfy the most demanding market needs: / ABS Resins: thermoplastic ABS products for specialised products and high added value markets. / PC/ABS: PC/ABS compound for the most demanding market applications. / Polymer modifiers: modifiers which improve polymer mixture properties such as fluidity and hardness. / CADON: a highly resistant material for high-impact needs. WE IMPROVED, DIVERSIFIED AND INTERNATIONALISED OUR PORTFOLIO New High Heat Products Chromable materials Our products pass Vehicle Interior Air Quality We participated with our own stand in the Plastics (VIAQ)) standards for automobiles, requirements in Automotive Engineering (PIAE) congress, a very promoted mainly by European manufacturers. important trade fair for plastics in automotive We presented these products in the United States industry engineering, where we displayed our before a transport industry panel, where market portfolio of chromable ABS-based materials. The challenges and the use of plastics in this sector presence of top experts from the automotive were debated. industry gave us the opportunity to debate over new industry trends such as material requirements for electric vehicles or shared vehicles (car sharing) and impact on interior surfaces. ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 17 ABS/PC grades Our products in CHINAPLAS 2019 Continuing our international projection, particularly As members of Sinochem, we participated in this in the United States, and focusing on the exposition of the plastic and natural rubber automotive industry, ELIX attended the SPE’s industries held in China. We shared our technical AutoEpcon conference which highlights innovation knowledge in terms of application technology and development in design, materials, processing and put ourselves at the forefront of material the use of plastics for the automotive industry innovation, covering areas such as medical worldwide. We explained the technical treatments, antimicrobial products, electroplating, characteristics of our ABS/PC grades to obtain 3D printing and compounds with natural fibres. better results from automobile electroplating. ELIX 3D Healthcare solutions We attended an informative session on 3D printing We attended European trade fairs devoted to titled New materials and applications for 3D medical solutions (injection or nasal medicine printing in plastic. The current trend in 3D FDM administration devices). At these trade fairs we printing is to print pieces to be used as prototypes presented our portfolio of ABS products (medical as well as functional technical pieces with greater grades), the advantages of their applications for mechanical and thermal resistance to be used in the healthcare field, and some of our tailor-made industrial applications. ELIX added to its portfolio services and solutions for this industry, highly the new ELIX ABS/PC 3D grade, with even greater specialised and with stringent regulatory impact resistance, higher thermal resistance, less requirements, both in terms of safety as well as density and better processability with respect to delivery. These trade fairs allow us to generate the PC/ABS grades available up until now. new business opportunities in the medical industry. ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 18 OUR MARKETS We have a B2B business model, with the majority of our customers being end manufacturers, though they can occasionally be suppliers. Our markets continue to be stable with the most loyalty coming from the automotive and household appliances industries. STRATEGIC MARKETS AUTOMOTIVE We have high performance products, appropriate for general use as well as high-temperature, electrotype, electroplating and precoloured applications. HEALTHCARE We offer leading solutions for applications in intravenous injection systems and in respiratory and selfinjection devices. We have two biocompatible grades approved and registered for use in medical and food contact applications as well as a global supply strategy. CONSUMER GOODS We develop materials for small appliances, garden items and bath accessories, taking into account the high demands of this market for new colours and finishes, UV resistance and specific chemicals. ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 19 OTHER MARKETS HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCES We develop materials for applications in appliances to satisfy new requirements regarding colours and finishes, UV resistance and the correct use of the chemicals this market requires. ELECTRIC AND ELECTRONIC DEVICES We have an extensive portfolio of products for the manufacturing of electrical switches and outlets, electric circuit boards and ventilation systems, offering different solutions for dimensional stability properties, heat distortion temperature and electrical properties. BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION We meet the needs of the building and construction markets with products of increasing durability, aesthetics, ease-of-use and high performance. TOYS, SPORTS AND LEISURE We offer highly robust products with excellent surface quality that comply with food contact regulations. In addition, we offer toy and ski manufacturers the possibility of creating personalised colours. Our complete product and market portfolio can be seen here. ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 20 2.3 Service quality and customer satisfaction: our impetus OUR MISSION WITH OUR CUSTOMERS: / To offer our best in high-quality, tailor-made solutions. / To provide optimal service and delivery. OUR WAY OF WORKING: / Customer service. We handle all customer requirements regarding deliveries, returns and specific needs. / Technical post-sales service made up of an interdisciplinary team of professionals. We provide our customers with specialised support on the correct handling and use of our products as well as their characteristics and applications. PROXIMITY We maintain close and personalised relationships with our markets, optimising geographic proximity. TAILOR-MADE SERVICES We apply customised solutions through interdepartmental teamwork and continuous improvement. GLOBALNESS We communicate in a wide range of languages and optimise the management of safety and privacy. FLEXIBILITY We are flexible and agile when facing possible changes in market demands. PROACTIVENESS We encourage collaboration with our value chain. As part of our mission, we continuously work to offer our customers flexible, reliable and quality service, maintaining the high levels of satisfaction we have achieved in recent years. ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 21 We provide comprehensive accompaniment which begins with the development of a product by customer demand and ends with technical post-sales support to solve problems or clarify doubts about a delivered product. Our collaborators in the area of Operations ensure that orders get to customers on time and under the conditions established in the contract. GOALS ACHIEVED IN 2019 SERVICE QUALITY In order to evaluate and improve the quality of our customer service, we dedicate resources towards understanding the needs of our customers, the most relevant issues for them when deciding to make a purchase, and what it is that ensures their trust in us. * The European transport market is highly complex; for this reason, we are proactively in contact with our customers to give them constant updates and maintain our upward trend for these rates in recent years. GOALS FOR 2020 99 % RIGHT FIRST TIME 0.50 % CLAIMS (MATERIALS + LOGISTICS) VS. NUMBER OF DELIVERIES We are pioneers in the use of follow-up surveys on customer satisfaction. Tools such as Net Promoter Score and Customer Satisfaction Score help us improve our service. ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 22 Analysing the results of the various tools and indicators we use allows us to take specific actions through a cyclical process of continuous improvement. / Our Service Level Agreement allows us to offer a differentiated service, totally adapted and adjusted to each customer. In upcoming years, the initiatives we develop in this area will be those defined in our process digitalisation roadmap, defined in 2019. During this process of technological transformation, we will improve our services and create increased value for our customers. / Net Promoter Score (NPS) is a general satisfaction indicator which is commonly used in B2C (Business to Consumer) markets, but which we innovatively apply in the B2B (Business to Business) market. This tools measures customer loyalty based on recommendations obtained from just one question: ”How likely are you to recommend the product or service to a colleague?” / Customer Satisfaction Score (CSAT) is an operational performance indicator which we introduced in 2018 through the programme Voz de Cliente (Customer Voice). It evaluates customer satisfaction at key company-customer touchpoints regarding the purchase of a product or service by asking a question on satisfaction, followed by a question on improvement in the case of a low satisfaction level. In July of 2019 we applied a new customer touchpoint to this evaluation, going from one touchpoint, Claims, to two touchpoints, Claims and Delivery of samples, to be consolidated in 2020. ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 23 RESULTS ATTAINED Since 2016 we have noticed an upward trend in customer response, which shows us that our initiatives for improving service are being perceived positively. We conduct a quarterly assessment of customer satisfaction levels (CSAT) at two points of contact: Claims and Delivery of samples. Average annual results are: TOUCHPOINT ANNUAL CSAT AVG* Claims Process 4.1 Delivery of samples Process 5 * Annual CSAT AVG is the average quarterly score measured by CSAT on a scale from 1 to 5, with 1 being very unsatisfied and 5 being very satisfied. Results associated with the NPS tool have shown a positive progression since 2017. In 2019 we improved our NPS by approximately 23 %, obtaining 41 points. We carry out daily revisions of feedback received and when assessment results are low, we establish additional follow-up actions by contacting customers immediately in order to understand their needs and consequently, the reasons behind their assessment. Stemming from the evaluations and comments we received in the Claims process assessment, we have decided to concentrate on improving this customer service touchpoint in 2020. We will focus particularly on providing information to our customers in a more effective way. ELIX Polymers, a key player in the transformation of the thermoplastics industry Sustainability Report 2019 24 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Results of our annual satisfaction survey show, for yet another year, our customers’ high levels of satisfaction with the products and services we offer. Every year we send our customers a survey so they can rate our productivity and performance level. Results in 2019 show a high level of satisfaction with our products and services, higher than average, and in general, better than our results in 2018. A competitive company with values Sustainability Report 2019 25 A competitive company with values Sustainability Report 2019 26 3.1 The governance of our organization Since the end of 2018 and for all of 2019, our company has experienced profound internal restructuring. Its functions currently fall into four broad organizational areas, each one presided over by a manager who, alongside the CEO, makes up ELIX’s Senior Management. This team, together with the support of the different departments and collaborators, defines and implements the strategic plans of the company, whose aims are to preserve the values of ELIX based on business ethics, sustainable company growth and the professional development of all our team. David Castañeda Luis Alonso Carlos Mueller Noleia Vázquez Narcis Vidal CEO CFO Business Director HR & Comunication Operations & Supply Director Chain Director A competitive company with values Sustainability Report 2019 27 THE MISSION, VISION AND VALUES OF ELIX POLYMERS VISION Our objective is to be global benchmark leaders in the specialised market of thermoplastics, as a customeroriented company offering personalised services and an extensive product portfolio, while maintaining our commitment to environmental sustainability and promoting the professional development of our employees. MISSION Our corporate mission is defined around our three priority stakeholders: VALUES The project Management by Missions defines the way we work to fulfil our mission and vision. Our / Safety, health and respect for the main objective is to clearly link the mission of the environment company to the missions of the different areas of / Customer-oriented ELIX and to the skills of the people who are part of them. / Human capital, respect and teamwork Quality / Innovation and continuous improvement Therefore, each area defines its contribution to the global mission by identifying specific goals related to / Responsibility and integrity ELIX’s priority stakeholders, which later turn into concrete projects to be carried out throughout the year. We call this exercise Shared Missions. Since its inception in 2016, we have seen that this formula inspires teamwork, cohesive effort and better integration among ELIX employees. A competitive company with values Sustainability Report 2019 28 The Management by Missions Project is an example of good governance in our organization, which we shared with other companies and presented at the 7th Symposium “Companies with a human face”. The symposium was organised by the Chair of Management by Missions and Corporate Government of the University of Catalonia, where we had the opportunity to share our best practises and learn about those of other organizations. ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY At ELIX, ethics and transparency are core values throughout the whole organization. Our Code of Conduct at ELIX establishes a regulatory framework for the business and professional relationships and actions of the company. It identifies integrity, honesty and transparency as the base of corruption prevention. All of our employees receive information regarding the current applicable code and are therefore familiar with it. We also extend the code to include our suppliers and contractors by means of an explicit signed statement. A competitive company with values Sustainability Report 2019 29 3.2 LEAN CULTURE, MORE SKILLED AND EFFICIENT TEAMS Lean Culture has affected the way we face the daily problems and challenges posed to us as an organization. Lean Culture forms the base of our employees’ personal and professional development. It is a method of continuous learning and improvement to strengthen management processes, and at the same time, promote the growth of our professional team. Applying this method not only helps us to fulfil our people mission but clearly gives ELIX so much in return in the form of higher competitiveness and efficiency, and above all, employees with a higher level of skills who can take on challenges as a team and in a creative way, all of which contribute to the positioning of our company. To implement Lean Culture, several multidisciplinary teams are set up according to needs at that particular moment. These teams share initiatives through a virtual tool called Comunidad Lean (Lean Community). Each team proposes a project (called an A3) to find solutions to the problem in question, a problem that affects different plants and operations. A3 is a problem-solving tool based on the Deming cycle (PDCA), which facilitates the problem-solving process while maximising learning and cooperation within the organization. With regard to 2018, participation in A3 has increased by 6 %, making overall participation 68 % since the project was initiated. LEAN CULTURE THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE ORGANIZATION LEAN AWARD 2019 A wide variety of A3s have been presented. We Every year we organise Lean Day so that the can find a project focused on proper plant waste groups who participated in the different A3s can management (winner of the Lean 2019 award), as share and exchange their knowledge and well as projects on taskforce automation (led by experiences. On Lean Day In 2019, participants the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) voted for the best A3 of the year. The winning department), for improving the management of project was “Proper plant waste management” emergencies, and customer service (saving time led by the SHE (Safety, Health and Environment) and avoiding the same job being done twice). department and the Operations area. After Another project, presented by the Planning analysing why there were errors in plant waste department, was for reducing stock, resulting in a management, changes in labelling, processes and considerable reduction in costs. equipment were introduced. A competitive company with values Sustainability Report 2019 30 3.3 EXPANDING OUR TIES TO THE INDUSTRY ELIX establishes solid, long-lasting relationships within the industry to respond to the great challenges of sustainability. ELIX forms part of the main European, Spanish and Catalan chemical industry associations, through which we establish close, collaborative ties with companies throughout the entire value chain of plastics manufacturing. Within the framework of circular economy, these ties are essential in promoting a more sustainable, and above all, more circular chemical industry. For example, in 2019 we initiated a collaboration with Styrenics Circular Solutions (SCS), a joint industry initiative to stimulate the recycling and reuse of styrene with innovative technologies. We also collaborate on the initiative PLAST2bCLEANED, whose aim is to recover electric and electronic device waste. GLOBAL ASSOCIATIONS / PlasticsEurope: a business association representing the main polymer manufacturers in the European plastics industry. www.plasticseurope.es / Spanish Chemical Industry Business Federation. One of the largest business organizations defending the interests of the chemical industry in Spain. www.feique.org / The European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC): A forum for the chemical industry in Europe and committed collaborator of EU decision-makers. www.cefic.org A competitive company with values Sustainability Report 2019 31 LOCAL ASSOCIATIONS / Tarragona Chemical Business Association (AEQT): This association brings together the chemical industries of Camp de Tarragona and Tierras del Ebro, with the mission of ensuring the global competitiveness of these industrial areas and contributing to the sustainable development of the region. www.aeqtonline.com. The CEO of ELIX is the president of the Sociolabour Commission. In addition, several ELIX departments actively participate in different commissions within the association such as the Health and Safety Commission, the Energy Commission, the Environment Commission and the Communications Commission. / Tarragona Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Services and Navigation: A public corporation which promotes activities to support business development and carries out actions of interest to the business and commerce community of its district. In 2019 we participated in the job fair Fira d’Ocupació, where professionals seeking employment can meet and interact with companies. www.cambratgn.com. / Catalan Transport Users Council: a common space for exchanging knowledge on transport and logistics, as well as providing support in the management of imports and exports. www.shippers.cat INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS / Clúster Mav: the aim of this organization is to promote and contribute to the competitiveness of companies and entities in industries with advanced materials and the technologies associated with them. This new alliance allows us to develop pilot projects on circular economy and innovation and opens up possibilities for new collaborations. / MedPharmPlast: a European Plastics Converters industry group for companies within the plastic supply chain specialising in medical utensils and pharmaceutical containers in Europe. This new alliance provides us with information on the medical industry, its regulations and trends. A competitive company with values Sustainability Report 2019 32 PLENARY SESSION MEMBERS OF THE TARRAGONA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE In 2019, with the plenary session renewal of Catalonia’s 13 chambers, we now have an elected member in the plenary sessions of the Tarragona Chamber of Commerce. This way we can strengthen our ability to positively influence the growth and invigoration of competitiveness among the companies in this district. Our Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2019 33 Our Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2019 34 We used Sustainable Development Goals as a guide to define our new Sustainability Strategy, with the aim of generating solid growth for the company and the most extensive positive social and environmental impact possible. 4.1 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the base of ELIX Polymers’ Sustainability Strategy The United Nations Global Compact, which we have been members of since 2017, has given us a practical framework for the transition towards business sustainability from the perspective of responsible management, helping us to considerably reduce the negative impacts of our business activity. To go even further and have a positive impact on society and the planet, we must undergo a transformational change which can only be reached by making sustainability a core element of our business. Sustainable Development Goals (hereinafter SDGs), through innovation and collaboration, pose a singular opportunity for reaching this paradigm change and contributing to a huge number of sustainable development challenges that affect the health of people and the planet, human rights and more. In 2019 we worked according to the four pillars of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy defined in 2018, which incorporates sustainability into the company and throughout the value chain, and allow us to improve the environment, our team and our community, as well as contribute to the commitments defined by ELIX in the Management by Missions project. Our Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2019 35 The application of this Corporate Social Responsibility policy continues to be led by the CSR committee, composed of members from different areas of the organization. Our idea for 2020 is to define a long-term sustainability strategy and action plan for the period of 2020-2025 that will allow us to improve the overall sustainability of the company and reduce our potential negative impact. SDGs will guide the new sustainability strategy at ELIX and will be set in motion in 2020. At the end of 2019, through an internal participatory session with key figures in the organization, we identified the SDGs where ELIX has the specific capacity or responsibility to contribute. Our Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2019 36 We obtained an external perspective from the results of the SDG Roadmap study for the chemical industry, carried out by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). The analysis of this study allowed us to explore the chemical industry’s potential in the achievement of SDGs, as well as other relevant aspects identified by ELIX’s stakeholders, which have been compiled in materiality matrixes from previous years. The results of this SDG contribution analysis are five key objectives where ELIX has the highest capacity and responsibility to act due to its business activity and the potential negative impact it generates, and a core objective, number 17, which acts as a facilitator. Thanks to this analysis, five other SDGs relevant to the industry and our organization’s stakeholders were identified, and though they are not considered key objectives, they are SDGs where ELIX has an influence and must act accordingly. Identifying key SDGs where we have the highest capacity to contribute was the first step in defining our new Sustainability Strategy. KEY SDGS AT ELIX RELEVANT SDGS AT ELIX Our Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2019 37 In 2020 we are working on defining strategic core concepts which will define the future sustainability strategy of ELIX and its roadmap for the next five years. There are four strategic objectives which will guide this strategy: / To promote a circular system for the plastics economy / To firmly commit to adapting to and mitigating climate change / To ensure an ethical way of doing business which makes a positive contribution to social well-being throughout our value chain. / To contribute to reducing biodiversity loss. As part of the definition of our new sustainability strategy at ELIX, a new governance model will be defined for the implementation and follow-up of this new sustainability path, involving senior management in its development. RELEVANT TOPICS ON SUSTAINABILITY, OUR DRIVING FORCES The improvements we have made in environmental, social and economic sustainability up until now have been the fruits of the materiality matrix we developed in 2016 and revised in 2017, where we identified the most relevant issues for ELIX and its stakeholders: the chemical industry, local administration, the ELIX team and suppliers. We developed this matrix to find out which areas and in what ways our operations generate an impact throughout the value chain and affect our stakeholders. In 2019, we conducted a revision of our materiality matrix from previous years, stemming from the organizational context analysis to define our sustainability strategy and from the identification of ELIX’s key SDGs. One of the key topics we incorporated as a new material aspect was the promotion of a circular economy, as it is a fundamental issue within the sustainability and business strategies of the company. In terms of identifying ELIX’s strategic and priority SDGs, all the relevant aspects identified in previous years as relevant are generally reflected in these SDGs. In addition, taking into account the importance of protecting land and sea biodiversity in facing the great challenges of sustainability previously identified, we considered it necessary to incorporate the aspect of biodiversity. MATERIALITY MATRIX IDENTIFICATION PRIORITISATION VALIDATION I. A nalysis of the I. Workshop with II. Design of the ELIX materiality industry and other Senior Management. matrix. companies within the II. Online survey for III. Revision and approval by ELIX industry. each of our Senior Management: II. Making a list of stakeholders. a. Includes topics of high issues potentially III. Prioritisation of priority for ELIX but low relevant to ELIX’s aspects by level of for our interest groups business. importance (2016). according to two b. Includes relevant collectives: material aspects (2019) stemming from the context analysis and Our Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2019 38 a. Our internal session, stakeholders detected within the (external). framework of ELIX’s b. ELIX (internal). priority SDG IV. Revision of identification. prioritisation: a. Detailed surveys for administration and the chemical industry (2017). b. Selection of relevant internal and external SDGs (2019). MATERIALITY MATRIX MATERIAL TOPICS Hiring of local suppliers Energy Climate change prevention Proper waste and Minimising environmental wastewater management HIGH impact of transport Investment in environmental Protection of biodiversity protection Promotion of a circular RELEVANCE FOR INTEREST GROUPS economy* Promotion of local environment Responsible economic Sustainable supply chain management MEDIUM management Workplace health and safety Labour relations Compliance Fostering equality Sustainable portfolio* Human rights assessment Investment in the community Innovation in products and for centres Claims system and processes* Public policy management at the service of Efficient resource stakeholders consumption LOW Quality professional careers Membership in industry sustainability initiatives* Service and product quality LOW MEDIUM HIGH RELEVANCE FOR ELIX POLYMERS * Topics not included in GRI standards. Our Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2019 39 RELEVANT TOPICS AND THEIR RELATION TO THE VALUE CHAIN SUPPLIERS Hiring of local suppliers Sustainable supply chain management Energy Climate change prevention Minimising environmental impact of transport Protection of biodiversity Compliance Service and product quality Contractors Labour relations (with contractors) Promotion of circular economy ELIX FORMULATION, POLYMERISATION AND Responsible economic management COMPOUNDING Innovation in products and services Proper waste and wastewater management Energy Climate change prevention Protection of biodiversity Investment in environmental protection Workplace health and safety Quality professional careers Fostering of equality Compliance Membership in industry sustainability initiatives Service and product quality Sustainable portfolio Promotion of circular economy QUALITY CONTROL AND PACKAGING Responsible economic management Proper waste and wastewater management Efficient resource consumption Energy Workplace health and safety Labour relations (with contractors) Compliance Service and product quality Promotion of circular economy Our Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2019 40 SALES Responsible economic management Promotion of local environment Quality professional careers Compliance Quality professional careers Sustainable portfolio Promotion of circular economy DISTRIBUTION Responsible economic management Efficient resource consumption Climate change prevention Protection of biodiversity Minimising environmental impact of transport Compliance Promotion of circular economy SOCIETY Efficient resource consumption Energy Proper waste and wastewater management Climate change prevention Protection of biodiversity Minimising environmental impact of transport Promotion of circular economy Hiring of local suppliers Promotion of local environment Sustainable supply chain management Fostering of equality Membership in industry sustainability initiatives Our Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2019 41 4.2 Transparency with interested parties ELIX follows a communicative policy based on responsibility and transparency with all the people we interact with. We establish relationships based on dialogue, transparency and trust with all our stakeholders through various channels and actions of communication thanks to the different departments of the company. STAKEHOLDERS AND COMMUNICATION CHANNELS Internal communications at ELIX are managed with the aim of strengthening the sense of identity and belonging among collaborators and bringing visibility to the different corporate projects and activities of each and every area of the company, facilitating dialogue, transparency and bidirectional communication. Our Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2019 42 Therefore, thanks to cross-sectional management and teamwork among departments, we published 12 internal monthly newsletters in 2019, titled ELIX Actualidad. In addition, we carried out more than 50 communicative actions: health campaigns, training sessions, internal events for employees, and others. On the other hand, just as every year, we published our annual magazine called ELIX Familiar, which sums up all the company’s activities and achievements for that year. For added value, in the 2019 edition we included a section with educational games for families on the topics of emotional, physical and social well-being, as well as important aspects of environmental sustainability. The magazine was sent to the homes of all our employees so they could share the results of their efforts and commitment with their families. As far as social media, we believe that it is a way of communicating with those outside of the company. Through our digital channels, we spread our content in a more dynamic way, make ourselves known, boost the visibility and reputation of our company year after year and grow our digital community. ELIX currently has presence on LinkedIn, Twitter and YouTube, digital tools which enable us to optimise interactions with our audience and keep them updated on all of our activities. In 2019, we gained 1,007 new followers on LinkedIn, a 38.2 % increase compared to 2018, making our professional community a highly valuable asset. On Twitter, we try our best to be proactive and participate in our users’ interactions. We supported the initiative #DiseñadosParaProteger (Designed to protect), an expansion of the previous campaign #NoCulpesAlPlástico (Don’t blame plastic), whose aim is to provide information on the functions and guarantees of plastic containers in our daily lives as well as the importance of their proper waste management. With regard to our YouTube channel, we posted 8 new videos in 2019. We now have a total of 28 corporate videos on different topics, where the protagonists are always our team of professionals. ELIX considers this visual content to be essential in improving the reach of our publications on social media. Our Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2019 43 Our external communications, with the aim of bringing visibility to and gaining a reputation for our brand and products, also includes in-person and dissemination activities: / We participated in 8 international trade fairs: 5 in Europe, 2 in Mexico and 1 in China. 2019 was the first year that we were exhibitors at one of the most important industry fairs in China, together with our shareholder Sinochem International. This fair gave us the opportunity to show the Asian continent our whole portfolio of products and innovative solutions. / With the aim of creating loyalty among our sales contacts, we published 4 quarterly corporate newsletters for customers, suppliers and distributors, with news on products, services and events at ELIX. / We also published 3 technical newsletters, with the goal of facilitating technical know-how and familiarising our customers with our technical service at ELIX. / The ELIX website experienced continuous improvements throughout all of 2019. The area which gained the most was innovation, with more specific and accessible technical content for site users, bridging the gap between ELIX’s technical service and its users. On the other hand, improvements were implemented in the area of news and media so that users can be informed of all the updates and events of the company. Our Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2019 44 4.3 Partnerships for sustainability We remain firm in our commitment to the economic, social and environmental operations of our industry and for this reason, we form part of different national and international initiatives to promote business sustainability: In 2008 we became members of Responsible Care, a voluntary global initiative for sustainable development in the chemical industry, which keeps us committed to continuous improvements in Safety, Health and Environmental Protection in all industry operations. In 2019 we participated in a work group within the European Committee, whose objective was to define the inspection standards for an accredited certification of the programme, which will take effect in 2020. Additionally, we have renewed our membership of this initiative. A non-governmental organization with more than 80 years of experience as an international institution representing different business sectors with members in over 130 countries. It works to promote business throughout the world and investments based on free market values. ICC developed Business Charter for Sustainable Development, which defines 16 principles for promoting environmental management. EcoVadis is an independent rating agency specialising in sustainable development and performance monitoring. It rates the sustainability of suppliers for global supply chains. We renewed our membership in the United Nations Global Compact (Global Compact), which provides us with a practical framework for business sustainability and accessible management tools and resources, helping us implement a sustainable business and development model. We publish a yearly progress report, which can be seen here. Through our membership in the Volunteer Agreement Program, of the Catalan Climate Change Office (OCCC), we set annual goals for the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, demonstrating our concern over climate change and our commitment to mitigating it. Our Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2019 45 The programme Operation Clean SweepZero Resin Pellets is an international initiative whose aim is to minimise the loss of resin pellets and microplastics, this way avoiding their entrance into rivers and oceans. Our participation in this project confirms our obligation to improve precautionary measures and prevent the dispersion of resin pellets and microplastics into our environment. WE RENEWED OUR GOLD LEVEL ECOVADIS CERTIFICATE GOLD certification is the highest level currently granted by EcoVadis. This rating positions us among 2 % of the highest rated companies and confirms our investment in sustainable growth. The areas we excelled in were:  The improvement of and commitment to the environment.  The implementation of good labour practises, the defence of human rights and continuous training for our employees.  The availability of internal mechanisms to comply with business ethics and the prevention of corruption.  Sustainable purchases based on the evaluation of suppliers and products. Innovation and circular economy, we are making a difference Sustainability Report 2019 46 Innovation and circular economy, we are making a difference Sustainability Report 2019 47 We introduced circular economy at ELIX as a tool of responsible innovation, since in a new sustainable socioeconomic paradigm where the waste of some becomes the resources of others, it gives us differential value and sustainability. 5.1 We support circular economy Circular economy is innovation and sustainability. It means a new economy, based on the principle of closing the lifecycle of products, services, waste, materials, water and energy in order to achieve the efficient use of resources. This way, through innovation and collaboration, we are able to keep them in the economy for as long as possible and as a consequence, reduce waste generation to a minimum. Europe Strategy 2020, which aims to generate intelligent, sustainable and integrative growth, identifies circular economy as a key pillar. Plastics have clear benefits for our society but their longlasting properties and the large volume of them generated contribute enormously to the accumulation of non-biodegradable waste which ends up in landfills or incinerators. Social pressure against plastics is on the rise. Circular economy is an opportunity to manage resources, processes and waste in the plastics industry in a different, more efficient way, with the aim of reducing its negative social and environmental impacts. This means rethinking business models and relationships between companies in and out of the industry. Circular economy is one of the pillars of our sustainability strategy and business strategy. Our aim is to be global benchmark leaders in the highly specialised market of thermoplastics. With this mission, we have been contributing for years to the transition towards a circular economy in the industry and have decided that this is to be one of the pillars of our strategies: both our business strategy and our sustainability strategy. We understand circular economy to be a tool for the recuperation and subsequent reuse of generated waste as well as a way of incorporating raw materials from renewable sources. Innovation and circular economy, we are making a difference Sustainability Report 2019 48 In 2019, we defined the plans for our circular economy strategy, which include a policy and a course of action for 2020-2023: INCORPORATION OF CIRCULAR ECONOMY Internally we are evaluating different strategies for incorporating circular economy into ELIX in order to define our plan and the course of action we will follow. Circularity can be created by the incorporation of efficient criteria for design, production and use, which requires an internal job of responsible innovation and the creation of a short circuit for reincorporating recycled material. Another option, involving close ties with companies throughout the value chain, is to create a post-consumer plastics economy through recuperation and chemical and mechanic recycling. In this strategy, circuits are longer. Finally, another option is to substitute raw materials from the petroleum industry with organically based renewable alternatives, an option which, taking into account ELIX’s place within the ABS value chain, is considerably less practical. Innovation and circular economy, we are making a difference Sustainability Report 2019 49 (1) Designing more sustainable materials and (4) Mix low end ABS waste fraction: applications solutions. Value Sensitive Design Dissolution to be used as liquid feedstock methodology LCA, methodology *Repsol: chemical recycling project for mixed plastics (2) Responsible and sustainable operations fraction (urban collection) Efficiency and process gains: raw material use index improvement (5) Mechanical recycling: reduce GHG emissions Medium value recycling program, natural resources (water) non-selective application (3) Mechanical recycling: (6) Renewable raw materials: Partnerships with OEM/Brand owner for More sustainable portfolio based on renewable raw high value applications. materials. Selective collection and sorting Bio ABS Blends (ABS/PLA) Selective recycling on specific application -ABS NF (ABS filled with natural fibers) (7) Mechanical recycling Collaboration with recycler partner for recycling waste/sub product from manufacturing. Target: lower end applications for ABS resins Innovation and circular economy, we are making a difference Sustainability Report 2019 50 CIRCULAR ECONOMY COLLABORATIVE PROJECTS At ELIX we participate in international studies and projects related to circular economy, which often involve collaborations with other companies or organizations within our value chain. / Styrenics Circular Solutions. A joint industry initiative to increase the circularity of styrenes. It involves the creation of new business and collaboration models in order to recover styrene-based plastics for recycling. / Analysis of ABS/SAN in Europe. A detailed analysis of the volume, management and recycling of ABS/SAN residue in member states of the European Union for the technical and economic evaluation of recuperation and recycling opportunities. This is a joint initiative among European producers. / PLAST2bCLEANED. A European H2020 project whose main objective is to develop an economically viable and technically feasible recuperation and recycling system for electrical and electronic waste (WEEE). In this initiative we collaborate with different industries and technological centres. / A collaborative project with Repsol, who received the ISCC PLUS certification for its plant in Puertollano, with the aim of marketing circular polyethylene and polypropylene made from the oil of chemically recycled plastic waste. In line with this project, ELIX also collaborates with Repsol on the use and exploitation of renewable monomers as raw material from the oil of thermal cracking. In 2020, ELIX is expected to obtain ISCC PLUS certification to boost its support of this joint initiative. / Circular Economy Hotspot Catalonia 2020. Organised according to sustainability criteria and following an environmental management programme. ELIX plans to participate in the CE Hotspot through the AEQT (Tarragona Chemical Business Association). We will arrange a tour of our facilities to show how we incorporate circular economy. Innovation and circular economy, we are making a difference Sustainability Report 2019 51 RECYCLED ABS PROJECT PROYECT PLAST2BCLEANED This project is an investment on the part of ELIX to influence the transformation of plastics production from a linear economy to a circular economy. ELIX is the only ABS manufacturing company in Europe who forms part of this initiative. This is a European project whose aim is to develop a recuperation and recycling system for electrical and electronic waste (WEEE) that is economically viable and technically feasible. It involves the creation of closed cycles of polymers, bromine fraction and antimony trioxide fraction, which improve the percentage of recycled materials compared to current technologies and reduce the amount of materials being incinerated at present. In addition, this initiative allows us to fulfil the regulatory frameworks promoted by the European Union: EU Circular Economy Action Plan, 7th Environment Action Programme, Plastics in a Circular Economy Commission strategy, SPIRE PPP roadmap. Nine other international companies (Electrolux, Jucheheim, Campine, ICL, Fraunhofer, TNO, Gaiker, Coolrec and Sustainable Innovations) are collaborating on this four-year project with a subsidy of €4,500,830 from the European Commission through its H200 programme. The project will be organised according to the following plan:  Pretreat, analyse and separate plastic components.  Develop a dissolution process for plastic components and recuperation of polymers and other components to be recycled.  Evaluate and demonstrate the sustainability and environmental and economic viability of the technology to be applied.  Communicate and circulate results. Regarding the environmental impact of ABS and this new technology’s benefits in terms of sustainability, the aim is to:  Achieve a higher level of purity and quality in secondary raw materials.  Increase the recycling rate of secondary materials and reduce the amount of plastic waste going to landfills or incinerators.  Reduce the risk of maintaining hazardous substances in recycled materials. During the course of the project we announced the goals we achieved. Information on the progress of the project can be found here. «In the framework of our strategy for participating in circular economy projects and as a company within the chemical industry, we corroborate our commitment to these types of initiatives. The fact that we are the only ABS manufacturer to participate in a project of this magnitude allows us to strengthen our position as thermoplastics manufacturers». Antonio Prunera, Chief of Business Development and R&D at Elix Polymers Innovation and circular economy, we are making a difference Sustainability Report 2019 52 5.2 Responsible Innovation Responsible innovation allows us to find more sustainable solutions adapted to the needs of our customers. Research and development of new or better ABS solutions is fundamental in maintaining our leading position in the thermoplastics market and offering a more sustainable product portfolio. We identify opportunities for improvement to add value and adapt to increasingly rigorous demands in terms of the functionality, composition and manufacturing of a product. Through innovation, we work in a collaborative way with our customers, other companies and technological development centres, creating necessary partnerships for our transition towards business sustainability and a circular economy. Responsible innovation refers to the way we develop new solutions, whether in the form of products, services or business, following sustainability criteria and the priorities established in our innovation strategy: / Environmentally respectful manufacturing. / A portfolio with more sustainable products. / Creating awareness of health impacts. In this way, sustainability forms the sustenance of our innovation strategy and the development of a differentiating portflio composed of specialised and high added value thermoplastics products able to comply with market demands and customer needs. Without a doubt, responsible innovation allows us to advance towards more respect for the environment and people in terms of our business direction and products, helping us fulfil our mission of offering our customers high-quality, tailor-made solutions and services. The technical R+D team at ELIX works in two closely related areas: product development and business, both of which contribute to the sustainable growth of the company. The first area is usually connected to subsidised R+D projects responding to the strategic plans of national or European institutions, in which research clusters are created in collaboration with technological entities and other companies. The second area responds to market trends, or the specific demands of a customer, and opens up new opportunities that contribute to ELIX’s position in the highly specific thermoplastics industry, such as initiatives for the development of chromated, high-heat or special effects materials. Currently, our main underlying innovation objectives are the following: / To define specific strategies for our customers in the healthcare, consumer goods and automotive industries. / To incorporate recycled materials into our products, offering the best solution for each sector and customer, adapted to their needs. Innovation and circular economy, we are making a difference Sustainability Report 2019 53 In order to advance in the area of responsible innovation, we employ the Value Sensitive Design (VSD) method. This is a tool for continuous improvement based on criteria for the ecodesign of products which takes into account lifecycle analysis to assess a product’s impact throughout its useful life, starting from phases before its production up until its disposal at the end of its life. In this way, we design solutions integrating sustainability principles into their environmental, social and economic aspects. In addition, this method allows us to optimise our customers’ processes and help them improve their competitiveness. Objective 2019 Performance R+D+i investment intensity (percentage of turnover) 0.90 % √ 0.86 % Portfolio renewal with more sustainable products (percentage of sales) 30 % √ 29.1 % Objective 2020 R+D+i investment intensity (percentage of turnover) 0.90 % Portfolio renewal with more sustainable products (percentage of sales) 30 % The Value Sensitive Design (VSD) method, at the service of responsible innovation, has become a tool for customer service and customer loyalty. We apply this method to each and every one of our solutions, including the development of new products with added value, prioritising environmentally respectful manufacturing processes (evaluation survey) or the specific requirements of customers (product development requirement), involving them in the phases of ecodesign. In this way, we constantly search for solutions that generate a positive impact throughout the value chain, with a focus on reducing the negative impact of our products during their use. The VSD method is also a tool for customer service and customer loyalty as it allows customers to be involved in the design of their own products, making the products more suited to their needs. In this way, responsible innovation is carried out in total accordance with our mission of offering our customers the best in tailor-made solutions and creating sustainable growth for the company. This method rates each solution with respect to a list of environmental (26), social (17) and economic (9) aspects to comply with. This enables us to objectively compare the impact of different products. In the three years since we introduced this method, we have renewed our portfolio with newer, more sustainable solutions that bring greater diversity and quality to the thermoplastics market. Some products with halogenated components have been discontinued, others have been improved and some of our longstanding products have been maintained. We have invested in a dynamic portfolio which enables us to constantly adapt to sustainability and market requirements. Innovation and circular economy, we are making a difference Sustainability Report 2019 54 A MORE SUSTAINABLE PORTFOLIO * Products created before 2012 (before ELIX became an independent company) ** Products developed from 2012 on *** Discontinued or substituted products PRODUCT / SERVICE SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE * Products from 2019 Environmental aspect Social aspect Economic aspect In 2019 we evaluated five new Value Sensitive Design projects. The CCP-UPC, with its design for flame retardant products without halogens, displayed the highest sustainable performance with a significant reduction of environmental and social impact. The ABS product with high hydrolytic resistance had the lowest sustainable value though its specificity and applicability in certain required uses gave it a higher added value. Again, as is the case with other products in our portfolio, by applying the Value Sensitive Design method, we ensure that our products have a positive environmental or social impact, even if it is minimal. Innovation and circular economy, we are making a difference Sustainability Report 2019 55 We have several innovation and product improvement projects, some new and others initiated in previous years. Innovation and circular economy, we are making a difference Sustainability Report 2019 56 INVESTMENT IN R+D+I ELIX is a company with a strong innovative tendency and we promote different development and innovation projects in collaboration with other companies and technological centres. Innovation and circular economy, we are making a difference Sustainability Report 2019 57 Other innovation projects of shorter duration we've developed in response to the specific needs of customers or market trends, are the following: Functionalising materials for strategic segments such as the automotive industry: / ABS and ABS blends with improved dimensional stability / Hydrolysis resistant Polycarbonate/ABS / High heat ABS with improved Vicat Segments such as appliances and consumer goods: / ABS and ABS blends with antistatic and dissipative properties / ABS with reduction of noise from vibration (damping effect) / Compliance with food contact regulations (NSF51) QUALITY AND SAFETY, DIFFERENTIATING FACTORS Quality and safety are indispensable requirements, highly valued by our customers, and are examples of ELIX’s differentiating aspects within the thermoplastics market. Our mission and sustainability policy at ELIX reflect our commitment to quality, safety and the protection of health. The ABS we produce has specific functions in other products, some of which have applications for sanitary purposes or children's toys. We comply with the most stringent national, international and industry regulations regarding health and safety. You can see the declarations and information on our products and specific regulatory compliance here. Disponemos de un sistema de gestión certificado de conformidad con el estándar ISO 9001, que garantiza que cumplimos con los más altos estándares de calidad en nuestros productos y servicios. The ISO 9001 certified management system ensures the quality of our products. Quality Management System ISO 9001:2015 We work under the concept of product stewardship where we assess and manage the potential risks of our products during their entire life cycle. In this way, we incorporate a focus of responsible and ethical management from the initial stages of product development, allowing us to improve the sustainability of the industry. Innovation and circular economy, we are making a difference Sustainability Report 2019 58 ELIX COMPLIES WITH THE FOLLOWING INDUSTRY REGULATIONS:  European Food Safety Authority (EFSA):  Regulation 1935/2004  Regulation (EU) nº 10/2011  US Food and Drug Administration (FDA):  US FDA 21 Code of Federal Regulations Section 181.32  CLP Regulation (EC) nº 1272/2008  CONEG Legislation for containers and their waste: 94/62/CE and modifications  Montreal Protocol (substances that erode the ozone layer): 1005/2009/EC  REACH Legislation for restrictions on the use of chemicals due to their possible health and environmental impacts The communication we maintain with our customers is a great way to transmit our professionalism and capacity for innovation, in addition to reinforcing our commitment at ELIX to quality and safety. We have developed a series of elements specifically aimed at our customers to increase their technical know-how and knowledge of processes, improving our relationship with them as well as the usability and safety of our products: / Document support files with ELIX solutions based on knowledge we've acquired through visits, applications and materials. / The technical bulletin Transferring knowledge, giving solutions with quarterly editions containing updates on developments at ELIX. / Yellow cards, with information on the safety and flammability of active products in our portfolio. / Specific brochures for our main markets (healthcare and automotive industries) with expanded services and applications for these sectors. / Injection guide explaining the specifications of our injection grades. / We send personalised samples (Samples made for you) to our customers in a specially designed package which improves the visibility and presentation of information. / Informative brochures and Material Data Safety Sheets (MSDS), where information is published on chemical compounds, usage, storage, handling, emergency procedures and potential health effects of hazardous materials. Brochures can be viewed here. In the “Solutions Portfolio” section of our website, details are provided on recently developed product innovations. The ELIX Polymers team Sustainability Report 2019 59 The ELIX Polymers team Sustainability Report 2019 60 We promote the personal and professional development of our team and we work to achieve a safe workplace which fosters trust and a positive work atmosphere. 6.1 We support the personal and professional growth of our team People are the driving force of ELIX. Whether it's defining the company mission, carrying out the daily operations of our business or the LEAN philosophy, our team participates in the decision-making and improvement of processes and activities, making it possible for our company to evolve in a positive way, reach our business goals and remain a benchmark company in the thermoplastics industry. We continuously work to create an atmosphere of cooperation, transparency, trust and respect among all the employees of our company, and have a cohesive, professional and motivated team, capable of adapting to changes. Training adapted to individual needs and the building of a healthy company are the pillars of our strategy to achieve these goals. We accompany our team in their professional growth, we detect their training needs, we encourage their participation and integration into the organization, and we promote work-life balance, all with the aim of creating dynamic and motivated work teams. INITIATIVES 2019 Performance Update equality plan and mobbing protocol. In process Launch talent management and performance assessment plan. Proposal and design completed INITIATIVES 2020 Update equality plan and mobbing protocol. Launch talent management and performance assessment plan. Advancement and promotions protocol: improvement in transparency, internal equality and opportunities. In 2018 we initiated the Healthy Company programme, with the aim of cultivating the emotional, physical, and social well-being of all the people at all levels of our organization, extending this to the people in their immediate environments as well, fostering personal and professional growth for all. This is a multidisciplinary project which encompasses quality of life and workplace health and safety, favouring performance as well as a sense of belonging within the ELIX community. The key values of this project are: diversity, participation, creativity, leadership and empowerment. The ELIX Polymers team Sustainability Report 2019 61 VIRGIN PULSE GLOBAL CHALLENGE Feel Good is our strategy as a healthy company. This strategy was designed in 2019 and includes our participation in the programme Virgin Pulse Global Challenge. This international challenge with thousands of participants throughout the world, lasted 100 days and consisted of a virtual journey to promote habits for the well-being of our employees such as physical activity, a healthy diet, stress management and sleep quality. The main objective of the project was to promote the well-being and commitment of our employees to help them achieve healthier lifestyles and increase their motivation. EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE Last year we initiated a project for the assessment of job performance. Through continuous feedback on individual performance, this project encourages professional growth and training, the assessment and improvement of work climate and job stability. In 2019 we expanded our scope to stimulate interpersonal communication, especially between employees and middle management. We took a performance photograph of every employee based on their responsibilities and skills, both operational skills and personal or soft skills, to establish a customised training plan. We continued using the Milena Web platform for support, extending its application to operations personnel in 2019 and opened it up in 2020 to managers. To ensure a good work environment, we have been working for quite a while on improving work-life balance, making current applicable laws as flexible and extensive as possible, such as maternity and paternity leaves. In accordance with the working time regulations law (Royal Decree-law 8/2019 for urgent protective measures to combat exploitative work schedules), we arrange specific timetables with employees in exceptional situations. On the other hand, we have an internal employee web portal, an online tool which makes it easy to look up personal and professional information and helps process medical leaves or holidays for all employees including collectives such as operators, who previously didn't have access. Additionally, this website lets middle management have a quick view of the comings and goings of their team members. ELIX employees are represented by various ELIX commissions: the Negotiations Commission, the Permanent Commission, the Employment and Professional Classification Commission, the Equality Commission, the Training Commission, the Health and Safety Commission, and the Social Commission. The ELIX Polymers team Sustainability Report 2019 62 With the slogan “People make ELIX”, we want to highlight the importance of our team as a key factor in the success of our business. Within the framework of this culture, in 2019 we launched the “Talent management and performance assessment” programme to support internal employee promotion and talent recruitment. Depending on job performance and the identification of skills required for different job positions, we offer our employees opportunities to continue growing within the organization. New talent recruitment, as well as the integration and creation of opportunities for young people, are priorities for ELIX, ensuring our sustainability in time. For this reason, we welcomed three interns into our staff. Nevertheless, generational turnover has caused an overall decrease in staff due to a significant amount of employee retirements. VARIATION WITH STAFF AS OF 31 DECEMBER 20191 2017 2018 2019 RESPECT TO Total employees 288 252 248 −1.6 % Women 55 55 56 1.8 % Men 233 197 192 −2.5 % Contractors2 79 78 97 24.4 % Men 70 68 90 32.4 % Women 9 10 7 −30.1 % NEW HIRES BY AGE 2017 2018 2019 Under 30 3 3 0 Between 30 and 50 23 15 8 Over 50 1 Total 26 18 9 NEW HIRES BY GENDER 2017 2018 2019 Men 22 11 6 Women 4 7 3 TOTAL 26 18 9 1. Data shown in this section is for staff in the Tarragona facilities (Spain), the only company facilities. Included in total employees are those who are semiretired; in all other graphs of this section these employees are not included as, despite being employees of ELIX, their dedication is not the same as that of the other employees. 2. With the exception of this table, the rest of the figures shown in this section do not include contractors as we do not have direct management capacity over them. The ELIX Polymers team Sustainability Report 2019 63 TURNOVER RATE BY AGE 2017 2018 2019 Under 30 0 0 0 Between 30 and 50 1% 1% 1% Over 50 0 0 0 TURNOVER RATE BY GENDER 2017 2018 2019 Men 0% 0% 1% Women 1% 1% 1% We increased job stability on our staff: 94.7 % have indefinite contracts and 95.6 % are full-time. VARIATION STAFF BY CONTRACT TYPE AS OF 31 WITH DECEMBER 2019* 2017 2018 2019 RESPECT TO Staff with indefinite contracts 90.6 % 93.5 % 94.7 % 1.3 % Indefinite contracts 230 217 215 −0.9 % Men 178 168 162 −3.6 % Women 52 49 51 8.2 % Temporary 24 15 12 −20.0 % Men 16 10 8 −20.0 % Women 8 5 4 −20.0 % * Semiretired employees not incuded. VARIATION STAFF BYSCHEDULE TYPE AS OF 31 DECEMBER WITH 2019 2017 2018 2019 RESPECT TO Full-time staff 95.7 % 94.8 % 95.6 % 0.8 % Full-time 243 220 217 −1.4 % Men 194 178 170 −4.5 % Women 49 42 47 11.9 % Part-time 11 12 8 −33.3 % Men 0 0 0 0.0 % Women 11 12 8 −33.3 % The ELIX Polymers team Sustainability Report 2019 64 To foster a positive work environment and in this way improve the well-being, performance and involvement of the people in our company, we organise events with our employees and encourage their participation in sports, solidarity and integration activities. One of the most important events is our annual employee dinner, whose aim is to acknowledge the effort and commitment of all the people who are part of ELIX. Furthermore, at the annual dinner we take the opportunity to celebrate the year’s achievements together. Biannaully we conduct a work environment and commitment survey, to know our employees’ satisfaction levels. The next survey will be in 2020. Another highlight among our organised events is Motivation Day, a day dedicated to motivation and happiness within the company where professionals from the Human Resources area gather together to share experiences and best practises on topics related to staff management. SOCIAL BENEFITS FOR OUR TEAM 100 % of our staff is covered by the Collective Agreement. Our entire staff operates under the General State Agreement for the Chemical Industry and the improvements as stated in the Complementary Agreement of ELIX Polymers. At the end of 2018, revisions and improvements of the agreement were negotiated, which went into effect at the beginning of 2019 and will be in force in 2020. The most relevant points of the agreement can be summarised as follows: / We maintained social benefits and even improved one of its aspects. / We established a variable pay system for 2019-2020 connected to the achievement of set indicators and objectives. These are the main social benefits we offer at ELIX: / Assistance for employees continuing their studies. / Assistance with gym memberships. / Home purchase loans. / Assistance for people with physical or intellectual disabilities. / Loyalty or seniority-based compensation. / Christmas gift sets. / Holiday flats. The ELIX Polymers team Sustainability Report 2019 65 The training of our employees continues to be one of the pillars of our company. In 2019, we continued with the “Competency and capacity matrix implementation” project, which focuses on reinforcing our employees’ strong points, capacities and competencies so that they can perform their jobs in the most effective way. We conducted individual assessments to identify areas needing improvement and skills to develop, and then defined the training requirements for all team members. We have maintained total training hours for employees, emphasising training in personal skills. In 2019 a total of 6,931 hours went to training, especially in the areas of safety, health and technical skills. In contrast to the previous year, and as a consequence of our integration into Sinochem, in 2019 we strengthened training for executive, middle management and administrative positions. It is worth mentioning that there was an interesting upward trend in personal skills training, with a 70 % increase compared to 2018. 2018 2019 Total employee training hours 6,745 6,931 AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS 2018 2019 Men Women Men Women Executives 18.0 42.0 52.3 41.0 Skilled workers, technicians and administrative staff 41.8 37.9 52 57 Operators 23.3 31.0 16 22 Sales representatives 9.0 2.7 67 13 TRAINING BY TYPE Investment in training increased by 10% with respect to 2018 The ELIX Polymers team Sustainability Report 2019 66 INVESTMENT IN TRAINING 6.2 INVESTMENT IN TRAINING We remain fully committed to equal opportunities without gender-based discrimination. Through our Equality Commission, which defends our established equality principles and procedures, we are reviewing our equality plan and action protocol against sexual harassment to incorporate updates and improvements. We will continue working on both of these documents during the course of 2020 with the plan of signing them during the course of 2021. As an example of our commitment to gender equality, we became members of “Inspira”, a programme organised by the University of Deusto in collaboration with Rovira i Virgili University, where women who are STEAM professionals volunteer their time to share their experiences. This is a ground-breaking project which fosters interest in scientifictechnological areas for girls in primary school, consisting of awareness raising and orientation activities led by professional women in the fields of research, science and technology. To comply with the law for the integration of people with disabilities, ELIX collaborates with special employment centres to foster the employability and job placement of this collective. Not only do we continue to incorporate women into a highly masculine field, we are also increasing their presence in governing organs. The ELIX Polymers team Sustainability Report 2019 67 2017 2018 2019 Women on staff 21.3 % 23.3 % 2.4 % DIVERSITY IN GOVERNING ORGANS NUMBER OF PEOPLE PERCENTAGE Women 4 25.0 % Men 12 75.0 % PRESENCE OF WOMEN BY JOB CATEGORY 2017 2018 2019 Executives 20.0 % 20.0 % 25.0 % Skilled workers, technicians and administrative staff 42.6 % 51.2 % 57.0 % Operators 2.3 % 2.4 % 2.4 % Sales representatives 66.7 % 60.0 % 60.0 % 2018 2019 Men Women Men Women Comparison of average salary at ELIX* to 4.3 3.4 5.3 3.8 average interprofessional salary * Calculated as the mass salary average of the company. AGE DISTRIBUTION BY JOB CATEGORY PRESENCE OF WOMEN BY JOB CATEGORY 2017 2018 2019 Executives Under 30 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % Between 30 and 50 60.0 % 60.0 % 62.5 % Over 50 40.0 % 40.0 % 37.5 % Skilled workers, technicians and administrative staff Under 30 13.0 % 8.1 % 12.7 % Between 30 and 50 60.2 % 69.8 % 68.4 % Over 50 26.9 % 22.1 % 19,0 % Operators Under 30 6.3 % 4.8 % 4.0 % Between 30 and 50 69.5 % 65.1 % 68.8 % Over 50 24.2 % 30.2 % 27.2 % Sales representatives Under 30 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % Between 30 and 50 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Over 50 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 68 Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 69 Sustainability brings a responsible vision to all the operations and processes of our business activity, causing a positive impact on the environment, our employees and society in general. 7.1 The health, safety and well-being of our team, a priority At ELIX we remain firm in our commitment to the safety of our entire team and even more so when societal awareness is on the rise regarding the dangers posed by the chemical industry. This commitment is clearly established in our mission and sustainability policy, where safety in our production processes and for our employees is one of our core priorities. Senior Management at ELIX give priority and relevance to health and safety through the programme Feel Good, based on World Health Organization criteria. To this end, we adhere to the Luxembourg Declaration, a document drafted by the European Network for Workplace Health Promotion, which establishes the basic principles for the proper health management of company employees. PERFORMANCE ACTIONS 2019 Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 70 AREA STRATEGIC INITIATIVES 2020 JOB SAFETY Training for the integration of health and safety factors when carrying out job tasks. Implementation of a strategic plan for an organization-based safety culture. Incorporation of basic safety rules and performance assessment. Programme for the prevention of CMR product exposure. PROCESS SAFETY Implementation of a management programme for process safety (Process Safety Management, PSM). INDUSTRIAL Improvements in installation reliability through risk-based inspection SAFETY programmes. HEALTHY COMPANY Application of a healthy company management system with the aim of obtaining accredited certification. MANAGEMENT Implementation of an HSE Alerts system and participatory campaigns SYSTEM (SMS) (improvements in the Occupation Health and Safety communication strategy). In 2019 we defined a healthy company strategy, focused on physical, social and emotional well-being, divided into six core areas, influencing both the organization and its social environment. This strategy was carried out through the campaign Feel Good and under the slogan “We choose to feel good”. This initiative aims to improve our team’s health and safety, clearly stating the strategy’s core areas from a complementary perspective. All of this allows us to design actions to simultaneously influence physical, psychological and mechanical aspects that facilitate personal and professional development, improved mental and emotional well-being, illness and accident prevention, the adoption of healthy habits, and interaction with the social environment. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 71 The programme will be led by voluntary teams made up of members from the different areas of the company who will generate ideas, develop evaluations and improvements, and promote different initiatives. All in all, our objective is to have no accidents or incidents and continuously improve job conditions. Meanwhile, we continue with our organization-based safety plan initiated in 2017, known internally as Plan E. Plan E aims to generate overall safe behaviour by promoting changes in personal attitudes and the adoption of positive group values for workplace well-being. Leadership in safety involves behaviours that motivate and inspire our employees to adopt the organization’s safety objectives as their own. We continue transforming our work culture to make ELIX a safer, more comfortable workplace. Our web platform CONECTA-T strengthens employee involvement through forums on specific topics, offering the possibility of communicating, participating and making suggestions. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT operations of that department. With this problem, teams analyse the causes and propose simple CIRCLES THAT CONTRIBUTE TO short-term actions. The Polymerisation Health GUARANTEEING A SAFE WORKLACE Circle is working on the issue of cleaning polybutadiene and the recent Compounding In 2019 we continued developing Health Circles Health Circle is analysing the process of pigment with the aim of making improvements in loading in boxes in the Color Room. workplace safety. We gave the Health Circles a new focus, transforming them into teams of continuous improvement for workplace safety, in line with our objective for 2020. We developed proposals which arose in last year’s three circles on occupational safety, psychosocial safety and industrial hygiene, through a multidisciplinary team made up of members from the Compounding, Polymerisation, Laboratories and Maintenance departments. During the second semester of the year, we began our new direction, which we will continue developing over the next year. We created work teams by area so that each one develops a problem unique and exclusive to the daily Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 72 HEALTH AND SAFETY INDEX 2019 ELIX is, for yet another year, a company with zero incidents. HEALTH AND SAFETY RATES 2017 2018 2019 Number of accidents with medical leave 0 2 0 Number of accidents without medical leave 4 7 5 Frequency rate* 0 2.65 0 Severity rate** 0 0.06 0 HEALTH AND SAFETY RATES (COMPARED TO INDUSTRY RATES) 2019 AEQT Frequency rate * 2.15 FEIQUE Frequency rate * 5.79 AEQT Severity rate ** 0.09 FEIQUE Severity rate ** 0.28 * Calculated as frequency rate = 106 × number of accidents / number of hours worked. ** Calculated as severity rate = 103 × number of missed workdays / number of hours worked. 2017 2018 2019 Rate of absenteeism 2.0 2.1 2.89 We are very satisfied with our safety performance, as we continue evolving towards accident reduction. In 2019 we lowered our number of accidents with respect to 2019 and managed, for yet another year, to have no accidents requiring medical leave. We also observed a positive tendency in the form of lower frequency rates and a reduction in accident severity. ACCIDENT TYPES 2019 The most common types of accidents are contact accidents, such as blows, cuts or burns. The areas with the most accidents are Compounding and Polymerisation, while Maintenance and Laboratories had no accidents in 2019. We have a management system with specific indicators which we use to conduct a yearly accident analysis. This analysis allows us to detect the results of implemented job safety and prevention actions and identify the main causes of accidents (machines, work organisation, workspaces, personal factors, etc.) so that we can define new measures for improvement and prevention. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 73 From our accident analysis, we were able to define a series of Occupational Health and Safety action plans consisting of: / The inspection of equipment design and the design of processes where human intervention is required, integrating safety and ergonomic factors. / Risk identification and perception, and the establishment of protocols for action (training, preventive observations and communication formats) so that employees can identify and communicate risks as well as propose preventive measures with the aim of avoiding potential accidents. / The integration of activities to correct behaviours that could lead to accidents. / The communication of preventive measures (lessons learned, best practises, unsafe situation alerts). / Development of a preventive plan to avoid accidents in route to and from the workplace. ACCIDENT PREVENTION Twice a year we have plant operations come to a total halt so we can carry out improvement projects and make new investments in the different production units. Safety is a very important factor for companies in the chemical industry and is so for ELIX both internally and in its social environment. Accident prevention at ELIX is closely tied to the maintenance and updating of installations as well as training and promoting safety awareness among employees. In terms of people, we have observed that the most common causes of injuries among operators are the lack of information on breakdowns, poor habits and inadequate risk identification (prevention management), which we counteract with specific training courses and projects for health and behavioural changes (Plan E and Feel Good). Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 74 SAFETY WEEK, A WEEK DEDICATED TO HEALTH AND SAFETY At ELIX we celebrated our 3rd edition of Safety Week, consisting of a wide variety of participatory events whose aim is to raise awareness among all ELIX employees on the different areas of job safety and well-being, and bring more visibility to the adoption of healthy workplace habits. This initiative helps us to reinforce a culture of safety as well as the physical, mental and emotional well-being of the company, and demonstrates our people-centred commitment through the creation of a safe and sustainable workplace. In this year’s edition, we officially launched our programme Feel Good, which will have more and more relevance in years to come. One of the most highly rated activities was Emotional Gymnastics, a workshop where participants received tools for learning how to understand, identify and manage emotions in a positive way through internal dialogue. In the Masterchef activity, aptitudes such as leadership, the ability to formulate successful strategies, negotiation, and creativity were put to the test. We also carried out preventive activities such as Escape Van, an emergency drill whose aim was to learn how to take decisions under pressure and as a team. In addition, workshops were held for adopting habits that delay and revert the effects of aging such as martial arts classes among others. Similar to the previous year, we held recognition events, in one of which an award was granted to the employee with the greatest contribution to the Unsafe Situation Alerts Programme. With this award we acknowledge the dedication and proactiveness of our employees in the continuous improvement of job safety conditions. On a global level, the aim of this campaign is to encourage actions for achieving our eighth Sustainable Development Goal, “Decent work and economic development”. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 75 These are some examples of the preventive actions we carried out: / We conducted 10 assessments of the service companies operating in our installations regarding the coordination of activities and the integration of Occupation Health and Safety. / We increased our safety preventive observations to a total of 606 and our cleanup rounds to a total of 355, with the participation of middle management, production and maintenance technicians as well as members of Senior Management. / We conducted risk evaluations specific to the production and maintenance tasks of centrifuge equipment machines in the precipitate and drying production plant unit. / The inspection and set-up of authorised protective equipment for workers. Users participated in the trial and selection of PPE and their experiences were compiled in surveys. There were 58 unsafe situation alerts, representing a slight decrease in comparison with 2018. In the area of industrial hygiene, we maintained our programme for determining background exposure levels to chemical agents. We also tested different special interest tasks. In terms of the promotion of health, we carried out the following initiatives: Campaigns: Programmes: Activities: / Prevention of heatstroke and / Programme to stop smoking. / Workshop on age awareness exposure to solar radiation. and practise with an age / Dass Test for emotional simulation suit. / Colon and skin cancer health (TEST DASS42). prevention. / Emotional Gymnastics. / Healthy habits and lifestyle / Blood donation day. test. / Osteomuscular health: ergonomic criteria for / Promotion of hydration. / Colon cancer detection test. software design. / “Your health comes first” in / Hypertension monitoring. / Cardiovascular health in collaboration with the Spanish / Flu vaccine. Operations. Cancer Association. / Participation in “Joc / Talk on psychosocial issues. / Healthy habits survey. d’Empreses 2019” and / Walk for breast cancer. / Biomechanical evaluation with “VirginGlobal Challenge 2019”. R+D from Asepeyo. / We maintained our First Aid / Healthy breakfasts. Assistance and Health Monitoring Services incorporated in 2017. We require that our collaborators adhere to a high level of Occupational Health and Safety standards through a stringent system of activity coordination management (CAE). Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 76 To guarantee the incorporation of safety and sustainability in all processes, we extend our standards to all the external companies we work with; by signing a collaboration contract, these companies confirm their compliance with our regulations and policies on safety and environmental protection. As a motivational factor and gesture of recognition, ELIX grants an award every year to the service company with the highest KPI (Key Performance Indicator) score within the framework of Safety Week. Selection criteria include parameters such as accident rates, compliance with activity coordination requisites (CAE), as well as results of internal Occupational Health and Safety inspections. This award acknowledges the commitment of our service companies to continuous improvement and prevention. We conducted a joint job evaluation and supervision as well as periodic safety inspections. In 2019, a total of 42 joint safety preventive observations were carried out by our internal Prevention Service technicians and our usual service companies, an increase of 24 % compared to last year. In addition, we have a document management platform for activity coordination (CAE) which guarantees the legal compliance and training of contractors in the specific safety functions they perform in our facilities. In 2019, this platform managed 251 companies and 1,968 workers. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 77 7.2 Our commitment to the environment Our environmental protection strategy at ELIX has two core bases, one operational and the other product related. Its main objective is the prevention and progressive reduction of our business activity’s negative impact on the natural environment. To this end, we adhere to an environmental and sustainability policy, as well as a management system through certifications for ISO 14001 (environmental management) and ISO 50001 (efficient energy management) regulations, which help us in our continuous improvement. OPERATIONAL BASE PRODUCT-RELATED BASE Focuses on reducing the Refers to our commitment to develop and environmental impact of our provide more sustainable products and services manufacturing processes. (see section 5.2). Our medium-term objective is to reduce waste generation and resource consumption. With this vision in mind, we define yearly environmental management programmes which include improvement initiatives and quantifiable objectives for reducing energy consumption. To assess our progress and performance in the environmental protection measures we have implemented at ELIX, we use a monitoring indicator system for the environmental aspects identified as significant for our business activity, allowing us to evaluate our achievement of environmental objectives on a yearly basis. This year we have specific projects for improvements in energy performance monitoring and evaluation, analysis on waste generation with the highest environmental impact, and high organic load wastewater treatment. We work on these aspects through specific initiatives, defined for each of the following programmes: / Significant Environmental Aspects Programme. / Energy Efficiency Programme. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 78 INITIATIVES IN 2020 Improve energy performance indicators. Specific for waste reduction and recovery. Study on the reduction of high Total Organic Carbon (TOC) wastewater generation in precipitate and drying plant unit. Raise awareness of Zero Pellets Loss programme. In 2019 we passed an Integrated Environmental Inspection conducted by the OGAU administration with satisfactory results. One of the main risks associated with chemical companies are spills or emissions into the atmosphere. At ELIX we strictly comply with applicable regulations regarding the handling of these types of substances throughout the entire production process and we scrupulously follow safety sheet indications for the products we use. The results of this year’s comprehensive periodic inspection were highly satisfactory, demonstrating our firm commitment to safety and environmental protection. At the same time, we began to work on the design of a new procedure for detecting significant environmental aspects. This procedure will be fully operative in 2020 and will reinforce our current environmental risk analysis. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 79 EFFICIENT RESOURCE CONSUMPTION One of our objectives is to reduce natural resource consumption. This means we must constantly work on optimising raw material use. This is the third consecutive year that our consumption rate of raw and auxiliary materials has remained at approximately 97 %.3 Our raw material consumption rate, which measures the efficiency of its use during the manufacturing process, has remained stable. PROGRESSION OF EFFICIENT RAW MATERIAL CONSUMPTION RATE 2017 2018 2019 97.1 % 96.9 % 96.8 % Our lower consumption of the main raw materials used for ABS production is mainly due to a decrease in final product demand. CONSUMPTION OF MAIN RAW MATERIALS (t) 2017 2018 2019 VARIACIÓN 2018-2019 Acrylonitrile 21,877 21,897 19,293 –12 % Butadiene 18,660 19,344 16,817 –13 % Styrene 62,781 62,928 55,369 –12 % Total main raw materials (t) 103,318 104,168 91,479 –12 % 3. The efficiency of each plant is measured in the following way: waste + scrap + off-spec (SAN/powder/COMP)/production (SAN/powder/COMP) Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 80 OUR SUPPORT OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY As part of our energy policy, we set specific annual quantitative objectives for reducing energy consumption and we define follow-up indicators. SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES FOR 2019 PERFORMANCE Overall reduction of 1.5 % in consumption-based energy costs in €/t. X 2.9 % Specific reduction of 1.5 % in our most significant energy consumption: electricity. X 0.8 % Specific reduction of steam in the drying unit by 3 %. X 2.2 % The maintenance of 2018 specific consumption values of natural gas in SAN plant: 22.5 32.4 X Nm3/t. Nm3/t Nevertheless, the production circumstances of this period have not allowed us to reach our objectives, but we have worked on a project for improving consumption monitoring and a new tool for modelling and predicting energy performance in different areas of use. In 2019 we improved our consumption monitoring by implementing a predictive model which allows us to optimise energy management in our facilities. SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES FOR 2020 OBJECTIVE Overall reduction by 1.5 % in specific consumption-based energy costs in €/t.c. 1% Overall reduction in the specific consumption of electricity compared to 2019. 3% Specific reduction of natural gas compared to 2019 (except RTO). 3% Specific reduction of steam in the polymerisation plant compared to 2019. 5% Specific reduction of industrial air in the compounding plant compared to 2019. 4% To reach our energy consumption reduction objectives, we planned out specific actions such as: / A study on energy consumption reduction which includes a revision of our maintenance strategy and the exploration of ways to optimise motor consumption, such as the installment of modules to optimise sine waveforms. / The purchase of new equipment with energy efficiency criteria, such as a high-efficiency motor and a variable frequency drive. / The optimisation of steam consumption in the drying process through the implementation of process enabling technologies (the Centrifuge project in collaboration with IthinkUPC). / The regulation of steam consumption in the drying process through online monitoring of powder humidity levels. / A study for optimising thermal oil boiler burners and optimising set points in thermal oil circuits according to process conditions. / A fugitive emission control programme and the identification of irresponsible users. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 81 ENERGY CONSUMPTION VARIATION 2017 2018 2019 2018-2019 PLANT TOTAL (kWh/year) 104,117,104 102,292,187 107,440,445 5% TOTAL (kWh/t ABS produced) 934.2 936.9 1,094.6 16.8 % The use of electricity, steam and natural gas makes up 90 % of our organization’s total energy consumption. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 82 ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT THE CARBON FOOTPRINT OF OUR ORGANIZATION The impact of climate change extends across the whole planet. Combatting climate change is a primordial aspect of our environmental performance at ELIX, as demonstrated by our adhesion to the Voluntary Agreement for the Reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions programme of the Catalan government's Climate Change Office. To maintain our membership in this programme, we presented our updated emissions inventory along with information on the improvement measures we incorporated and a proposal for new actions to develop. Carbon footprint calculation gives us useful information for identifying the phases of our business activities with the highest environmental impact and helps us to focus our efforts on minimizing it. The additional benefits of carbon footprint calculations are the following: Reduction of Reduction of dependence Strategic Added value to our Improvements in energy costs on fossil fuel and the positioning. services, products or environmental vulnerability associated projects, and to the management thanks to with its price volatility. relationship with our the involvement of our employees. suppliers and customers. Our carbon footprint has been steadily declining -in 2019 we reduced it by 9.67%. In 2019, we reduced our organization’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by almost 10 %. This decrease is much greater than our decrease in energy consumption, and is due to a decrease in the Spanish electricity mix of 2018. VARIATION ELIX’S GHG EMISSIONS 2017 2018 2019 2018-2019 Equivalent tonnes of CO2 26,582 23,349.82 21,092.83 −9.67 % Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 83 VARIATION INTENSITY OF GHG EMISSIONS* 2017 2018 2019 2018-2019 Emissions generated per production 0.2385 0.2141 0.2166 1.19 % (tCO2eq/t ABS + sales) Emissions generated per employee 101.8 88.8 84.0 −5.37 % (tCO2eq/employee) * Calculations based on consumption of natural gas, diesel oil and road transport (scope 1), electricity and other types of energy consumption (scope 2). Emission factors used are those contained in the 2018 version of the Practical guide for calculating greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. THE CARBON FOOTPRINT OF OUR PRODUCTS CARBON FOOTPRINT OF THE ABS MANUFACTURING AND DISTRIBUTING PROCESS (Non GRILife cycle assessment) Our products’ carbon footprint is calculated based on a full-scope life cycle assessment (LCA) known as “cradle-to-gate”, which takes into account the extraction and processing of materials up until the final packaging of a product for its distribution. CARBON FOOTPRINT PROGRESSION (2017-2019) Source: Calculations take into account consumption associated with ABS production and transport, including raw material consumption and transport to ELIX, energy use, air and water emissions, waste management and transport to authorised waste facilities, and transport of final products to customers. Data is expressed in Kg of eq Co2 per 1 Kg of ABS produced. Our carbon footprint stemming from both the ABS manufacturing process as well as the transport and distribution of ABS to our customers, decreased with respect to the previous year. In our carbon footprint from ABS manufacturing, raw materials play a particularly significant role. The reduction of our carbon footprint in 2019 was mainly a consequence of lower raw material consumption due to a decrease in production. On the other hand, another influencing factor was the lower percentage of ABS products for sale, though this percentage increased for sales of intermediates, specifically SAN, resulting in a lower environmental impact attributed to ABS. CARBON FOOTPRINT OF FINAL PRODUCT TRANSPORT (Non GRILife cycle assessment) To complement the previous scope and have a complete calculation for the carbon footprint of our final product, we calculated the remaining footprint of distribution to customers. We based this calculation on direct estimates of emissions by transport type, without taking into account the use of fuel. Our objective for 2020 is to include scope 3 in our calculations. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 84 RELATION BETWEEN TRANSPORT TYPE AND CARBON FOOTPRINT (2017-2019) Source: Calculations based on tonnes per kilometre travelled for each type of transport. *Total carbon footprint of finished product transport (expressed in kgCO 2eq per kilogram of ABS produced and transported). The carbon footprint value associated with transport from ELIX to our customers has slightly decreased, though it is still quite similar to that of 2018. ELIX strives to achieve less contaminating means of transport such as intermodal transport, which was obstructed this year by external factors beyond the company's control, related to deficiencies in infrastructure and episodes of social instability (strikes, power cuts, etc.), forcing us to increase road transport. However, the emissions deriving from land transport were counteracted by the increase in sea transport for our sales in China which caused less environmental impact. We continue working with our customers to maintain our support of more sustainable transport. OTHER ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS Our contaminating atmospheric emissions (NOx y CO) remain much lower than established regulatory limits. Besides greenhouse gas emissions, which have a direct impact on climate change, other equally important emissions are contaminating atmospheric emissions of nitrogen oxide and carbon monoxide, as these are hazardous to people’s health and the natural environment. Our commitment to sustainability and regulatory obligations leads us to carry out periodic checks on the emissions of atmospheric contaminants at emission sources. This way we ensure they are within regulation limits. We conduct four annual measurements which are reflected in the following graph. We are very satisfied because our emission levels are much lower than legal limits; in fact, they are between 3.5 and 15 times lower. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 85 NOx emissions CO emissions LDAR PROGRAMME In 2015 we implemented the LDAR programme, Inventoried points are supervised yearly and any which consists of taking inventory, detecting and newly detected points are added. reducing fugitive emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC). Our facilities have always reached a high grade of tightness which is measured by a leak frequency The effectiveness of implementing this indicator measuring the percentage of points that programme is reflected in the savings in raw go over the definition of leak. Tightness level in material consumption, the reduction of 2019 was 0.27 %, while in similar facilities this environmental impact and improvements in the indicator has values between 0.7 and 3 %. safety and hygiene of people and workplace facilities. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 86 WASTE MANAGEMENT Our purpose is based on the search for new ways to recover and increase the value of our waste together with technological centres. Waste management is one of our focal points for environmental action. During the last few years we have evolved from linear management of collection and treatment by an authorised agent, to management with prospects for a circular economy. According to this type of management, we are constantly looking for ways to recover and increase the value of this waste. On one hand, circular economy lets us prolong the life of the materials and products we market as well as the waste generated at the end of a product’s life. On the other hand, it helps up to reduce the amount of manufacturing waste. Following the principle of continuous improvement, we work internally to improve the management of all types of solid waste. We strictly monitor the correct and incorrect management of all our waste, identifying aspects we can improve such as labelling, packaging, location and deliveries to warehouses. This year we conducted a continuous field study with the aim of raising awareness and empowering our employees on the importance of proper waste management, with very positive results. Additionally, we began to inspect our waste managers’ work to ensure that they comply with internal requisites at ELIX regarding service providers. Through these inspections, ELIX can see its waste managers’ level of commitment to the environment. 2017 2018 2019 TOTAL (t) 3,493.84 3,427.9 3,116.7 TOTAL (t total waste/ t produced) 3.1 % 3.1 % 3.2 % Our recovery of generated waste continues to follow an upward trend. MAIN MANAGEMENT CHANNELS (t managed/t generated waste) 2017 2018 2019 Incineration 2.3 % 0.1 % 1.1 % Landfill 10.5 % 9.9 % 7.7 % Recovery 87.2 % 90.0 % 91.1 % Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 87 VARIATION HAZARDOUS WASTE AND MANAGEMENT CHANNELS 2017 2018 2019 2018-2019 Incineration (t) 81.2 3.8 40.4 972 % Recovery (t) 658.1 697.8 606.7 −13 % Landfill (t) 36.5 30.9 31.7 3% TOTAL (t) 775.8 732.5 678.7 −7 % In specific figures, we increased our generation of hazardous waste by 0.4 % with respect to last year. As in recent years, we managed fibre cement waste from roofs that were substituted on several company buildings. There was also an increase in residual polymer waste which was not stabilised by routine cleaning and in residual monomers from production-related causes. We detected the potential for improvements in planning, which had been causing an increased amount of materials being incinerated. These improvements have now been implemented and will guarantee proper waste management planning in our plants in the future. RECOVERY TYPES 2019 (t recovered/t produced) Solvent regeneration 15.06 % Use as fuel 9.61 % Recycling and recuperation of metals or metal compounds 2.66 % Recycling of paper and cardboard 1.00 % Recuperation, reuse and regeneration of containers 0.64 % Other types of recovery 5.66 % Regeneration of mineral oils 0.10 % Recuperation of cables 0.06 % Recycling of plastic 65.21 % FILTER CAKES WITHIN THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY FRAMEWORK ELIX initiated a filter cake waste recovery project In the second phase of the project, we studied the in 2017 with the aim of determining the viability of use of filter cake waste for construction this type of waste in third-party processes. This materials, specifically cement mortar. We initiative aims to promote circular economy by obtained positive results in this study with a 5preserving the value of products and materials 10% application of waste to the product, making it for as long as possible and minimising waste more deformable and resistant to liquid water. generation. Nevertheless, solutions for the humidity and odour still need to be found for industrial The first phase of the project involved a study on recovery. the use of filter cake waste in asphalt manufacturing. However, laboratory analysis At ELIX, we will continue working to find solutions results were not positive due to the filter cakes' for the reuse of this type of waste in other humidity, characteristic odour and low ignition applications. point. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 88 WASTE REDUCTION OUTSIDE OUR FACILITIES We continue to work on our Packaging Waste Prevention Plan. Due to the good results of measures taken over the past few years, we continue to prioritise logistical strategies that minimise the use of certain packaging materials, such as the use of tankers for product distribution within the European Union. The kr/kp indicator provides information on the amount of packaging materials ELIX has on the market, and allows us to establish improvement actions with the aim of preventing and reducing the impact of these materials on the environment. This year we had more packages on the market due mainly to the reduction of bulk sales and the plastic bag format, as well as a significant increase (21.42 %) in octabins. Decisions on product packaging are made exclusively by customers, which means we must work jointly with them if we want to reduce the impact of the waste we generate outside our facilities. PACKAGING WASTE PREVENTION PLAN PROGRESSION Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 89 WATER CONSUMPTION AND WASTE WATER TREATMENT Water is a scarce resource, especially in the Mediterranean coastal areas where the impact of climate change is significant and rainfall variability is high. We are aware of this and therefore have always worked to improve our efficiency in the use of this resource and reduce the vulnerability of drainage basins due to fresh water depletion. Wastewater at ELIX is treated through the COVESTRO/ Industrial Park wastewater management and monitoring system; this company has a contract with the industrial park to manage its water. COVESTRO/Industrial Park is participating in a project for the construction of a common wastewater treatment plant for several companies within the Tarragona Petrochemical Park with the aim of fulfilling Better Available Techniques (NEA-MTD) for the deposit of wastewater into receiving environments, as established by BREF for the chemical industry. As part of this project, a new wastewater monitoring plan will be defined for wastewater going to this new collective water treatment facility. In our facilities, we use only ELIX supports circular economy regarding water consumption. The water we use comes from regenerated water, from water regenerated water treated at the facilities of treated at AITASA. Tarragona Industrial Water SA (AITASA). In this way, we support zero consumption of tap or well water, using this scarce resource responsibly. Despite our action plan with measures for reducing water consumption, as well as an on-site consumption monitoring system, it should be noted that water management is common to all of the industrial park. Water consumption meters and water consumption per tonne of ABS produced show an increase in the specific consumption of water, which is related to several incidents: / An increase in demineralised water in TAR plant boilers, due to the optimisation of gas temperature after boiler cleaning, which contributes to the generation of more high-pressure steam. / The detection of several leaks in the underground drinking water network. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 90 VARIATION WATER CONSUMPTION 2017 2018 2019 2018-2019 Industrial and treated water (m3) 125,914 130,251 130,993 0.6 % Industrial and treated water (m3/t produced) 1.12 1.21 1.35 11.6 % Refrigeration water (m3) 4,649,599 4,489,534 4,182,204 −6.8 % Refrigeration water (m3/t produced) 41.1 41.4 42.9 3.7 % ZERO PELLETS LOSS PROGRAMME ELIX forms part of a value chain of microplastics in the form of resin pellets and plastic powder. Though ELIX is not the direct cause of plastics being present in the sea, it does form part of the plastic life cycle, therefore it reaffirms its commitment to being part of the solution. This declaration was made by the company CEO in his Letter of Commitment published on World Environment Day. The Chemical Business Association of Tarragona (AEQT) work group we collaborate with has To face this global problem, ELIX acts locally. In moved on to an essential phase which consists of 2019 we created an action plan to prevent raising awareness and getting the next link of the product loss within our facilities. It should be value chain involved: logistics operators. In mentioned that ELIX production plants are November we organised an event to encourage designed with integrated contention systems to transport companies to join the programme and prevent microplastic spills into the sea. work together with us to reach our goal of zero microplastic loss. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 91 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS ABS production requires the use of hazardous chemical products and also generates waste which is classified as hazardous. If this waste is not managed properly, it can pose health risks to people or cause environmental damage. Although our monitoring and management protocols for these products are strict and comprehensive, we constantly work to raise awareness and empower our team on the importance of proper waste management, with very positive results. This year, we held the following consciousness-raising campaigns: / Environmental Awareness Days for offices, workshops and laboratories collectively. / Energy Efficiency Awareness Days. / An Informative and awareness raising day on the Zero Pellets Loss programme. / Awareness raising day on particle pollution episodes. In 2019 we reduced paper printing in our offices by 7 %. In our offices, paper consumption is a relevant issue we pay special attention to. In 2019 we observed a resurgence in the purchase of paper for printing, though levels are clearly below those of 2017, before we launched our campaign for paper consumption reduction in the different departments of our organization. Nevertheless, we have a counting system for printed materials per user which we use to monitor our company’s paper consumption. We have registered a 7% reduction since 2017 with a 4.3 % reduction between 2018 and 2019. In this way we can affirm that our campaign to reduce paper consumption has had a positive outcome. VARIATION PAPER CONSUMPTION PROGRESSION (kg) 2017 2018 2019 2018-2019 Non-recycled paper 18 18 18 0% Recycled paper 986 675 742 10 % Total paper consumption 1,004 693 760 10 % Finally, as part of our collective consciousness-raising work, we participated in the campaigns #NoCulpesAlPlástico (DontBlamePlastic) and #DiseñadosParaProteger (DesignedToProtect), initiatives promoted by the plastic industry. We have also shared our best practises on the Global Compact website. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 92 7.3 Sustainability in the supply chain The supply chain forms part of our business activity, thanks to which we have all the provisions we need to function. Sustainability at ELIX also includes the sustainable procurement of provisions, and therefore includes the extension of our sustainability policy to all of our suppliers, as demonstrated by our local purchases and the certification of suppliers who comply with our sustainability standards. At present, our procedure for certifying raw material suppliers requires management system certification based on ISO regulations. To go even further, in the near future we plan on incorporating sustainability criteria into our assessment of new suppliers through a supplier assessment protocol. Additionally, we act in compliance with the Council Regulation (EC) No 1207/2001, which regulates the use of raw materials from the European Union. We look to work with companies who adhere to sustainable criteria in line with ELIX’s sustainability strategy. SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES FOR 2019 PERFORMANCE To analyse, within our panel of suppliers for raw Request compliance of: √ material purchases and indirect purchases, those Raw materials suppliers suppliers who have an incorporated Corporate Transport suppliers Social Responsibility policy and those who do not. Compounders Relevant internal contractors External logistics (suppliers) To monitor Key Performance Indicators of COE√ COE-003 (RSC) 003 (RSC) compliance in direct purchases. To edit regulations in the corporate purchasing manual. We contribute to proximity economy and the development of the local economy with 62 % of our expenditure going to suppliers within Catalonia. Our purchasing policy at ELIX prioritises, to the extent that it is possible, the purchase of materials and products near our production centre, giving preference to the development of our local economy and as a consequence, reducing emissions resulting from transport. Currently, 17 % of our suppliers are from the province of Tarragona and 31 % from the rest of Catalonia. Our total expenditure at ELIX for local suppliers is 94 million euros, 62 % of our overall expenditure for suppliers. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 93 SUPPLY CHAIN COMPOSITION EXPENDITURE ON SUPPLIERS The relationship we have with the majority of our suppliers is a reflection of our underlining objective of establishing reliable, long-lasting ties. The service companies we collaborate with comply with a high level of stringency regarding safety standards, satisfying the requisites of both ELIX and the AEQT. Similarly, our transport suppliers are committed and maintain a proactive attitude in problem solving so we can fulfil our delivery agreements with customers, this being one of our most important differentiating factors. Our commitment to safety and the environment Sustainability Report 2019 94 SUPPLIERS BY TYPE IN 2019 Responsible economic management Sustainability Report 2019 95 Responsible economic management Sustainability Report 2019 96 8.1 Economic management and performance Sustainable Development Goals serve as a guide for the responsible management of economic resources and of risks, allowing us to remain market leaders, reach our business goals and ensure the sustainability of the company. The growth of our company and the optimisation of its added value according to principles of solvency, integrity and team dedication, as well as our rigorous compliance with legal and contractual obligations, are a guarantee of our commitment at ELIX to our shareholders and stakeholders. 2019 was a complicated year for the European chemical industry in general. ELIX was affected by the market situation: a downward trend in ABS demand, raw material price fluctuation and uncertainty caused by the trade war between China and the United States. ELIX was also affected internally by the change in shareholders that took place at the beginning of the year due to our integration into Sinochem International. In 2019 we maintained our sales in strategic sectors and reduced structural costs in our yearly budget. We were able to achieve all of this through the responsible management of economic resources, with the proper management of risks and opportunities in our environment, and establishing relationships based on equality with our stakeholders. INITIATIVES 2019 Performance Adaptation of our reporting system to the needs of our new shareholder. √ Adaptation of internal monitoring measures to group regulations. √ Establishment of best practises in internal monitoring. √ Generation of information and analysis for decision-making. √ / Growth rate per sales volume: +0.4 % (CAGR 2016-2019) / Revenue: +4 % (CAGR 2016-2019) Environmental investment and expenditure in 2019 totalled €2,264,000. Our environmental investment and expenditure demonstrate our commitment in this area. INVESTMENT IN THE ENVIRONMENT 2017 2018 2019 665,000 € 2,299,000 € 733,000 € Responsible economic management Sustainability Report 2019 97 Our investment in environmental protection goes mostly to production processes, with the aim of reducing solid waste and emissions, and increasing the safety of our facilities and business activity. To this end, we participate in various industry initiatives defending the vital importance of circular economy in protecting the environment. EXPENDITURE ON THE ENVIRONMENT 2017 2018 2019 1,438,000 € 1,547,000 € 1,531,000 € Our expenditure on the environment goes mostly to waste management: waste elimination, wastewater monitoring and air pollution. Our health and safety investment and expenditure in 2019 totalled €1,473,000. In 2019 we began to differentiate between investment and expenditure concerning workplace safety and quality, bringing visibility to our commitment to the health and safety of our team at ELIX. INVESTMENT IN HEALTH AND SAFETY 2019 EXPENDITURE ON HEALTH AND SAFETY 2019 753,000 € 720,000 € The most relevant aspects with positive benefits for the ELIX community in 2019 were: / Best practises in internal monitoring: resulting in the transparency, reliability and traceability of data to facilitate the decision-making of Senior Management and shareholders, and facilitate collaboration between departments, in internal department processes and decision-making. / Improvements in data prediction to plan for possible scenarios of risk or opportunity, and, if necessary, to facilitate the application of corrective measures. In our daily economic management work, we review internal processes to improve their efficiency and effectiveness so we can reach our established objectives. Responsible economic management Sustainability Report 2019 98 8.2 Our contribution to the local economy Our business activity at ELIX has a positive effect on the local economy thanks to our direct economic contribution through purchases, the direct and indirect employment of people and our participation in social activities which all take place in the local area. Our economic contribution Our operational costs include: cash discounts + rebates accrual + customer claims & rev. Recognition + outbound freight + sales adjustments (commissions & claims) + material + COGS other variable costs + COGS fixed costs + SGA + non-recurring income/expenses + management fees. VALUE ADDED STATUS 2019 Responsible economic management Sustainability Report 2019 99 OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE LOCAL COMMUNITY ELIX boosts the local economy, not only by hiring local suppliers (Tarragona and Catalonia) but also by creating a positive impact as we offer stable employment to 88.6 % of workers within the immediate area: the province of Tarragona. Every year we reaffirm our responsibility to and involvement with the local community increasing the benefits we provide them. The following initiatives are highlights from 2019: / We renewed our cooperation commitment with Coravant, a congenital heart disease foundation which works throughout Catalonia offering psychosocial assistance to children, teens and adults who have had heart problems since childhood. Our cooperation involves a monetary donation to support some of Coravant's social projects, such as AventuresCor camps. We have also decided to support the social sports project Cromatic Running. 25 staff members from ELIX participate in this solidarity initiative dedicating their hobby, running, to a good cause: to raise funds so that CorAvant and the Congential Cardiopathic Association (AACIC) can continue improving the quality of life of people with congenital heart disease. / We participated in a hiking day organised by the sports association Cromatic Sport. This initiative involves our contribution to the project A Cor Obert, whose objective is to offer psychosocial support to families of children and teens with congenital heart disease throughout the different phases of diagnosis as well as before and after surgery. / For yet another year, we contributed with a donation to Parc de Nadal 2019, organised by the city of La Canonja, with the aim of creating a space of fun and entertainment for children and their families. / We supported awareness activities organised by the Spanish Cancer Association (AECC). In 2019 our economic contributions to local institutions totaled €7,500. About the report Sustainability Report 2019 100 About the report Sustainability Report 2019 101 9.1 Scope of the report This is ELIX’s fourth sustainability report, covering the period of 1 January to 31 December of 2019. The scope of the information contained in this report corresponds to the business of ELIX Polymers, SL, at its main office and production plant in La Canonja (Tarragona, Spain). 9.2 Content definition and criteria for the production of the report To compile this report, we counted on the direct participation of key people from different management areas at ELIX, represented under the area of Corporate Social Responsibility, who have provided information on the different aspects included herein. In this way, it is the result of a collaborative effort, with all of the people involved contributing their knowledge and experience. During the production of this report, the following standards were considered: / GRI standards guide of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in accordance with the core option. / Regulation AA1000SES on AccountAbility for the materiality matrix. CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING REPORT CONTENT ELIX’s Sustainability Report 2019 fulfils the following criteria in determining content for this type of document according to GRI Standards: / Participation of stakeholders. When production of the sustainability report began, the different stakeholders of our company were directly involved as part of our materiality matrix. A workshop was held where key figures in our organization participated, and ELIX stakeholders were identified, prioritised and finally contacted through a survey. In 2017 there was a revision of stakeholders and material aspects, and there were also in-depth interviews with the town hall of La Canonja, Public Administration and the chemical industry of Tarragona. In 2019 we interviewed ELIX’s key customers within the framework of the organization’s sustainability strategy, taking into account their expectations for both the strategy as well as the production of this sustainability report. / / Sustainability context. In identifying the different sustainability topics relevant to our organization, benchmarking was taken into consideration to that effect. During this process, other companies in the same industry as ELIX as well as international sustainability initiatives were analysed with the purpose of knowing the sustainability context of our company and taking this context into account for the production of this document. Also taken into account was the content analysis conducted for the definition of ELIX’s new sustainability strategy. About the report Sustainability Report 2019 102 / Materiality. Taken into account for the production of this report was the materiality matrix conducted in 2016 and its subsequent revisions, all in compliance with GRI Standards and in accordance with regulation AA1000SES on AccountAbility. The analysis conducted as well as the results obtained can be consulted in section 4 of this report. / Comprehensiveness. Within the framework of our implemented management systems for quality (ISO 9001), the environment (ISO 14001), energy management (ISO 50001) and health and safety, ELIX has defined a series of tracking indicators, both absolute and relative, with the aim of monitoring the progression of our organization's behaviour over time and analysing the effects of our actions, in addition to comparing this information with that of other companies in the industry. Regarding the application of quality principles in this report, which are also defined by GRI Standards, there is a balance of information provided, including both the positive as well as negative aspects of our organization's performance. On the other hand, data provided is precise and is used for following up on the management of the different sustainability topics relevant to ELIX which are reflected in the report. Finally, data is provided for the year of publication (2019) and the two previous years (2017 and 2018). This gives us a more detailed overview of our organization's performance progress in each relevant sustainability area. Likewise, information is presented in a way that allows for comparisons with the rest of the industry, and the specific indexes included were chosen for this purpose. Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 103 Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 104 The following table summarises the general basic and specific contents of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), in accordance with the GRI standards core option. GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GRI 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 ORGANIZATION PROFILE 102-1 Organization name 10 102-2 Activities, brands, products and 10-13, 15-17 services 102-3 Main office location 12 102-4 Operations site 12 location 102-5 Ownership and legal 10 status 102-6 Served markets 13, 18-19 102-7 Organization size 12, 62 102-8 Information on 62-63, 67 8. Decent work and economic growth Principle 6: the elimination of employees and discrimination in respect of other workers employment and occupation. 102-9 Supply chain 15, 92-94 Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 105 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE 102-10 Significant changes in the organization and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary 77 principles or approach 102-12 External initiatives 44-45 102-13 Membership of 30-31 associations STRATEGY 102-14 Statement by senior 3-4 executives responsible for decision-making ETHICS AND INTEGITY 102-16 Values, principles, 26-28, 57 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions standards and rules of conduct GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance 26 structure STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 106 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE 102-40 List stakeholders 41 102-41 Collective 64 8. Decent work and economic growth Principle 3: Businesses should negotiation uphold the freedom of agreements association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 102-42 Identification and 37 selection of stakeholders 102-43 Approach for 21, 37, 41 stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key mentioned 21, 37-38 issues and concerns REPORTING PRACTISES 102-45 Entities included in 101 consolidated financial statements 102-46 Definition of report 101-102 content and coverage of each aspect Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 107 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE 102-47 List of material 39 aspects 102-48 Restatement of No information significant changes. 102-49 Changes in No changes. reporting 102-50 Reporting period 2019 102-51 Date/year of last 2018 report 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for Judith Banús, questions regarding coordinator the report of the corporate social responsibility programme: judith.banus @elixpolymers.co m 102-54 Statement of report 101 preparation in Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 108 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE accordance with GRI standards 102-55 Index of GRI content 103-134 102-56 Externally assured Not available GRI 200 ECONOMIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 96-99 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 96-99 approach and components 103-3 Management 96-99 approach evaluation GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 201-1 Direct economic 98 Absolute values 2. Zero hunger value generated for economic 5. Gender equality and distributed value generated and distributed 7. Affordable and clean energy are not 8. Decent work and economic growth Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 109 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE provided, only 9. Industria, Innovación e Infraestructura percentages. MARKET PRESENCE GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 66 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 66 approach and components 103-3 Management 66 approach evaluation GRI 202: MARKET PRESENCE 2016 202-1 Ratio of initial 67 1. No poverty salary category by 5. Gender equality gender versus local minimum wage 7. Affordable and clean energy 8. Decent work and economic growth PROCUREMENT PRACTICES GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 110 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 92-93 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 92-93 approach and components 103-3 Management 92-93 approach evaluation GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 2016 204-1 Proportion of 93 12. Responsible consumption and production expenditure paid to local suppliers ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 28 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 28 approach and components Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 111 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE 103-3 Management 28 approach evaluation GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 205-2 Communication and 28 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions Principle 10: Businesses should training about antiwork against corruption in all its corruption policies forms, including extortion and and procedures bribery. ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 20-21, 28 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 20-21, 28 approach and components 103-3 Management 20-21, 28 approach evaluation GRI 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 2016 206-1 Legal actions for There have been 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions anti-competitive no legal actions behavior, anti-trust, for unfair Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 112 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE and monopoly competition practices practises. GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIALS GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 79 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 79 approach and components 103-3 Management 79 approach evaluation GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 301-1 Materials used by 79 8. Decent work and economic growth Principle 7: Businesses should weight or volume support a precautionary 12. Responsible consumption and production approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 113 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE environmentally friendly technologies. ENERGY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 80 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 80 approach and components 103-3 Management 80 approach evaluation GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 302-1 Energy 81 7. Affordable and clean energy Principle 7: Businesses should consumption support a precautionary 8. Decent work and economic growth within the approach to environmental organization 12. Responsible consumption and production challenges. 13. Climate action Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 114 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE 302-3 Energy intensity 81 7. Affordable and clean energy Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary 8. Decent work and economic growth approach to environmental 12. Responsible consumption and production challenges. 13. Climate action Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 302-4 Reduction of 81 7. Affordable and clean energy Principle 7: Businesses should energy support a precautionary 8. Decent work and economic growth consumption approach to environmental 12. Responsible consumption and production challenges. 13. Climate action Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. WATER GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 115 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 89 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 89 approach and components 103-3 Management 89 approach evaluation GRI 303: WATER 2016 303-1 Water extraction 90 6. Clean water and sanitation Principle 7: Businesses should by source support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. BIODIVERSITY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 116 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 36-37 approach and components 103-3 Management 36-37 approach evaluation GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY 2016 304-1 Operations ELIX facilities 13. Climate action Principle 7: Businesses should centres located are not located support a precautionary 14. Life below water in or near in protected or approach to environmental protected areas high biodiversity 15. Life on land challenges. or areas of high value areas. The Principle 8: undertake initiatives biodiversity nearest natural to promote greater value space to ELIX environmental responsibility. facilities is the PEIN Sèquia Principle 9: encourage the Major, located development and diffusion of 4,1 km from our environmentally friendly plant. ELIX technologies. carries out periodic checks to prevent spills or any type of accident which could affect this Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 117 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE or other natural spaces nearby (the Zero Pellets Loss programme, as well as other actions). EMISSIONS GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 82-85 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 82-85 approach and components 103-3 Management 82-85 approach evaluation GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 305-1 Direct GHG 82 3. Good health and well-being Principle 7: Businesses should emissions (scope 1) support a precautionary 12. Responsible consumption and production approach to environmental 13. Climate action challenges. 14. Life below water 15. Life on land Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 118 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 305-2 Indirect GHG 82 3. Good health and well-being Principle 7: Businesses should emissions from support a precautionary 12. Responsible consumption and production generating energy approach to environmental (scope 2) 13. Climate action challenges. 14. Life below water Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater 15. Life on land environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 305-4 GHG emission 82 13. Climate action Principle 7: Businesses should intensity support a precautionary 14. Life below water approach to environmental 15. Life on land challenges. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 119 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE environmentally friendly technologies. 305-5 Reduction of GHG 83 13. Climate action Principle 7: Businesses should emissions support a precautionary 14. Life below water approach to environmental 15. Life on land challenges. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides 84-85 3. Good health and well-being Principle 7: Businesses should (NOX), sulfur oxides support a precautionary 12. Responsible consumption and production (SOX), and other approach to environmental significant air 13. Climate action challenges. emissions 14. Life below water Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater 15. Life on land environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 120 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 86-88 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 86-88 approach and components 103-3 Management 86-88 approach evaluation GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 306-2 Waste by type and 86-87 3. Good health and well-being Principle 7: Businesses should disposal method support a precautionary 6. Clean water and sanitation approach to environmental 12. Responsible consumption and production challenges. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 306-4 Transport of 87 3. Good health and well-being Principle 7: Businesses should hazardous waste support a precautionary 12. Responsible consumption and production approach to environmental challenges. Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 121 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 28, 84, 96 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 28, 84, 96 approach and components 103-3 Management 28, 84, 96 approach evaluation GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 2016 307-1 Non-compliance There have been 12. Responsible consumption and production Principle 7: Businesses should with environmental no support a precautionary 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions laws and nonmonetary approach to environmental regulations fines or challenges. sanctions for noncompliance with Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 122 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE environmental Principle 8: undertake initiatives laws or to promote greater regulations. environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 92-93 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 92-93 approach and components 103-3 Management 92-93 approach evaluation GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016 308-1 New suppliers that Principle 7: Businesses should were screened support a precautionary using approach to environmental environmental challenges. criteria Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 123 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. GRI 400 SOCIAL EMPLOYMENT GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 61-62 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 61-62 approach and components 103-3 Management 61-62 approach evaluation GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 401-1 New employee 62-63 5. Gender equality Principle 6: the elimination of hires and employee discrimination in respect of 8. Decent work and economic growth employment and occupation. turnover Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 124 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 64 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 64 approach and components 103-3 Management 64 approach evaluation GRI 402: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 2016 402-1 Minimum notice 64 Minimum notice 8. Decent work and economic growth Principle 3: Businesses periods regarding for should uphold the freedom operational organizational of association and the effective recognition of the changes changes is 30 right to collective days in bargaining. accordance with Principle 6: the elimination union of discrimination in respect agreement of employment and though in occupation. practise, notice is given more in advance than that established by regulations. Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 125 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 69-76 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 69-76 approach and components 103-3 Management 69-76 approach evaluation GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 403-2 Accident types and 72 3. Good health and well-being Principle 6: the elimination of frequency rate of discrimination in respect of 8. Decent work and economic growth employment and occupation. accidents, jobrelated illnesses, missed work days, absenteeism and number of deaths associated with occupational accidents or jobrelated illnesses TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 126 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 61, 65-66 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 61, 65-66 approach and components 103-3 Management 61, 65-66 approach evaluation GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 404-1 Average hours of 65 4. Educación de calidad Principle 6: the elimination of training per year discrimination in respect of 5. Gender equality employment and occupation. per employee 8. Decent work and economic growth DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 66 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 66 approach and components Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 127 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE 103-3 Management 66 approach evaluation GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 405-1 Diversity of 67 8. Decent work and economic growth Principle 6: the elimination of governance bodies discrimination in respect of and employees employment and occupation. NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 66 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 66 approach and components 103-3 Management 66 approach evaluation GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION 2016 406-1 Incidents of There have been 5. Gender equality Principle 1: Businesses should discrimination and no support and respect the 8. Decent work and economic growth 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 128 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE corrective actions discrimination protection of internationally taken cases. proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 64 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 64 approach and components 103-3 Management 64 approach evaluation GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 2016 407-1 Operations and 64 Not applicable. 8. Decent work and economic growth Principle 1: Businesses should suppliers in which support and respect the Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 129 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE the right to protection of internationally freedom proclaimed human rights. of association and Principle 2: make sure that they collective are not complicit in human bargaining may be rights abuses. at risk Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 92-93 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 92-93 approach and components 103-3 Management 92-93 approach evaluation GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 2016 414-1 New suppliers that Information not 8. Decent work and economic growth Principle 1: Businesses should were screened available. support and respect the 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions using social criteria Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 130 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 57 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 57 approach and components 103-3 Management 57 approach evaluation GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 416-1 Assessment of the 57 health and safety impacts of product Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 131 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE and service categories MARKETING AND LABELING GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 57-58 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 57-58 approach and components 103-3 Management 57-58 approach evaluation GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING 2016 417-1 Requirements for 57-58 12. Responsible consumption and production product and service 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions information and labeling SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 28, 57, boundary of 75-76, 92 material aspects Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 132 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE 103-2 Management 28, 57, 75-76, 92 approach and components 103-3 Management approach evaluation GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 2016 419-1 Non-compliance There have been 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions with laws and no regulations in the nonmonetary social and fines or economic area sanctions for noncompliance with local socioeconomic laws or regulations. PRODUCT AND PROCESS INNOVATION GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 52-57 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 52-57 approach and components Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 133 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE 103-3 Management 52-57 approach evaluation Investment in R&D 6 (% of turnover) MEMBERSHIP OF INDUSTRY SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 44-45 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 44-45 approach and components 103-3 Management 44-45 approach evaluation Adherence to 44-45 sectoral sustainability initiatives CUSTOMER CARE (POST-SALES SERVICE) GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 134 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 20-24 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 20-24 approach and components 103-3 Management 20-24 approach evaluation Customer 23-24 Satisfaction Survey Results LIFE CYCLE ANALYSIS GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 47-51 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 47-51 approach and components 103-3 Management 47-51 approach evaluation Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 135 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE Calculation of 83 Lifecycle Analysis SUSTAINABILITY MONITORING OF PORTFOLIO PRODUCTS GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 52-55 boundary of material aspects 103-2 Management 52-55 approach and components 103-3 Management 52-55 approach evaluation Portfolio renewal 52-55 with more sustainable products (% of sales) PROMOTION OF CIRCULAR ECONOMY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation and 34-37, 47-51 boundary of material aspects Index of GRI standards Sustainability Report 2019 136 GRI STANDARDS PAGE O OMMISIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GLOBAL COMPACT DIRECT RESPONSE 103-2 Management 47-51 approach and components 103-3 Management 47-51 approach evaluation Initiatives to 50-51 promote the circular economy We would like to thank everyone who has contributed to the production of this sustainability report. We would also like to extend our thanks to all of those who allow us to grow in a sustainable way, especially our customers, suppliers and distributors, as well as our team and their families, and our shareholders. Together, day by day, we make a difference! ELIX-polymers.com
