Building momentum for growtH SUSTAinability report 2019 Building momentum for growtH Polyus is committed to the UN Global Compact corporate responsibility initiative and its principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Contents ABOUT POLYUS LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR APPROACH TO OUR MATERIAL ADDITIONAL INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES 4 Polyus at a glance 8 Interview with 14 Strategic view 118 About this the Chairman Report 5 A year 16 Sustainability of achievement 10 Interview with governance 122 Independent the CEO assurance 6 Where we operate 18 ICMM membership statement 20 Our contribution 30  Ethics and 80 Environmental 126 G  RI Content to Sustainable Human Rights stewardship Index Development Goals 136 Contacts 24 Commitment to UN Global Compact Principles Polyus represents the “gold standard” 25 Commitment to in gold mining. When producing external initiatives 44  Human 94 Energy and gold we contribute to economic Capital Climate Сhange development and technological advancement within Russia. We are determined to fulfil our mission by creating value for all of our stakeholders in a most efficient and prudent way, while at the same time ensuring safe working conditions and 60  Health 102 Local taking care of the environment. and Safety Сommunities 2 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 3 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI 102-16 p o ly u s at a g l a n c e A y e ar o f ac h i ev em en t P o ly u s t o d ay Our mission O u r va l u e s P o ly u s i n m a j o r E S G r at i n g s GRI 102-1 When producing gold, we contribute Our values serve to guide employees to prosperity and technological at all our production sites as they aspire PJSC Polyus1 is one of the world’s ten advancement within Russia. We are to achieve exceptional results in their WWF and the UN S u s ta i n a ly t i c s largest gold mining companies. And as determined to fulfil our mission and daily work. Our key values are: In 2019 Polyus took first place among 71 points —up nine from the 62 received the biggest gold producer in Russia, we create value for all our stakeholders 41 Russian companies in the annual Russian in the previous assessment in 2017. • Efficiency know that a proactive and integrated in the most efficient and prudent way, Metals and Mining Companies Environmental approach to sustainability management while at the same time ensuring safe • Development Transparency Rating. is an essential element of our success. working conditions and taking care of • Safety In order to maintain our leading position, the environment. we make every effort to integrate the • Sustainability M S C I E S G R at i n g Rob ecoSAM best sustainability practices into our • Professionalism • BBB (up from BB in 2018); inclusion in the 45 points (up from 22 in 2018). operations and set an exemplary MSCI ESG Index series. • Cooperation industry standard in responsible mining. • A (up from BBB in 2019) in early 2020 Our position in the industry FTSE4Good CDP Climate Change CDP Water Security D (up from F in 2018). D (up from F in 2018). Inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index series. 1 st gold producer in Russia 1 st in terms of proven and probable gold reserves in Russia 2 nd in terms of proven and probable gold reserves globally CDP Forests The only top-25 mining company by market cap and one of a few Russian companies to respond to the biodiversity-related data disclosure request (Not scored) Key figures, 2019 O u r awa r d s i n 2 0 1 9 Company revenue, Total gold produced, employees completed our The Polyus workforce was officially Polyus won the ‘Precious Metals Industry $ million koz online anti-corruption course commended by the Russian President for its Leadership Award’ category at the S&P 4,005 2,841 5,500+ achievements in developing the gold mining Global Platts Global Metals Awards 2019. industry and high performance. First place in the Festival of creative industries Second place in the Forbes ranking of 50 best Average headcount, Employees received LTIFR G8 AWARDS 2019, in the ‘Illustration’ Russian employers in 2019. employees training category, for our work on Polyus’ corporate calendar. 19,674 93 % 0.08 Based on an evaluation of its Sustainability Report 2018, Polyus was included in the • First place in the ‘Best film on innovative technologies’ category at the mineMovie lists of leaders of two RSPP indexes: 2019 Film Festival, for the film: Best reduction in carbon Total environmental protection of water recycled ‘Responsibility and transparency’ and Technological Solutions. intensity vs 2018 expenditures, $ million and reused ‘Sustainable development vector’. • Second place in the ‘Best film about social 16 % 11.0 94 % and environmental projects’ category, at the mineMovie 2019 Film Festival for the film ‘Festival of Contemporary Art. Territory of Magadan’. charity and sponsorship Expenditure on social Tax and licence payments made projects implemented in the Awa r d s r e c e i v e d by o u r b u s i n e s s u n i t s a n d s u p p o r t s e rv i c e s projects, $ million to federal budget, $ million regions of operations • Polyus Krasnoyarsk won the ‘Exploration Project of the Year’ category in the 13th Russian Mining Excellence Award competition, 47.3 436.7 > 130 for the Blagodatnoye deposit project, the company’s second-largest asset. • The Acting Managing Director of Polyus Krasnoyarsk was awarded a Diploma of Honour by the Russian President. • Polyus Verninskoye was named leader in ‘Occupational Health and Safety’ at the Leaders of Russian Business: Dynamics and 1 PJSC Polyus, together with its subsidiaries, is referred to in the Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 as the ‘сompany’ or ‘Polyus’. Responsibility National Awards 2018 organised by the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (RSPP). For a full list of subsidiaries, see the About this Report section. 4 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 5 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI 102-4 · GRI 102-6 KEY W h e r e w e o p e r at e Operating mines Projects at exploration stage Polyus operates a portfolio of established mines located in remote regions across Russia, including Krasnoyarsk Territory, the Irkutsk and Magadan Regions and the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia). We recognise our responsibility towards the economic and social prosperity and wellbeing of these regions – and make consistent efforts to improve living standards in our areas of operation. These efforts include launching and supporting infrastructure development projects, providing job opportunities and decent working conditions, effectively managing environmental issues 3 and implementing charitable initiatives. 2 6 1 4 8 7 5 9 1 2 3 4 5 6 Panimba and 7 Razdolinskaya C h e r t ovo Ko ry t o • Location: Krasnoyarsk Territory •L  ocation: Irkutsk Region O l i m p i a da a n d Kuranakh N ata l k a V e r n i n s koy e Alluvials B l ag o dat n oy e • Measured, indicated, and • Measured, indicated, and inferred mineral resources inferred mineral resources Location Krasnoyarsk Territor y Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) Magadan Region Irkutsk Region Irkutsk Region (ounces): 2.6 mln (ounces): 3.6 mln 8 9 Share of the company’s gold 49 15 14 9 8 output, % Share of the company’s Oli m piada 51 , 6 13 9 3 adjusted EBITDA, % Blagodatnoye 15 Average headcount 5,603 1 ,813 1 ,739 1 ,149 2,901 Su khoi Log B a m s koy e  xpenditure on social E 1 , 595 181 940 474 391 support activities for the •L  ocation: Irkutsk Region •L  ocation: Amur Region region, $ thousands • Measured, indicated, and • Measured, indicated, and inferred mineral resources inferred mineral resources Total GHG emissions, 1.66 0.33 0.15 0.16 0.20 (ounces): 63 mln (ounces): 1.1 mln Mt CO2-e 6 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 7 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI 102-14 · GRI 102-15 Q & A w i t h E D WA R D D O W L I N G , O u r S u s ta i n a b i l i t y j o u r n e y Chairman Over the years, Polyus has managed to achieve remarkable results in developing its health, safety, environmental, business ethics, community, and personnel management practices. The company has put considerable efforts into aligning these practices with globally recognised sustainability principles. Today, we are closer than ever to our goal of becoming a world-class company that takes full responsibility for its Committing to sustainability principles means that companies set goals operations – and focuses on delivering long-term value that continually surpasses previous performance and results. that require them to enhance their approaches and rise to the challenges of our changing world. There are many reasons to pursue this course – and 2012 2016 2019 there are clear business benefits to be derived from following a path • The company’s first sustainability • A comprehensive set of health, • Focus on rising transparency of sustainability excellence. Our report prepared and safety, environment and social on ESG issues by increasing experience shows that companies independently assured related internal documents information about sustainability that excel at integrating sustainability elaborated on the company’s website disciplines also generally incur the 2013 and widening the scope of lowest costs and are the most effective operators. On the Board of Directors, • S takeholder Engagement 2017 sustainability reporting we are convinced that this forms an Policy and Human Rights Policy • ICMM Independent Expert • First ISO Energy management inherent and significant part of ensuring Polyus’ ongoing success. developed Review successfully concluded certification 50001 conducted on and ICMM membership confirmed Polyus Verninskoye QW  hat makes you confident that 2014 • Sustainable Development Goals • Inclusion into the MSCI Emerging the company is moving in the right direction in terms of sustainable • Launch of full-scale safety culture determined for alignment Markets ESG Leaders Index development? improvement programme, with AO  ur stakeholders are becoming a focus on behaviour audits, 2018 2020 Q What does ‘improving sustainability One of the new considerations actively increasingly diligent and interested performance’ mean to Polyus? under discussion – and driving us risk assessment and root cause • Automated HSE data and process in our sustainability performance • D evelopment of A Sustainability refers simply to a way forward – is ESG standards being results. Polyus is benchmarked analysis management system launched adopted by banks and the investment Climate Change Strategy of doing and managing business. against other companies – and having • Safety committees set up • Integrated HSE Management At Polyus we strive to ensure that community. I am pleased to report our achievements independently System certified under ISO 14001 all drivers of sustainability: safety, health, environment, and community that Polyus has made good progress in this area. We are working hard to recognised is a clear signal that we have chosen the right course. 2015 and ISO 45001 considerations – are incorporated into transform our reporting from simply • S ustainability Management • Inclusion into the FTSE4Good all work elements. Sustainability is not having a sustainability dimension to We were proud to learn that most Emerging Markets Index System complying with IFC and something that is separate from our including the most recent ESG reporting of this year’s assessments of ESG work, but a vital component within the process of achieving success. Our sustainability performance has requirements. Q What is Polyus’s main motivation in putting so much effort into ratings were higher than in 2018. In 2019 our achievements in this field included raising our MSCI ESG Rating assessment from BB in 2018 to BBB ICMM requirements formalised • Sustainability Working Group established 2020 developing its sustainability been a key focus area for us for a in 2019 (and then to A in early 2020), practices? considerable time now. It has been being included in the MSCI ESG Index almost a decade since we revised our A The world around us, and the business Series, and raising our Sustainalytics strategic approach to doing business – choosing to focus on a comprehensive environment in particular, are changing more rapidly than ever. New trends, and RobecoSam ratings. Other successes included taking second 2016 system of sustainability management that goes far beyond legal or regulatory ideas and risks are emerging daily – and having a serious impact on society and market participants. We believe place in the Forbes ranking of the 50 best Russian employers. 2017 requirements. This process was accelerated by our commitment to that only companies that anticipate For us sustainability is a journey, rather meet International Council on Metals these changing external conditions and than a destination. We are proud of our 2012 and Mining best practice standards. I evaluate the most significant potential current results, but at the same time are was personally very proud of Polyus’ risks and opportunities can expect to be determined to maintain our efforts and management when the company successful. to further enhance our sustainability became the first Russian or Eastern practices. European company to be accepted into the ICMM. 2013 2015 2019 MOEX and LSE ticker 2014 PLZL 2018 8 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 9 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI 102-14 · GRI 102-15 Q & A w i t h Pav e l G r a c h e v, Ch i ef Executive Officer In 2019 we worked hard to further Key risk minimisation programmes In 2019, we launched internal energy of operation: Krasnoyarsk Territory, integrate sustainability throughout our were implemented during the year audits across all our business units to Magadan Region, Irkutsk Region, and business functions and processes. with a view to preventing falls, electric evaluate the effectiveness of our energy the Republic of Sakha. We engaged actively with internal shocks and accidents involving rotating strategy. The findings of these audits and external stakeholders to better and moving equipment. These included will be used to elaborate a new energy Q Polyus has always recognised the understand their interests and concerns. designing and installing safety systems, strategy in 2020 that will correspond importance of a strong corporate equipment upgrades, additional training culture and has a policy of We are pleased to report significant to the most pertinent climate change intolerance towards corruption. How improvements to our rankings in major and updating how business processes issues, as well as the outlook for Polyus would you describe the company’s ESG ratings. For example, in 2019 are organised. in terms of boosting energy efficiency. approach to conducting business in we moved from second to first place accordance with ethical standards? in the annual Transparency Rating of Q January 2019 saw the terrible In the coming year we also plan to Brumadinho dam disaster, when A Our approach is based on our deeply Environmental Responsibility of Metals conduct climate risk assessments and a tailings dam in Brazil suffered a held belief that no violation should be and Mining Companies (WWF). develop our climate strategy. catastrophic failure, with appalling left unnoticed or not investigated. It is QY  ou mentioned that human resource consequences. This tragedy was QP  olyus is committed to supporting essential that everyone who interacts management issues are among the followed by a public call from the the socio-economic development with Polyus clearly understands the company’s sustainable development investor community to establish of local communities. What did the company’s position on issues relating priorities. What were Polyus’s key a new international and publicly company focus on in 2019? to business ethics. Hence we work HR management results in 2019? accessible standard for tailings continuously on determining our key dams. What is Polyus’ position AP  olyus contributes to promoting and AO  ur operating and production maintaining the socio-economic rules of behaviour and communicating towards this initiative? them to our stakeholders. performances depend directly on our prosperity of the regions of our A We feel deep sympathy for those employees. Therefore, we believe it is operation. We do this by providing affected by this disaster – and there In 2019 we reviewed and improved the essential to make continual efforts to employment to local people and are clearly lessons to be learnt. For internal documents that determine our Q Polyus works continuously to Q In 2019 Polyus joined the United boost the effectiveness of our personnel investing in developing infrastructure, improve its performance in the area Nations Global Compact, the world’s this reason, ensuring the safety of our position in terms of business ethics, and management system. In 2019 we sports and education. We recognise of sustainable development. What largest corporate sustainability Tailing Storage Facilities (TSF) is an worked on developing new methods completed the automation of basic that – as a major company – we was the approach to sustainability initiative. What were the reasons essential part of our activities, and to effectively communicate these HR processes, making them more influence the lives of thousands of management in 2019? behind this, and what were the other Polyus fully supports the Mining and documents to our employees. comprehensive and integrated – and people, hence we are committed to A We recognise that the high level of significant achievements during the Tailings Safety Initiative. In 2019 we faster and more convenient for current ensuring that our activities have lasting, trust we receive from our stakeholders reporting year? developed the TSF Safety Report, Q What lies ahead for Polyus vis-à-vis and potential employees alike. positive impacts. should never be taken for granted. A In Polyus, we believe that a sustainable which is publicly available and contains sustainable development? Therefore we continuously strive future can only be achieved through all the requested information. A We will remain resolute in upholding While the motivation and professionalism Polyus enters into socio-economic to ensure that their interests are cooperation and sharing best practices. of our present employees remains a the trust of our stakeholders. We intend partnership agreements with the incorporated into our sustainability We therefore use every opportunity at As a member of the International to further strengthen and improve our priority, we recognise the importance of authorities in the regions where we practices. We understand that our our disposal to engage in both global Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), sustainability practices to ensure that attracting young specialists to Polyus. operate – and as part of this, we activities have a profound impact on and local sustainability initiatives. Polyus is actively working, in close our contribution to creating a safer and In 2019 we began implementing a new implement various infrastructure society and the environment – and that We were very pleased to become a collaboration with the ICMM, RMI, and more sustainable future continues to be approach to working with educational projects. In addition, we actively this entails a high level of responsibility participant in the United Nations Global UNEP, on the text of the standard for positive. institutions. Based on an evaluation participate in the cultural life of the from us as a company. We take all Compact and look forward to promoting the safe management of TSF, including of our current methods – and best regions: we annually hold the ‘Polyus: possible measures to maximise our sustainable development under the intensive internal discussions on As we develop our business, we will practice in this area – we developed the Golden Season’ theatre festival and positive contributions and to mitigate UN’s leadership. We confirm our potential ways to implement it. ensure that our actions and policies Universities and Colleges Collaboration sponsor the various city, professional any negative impacts. support of the Ten Principles of the UN’s Concept. We believe this will significantly are consistent with the status of being and national holidays. For example, in Global Compact in the areas of Human Tailing Storage Facilities safety is an industry leader, both in terms of improve the way we attract young people 2019 in honour of the anniversary of While we put the health and safety Rights, Labour, Environment and a key aspect of our environmental operational results and the level of our to the company. Magadan, we organised the ‘Territory. of our employees first, Polyus also Anti-corruption – and are committed to performance. We also pay close sustainability practice. Magadan’ theatre festival as a gift to prides itself on conducting business in implementing them in our business. QS  afety is a key Polyus value. The attention to water management, the residents of the city and the region. compliance with ethical standards – and company closely monitors practices air emissions, waste management, Polyus also organised an interactive working towards better environmental The UN Global Compact initiatives that contribute to reducing injuries, cyanide and hazardous substances scientific and educational platform as and socio-economic outcomes in correspond with the sustainable work-related ill-health and mortality management, biodiversity management part of World University Games 2019. the regions where we operate. We development framework of the among Polyus employees. Which and land conservation. also pay close attention to employee International Council on Mining and initiatives helped Polyus achieve outstanding safety results in 2019? Q Energy management – and its In early 2020, we did our utmost to development and motivation levels, Metals (ICMM). Given that Polyus prevent the spread of COVID-19 and A In 2019 we reduced our lost time injury impact on climate change – is one Polyus named because we understand that our has been an ICMM member for ensure safety and well-being of our Russia’s most frequency rate (LTIFR) by around 11%, of the most discussed issues on strength lies principally in our people. several years, we have organised our the global agenda. What was the employees and local communities transparent practices in accordance with the ICMM from 0.09 in 2018 to 0.08. This is a metals and mining company’s focus here in 2019? during the pandemic. Besides the sustainable development framework. strong indicator of how much safer company according A Our energy management projects necessary measures on our sites As a result, by the time we joined the our working conditions have become. to WWF annual provide Polyus’ facilities with more and offices aimed at protecting the UN Global Compact, our sustainability According to a comparative study we rating reliable and cost-effective power employees and contactors’ health, activities were already closely aligned conducted in 2019, this is the lowest sources and lower our GHG emissions. jointly with the Far East Development with its principles. indicator among Russian mining and This in turn enhances our environmental Fund we established a $15.4 million Tailings safety UN Global metallurgical companies. Regrettably – and economic performance. It’s why we fund to finance activities aimed at report: published Compact: and despite the continuous efforts being in June 2019, believe it is important to continuously fighting COVID-19 in the Russian Far joined in April 2019 made – there was a single fatality in available at upgrade our GHG emissions and East. Polyus also donated 45 medical 2019, due to electric shock. www.polyus.com energy management systems. ventilators to hospitals in its regions 10 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 11 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information O u r a p p r oac h t o S u s ta i n a b i l i t y “Polyus recognises the significant role that sustainable development plays in achieving global prosperity and in the success of every major company. We are committed to conducting business in a responsible manner and to delivering value for our stakeholders.” Pav e l G r a c h e v C E O o f PJ S C P o ly u s 14 Strategic view 16 Sustainability governance 18 ICMM membership 20 Our contribution to Sustainable Development Goals 24 Commitment to UN Global Compact Principles 25 Commitment to external initiatives 12 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 13 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information S t r at e g i c v i e w Our approach to managing the sustainability related aspects of our activities includes maintaining a focus on maximising the positive impact of our operations on society and avoiding – or minimising – any negative effects. We take stakeholder interests into account at every stage of the asset life-cycle, and focus on delivering long-term value in a way that meets our interests and needs – and those of our external stakeholders. S ys t e m at i c a p p r oac h S t r at e g i c g oa l s S u s ta i n a b i l i t y S u s ta i n a b i l i t y r i s k 1 d o c u m e n t f r a m e wo r k m a n ag e m e n t Polyus’ systematic approach to sustainable development is reflected in Achieving sustainable growth Polyus’ sustainability performance is GRI 102-15 its goal-setting, organisational structures, in production while effectively regulated by a set of internal corporate business processes and sustainability managing environmental documents. These establish a The management of environmental, related corporate documents. Our and social risks at each framework for the effective management social, and economic risks forms an sustainability performance is guided by stage of the asset’s life cycle: of sustainability related issues and essential element of Polyus’ sustainability the corporate Sustainability Management exploration, design, extraction associated risks. management activities – and sustainability System (SMS), which forms an integral and enrichment, closure and risk management is an integral part of the rehabilitation. The primary document that regulates the part of our operating model. The SMS company’s corporate risk management 2 company’s sustainability related practices was developed in accordance with system. As part of a continuous risk is the Sustainability Management System Performance Standards 1-8 of the management process, sustainability risks Achieving excellent financial standard. This formalises how the system International Finance Corporation (IFC), are identified, assessed and monitored, results and complying with is organised, including key priority areas the Sustainability Principles and Position the principles of sustainable both at Managing сompany and business and the distribution of responsibilities. Statements of the International Council development in our unit/support service level. on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and other operations. The management of specific aspects The company has identified 20 key 3 applicable national and international of sustainable development, such as corporate risks, which include the sustainability standards and guidelines. stakeholder engagement and tailing following sustainability related risks: Achieving a zero injury facilities safety, is regulated by a set of As we strive to ensure the effectiveness of rate through implementing dedicated corporate documents. These • non-compliance with legal requirements our sustainability management approach, a world-class safety culture. ensure that we take a tailored approach 4 the SMS is designed to cover all key • mining risks, including related to pit walls to improving our performance in the most stages of the company’s management • negative environmental impacts important areas of sustainability. cycle: from planning and goal-setting to Being a reliable partner, managing improvements. An important More information about the company’s • lack of skilled human resources including for local part of the SMS is the Integrated HSE communities in our regions sustainability document framework can be • accidents at worksites Management system, which ensures of operation, and conducting found on our corporate website. that Polyus practices in environmental • power shortages an open dialogue with and social areas comply with the highest stakeholders, always taking • ineffective interaction with government standards. their interests into account in authorities the decision-making process. 5 To achieve tangible and long-term sustainable development results, we have set five strategic goals for the years Developing a team of 2020–2027. In 2019, these goals were professionals that will help the analysed and updated in the Sustainability company achieve the leading Working Group. position in the industry, while complying with sustainable development principles. See more in our Annual Review. 14 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 15 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI 102-18 · GRI 102-19 · GRI 102-20 · GRI 102-26 · GRI 102-27 · GRI 102-29 · GRI 102-31 S u s ta i n a b i l i t y g o v e r n a n c e The company's sustainability governance structure Holding сompany level Board of Directors Edward Dowling Sustainability management is embedded in Polyus’ corporate governance system. Chairman, Independent Director Responsibility for managing sustainability within the company’s activities is distributed and allocated at all organisational levels of the company: PJSC Polyus (the Holding Audit Committee Nomination & Strategy Operations Kent Potter Remuneration Committee Committee company), MC Polyus LLC (the Managing company), and at operational level Independent Director Committee Edward Dowling William Champion Maria Gordon Independent Director Independent Director (Business Units and Support Services). This ensures that both the strategic and Independent Director operational aspects of sustainable development are appropriately managed. See more in our Annual Review. Managing сompany level H o l d i n g C o m pa n y l e v e l M a n ag i n g C o m pa n y O p e r at i o n a l l e v e l Chief level Executive Overall responsibility for managing At each Business Unit and Support sustainability lies with the Board of At Managing сompany level, the main role Service of the company there is an Officer Directors. The Board determines the in sustainability governance is held by integrated HSE management structure in Pavel Grachev strategic directions and key areas Pavel Grachev, Chief Executive Officer place. Integrated management structures of sustainable development; it also (CEO). The CEO monitors improvements comprise HSE services headed by HSE bears responsibility for final sign-off on in sustainability management as well Directors, working groups, and safety non-financial reporting and annually as the distribution of sustainability committees. HSE Directors report reviews the company’s sustainability related responsibilities among functional directly to the General Directors of each management results. divisions. Business Unit and Support Service, Central Senior Vice President, Operations and the HSE&SD Director at Managing A key role in overseeing the governance In addition, two designated bodies: Safety Vladimir Polin сompany level. of sustainability performance at Board the Central Safety Committee and Committee level is assigned to William Champion, the Sustainability Working Group, HSE Directors monitor the management an independent director. Mr Champion operate at Managing сompany level of HSE issues, ensuring that all activities draws on 30 years of mining experience to support qualitative discussions and correspond to the relevant internal to facilitate the implementation of worldefficient decision-making on sustainable requirements established by the Managing class sustainability management practices development issues. сompany. They are also responsible for at Polyus. corresponding units’ compliance with HSE The main goal of the Central Safety HSE&SD Vice President, Vice President, Vice President, Vice President, Public Vice President, legal requirements. Director Commerce Operations Government HR and Relations Project The Board Committees serve to Committee’s work is to ensure that & Logistics & Technical Organisational Director Management Roman Relations increase the effectiveness of the Board’s timely measures are taken to prevent Each business unit has a safety Felix Development Sergey Development Victoria & Capital Dertinov activities related to financial reporting industrial accidents, occupational diseases committee, which performs functions Itskov Andrey Zhuravlev Tamara Vasilyeva Construction Nikolai and disclosure, risk management, audit, and threats to environmental safety. similar to those of the Central Committee. Krylov Solntseva Bukharov nomination and remuneration and strategy When implementing its functions, the All the categories of workers can and operations. Committee conducts continuous analysis participate in the committee’s meetings. and assessments of the company’s Designated HSE specialists at each occupational safety and environmental business unit ensure that the conduct of protection activities. The Committee personnel complies with respective safety operates under the leadership of the requirements. Senior Vice President in Operations, and Sustainability Working Group Head of SD Working Group comprises the senior management of the Representatives of all functional units Daria Grigoreva company and the CEOs of business units and support services. The Sustainability Working Group also forms an essential part of the Polyus Operational level sustainability governance system. The Working Group integrates sustainability General/managing directors considerations into the company’s of Business Units Safety operational activities. Its main functions committees include determining sustainability at Business objectives and ensuring that the Unit level company’s activities comply with relevant principles and standards. The Working HSE Services Group comprises the heads of functional units engaged in managing various sustainability issues. 16 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 17 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI 102-12 · GRI 102-13 ICMM membership Five years In 2019 Polyus, represented by its CEO, ICM M Pe r for man ce C a s e s t u dy of membership worked closely with the ICMM to develop E x p e c tat i o n s an international standard for tailing Polyus has been an approved member storage facilities. Our CEO Pavel Grachev In recent years we have actively M i n i n g pa r t n e r s h i p s f o r d e v e l o p m e n t of the International Council on Mining is a member of the working group participated in developing ICMM and Metals (ICMM), an international performance expectations. These are As the only Eastern European company we organised a conference on waste Topics of focus of th e developing the standard. The work will member of the ICMM, Polyus has taken management in mining. This topic is hosted events organisation promoting sustainable proceed in 2020. aimed at enhancing basic principles mining, since 2015. in order to highlight clear strategic on a voluntary commitment to explain especially pertinent, due to recent Polyus has representatives on the ICMM’s and promote the ICMM framework changes in Russian legislation. Event Joining the ICMM implies execution of deliberative bodies and working groups. directions; therefore, they are more detailed and contain additional information for sustainable development among participants included representatives 2017 W  ater management the ICMM Sustainable Development Pavel Grachev represents the company in Russian mining and metals companies. from large Russian and global mining and provisions. This ICMM initiative (Moscow) Framework, which includes compliance the ICMM CEO Council. The company’s To help achieve this goal, we annually companies, Polyus employees, ICMM is aimed at establishing a benchmark with ICMM sustainability principles and Head of Sustainable Development is organise public events dedicated to representatives and St Petersburg Mining for responsible practices in the mining position statements. a member of the ICMM Principal Liaisons industry. The performance expectations specific sustainability topics. Each time the topic is chosen in collaboration with University students. Involving young specialists is a new practice for Polyus, 2018 Health & Safety (Krasnoyarsk) Membership allows Polyus to interact Committee, which is responsible for include new responsible mining practices implementing ICMM strategy. Our not covered by ICMM principles or the ICMM and our peers to ensure its adopted for the first time in 2019. with the ICMM and share knowledge and representatives regularly participate in the relevance and importance. experience of implementing sustainability practices with other ICMM members. work of the ICMM working groups such position statements. In 2019, in collaboration with The next event will be in summer 2020 in Irkutsk, dedicated to climate change. 2019 Waste management H&S, Water, GHG emissions reduction, In 2019 Polyus participated in discussions (St. PetersbuRg) on how to best integrate and communicate St. Petersburg Mining University, An important part of the company’s Tailings, Climate change and Social ongoing cooperation with the ICMM is the Goals. performance expectations. From participation of Polyus representatives in various ICMM committees and working 2020, companies will be required to perform business unit self-assessments R e l e va n c e t o 1 2020 Climate(Irkutsk) change groups. of compliance with performance at ta i n i n g S D G and ICMM principles ICMM expectations. Polyus takes its duties as and position Partnerships for a member of the ICMM seriously – and s tat e m e n t s : development performed a pilot self-assessment in 1 ICMM. Stakeholder engagement 2019 to develop an optimal way to ensure ICMM Pavel Grachev compliance with this requirement and find CEO Council CEO the most efficient way for business units to make assessments. Principal Liaisons Daria Grigoreva Committee (PLC) Group Head of SD Communications Programme Committee Environment Programme Committee Social & Economic Development Programme Committee Health & Safety Programme Committee 18 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 19 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI 102-12 · GRI 102-13 O u r c o n t r i b u t i o n t o S u s ta i n a b l e D e v elo p m en t G oa l s Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote Goal 4: Ensure inclusive Goal 6: Ensure availability Goal 7: Ensure access well-being for all at all ages and equitable quality and sustainable to affordable, reliable, education and promote management of water and sustainable and modern lifelong learning sanitation for all energy for all opportunities for all Goal 3.5. Strengthen the prevention and treatment of substance Goal 4.4. By 2030, substantially increase Goal 6.3. By 2030, improve water quality Goal 7.3. By 2030, double the global rate abuse, including narcotic drug abuse and the harmful use of the number of youth and adults who have by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping of improvement in energy efficiency. alcohol. relevant skills, including technical and and minimising release of hazardous vocational skills, for employment, decent chemicals and materials, halving the Goal 3.6. By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries jobs and entrepreneurship. proportion of untreated wastewater and from road traffic accidents. substantially increasing recycling and safe Goal 3.9. By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths reuse globally. and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water, and soil Goal 6.4. By 2030, substantially increase pollution and contamination. water-use efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from water scarcity. Our approach to sustainability management is designed Our contribution: Our contribution: Our contribution: Our contribution: to meet the expectations of global sustainability initiatives, • We ensure that all employees and contractors have the • We provide learning and professional • We use pit and waste water in closed • We continuously improve our energy contribute to achieving their goals and comply with best necessary knowledge and equipment to able to perform their development opportunities for circulation systems at most of our efficiency. industry practices. Polyus supports the United Nations duties safely, both for themselves and the environment. employees. facilities. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted in 2015 • We improve the energy infrastructure in by the UN General Assembly, and endeavours to make a • We provide healthcare to all company employees. • We share knowledge in the mining • We reduce impacts on surface water remote regions of the country. meaningful contribution to attaining them. sphere through collaborating with sources by lowering water intake • We involve local communities in our healthcare campaigns. • We completely halted the operation colleges and universities. volumes and boosting wastewater of diesel power plants at Olimpiada In 2019 Polyus joined the Global Compact and the Global • We adopt a principle of zero tolerance towards the use of treatment efficiency. • We implement joint programmes with and Blagodatnoye, which led to a drop Compact’s local Russian network. alcohol and drugs on our production sites. universities and colleges. in diesel fuel consumption. We also While recognising the importance of all 17 SDGs, we • We monitor our impacts on air and water in order to prevent any connected to more efficient federal focused our efforts on nine goals that are of particular negative effects on the health of the local population. power grid supplies. relevance to our business and where Polyus can make the • From 2016 to 2019 we reduced our total automotive accident rate biggest impact. The applicability of the SDGs to our business (TAARk) by 30%. operations is periodically re-evaluated. In 2019, Goal 15: Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss was Our programmes: Our programmes: Our programmes: Our programmes: included in the list of relevant SDGs under the Polyus SD • The Healthy Heart Programme has been implemented: • Organising excursions to our gold • Energy audits – see page 95. WG decision. employees undergo mandatory ultrasound of the heart and mining facilities for teachers and • The Water Campaign – see page 84. • ISO Energy management certification The table on the right presents ten SDGs that we focus neck – see page 76. students from local schools. • Regular safety monitoring, annual 50001 was conducted at Polyus on and demonstrates how Polyus’ activities contribute • The Daily Digital MedChecks Project: automated medical • Supporting the professionally orientated and independent audits of tailings – Verninskoye. to achieving the SDGs. Examples of specific Polyus systems were installed, covering 98% of pre-trip and pre-shift project ‘Mining Class’ in school No.4 at see page 88. • Energy supply improvement at sustainability related activities and their relevance to medical examinations – see page 77. Nizhny Kuranakh. • Participation in the ICMM policy editing Olimpiada – see page 101. attaining the SDGs are illustrated through individual case on the safety of tailings – see page 88. • Men’s and Women’s Health: oncological screenings of • Corporate University, aggregating studies and associated pictograms throughout this Report. • Construction of a double-circuit 1110employees – see page 77. all Polyus trainings and courses – kV Taiga – Olimpiada power line – see page 53. • Running a number of learning programmes on transport safety, see page 101. including defensive driving training – see page 72. 98% of pre-trip and pre-shift medical examinations 18,264 employees covered by training 94% share of water recycled 12.58 tj fuel and energy savings from of all employees are performed with the use and education programmes and reused in 2019 energy efficiency improvement of automated modules in 2019 programmes in 2019 20 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 21 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI 102-12 · GRI 102-13 O u r c o n t r i b u t i o n t o S u s ta i n a b l e D e v e l o p m e n t G o a l s continueD Goal 8: Promote sustained, Goal 9: Build resilient Goal 12: Ensure Goal 13: Take urgent Goal 15: Sustainably Goal 17: Strengthen the inclusive, and sustainable infrastructure, promote sustainable consumption action to combat climate manage forests, combat means of implementation economic growth, full and inclusive and sustainable and production patterns change and its impacts desertification, halt and and revitalise the productive employment, industrialisation and reverse land degradation, global partnership for and decent work for all foster innovation halt biodiversity loss sustainable developments Goal 8.3. Promote development-oriented Goal 9.1. Develop quality, reliable, Goal 12.2. By 2030, achieve the Goal 13.1. Strengthen resilience and Goal 15.1. By 2020, ensure the Goal 17.16. Enhance the global policies that support productive activities, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, sustainable management and efficient use adaptive capacity to climate-related conservation, restoration, and sustainable partnership for sustainable development, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, including regional and trans-border of natural resources. hazards and natural disasters in all use of terrestrial and inland freshwater complemented by multi-stakeholder creativity and innovation, and encourage infrastructure, to support economic countries. ecosystems and their services; in partnerships that mobilize and share development and human well-being, Goal 12.4. By 2020, achieve the knowledge, expertise, technology the formalisation and growth of micro-, particular, forests, wetlands, mountains with a focus on affordable and equitable environmentally sound management and financial resources, to support smalland medium-sized enterprises, and drylands, in line with obligations access for all. of chemicals and all wastes throughout the achievement of the sustainable including through access to financial under international agreements. their life cycle, in accordance with agreed development goals in all countries, services. Goal 9.4. By 2030, upgrade infrastructure international frameworks, and significantly Goal 15.5. Take urgent and significant in particular developing countries. Goal 8.8. Protect labour rights and and retrofit industries to make them reduce their release to air, water and soil action to reduce the degradation of natural promote safe and secure working sustainable, with increased resource-use in order to minimize their adverse impacts habitats, halt the loss of biodiversity environments for all workers, including efficiency and greater adoption of clean on human health and the environment and, by 2020, protect and prevent the migrant workers, in particular women and environmentally sound technologies extinction of threatened species. and industrial processes, with all countries Goal 12.5. By 2030, substantially reduce migrants, and those in precarious taking action in accordance with their waste generation through prevention, employment. respective capabilities. reduction, recycling and reuse. Our contribution: Our contribution: Our contribution: Our contribution: Our contribution: Our contribution: • We create high-quality jobs in addition • We develop infrastructure facilities • We increase the efficiency of natural • We reduce GHG emissions through • We perform detailed biodiversity studies • We support sustainability initiatives to local economic opportunities. in regions of operation under social resources use. transitioning to renewable energy and annual monitoring of adjacent promoted by Russian and international partnership programmes with regional sources. territories, in collaboration with local industry organisations, in particular by • We ensure a comfortable working • We manage waste responsibly. authorities (e.g. in Krasnoyarsk Territory, scientific institutions. the International Council on Mining and environment. • We improve our energy efficiency. Magadan Region, Irkutsk Region, • We work with responsible suppliers of Metals (ICMM), the Extractive Industries • We respect the labour rights of all our Republic of Sakha) goods and services. Transparency Initiative (EITI), the UN employees. Global Compact, and the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (RSPP). Our programmes: Our programmes : Our programmes: Our programmes: Our programmes: Our programmes: • The ‘We know the value of gold!’ • Sponsorship of infrastructure refinement • Commissioning the waste disposal • Energy strategy– see page 96. • Biodiversity assessment in the area • Mining development partnerships; programme aimed at helping students in Ust-Omchug village – see page 111. and recycling facility at Olimpiada, – near Olimpiada – see page 91. organising a conference on waste • Identifying GHG emissions sources decide on their future career. • Reparation of a classroom in see page 86. management in mining, which took within energy audits – see page 96. • Biodiversity studies and an assessment • Initiating a special training initiative for Polytechnic Institute of North-East State • Landfill project for industrial and programme in the area near the place in St. Petersburg – see page 19. • Own generation reduction of facilities at HR internal customers of the recruitment University – see page 111. municipal waste disposal at Kuranakh – Verninskoye mine by the Vitim Nature • Active participation of Polyus the Olimpiada site – see page 101. process – see page 46. • Development of infrastructure projects see page 86. Reserve – see page 91. representatives in ICMM initiatives and • Climate-related risk assessments working groups, in particular to develop • Employee engagement studies – in the remote Bodaybo. Participation • Bio-testing laboratory accreditation at • Continued monitoring of birds and planned for 2020. an international standard for the safe see page 56. in projects for improvement of living Kuranakh – see page 86. animals in the area near Natalka – standards and further improvement of • Boosting the use of hydro-electric management of tailings facilities – • Certification audit for compliance with see page 91. sport infrastructure– see page 112. power plants to supply our facilities – see page 18. the International Cyanide Management • Implementation of biocontrol see page 99. • Active participation in the work of Russian Code (ICMC) at Verninskoye, planned assessments at the bio-testing Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs for 2020 – see page 89. laboratory at Kuranakh – see page 86. (RSPP) working bodies – see page 25. 86.06% employees covered by $ 22 million invested in infrastructure 374.24 mt of waste reused, stored, 16.1% reduction in carbon $ 310 thousand >20 working invested in biodiversity bodies established by civil society collective agreements in 2019 development projects in 2019 transferred and neutralised intensity vs. 2018 programmes in 2019 organisations and public in 2019 authorities where Polyus is represented 22 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 23 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI 102-12 · GRI 102-13 GRI 102-12 · GRI 102-13 C o m m i t m e n t t o U N G l o b a l C o m pa c t Co m m itm ent to Principles e x t e r n a l i n i t i at i v e s On 27 March 2019 Polyus joined the We are already committed to complying The following table shows the links Membership of the ICMM and our C a s e s t u dy UN Global Compact, the world’s largest with the highest sustainable development between the UN Global Compact commitment to the UN Global Compact corporate sustainability initiative. By standards, including those related to principles and the relevant sections of Principles is of the utmost importance to joining the initiative, we reinforce our Human Rights, Labour, the Environment, this Sustainability Report. These sections Polyus. At the same time, the company Membership of the Russian Union of commitment to the UN Global Compact and Anti-Corruption. We have now pledged contain information on the particular actively works with a wide range of other Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (RSPP) ten Principles, which were established to make the ten Principles part of our practices and initiatives that we implement industrial associations and national and The Russian Union of Industrialists Polyus has been a member of the by the United Nations to support efforts strategy and engage with other UN Global to address the issues of each UN Global international advocacy organisations, and Entrepreneurs (RSPP) is an RSPP since 2014. In 2018 the made by companies to do business Compact participants to combine forces to Compact principle. including: independent, non-governmental company’s CEO, Pavel Grachev, responsibly. attain the UN’s Sustainable Development organisation. It acts as a major became a member of the Board of • The Russian Union of Industrialists and Goals. To boost the effectiveness of this representative of Russian business RSPP, which considerably enhanced The ten Principles address four critical Entrepreneurs (RSPP) collaboration, Polyus joined the Global members’ interests, both within our standing within the organisation. areas of corporate responsibility: Human • Gornoye delo (national association) Compact’s local Russian network in August Russia and internationally. Rights, Labour, the Environment, and For more details see our Material 2019. • The Russian Union of Gold Producers Participating in RSPP working R e l e va n c e t o at ta i n i n g S D G Anti-Corruption. All these are covered by Issues, page 26. and ICMM principles and Polyus’ material issues. bodies, our representatives • The National Association for Subsoil p o s i t i o n s tat e m e n t s : contribute to adopting a unified Examination position of its members on regulatory 1 • The All-Russia Intersectoral Association frameworks and the practical of Employers – producers of nickel and implementation of requirements in precious metals (trade union) the areas of environmental safety and management, corporate Principle Area/Section governance, tax policy, industrial and 1 technological safety, occupational safety and emergency prevention, ICMM Businesses should support and respect the protection Human Rights the protection of property rights, Partnerships for of internationally proclaimed human rights creating the necessary conditions development 2 Ethics and Human for fair competition, corporate social rights, see page 30. responsibility and sustainable Businesses should make sure that they are not development. 1 ICMM. Stakeholder engagement complicit in human rights abuses 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Labour Human Capital, 4 see page 44. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Environment 8 Environmental Stewardship, Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote see page 80. greater environmental responsibility 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Anti-Corruption Ethics and Human rights, see page 30. 24 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 25 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information O u r m at e r i a l issues 30 E  thics and 80 E  nvironmental Human Rights stewardship 44 H  uman 94 E  nergy and Capital Climate Сhange 60 H  ealth 102 L  ocal and Safety Сommunities 26 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 27 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information O u r m at e r i a l i s s u e s Our sustainability practices and initiatives are organised in such a way so as to make progress and develop in all areas that are relevant for our activities and operations. Based on the results of an analysis of areas that are essential for our stakeholders, the following issues were determined as being material for Polyus. Polyus’ Ethics and Human Human Capital Health and ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY AND CLIMATE Local Communities commitments to Rights Safety STEWADSHIP CHANGE UN SDGs ICMM Principles  1. Ethical № №  2. Decision 4. Risk №  7. Conservation № №  6. Environmental № 9. Social performance business making management of biodiversity performance №  10. Stakeholder №  5. Health  8. Responsible № № 3. Human rights engagement and safety production №  6. Environmental № 10. Stakeholder performance engagement ICMM position Mineral revenues Water stewardship Climate change Indigenous peoples statements Partnerships Tailings governance for development Protected areas UN GC № 1-2. Human Rights № 3-6. Labour № 7-9. Environment Principles № 10. Anti-corruption GRI standards 201: Economic Performance 202: Market Presence 403: O  ccupational Health 303: Water and Effluents 302: Energy 203: Indirect Economic Impacts and Safety 205: Anti-corruption 401: Employment 304: Biodiversity 305: Emissions 204: Procurement Practices 405: Diversity and Equal 404: Training and Education 305: Emissions 413: Local Communities Opportunity 407: Freedom of Association 306: Effluents and Waste and Collective 307: Environmental Compliance Bargaining 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Page of the 30 44 60 80 94 102 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 29 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Ethics and Human Rights p e r f o r m a n c e ag a i n s t g oa l s Goal Status Summary of progress in 2019 Evaluate the level of employee awareness Achieved • The study identified the strengths and weaknesses of our about the Corporate Ethics Code and its approach to communicating the Code and its values to values employees. An information campaign is planned for 2020 to raise awareness levels. Improve employee training practices vis-àOn track • An online training course focusing on Corporate Ethics Code vis ethics issues requirements was developed. A new version of the course, specifically for working specialties is planned for 2020. Review and update policies and standards. Achieved • The Anti-corruption Policy was supplemented with new control procedures and the conflicts of interest section was expanded. The Human Rights Policy was updated. A l l o c at i o n o f r e s p o n s i b i l i t i e s D o c u m e n t f r a m e wo r k Internal CEO • Corporate Ethics Code. • Anti-corruption Policy. • Human Rights Policy. • Stakeholder Engagement Policy. employees completed CREATING TRUST BETWEEN POLYUS AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS Vice President, Asset Vice President, HR • Standard for Engagement with our online course and Organisational on anti-corruption Polyus recognises the importance of complying with business ethics standards Safety and Security Indigenous Peoples. and respecting human rights. We strive to ensure that our internal regulatory Development 5,500+ documents in this area keep pace with the changing business world – and are External properly communicated to all our employees. We are also constantly improving our communication system, since we believe that any business ethics violations in the • UN Global Compact. company should be identified and promptly investigated. • Universal Declaration on Human Security & Asset Employee Recruitment & Rights. Protection Department Development Department • International Labour Organization’s Messages submitted through Global sustainable development goals Declaration on Fundamental the whistleblowing hotline Principles and Rights at Work. ›400 • The UN Convention against Corruption. • The OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Officials in International Commercial Transactions. ICMM sustainability principles 1 2 3 • Council of Europe Criminal Law Convention on Corruption. ICMM POSITION STATEMENT ICMM ICMM Mineral Partnerships 1 ICMM. Human rights. revenues for development 2 ICMM. Ethical business. 3 ICMM. Stakeholder engagement. 30 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 31 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Ethics and Human Rights continueD Management approach S ta k e h o l d e r e n g a g e m e n t GRI 103 Our Corporate Ethics Code establishes Maintaining our esteemed business GRI 102-42 · GRI 102-43 In 2019 we continued to communicate the mission and values of the company. reputation is vital for the continuous actively with our stakeholders through Polyus is also active on various social We endeavour to build and support a The code sets out Polyus’ internal growth of the company – and to enable Understanding the values and needs of internet channels. We regularly update networks (including Facebook and the strong corporate culture within Polyus, standards and rules and takes into us to operate sustainably. Our long-term our stakeholders helps us build respectful, our website (www.polyus.com), which is Russian social network VK). In 2019 based on a clear awareness and account the specifics of interacting relationships with stakeholders are based transparent and mutually beneficial available in both English and Russian. we received 1,364 enquiries through understanding of ethics and the principles with each group of stakeholders. The on respect, integrity and openness – and relationships with them. We recognise The website has proved to be an excellent Facebook, VK, and Instagram, most of responsible business conduct. code is promoted through a companywe make every possible effort to uphold the importance of fully addressing their platform for receiving requests and of which related to employment and wide campaign, which includes a these values. concerns and expectations. enquiries from our external stakeholders. As a corporate citizen, we are obliged collaboration opportunities. remote e-learning course on the code’s to implement responsible business Polyus’ key stakeholders are defined as During the year we significantly expanded requirements and mission statements. practices. For us, this includes a wide those whose interests, decision-making, the sustainable development content of range of issues that combine to create We believe business ethics to be more or health and safety can be impacted our website, prompted by growing interest a picture of the company in the mind of than a system of regulations we are by the company’s activities – or have from investors in the environmental and the public. Consequently this impacts our required to follow. Conducting business in a potential influence on them. Our key social aspects of our operations. business reputation – from intolerance accordance with business ethics standards stakeholder groups are shareholders, towards corruption and openness in our helps ensure that a certain level of trust local and federal governments and communications to respecting everyone’s is achieved and maintained between regulators, employees and contractors, human rights; from employees and Polyus and its stakeholders, including local communities, suppliers, the media, shareholders to external stakeholders. the government, employees, business NGOs and industry organisations. partners, local communities, shareholders and the media. Polyus has an established framework in place to develop an effective stakeholder engagement process, which is regulated by internal documents. Our Stakeholder Engagement Policy provides an overall P o ly u s c o r p o r at e va l u e s approach to managing the company’s DEVELOPMENT relations with stakeholders and developing appropriate engagement strategies for each group. To achieve our goal of maintaining transparent and comprehensive long-term relationships, we employ a wide range of engagement tools and mechanisms. These facilitate open dialogue with Coope stakeholders and enable us to receive their feedback and include a 24/7 hotline, y rat FICIENCY fet confidential boxes in business units and ion Sa an electronic mailbox (info@polyus.com). EF Pr In 2019 we launched our Sustainability of es ty blog, which is regularly updated with si i li on n ab articles on sustainable development and al i is m ta our latest sustainability related news. Sus For more information visit the blog at www.polyus.com/en/sustainability/blog/. 32 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 33 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI 102-40 · GRI 102-44 U n d e r s ta n d i n g o u r s ta k e h o l d e r s Shareholders, lenders, bondholders Stakeholder concerns How we engage •A ccess via the company’s website Polyus constantly seeks to engage and build respectful, transparent and mutually beneficial • Long-term value by ensuring • Annual general meetings www.polyus.com relationships with its stakeholders, address their concerns and expectations — and keep consistent financial returns • Regular hard-copy and electronic Responsible within the сompany them informed of the сompany’s activities. Understanding our stakeholders and their values communications •T op management •R  egular meetings with institutional • Investor Relations function and needs is of the utmost importance to Polyus. shareholders G ov e r n m e n t a n d r e g u l at o r s Stakeholder concerns How we engage •M  emberships of associations •L  egislative and regulatory • Agreements on social-economic Responsible within the сompany compliance partnerships •G  overnment Relations function • Environmental and social •C  harity and sponsorship initiatives performance, fiscal regimes • Conferences and forums E m p l oy e e s Stakeholder concerns How we engage •V  olunteer projects • Health and safety •D  irect communications with •E  mployee surveys •W  orking conditions employees through immediate Responsible within the сompany •C  areer opportunities supervisors and management • HR  and Organisational • Wages, benefits and social •C  orporate newspaper: Development function packages ‘Territory of Polyus’ •H  SE&SD function •T  raining and education • Internal web portal •O  perations and Technical function •O  peration-based newsletters • 24/7 Hotline • Confidential feedback boxes •C  orporate sports and cultural events, professional competitions suppliers and contractors Stakeholder concerns How we engage Responsible within the сompany • Supply and contractor agreements • Tenders •C  ommerce and Logistics function • Payment processes •C  ontractual relationships • Workshops Local and indigenous communities Stakeholder concerns How we engage Responsible within the сompany • Potential environmental and • Newsletters and targeted • Public Relations function social impacts communications •G  overnment Relations function •E  mployment opportunities •P  ublic hearings and meetings • Infrastructure development • Confidential feedback boxes •C  harity activities •S  ocial programmes N G O s a n d i n d u s t r y o r g a n i s at i o n s Stakeholder concerns How we engage Responsible within the сompany • Social and environmental • Regular interaction with relevant • Public Relations function performance of operations national and international • Government Relations function • Mitigating non-financial risks organisations • Industry-specific issues MEDIA Stakeholder concerns How we engage Responsible within • Broad range of issues reflecting all • Press releases, briefings the Company stakeholder interests • Presentations and interviews • Public Relations function • Site visits See more in our Annual Review. 34 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 35 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Ethics and Human Rights continueD Polyus strives to ensure gender Human rights C a s e s t u dy Strengthening diversity of its employees. In 2019 diversity Polyus understands the crucial Polyus plans to further promote the Responsibility for ensuring compliance we launched the ‘Women Leaders of Respecting the Rights We make every effort to create and Polyus’ communication campaign, importance of respecting human rights Human Rights Policy among employees. with human rights requirements is of Indigenous Peoples maintain an environment that respects which recognises and promotes the and strives to comply with the best We run an online course that covers shared across a number of departments, and values the diversity of employees and professional accomplishments of our international practices in this area. issues related to anti-bribery and including HR and local community Polyus does not operate near communities in regions where we operate. female colleagues. Stories and interviews corruption, with a focus on human engagement, as well as with functional settlements of indigenous peoples Our Human Rights Policy was elaborated These activities are regulated by the are posted on various corporate media, rights. An online training specifically directors. Each of these is accountable for and has no direct impacts on such in accordance with the Universal corporate HR Policy and Human Rights including the Polyus website. devoted to human rights issues was compliance within their particular area. communities. However, in preparation Declaration of Human Rights, the Policy. developed in 2019 – and is planned to for any potential interactions – and We respect human rights and monitor International Labour Organization In 2019 our Head of Sustainability be implemented in 2020. The training to ensure that social risks are The company does not tolerate cases related to a lack of respect for Declaration on Fundamental Principles participated in a UN discussion panel in comprises a theoretical section on effectively managed – we have discrimination on any grounds, including human rights in our business units, in and Rights at Work, Voluntary Principles Moscow during the National Forum on human rights issues and a block of case created a standard that formalises gender, age, race, nationality, religion, compliance with the Human Rights Policy on Security and Human Rights and ICMM Sustainable Development. The panel studies for employees to apply their our approach to interacting with sexual orientation or physical disabilities – mentioned above. If we identify any Principle 3 Respect human rights – as well focused on human rights and immediate new knowledge and discover how the indigenous peoples. and we do our utmost to prevent bullying instances of failing to respect human and as the interests, cultures, customs, and opportunities for partnership projects. decisions they make can lead to certain and harassment in the workplace. Polyus labour rights, we investigate the event values of employees and communities Under the Standard for Engagement consequences. also respects the right of all employees and apply appropriate measures. In 2019, affected by our activities. The policy has with Indigenous Peoples, we seek to be given appropriate rest periods and 215 enquiries on human and labour been in force at Polyus since 2015 and We also expect strong commitment to ensure respect for human rights never violates legislative requirements rights issues were received through the is regularly reviewed to ensure that it to respect human and labour rights and the dignity, culture, customs, related to working hours. corporate hotline (for more information conforms to the latest updates in external from our contractors, suppliers and and resource-based livelihoods of documents and the changing business business partners. Polyus undertakes indigenous peoples. As part of the When developing our recruitment and see Anti-corruption compliance, page 38). environment. In 2019 we updated the to inform interested parties about company's activities, we endeavour retention practices, we uphold our All the enquiries were carefully analysed, policy; the new version will be approved the requirements of its Policy – and to assess and prevent any negative commitment to boosting diversity within and the necessary measures were taken. and published in 2020. discusses labour issues with employees impacts from our facilities on our workforce. Polyus complies with all The statistics on this matter are overseen and other stakeholders. indigenous communities. We also legal requirements related to employing annually by the company’s Board of Our Human Rights Policy comprises Directors. strive to maintain stable relationships people with disabilities and works closely ten principles that reflect the company's with these communities throughout with universities, colleges, and local commitment to respecting the rights of our the life cycle of our facilities and to communities to engage more women and employees and other stakeholders: minimise or offset any damage from local and indigenous people. negative impacts. R e l e va n c e t o at ta i n i n g SDG and ICMM principles a n d p o s i t i o n s tat e m e n t s : Respect and fair HSE legal compliance 1 treatment of all staff and suppliers of goods ICMM Indigenous Respect for the right for Respecting the culture peoples freedom of association, of local communities and meetings, opinions, and indigenous peoples expression Principles Prohibition of forced o f t h e P o ly u s Open dialogue with and child labour Human stakeholders R i g h t s P o l i cy Decent working Zero tolerance towards conditions and fair corruption wages Safe and healthy Security staff complying working environment with legal requirements An online training specifically devoted to human rights issues was developed in 2019 – and is planned to be implemented in 2020 1 ICMM. Human rights. 36 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 37 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Ethics and Human Rights continueD Anti-corruption compliance P o ly u s a n t i c o r r u p t i o n p r i n c i p l e s Our approach to managing ethics-related Each employee is made aware of the In 2019, we made significant changes issues is based on a policy of zero Anti-corruption Policy’s principles in the organisational structure of antiCompliance: The company strictly Risk assessment: The company tolerance towards corruption and a strong and requirements when they join. An corruption activities. An Anti-corruption complies with both domestic regularly identifies and periodically conviction that no violation should be left educational course has been developed office was set up in the Managing and foreign anti-corruption laws, updates corruption risks associated unnoticed or not investigated. to maintain the high level of employee company, along with anti-corruption including the UK Bribery Act with its business processes competence in this area and foster departments in the company’s business Polyus is committed to combating corruption and complying with all applicable legal requirements. To ensure improvement of the anti-corruption system. units. GRI 205-1 · GRI 205-2 Corruption intolerance: We adopt 10 1 Due diligence: The company 9 2 an attitude of zero tolerance carefully screens all counterparties, this, we focus on creating an effective Polyus takes a zero-tolerance approach During the year we focused on enhancing towards any form of bribery and third parties, and job candidates anti-corruption system and adhering to towards corruption at all levels. All the level of detail of the corruption risk corruption before initiating business relations high ethical standards. employees, irrespective of the position Our 10 they hold, are obliged to comply with assessment process in relation to high8 3 Our Anti-corruption Policy is based on risk activities and operations. Control corporate and legislative anti-corruption Tone at the top: The company’s Informing and educating: The Russian and international regulations procedures for such operations were requirements. top management leads by example company makes staff fully aware of related to anti-corruption and business expressly developed and included in the by demonstrating intolerance its anti-corruption requirements by ethics. The policy reflects the company’s The managers of security divisions work Anti-Corruption policy. towards corruption principles providing information, advice, and 4 risk-orientated approach and establishes in all the company’s business units to ten anti-corruption principles: GRI 102-25 · GRI 205-2 ensure that policies and procedures are working effectively and to supervise In 2019, 5,546 employees at the Managing company and business units Liability and punishment: Any 7 trainings 6 5 their execution. The anti-corruption (90% of the target audience) completed reasonable suspicions of corruption Information transparency: compliance function is also performed the online course on anti-corruption. are thoroughly investigated and Polyus informs its stakeholders To support the continuous improvement by all employees in their daily work perpetrators are held accountable about our anti-corruption policy and of our anti-corruption system, the Policy GRI 205-3 routines. Every employee is responsible provides a feedback channel in the is regularly reviewed and updated. In for promptly informing their compliance In the reporting year no cases of form of a security hotline 2019, in addition to complementing the manager about any violations that come confirmed incidents in which employees Effective procedures: We Policy with new control procedures, we to their attention. were dismissed or disciplined for develop and implement corruption also focused on elaborating further the Monitoring and control: The corruption took place in the company. prevention procedures that ‘Conflicts of interest’ section. Top management are directly involved in company regularly performs both There were no cases when contracts with efficiently deal with identified risks implementing all anti-corruption initiatives external and internal audits of the The Anti-corruption Policy applies to all business partners were terminated or and strategies. Important anti-corruption effectiveness of anti-corruption Polyus employees, as well as entities not renewed due to violations related to issues are included in the agendas of the procedures associated with the company and its corruption. activities, including contractors, suppliers Audit Committee and Board on a regular and consultants. basis. 38 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 39 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Ethics and Human Rights continueD GRI 102-17 GRI 205-3 C a s e s t u dy Whistleblowing hotline Polyus has a hotline communication channel, which operates H o t l i n e wo r k i n g p r o c e s s In 2019, few cases related to corruption were submitted in the in all the company’s business units and subsidiaries. This is an company. There were no corruption-related lawsuits brought effective and popular tool for internal and external stakeholders against the company or its employees. alike. The hotline’s main aim is to identify, prevent, and minimise Stakeholder (applicant/claimer) corruption risks, as well as prevent reputational and economic damage to the company’s interests and assets. Another objective is to receive and analyse concerns from stakeholders E-mail Categories of all hotline inquiries on human rights and business ethics-related issues. Social issues 215 We ensure that the hotline is easily accessible. Messages Mailbox Communication Only for informational can be submitted via a mailbox (confidential mailboxes are 47 through purposes installed at business units, support services, and the Managing available Violation of corporate company), an electronic mailbox (hotline@polyus.com), a freechannels Hotline number procedures 37 of-charge hotline number or in person. When using the phone Corruption 29 number the applicant is directed to the following options, to best cater for their type of concern: 1 – corruption issues and 2 – In person Fraud 25 ethical issues. In addition to existing methods of communication, an online service to handle messages is planned for 2020. Other 63 We try to ensure that all stakeholders are aware of the hotline Registration and analysis of messages system. Hotline-related data are published regularly in internal newspapers and placed at information desks. The company also distributes literature to employees on how to use the Taking actions hotline. From 2020, hotline-related information will also be Categories of enquiries on social issues distributed through an internal video channel. The messages can be submitted anonymously. The company Prompt reaction Investigation Clarification Remuneration 28% promotes an anti-blame policy in relation to the internal security Social benefit, 10% hotline in terms of any violations of anti-corruption laws or north bonus business ethics. The company ensures that the identity of Management's 10% unfavorable attitudes an individual submitting a report remains confidential. This Feedback approach is enshrined in both the Anti-corruption Policy and Bonus non-payment 22% the Code of Corporate Ethics – and is also promoted through 2019 Housing conditions 9% anti-corruption and hotline-related posters. Unlawful dismissal 2% Work schedule 8% Polyus carefully analyses each message before taking any action – and seeks to ensure that those who raise concerns Number of enquiries Personal conflicts 3% get appropriate feedback. The approach to processing Violation of health 8% and safetyrules submitted messages is formalised in the Provision on the 442 416 Security Hotline Communication System Organisation and Operation. Responsible employees aggregate and examine statistics on received messages and present the results of their analysis on a quarterly basis. If a message relates to ethical conduct, employment relationships or wages, it is 243 Anonymity of messages forwarded to the HR Department. 202 The 2019 Employee Engagement Study results showed that our internal stakeholders regard the hotline as a reliable 107 230 243 communication tool. Responses to the study’s hotline-related questions showed that overall, employees trust the tool and are 43 173 willing to use it when they are concerned about an issue. 92 148 173 The company carefully assessed each case related to ethical 110 conduct and social issues and instigated an investigation 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 if a violation was confirmed. All necessary and appropriate 2017 2018 2019 Feedback provided (58%) actions were taken concerning the confirmed cases of Anonymous enquires (42%) misconduct and violations. Signed Anonymous 40 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 41 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Ethics and Human Rights continueD T r a n s pa r e n c y a n d d i s c l o s u r e Openness and trust are essential The EITI is a coalition of governments, Our operations generate direct economic Plans for 2020 elements in successful communication, companies, civil society groups, value and we distribute the wealth we and the medium especially when it comes to business institutional and international investors. create among our main stakeholders: term cooperation. We recognise the It seeks to improve and bolster suppliers and contractors, employees, importance of transparency in facilitating governance and establish a global shareholders, government authorities and Polyus works continuously to improve effective engagement with our standard for monitoring and reconciling local communities. Doing this enables its practices to ensure responsible stakeholders, and we continuously strive tax revenues paid by oil, gas, and mining us to make positive impacts across our business conduct. In the next reporting to conform to the highest transparency companies. The ICMM supports the EITI sustainability focus areas. period – and in the medium term – standards. and EITI Principles (established in 2003) we plan to introduce the following The share of generated economic (www.eiti.org/standard/principles). initiatives: As an ICMM member, Polyus is wealth that is not distributed among committed to the transparent disclosure As an EITI-supporting company, Polyus stakeholders – that is, retained • Launching a new way to submit of mineral revenues in our sustainability discloses all material information related economic value – stays in the company a concern: an online communication report and on the company’s website (for to payments and taxes to the government. to be reinvested in further developing service. details see www.polyus.com/en/investors/ The company engages in rigorous the business. In 2019, the economic • Automating information collection disclosure/) and supports the Extractive procurement procedures and ensures that value generated by Polyus rose by processes vis-à-vis concerns and Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) its processes provide the necessary level approximately 38%, from $2,941 million providing feedback. (www.eiti.org/supporter/polyus). of information to deliver high standards of in 2018 to $4,057 million in 2019. accountability. • Developing and implementing human rights risk assessment procedures (medium-term). • Supplementing information on D i r e c t e c o n o m i c va l u e g e n e r at e d a n d d i s t r i b u t e d by P o ly u s , $ m i l l i o n the Corporate Ethics Code on the corporate website with case studies. GRI 201-1 • Information campaign about the Corporate Ethics Code and Polyus’ Item Stakeholder 2019 2018 2017 2016 corporate values. • Launching an internal video Direct economic value generated 4,057 2,941 2,763 2,498 information channel. Revenue from gold sales 3,965 2,876 2,684 2,429 • Compulsory training for ethics coordinators at least twice a year. Revenue from other sales 40 39 37 29 Wide range of • Elaborating a new version of the Revenue from financial stakeholders 48 26 28 40 remote training course, focusing on investments Corporate Ethics Code requirements for workers. Revenue from sales of assets 4 – 14 0 • Updating the Human Rights Policy. Economic value distributed (2,735) (1,999) (2,202) (1,530) Operating expenses Suppliers and (658) (383) (450) (445) contractors Wages and other payments Employees (525) (433) (407) (332) to employees Payments to providers of capital (935) (845) (903) (296) Shareholders and payments to shareholders (641) (578) (586) (15) creditors payments to creditors (294) (267) (317) (281) Payments to the state (571) (306) (401) (443) Government including income tax expense (359) (127) (242) (297) Community investments Local communities (46) (32) (41) (14) Economic value retained 1,322 942 561 968 42 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 43 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H u m a n C a p i ta l p e r f o r m a n c e ag a i n s t g oa l s Goal Status Summary of progress in 2019 Development of leadership potential On track • Established basic design of the Operational model. • Launched foundation of the Production System training programme. Create a world-class team On track • Mentoring Programme methodology transferred to business units. Increase in labour productivity On track • Created a ‘tree of objectives’ with operational KPIs for all employees. Increase staff stability On track • Established five-year plan to develop social infrastructure and living conditions. • Developed Universities and Colleges Collaboration Concept. Improve quality of HR services On track • Multi-functional centre (MFC) working in full operational mode. • Automation of main HR business processes completed, including administration, KPIs, training, recruitment, budgeting and business travel. A l l o c at i o n o f r e s p o n s i b i l i t i e s D o c u m e n t f r a m e wo r k of employees OUR EMPLOYEES ARE THE FOUNDATION received training OF OUR SUCCESS Internal V i c e P r e s i d e n t, H u m a n R e s o u r c e s 93% Employees are Polyus’ key asset: our operating and a n d O r g a n i s at i o n a l D e v e l o p m e n t • The Human resources policy production performances are directly influenced by our employees’ level of professionalism, qualifications and social • The Corporate Ethics Code and physical wellbeing. We strive to create an effective • The Human Rights Policy personnel management system that provides favourable working conditions, guarantees social security and safeguards • The Regulation for the Incentive employees’ rights – in line with the principles of equality and and Remuneration Provision for Recruitment Administrative employees non-discrimination. Organisational and and Social Average headcount Development of employees Development Infrastructure • The Regulation on Guarantees, Department Department Department Compensation, and Benefits 19,674 Global sustainable development goals for Employees • The Regulation on Mentoring Personnel • The Regulation on the Adaptation HR Administration Remuneration and of Personnel in the Managing Office Social Policy Office company • Regulations on organising training Employee by request engagement index ICMM sustainability principles • Gold reserve regulations 67.4 1 2 Human Resources Departments at Business Units External • The Russian Labour Code • Other applicable national and local labour regulations 1 ICMM. Human rights. 2 ICMM. Decision-making. 44 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 45 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H u m a n C a p i ta l continueD Management approach Wo r k f o r c e co m p os i t i o n a n d e n g ag e m e n t GRI 103 GRI 102-8 Among our business units and support Nearly all our employees work full services, the largest number of employees time (99.6%), with 91% on permanent Polyus’ human resource (HR) C a s e s t u dy AWA R D In 2019 the company’s average headcount has traditionally been at Olimpiada and contracts. The exception is the management system focuses on recruiting was 19,6741. Almost 50% of employees Blagodatnoye (28%), and the smallest Construction service, where a significant and retaining the best and brightest worked in the Krasnoyarsk Region, where number at our Engineering service (1%). proportion of employees (69%) work people. It aims to constantly improve Multi-functional Polyus was a leading our largest gold production assets are under temporary contracts. This is due their qualifications and knowledge, so as Centre in action employer in Russia located. The smallest portion of personnel to the variable nature of demand for in 2019 Employees by assets to deliver added value to the company. (4%) are located in Moscow, where the personnel on large construction projects. To retain top talent, Polyus provides an According to the Forbes ranking of Managing company is based. The ratio of manual workers to office attractive financial and non-financial best employers in Russia in 2019, and support employees changed little in incentives system, favourable working Polyus ranked second among the Employees by region 2019. Workers engaged in production still and social conditions and good career top-50 domestic companies. Polyus comprise the largest proportion (66%) of opportunities. was also recognised as being the company personnel. In 2019 we established the Personnel best employer among gold mining Management System Strategy for enterprises. 2019 Workforce by employee 2019–2021, creating a framework to The company received 60.8 rating category further transform and improve the system. The document sets out clear goals and 20 front offices points based on various criteria, including employee salaries, social 2019 50 tasks to develop the company’s personnel benefits, working conditions, training different 70% management system – and identifies services at every opportunities and environmental 70% 68% 66% specific corporate and business unit front office responsibility. projects. Polyus is continually improving its 4.8/5 customer satisfaction level The ranking was conducted for 150 companies with the highest number Olimpiada and Blagodatnoye Verninskoye 28% 6% 30% 30% 32% 34% HR management processes and has • Online services via call centre, of vacancy queries. Kuranakh 9% 2016 2017 2018 2019 implemented several best international corporate web portal and SMS Krasnoyarsk Territory 47% Natalka 9% practices in this field. In 2019 we communicator Irkutsk Region and Buryatia 23% Alluvials 15% Office and support employees introduced a new institute of HR business • Between one and five minutes for request resolution Magadan Region 16% Logistics service 12% Manual workers partners. These work directly with our Republic of Sakha 10% Security service 4% senior management and HR departments at Managing company and business unit Moscow 4% Construction service 7% levels to ensure that the HR strategy Engineering service 1% aligns with our overall business strategy. Energy service 3% HR business partners were selected Managing and Holding companies 3% from experienced human resource Multi-functional centre 3% professionals working in the company and underwent special training. Since 2017 Polyus has been working C a s e s t u dy on developing a Multi-functional Centre (MFC). The MFC’s aim is to centralise We are Polyus non-production support functions, including accounting, taxation, IT, Even with such a large workforce, administrative support and some HRat Polyus, we always see people related functions. In 2019 the MFC was as individuals – and professionals. in full operational mode and 2020 will At every corporate event – and across see the start of the MFC 2.0 project. our corporate media – we focus This will continue transferring additional on our greatest asset: our people. centralised HR training and recruitment Over many years, ‘Polyus News’ has services, along with other company celebrated the achievements of our processes to this business unit. colleagues, telling their stories and highlighting the important contributions In 2019, the automation of main HR they have made to our operations and business process was completed, development. including administration, KPIs, training, recruitment, budgeting and business travel. 1 These indicators do not include part-time workers, as their share in the total number of employees is insignificant (113 people). 46 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 47 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H u m a n C a p i ta l continueD The gender composition of the company in general reflects the specifics of the Employees by gender by business units At t r a c t i n g ta l e n t mining industry, where men make up 8% 12% 25% 15% 22% Polyus is continuously improving Polyus’ assets are located in remote The company conducts analysis of labour the greatest proportion of the workforce. its recruitment and staff retention regions – and the company prioritises issues risks when planning new projects. There are several reasons for this. The procedures. In 2019 we updated the the recruitment of local staff, including Expansion and construction of mills at domestic labour market has a very low Recruitment Regulations. We also audited management. As an industry leader, we Blagodatnoye and Verninskoye, new number of women in industry-related the recruitment process and developed a set above-average job requirements, so if projects at Chertovo Koryto and Sukhoi professions, partly due to legal reasons. set of measures to boost its efficiency. In local candidates do not have the required Log are all accompanied with required Polyus complies with Russian labour 2019 we automated the recruiting process skills and experience, we consider analysis and planning of workforce and regulations, which limit the extent to 92% 88% 85% 75% 78% across all our assets, using the SAP candidates from other regions. In 2019, social infrastructure needed. Polyus works which women can work in positions with Success Factors system. the proportion of managers recruited in close cooperation with local authorities, potentially harmful or dangerous working locally was 56%. educational institutions, recruiting conditions. Nevertheless Polyus works With a view to ensuring a smooth services to manage current and future hard to ensure that the company has a integration of new personnel, we Oimpiada and Verninskoye Kuranakh Natalka Alluvials Percentage of management workforce demand. diverse and highly professional workforce. Blagodatnoe developed and implemented the recruited locally Guidelines for Workforce Adaptation In 2019, men made up 84% of the Polyus Process at all business units. These Male Female GRI 202-2 workforce. Across all assets, the highest assess various locations and types of proportion of women is found in the MFC personnel, and were first piloted at the (56%), and the lowest in the security Managing company. During the second service (3%). Employees by age Polyus complies with all legal phase, based on the results of testing, the 48% 48% 56% requirements related to the employment guidelines were developed and approved Females hold 15% of our management of people with disabilities. The company for implementation across the company. positions, which reflects the overall also provides retraining opportunities and In 2020 a new workforce adaptation 52% 52% gender composition of the company’s 44% offers transfers to support functions for programme will be implemented across all workforce. In 2019, females represented workers who have suffered a workplace business units. 7% of management positions in revenue2017 2018 2019 injury. In 2019 the company employed generating functions Company-wide, with In total, 4,832 new employees were hired 20 people with disabilities, 55% of whom Managers from other regions the highest representation of women in in 2019. The largest share (19%) of these Energy and Engineering services (18% 2019 were based at the Energy service. was at the Olimpiada and Blagodatnoye Local managers and 19% respectively). GRI 401-1 mines. The average hiring cost amounted The company recruits and retains to $79 per new hired employee. The company pays close attention to employees without discriminating by employee turnover and implements age. In 2019, 15% of our workforce was various measures to reduce it. In 2019 the Employees hired in 20192 under 30, while employees in the 40-50 employee turnover rate stood at 23.1%, age group comprised 28% of personnel. 30 years and younger 15% while the voluntary employee turnover rate 934 Employees aged 50 and over made 30 to 40 years 35% was 20.6 %1. up 22% of the workforce. The largest 40 to 50 years 28% proportion of manual workers was in the 30-40 age category. 50 years and older 22% 695 538 498 497 395 394 310 206 170 111 84 Olimpiada and Multi-functional Verninskoye Kuranakh Natalka Alluvials Logistics service Security service Construction Engineering Energy service Managing and service service Blagodatnoye centre Holding companies 1 Employee turnover includes employees that leave the organisation voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement or death. The employee turnover rate was calculated as employee turnover divided by average headcount. It should be noted that at some assets our main production activity involves seasonal work, 2 In 2019 Alluvials has changed a methodology for counting new hired employees. Presented figure represents only workers who was hired for the first time and which adds to the level of employee turnover. Employee turnover doesn’t include employees that were dismissed by agreement of the parties and those who doesn’t count those who was hired repeatedly on short-term contracts. The number of all employees hired including new ones and repeatedly hired totaled were dismissed after completion of their internship. 2,447 people in 2019. 48 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 49 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H u m a n C a p i ta l continueD P r ov i d i n g o p p o rt u n i t i e s f o r yo u n g p r o f es s i o n a l s M o t i vat i o n T h e P o ly u s c o m p e n s at i o n a n d b e n e f i t s pac k ag e Polyus places a special emphasis on In 2019 the company began implementing We also plan to initiate targeted training A good level of remuneration is the recruiting young people and contributing a systematic approach to enhance programmes to prepare qualified Compensation and benefits main incentive for employees to work to improving the quality of their education. collaboration with educational institutions. personnel for our research and productively and efficiently. As part of our long-term collaboration We researched the best cooperation development assets. As part of these with educational institutions, we conduct practices between universities and programmes, students will receive The Incentive and remuneration a programme for graduates from highenterprises and – based on the results of special training at universities, based on provision for employees is Polyus’ Social benefits profile universities, with business units the study – we developed the Universities the Polyus’ requirements. Young talent primary document formalising the Wages (for details see “Internal social policy”) offering internships to students with a view and Colleges Collaboration Concept. will receive enhanced scholarships components of employee compensation to pursuing career opportunities at Polyus. This identifies ‘anchor’ universities during these programmes and complete and benefit packages: base salary and Our partners include Irkutsk National and colleges to work with, methods of internships at the company. As they near additional pay. The base salary level Research Technical University, Siberian collaboration and internship activities. The graduation, students will be taken on by depends on an employee’s grade (the Base salary Federal University, and North-East State next step is to develop and implement the Polyus and submit a thesis related to the company uses a grading system). (depends on Additional pay University. Universities and Colleges Collaboration company’s business needs. In addition to the base element, employee grade) Programme across all our business units. remuneration comprises additional pay, including incentive payments (depending Incentive payments on the attainment of KPIs). (annual bonus, one-time bonuses, project work bonus, monthly bonus for high production performance indicators) As part of our ongoing work to develop C a s e s t u dy our remuneration system, we introduced improvements to the management of Compensatory payments (for meals, housing, etc.) We know the value Polyus Class programme New classrooms our KPI system. We created a ‘tree of of gold! for students objectives’ at all our business units, with operational KPIs for all employees – Other payments required by law For over a decade, Polyus has Another of our ongoing initiatives is the Polyus renovated and equipped from the CEO to manual workers. The (for working in the extreme north) successfully run its ‘We know the value Polyus Class training programme for high a new classroom at the Polytechnic scheme already allows the individual KPIs of gold!’ programme. Its purpose is to school students. 17 schools participate in Institute of the North-East State of every role to be seen. Also applying attract and identify students for future this programme in Krasnoyarsk. School University. The company provided new management by objectives technique careers in Polyus – and also benefits students undertake an in-depth training presentation equipment and study aids KPIs relate to the company’s functional Stan dar d entrylevel wag e at Polyus vs local m i n i m u m young engineers and technicians in the programme that prepares them for for students, including a demonstration and operational strategic aims and are wag e by busi n ess u n its ( month ly), $ company. colleges and universities – and careers in of gold mining and gold enrichment translated into personal goals. Over the mining industry. technological processes and a model 138 students from different universities time, employee KPIs have become more 595 of a gold extraction plant. and technical colleges completed transparent and measurable and KPI production internships in Olimpiada processes themselves have become more in 2019. automated. 393 Retaining and engaging skilled employees plays an important role in maintaining 312 301 285 and improving the overall performance 264 of the company. Polyus aims to pay wages that are in line with – or above – 174 174 the market average. Entry-level wages 174 174 174 174 at the company are higher than local minimum wages; for example, in 2019 Irkutsk Region Krasnoyarsk Magadan Region The Sakha the entry-level wage at Natalka was $595 Region Republic (Yakutia) per month, almost double the average Standard entry level wage Federal minimum wage Local minimum wage regional minimum wage. C a s e s t u dy Driving engagement Polyus runs several initiatives aimed at technological centre and were introduced engaging its people and boosting their to Japanese culture. creativeness and performance. In return, We also recognise employees for the company recognises employees for suggesting improvements to our their contributions and achievements. operations. As part of the Polyus In May 2019, we organised a visit to Japan production system initiative we organised for seven winners of the 2018 corporatea lottery among participants of the wide professional skills championship. improvement suggestions contest, with The winners visited Komatsu plant and a Grand Prize of a crossover vehicle. 50 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 51 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H u m a n C a p i ta l continueD Internal social policy Training and development Polyus aims to provide social security P o ly u s s o c i a l s u p p o r t Social and Today’s mining industry is technically F o c u s a r e a s o f t h e P o ly u s t r a i n i n g s ys t e m 1 and comfortable working conditions for s ys t e m livi ng con ditions advanced, requiring a skilled and wellits employees. As well as a base salary and infrastructure trained workforce. The global demand and bonuses, we offer a range of social for professionals creates challenges Corporate University benefits, including paid maternity/paternity Care for workers and their The bulk of Polyus’ operations are for many companies, including Polyus. leave (in addition to statutory allowances), families located in regions with extreme climatic We successfully manage challenges life and accidental death insurance and conditions, which necessitate work on a related to market shortages of skilled voluntary health insurance. We also • Voluntary life and heath medical rotational basis. It is therefore important mining personnel, by maintaining and Professional development Professional development monitor the health and quality of life of insurance that employees are provided with continually improving our staff training for managers / specialists for WORKERS our workers and their families, providing comfortable living and working conditions. system, developing the talent pool and • Additional vacation assistance in challenging life situations. Our integrated approach creates longcollaborating with educational institutions. • Meals and transport compensation term plans to develop essential social The Regulation on guarantees, Polyus provides extensive professional Targeted training Vocational training compensation, and benefits provided • Access to sports clubs infrastructure. In 2019 the company development opportunities, regardless for WORKERS to employees is implemented in both established a development roadmap for of an employee’s position. To ensure the Managing company and business social infrastructure and living conditions. compliance with respective qualification units. The social support stipulated in the Support for families with This five-year plan assesses each facility, requirements, employees at all business DEVELOPING of a mentoring regulation is aimed at boosting labour children identifying work to be completed, repairs units have access to several professional Requested training system in Business Units efficiency and provides for a higher level and procurement needs. and general corporate training of guarantees and privileges than that • Monetary assistance during The company completed all planned programmes. established by law. marriage/the birth of a child construction and repair of social facilities The majority of professional development Developing in 2019. programmes are implemented within the the candidate pool Employee support in challenging framework of the Corporate University, life situations which aggregates all existing training C a s e s t u dy and educational courses for managers, In 2019 the number of employees trained during the year was up 25%, and made up specialists and workers. • Financial assistance in case of 93% of the company’s average headcount. The average number of training hours per unanticipated events, the death of New accommodation employee was 71. Polyus carefully evaluates its investment an employee or their relative for Polyus employees in Nizhny Kuranakh in employee training to ensure that it is both sufficient and effective. All N u m ber of em ployees Averag e n u m ber of trai n i ng trai n ed 2 hours per year per employee Polyus built a two-story employees undergo compulsory Employment benefits accommodation block at Nizhny examinations based on the training they GRI 401-1 Kuranakh (Yakutia). The building have received. In 2019, an examination 93% is 1,500 sqm in area and can process was implemented as part of 86% • Corporate mobile communications accommodate up to 100 people. the SAP Success Factors system. • Company vehicles In addition, the managers of trained 68% The accommodation is protected personnel participate in the survey, and 62% against severe weather conditions, evaluate training as well as their practical 71 63 66 Relocation packages and incorporates a number of integral application and results. ‘smart’ features, including automated 18,264 41 16,347 heating controls and lighting systems. In 2019 we also held a conference for our 13,579 suppliers and contractors, at which we 11,142 Retired employee support The dormitory-style layout of the shared our understanding of sustainable 2016 2017 2018 2019 block accommodates employees in business standards and practices that we 12-13 sqm double rooms. Each pair implement in Polyus and expect to see in of rooms shares a hall and bathroom, their own businesses. 2016 2017 2018 2019 including a shower. In addition, each floor has dining facilities and a leisure Number of employees trained area. Employees trained, as percentage of average headcount 1  or further details about training programmes see the PJSC POLYUS Sustainability Report 2018, pages 43-44. F 2 Figure represents number of unique employees trained (18,264). The sum of the employees trained within all the categories according to the figure Number of employees trained by category (18,492) differs from the number of unique employees trained as it implicates the double counting of the employees who transfered from the one category to another during the year and received education being in the different categories. 52 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 53 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H u m a n C a p i ta l continueD N u m ber of em ployees trai n ed by category C o r p o r at e Ta l e n t P o o l P o ly u s C o r p o r at e Ta l e n t P o o l s t r u c t u r e Polyus’ Corporate Talent Pool programme 12,693 plays a significant role in developing Corporate Talent Pool specialists and appointing them to 10,964 managerial positions by identifying the most motivated and active employees. 8,531 8,957 The company has two programmes: Gold Gold Standard Gold Reserve Standard and Gold Reserve, which it (Successor pool) (High potential pool (HiPo) plans to upgrade in 2020. The Corporate Talent Pool programme is run according to the Regulations on Goal Goal 3,319 3,439 the Talent Pool. These formalise the path Developing a pool of highly 2,677 a candidate must follow in order to enter 2,064 2,360 Preparing motivated and talented employees with leadership 1,945 the talent pool. Polyus also applies special potential, who will become the 1,249 1,362 competent employees to fill talent assessment tools in the employee particular managerial positions. driving force behind Polyus selection process. The programme involves developing attaining its strategic goals, and can 2016 2017 2018 2019 the particular competences required tackle any challenge that arises. Information on employees enrolled on The programme develops the for these positions. Corporate and Business Units personnel range of soft and professional skills Workers Managers Specialists and administrative staff reserves is stored in the Talent Pool needed to effectively solve various Database. functional and project-related tasks. Cor porate Talent Pool , 2016 –2019 T h e P o ly u s K n ow l e d g e Classroom modu les O p e r at i o n a l e f f i c i e n cy 36 The Polyus Knowledge programme was In 2019 we launched at the Corporate 303 specially designed for Polyus employees, Session 1 University a new educational stream on 266 275 and is based on key internal business operational efficiency. During the year processes. The programme covers main Leadership a new training programme, the Foundation management and leadership issues and of the Production System, was developed. 178 helps employees develop all necessary Project Management Some 167 line managers took part and we 143 141 competencies to perform their roles plan to enrol an additional 182 managers 120 effectively. on the programme in 2020. 74 Session 2 55 36 43 In 2019 Polyus continued to offer The new operational efficiency training training as part of the Polyus Knowledge Effective Communication programme is highly practical and linked programme. We developed two new to business tasks faced by the Production 2016 2017 2018 2019 modules that were customised to meet our Finance for Non-financiers Efficiency Department. All training requirements, processes,and procedures: modules include practical assignments Workers Managers Specialists and administrative staff Recruitment Skills and Procurement comprising actual case studies related to Session 3 Skills. operational efficiency. M e ntorsh i p prog ram m e mentor training and a remote e-learning C a s e s t u dy In 2020 we plan to further develop and Procurement Skills Another educational stream launched training course. In 2019 the methodology enhance our existing modules and to in 2019 was a large-scale training Another bulwark of Polyus’ professional was transferred to the business units. Recruitment Skills Mentors are well known by their create a classroom course, ‘Public programme for project managers development is its Mentorship From 2020, mentors will be trained co-workers for their professional Speaking’, and two online courses: ‘Goal and project teams involved in capital Programme. This is aimed at integrating in all regions of operation, based on achievements. Those who are new Setting’ and ‘Feedback’. construction. The programme covers best new workers, with more experienced the business units’ needs. In addition, Session 4 in the company can easily recognise domestic and international practices – and colleagues acting as mentors and the implementation of the Mentoring a mentor by their chevron. The facilitates the introduction of in-house supervisors. In 2019 we conducted a Programme will be monitored. chevron was specially designed for Efficiency Culture procedures and regulations related pilot of the programme, which led to In 2019 Polyus selected 354 people to be the Mentoring Programme and are Public Speaking to project management and capital an upgrading of the Regulations on mentors. This group underwent training attached to a mentor’s uniform construction. Mentoring (developed in 2018). Polyus implemented a set of methodological sessions and received professional Online Modules tools, including the Mentor's guide, certificates. In 2020 we plan to train training materials, a business game for a further 350 mentors. Gold Mining Technologies Goal Setting Feedback 54 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 55 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H u m a n C a p i ta l continueD C o r p o r at e c u lt u r e d e v e l o p m e n t C a s e s t u dy Vo lu n t e e r i n g We believe that a strong corporate C a s e s t u dy II Polyus professional An important stream across our corporate Polyus organises several volunteering culture is key to having an integrated and skills championship culture is volunteering. Engaging our projects in partnership with major Russian motivated team; hence Polyus works people in volunteering initiatives not only charities. These include the Life Line continuously on its development and Assessment of personnel engagement From 2729 August 2019 at adds considerable to what the company Charity Foundation, the Fun Getting Old maintenance. To improve our corporate Olimpiada, seven teams of does, it supports us in achieving our Foundation, Volunteers to Help Orphans, In 2019 all employees were invited to participate in a Company-wide survey. culture, we hold a number of sporting and professionals demonstrated their job mission and strategic goals. the Gift of Life Charity and the Konstantin The intention was to measure and identify actual levels of personnel engagement, cultural events, and support employee skills and knowledge of the Golden Khabensky Foundation. along with improvement opportunities across key related areas. Polyus actively promotes its volunteers participation in professional skills contests Safety Rules, Corporate Ethics Code and their initiatives by providing the The achievements of our volunteers and volunteering activities. The survey also identified our and operational efficiency. necessary resources as well as are recognised at all corporate events The company actively engages Q u esti o n nai r e su rvey employees’ readiness for change – and management support to plan and and promoted on our web portal. To For the first time, the competition employees in the development of efficient production and management systems. In March 2019, the Council of chief experts 2,661 people (all employee categories) All business that transformation was a key element of our corporate culture. was broadcast live via our corporate YouTube channel. Over 3,000 people across the country – including organise volunteering activities. To facilitate employee involvement, we have introduced a number of initiatives, starting raise awareness among employees about sustainability related issues and volunteering, a dedicated area, Polyus units & HQ The survey identified several brought together production managers, employees and their families – with the Managing company. Volunteering Zone, was established major drivers behind employee engineers, mechanics and specialists for watched the championship. during the celebration of Metallurgist Day Expert poll engagement: In 2019 we initiated regular business the first time – to share best practices, in July 2019. This provides the opportunity breakfasts with volunteers and ideas and troubleshooting know-how. The forum will be held annually in future to discuss production issues, develop 16 individual interviews Top management and HR management • job commitment • readiness for change management to discuss plans, share ideas and evaluate results. Volunteers, for everyone to access information about volunteering at Polyus and participate in a quiz. • shared values together with HR management, developed resolutions and establish initiatives for the Volunteer Annual Action Plan. Although volunteering is well supported operational improvements. • the company’s reputation Focus g rou ps Historically, environmental and charity across all business units, most activities • company / employee relations 16 Employees participate in a variety of focus projects have been the main focus of in this area in 2019 were initiated by professional skills contests. These events groups • management evaluation Polyus volunteering initiatives. In 2019 Managing company activists. For 2020, are held annually and bring our people two new streams of activity were added: our main goal is to develop an umbrella • training and skills development together – recognising their epxertise and uniting them as a team. In 2019 we held the second Company-wide professional 150 line managers and workers • remuneration • c ooperation between business units animal shelter support and pro-bono projects to provide help to social funds and NGOs. volunteering programme to unite and coordinate volunteering activities across all Polyus’ regions of operation. skills championship: employees from all business units and support services Employees also pointed to a high level Our employee engagement index competed in nine categories. The ‘best in of job satisfaction – and satisfaction C a s e s t u dy amounted to 67.4. Polyus’ overall profession contests’ were also held during with social and living conditions. Polyus volunteering highlights in 2019 employee engagement is well above the the year in individual business units. A number of recommendations were VII Polyus Olympics industry benchmark, which indicates Polyus also brings people together a high level of employee engagement made to improve the organisation of and satisfaction. Areas of highest leisure activities as well as the range of In 2019 the VII Polyus Olympics, took projects volunteers litres of blood donated through sport. Healthy lifestyles are promoted extensively by the company, and employees actively participate in various corporate and local sports events. engagement include those related to the working process and team spirit. The level of personnel engagement shops available at remote facilities. Based on the survey results, all place in Yakutia, coinciding with the 95th anniversary of Yakutia’s gold mining industry. 15 270 19 business units have developed action One of the most popular of these is the has been improved across all business For four days, 250 Polyus athletes trees kilos of batteries, kilos of clothes plans to address areas in need of Polyus Olympics. units and has demonstrated continuous from Moscow, Magadan, Irkutsk and planted wastepaper, etc. recycled donated improvement. growth since 2015. Krasnoyarsk competed for medals in futsal, volleyball, streetball, tug of war, ping pong, athletics, weightlifting and 200 2,000 500 chess. 56 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 57 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H u m a n C a p i ta l continueD Plans for 2020 and the medium term Polyus is continuously improving the company’s HR management system. Every year we introduce fresh initiatives, automate processes and continue adopting the best global practices. In the next reporting period – and over the medium term – the company plans to introduce initiatives in the following areas: • Implementing the Workforce Adaptation Programme at all business units • Developing clear and consistent job descriptions for all positions across business units • Training business units’ HR personnel in capacity building programmes • Initiating the MFC 2.0 project and continuing to transfer to this business unit additional centralised HR services related to training and recruitment • Developing KPIs tailored for different workplaces • Revising the grade level system • Updating the Core Competencies Model • Developing a rotational internship system across all business units • Developing and implementing a Core Competencies Management Standard • Elaborating and implementing the Universities and Colleges Collaboration Programme • Transforming the Corporate Talent Pool System • Establishing new remote e-learning training courses • Upgrading the Corporate Talent Pool programme • Developing and implementing social welfare service standards • Developing the Polyus Volunteer Programme to unite and coordinate volunteering activities across all regions 58 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 59 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H e a lt h a n d S a f e t y p e r f o r m a n c e ag a i n s t g oa l s Goal Status Summary of progress in 2019 A reduction by 2020 in the lost time injury Achieved LTIFR was 0.08 (38%↓ compared to the LTIFR in 2016) rate (LTIFR), by 20% vs 2016 Reducing the AARk by 20% Achieved AARk was 0.28 (22%↓ compared to the AARk in 2016)4 by 2020 vs 2016 Raising the safety culture level to 2.6 On track An intermediate level of 2.4 points was achieved in 2019. points (under the Bradley scale) by 2020 The level of 3.0 points or more is reached by four of six business units HSE minimum corporate training coverage: On track We gave training on H&S minimum to 95% of employees ≥ 98% of employees by 2020 Zero fatalities On track The fatality rate in 2019 was 0.005 (0.01 in 2018) A l l o c at i o n o f r e s p o n s i b i l i t i e s D o c u m e n t f r a m e wo r k Internal Senior Vice president, Operations • Health, Safety, and Environmental Policy Safety Culture level • Gold Safety Rules of 2.4 points under the Bradley SAFETY DRIVES US TO OPERATIONAL HSE&SD Di r ector • Integrated HSE Management System scale achieved EXCELLENCE Standard 2.4 At Polyus we believe that every loss or emergency can – and • HSE Leadership Standard must – be prevented. Safety is not simply a key value for us, Head of Head of Health Head of HSE • Hazard identification and HSE risk but also a key focus. The health and safety of our employees and Safety Safety training Culture management Standard are taken into account when making every decision – and when implementing every project, and our top priority is • HSE Event Management: to continuously improve health and safety management Notification, Investigation and throughout our operations. HS Leading Reporting Standard LTIFR1 reduction compared Specialist Our main activities are focused on embedding a safety culture • HSE Training and competency to 2018 Standard within the company. We hold regular training and drills, health HSE Director 11 % protection, safe driving courses – and are fully prepared for of the BU • PPE Standard emergencies. Occupational Safety, Civil Safety • Contractor Safety Management Defence, and committees Standard Emergencies at business Global sustainable development goals Senior Manager Health and unit level • Traffic Safety Management Standard. Safety • HSE MS Auditing Standard of employees covered Department at BU level • Behavioural safety audits Standard. by certified Integrated HS Senior HSE Management System Manager • Substance Abuse Policy 97 % External Driving Safety • ISO 45001:2018 Senior Manager ICMM sustainability principles (Krasnoyarsk) 2 3 Health Protection 1 LTIFR is calculated as the total number of lost Senior Manager time injuries divided by the total hours worked and multiplied by 200,000 hours 2 ICMM. Health and safety. 3 ICMM. Risk management. 4 Automotive accident rate. 60 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 61 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H e a lt h a n d S a f e t y continueD Management approach O r g a n i s at i o n a l Leadership and C a s e s t u dy resources and roles com m itm ent GRI 103 · GRI 403-1 C a s e s t u dy To ensure the Integrated HSE The most important part of an effectively Personal HSE Management System functions effectively, functioning Integrated HSE Management commitments for top The company endeavours to make we maintain the required amount of System is leadership. In 2019 we scaled and line management: constant improvements to its H&S Umbrella certification organisational and financial resources. up the coverage of the HSE Leadership management system– and provide HSE management covers all aspects of Standard to line management (foreman • Participating in behaviour audits The certification process is conducted in Olimpiada and Blagodatnoye, all employees with safe workplace the company’s business, from strategic level). We take into account whether by an external company and comprises: Kuranakh, Alluvials, Verninskoye, and • Participating in risk assessments conditions. Our approach is based on decision making to day-to-day operations. personal commitment plans have been the Construction and Engineering • Personal participation in audits, managing risks through embedding a • A documentary audit of the Managing met in the final assessments of directors’ services. including visits to production sites health & safety culture within operations, company and its main business units In line with our commitments, Polyus and managers’ KPIs. We continued to continuous growth within H&S and support services. • Alluvials was certified under plans and implements various health and • Participating in in-house hold HSE leadership training for top, competencies, emergency preparedness ISO 45001:2018 for the first time. occupational safety measures every year. investigations of accidents • Umbrella certification of the middle, and line management. (regular drills) and ensuring that critical Integrated HSE Management System The certification audit was completed • Wearing personal protective controls are in place, including safety P o l i c i e s a n d g oa l s In 2020 we will increase the number of (ISO 14001:2015, ISO 45001:2018): successfully, and no significant equipment and using safety belts driving. In recent years, Polyus has made behaviour audits in which the CEO and in 2019 the process was performed discrepancies were identified. significant efforts to integrate separate The Polyus Health, Safety, and managing directors must participate to • Holding meetings with employees to Health, Safety, and Environmental Environmental Policy is the foundation four. In addition, we involve them in the report on the status and objectives management into a single system. of all the company’s HSE activities and safety analysis process and in identifying of HSE and to answer questions is the most important component of the risks. Managers participate personally in In 2018 this process was completed and Integrated HSE Management System. audits related to key injury risks: work at • HSE leadership and commitment the Integrated Management System was height, works on electric installations and training certified under ISO 14001:2015 and ISO The company has implemented a raft of maintenance. • Rewarding employees who have 45001:2018 requirements. The certificate, interrelated standards. These contain prevented an accident and/or halted valid until 2021, covers the Managing requirements designed to facilitate safe dangerous work and/or achieved company and all business units and working conditions and to preserve the noteworthy HSE results support services. life and health of employees during work processes. The standards are regularly revised and updated, which ensures Compamy-wide HSE Support Documents compliance with current international best practices. Polyus has also elaborated Documentation and Forms company-wide HSE procedures to Application HSE Guidlines appropriately implement the requirements p o i l i cy Checklist, Registers of standards across all business units. Plans and Manuals Compamy-wide HSE Management System Based on the HSE&SD Development HSE 2016–2020 Strategy (covering each s ta n da r t focus area: contractors, risks, training, ( w h at ) process safety, driving safety, etc), the Managing company formulates strategic KPIs, which are mandatory for all business units and support services. Business units and support services may c o m pa n y w i d e instigate additional KPIs, based on their hse procedures ( h ow ) own specifics. In 2019 Polyus updated the HSE Event management standard, establishing a personaly process procedure for transmitting information environment safety safety on incidents and the procedure for hse health conducting internal investigations. management and system hygiene In recent years, Polyus has made significant efforts and integrated OPerations/project — specific hse management systems (the company-wide requirements at the site level) separate Health, Safety, Company-wide hse procedures standart operating procedures and Environmental management Operations/Project HSE Management Systems into a single system 62 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 63 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H e a lt h a n d S a f e t y continueD R i s k m a n ag e m e n t all business units and support services. Mon itor i ng , controls C a s e s t u dy In 2019 we updated working manuals, a n d au d i t s Polyus applies a risk-oriented approach to technical procedures and SOPs – and made effectively prevent losses. considerable efforts to raise awareness of Obligations to comply with all applicable Automation of HSE processes: these activities among employees. health, safety, and environmental SAP Environmental, Health, and Safety Management (EHSM) In 2019 we implemented the Hazard requirements are enshrined in the Polyus identification and HSE risk In 2019 Polyus launched a SAP EHSM This year we enhanced the system’s The system will facilitate the collection HSE Policy. The company’s professionals management Standard. This provides development, based on the SAP ERP configuration and design, including and storage of information on issues C a s e s t u dy regularly monitor changes in Russian guidance concerning the risk assessment solution. The key goal of the SAP the design of additional functions. including: legislation, conduct audits to check procedure in all business units and EHSM roll-out is to reduce risk levels Furthermore, we launched a user briefing respective compliance and organise • HSE Event management support services. Systematic hazard Hazard identification through performing an appropriate risk option and a method to test the system. information campaigns for employees. identification and risk assessment forms and risk assessment analysis and launching procedures to The pilot project will begin in 2020 at • Transport safety the basis for elaborating and implementing procedures We put in place and maintain processes transform HSE processes. Olimpiada and Blagodatnoye, Verninskoye 1 • Audits and inspection measures to prevent incidents, including to regularly monitor and control H&S and for the Logistics service. Its further injuries and emergencies. performance. Our business units and The implementation of the new system • Process safety Risk identification deployment will include an update of support services frequently perform allows centralisation and consolidation procedure for conducting documentation following a trial operation. • Health management Based on the results of internal of information to support H&S strategies risk sessions several types of monitoring, focusing on investigations and risk assessments, we and objectives, thereby providing For H&S business processes, which often • Contractor safety various aspects of H&S performance, made key improvement programmes This describes the steps and analytical support for decision-making entail employees working remotely, we production controls in workplaces with • Environmental safety for 2020: requirements related to hazard processes. This project will provide are developing a special mobile app. This hazardous working conditions and identification and risk analysis. managers with rapid access to H&S will enable all company employees to • Analytical data • Work at height and prevention of falls monitoring employees’ health. It also is the basis for compiling data, using mobile dashboards to promptly report incidents and violations, • Electrical safety a register of risks and mitigation In 2019, inspections and surveys of make timely managerial decisions. The using not only a personal computer R e l e va n c e t o • Moving mechanisms measures to manage identified business units were carried out in implementation of the new system will but also various mobile devices. It 2 at ta i n i n g S D G risks and deviations – and accordance with established schedules. facilitate the monitoring of H&S-related will create a single database that will and ICMM • Transport safety In total 134 external audits were data, including monitoring hazard allow all incoming information to be preventing their reoccurrence. principles 2 conducted, the majority of which were indications, industrial facilities and fire structured, thus making it transparent and and position GRI 403-4 conducted by Rostechnadzor. safety at sites. available for analysis – and boosting the s tat e m e n t s : Hazard identification effectiveness of management decisions. The Hazard identification and HSE risk The company also monitors and assesses and risk analysis of 2 ICMM. Health and safety. management Standard provides guidance the overall efficiency of the Integrated operations concerning the risk assessment procedure HSE Management System by conducting at each business unit. In Polyus we use This is an instrument for annual internal audits. We performed the concept of a “Hierarchy of controls”. performing detailed hazard these in accordance with the corporate The requirements for the level of control analysis and risk assessments Standard on the Internal Audit of the measures in the hierarchy depend on of operations conducted by line Integrated HSE Management System. the significance of the level of risk and is managers within working groups, spelled out in the Hazard identification and who take decisions related to risk HSE risk management Standard, which levels and control measures. The applies to both employees and contractors. guidelines contain a list of work and operations considered to be We created an integrated structure high risk (16 types). The list is of working groups focused on four not comprehensive and can be key risks at each business unit: work supplemented by a line manager. at height, electrical safety, transport safety, contractor management and risk assessment. Every business unit has a person appointed to ensure that the requirements of the Hazard identification and HSE risk management Standard are adhered to. The company initiated this 3 Guidelines on Identifying and Assessing Environmental Risks This guidance specifies the environmental risk identification work to boost communication among and assessment approaches business units, disseminate knowledge that can occur during production about successful practices and to more activities. The purpose is to rapidly resolve issues requiring the rank identified risks in order and involvement of the Managing company. to choose the most effective In addition, we conducted injury risk mitigation methods. assessments based on incident statistics over five years. During this analysis, we ascertained the most dangerous types R e l e va n c e 1 t o at ta i n i n g of work, and scheduled the development SDG and ICMM of systematic instructions for these principles operations – standard operating procedures and position (SOP). We performed this work across s tat e m e n t s : 1 ICMM. Risk management. 64 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 65 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H e a lt h a n d S a f e t y continueD I m p r ov i n g t h e s a f e t y c u lt u r e C a s e s t u dy C a s e s t u dy Improving our safety culture is a key Averag e level of safety cu ltu r e developm ent u n der H&S communication In 2019 Polyus participated in and Baikal international forum of focus. To achieve a high level of employee th e Bradley scale channels: contributed to organising a number of partners in Irkutsk H&S awareness, Polyus implements HSE-themed events. Verninskoye took part in the Baikal numerous projects and programmes and 2.6 2.4 • Meetings of the Central Safety and International Forum of Partners in Russian National Health and Safety pays close attention to safety values. 2.3 Safety committees at business unit Irkutsk, where business units presented Week 2.0 and support services level best practices to create conditions Polyus’ management incorporates the Speaking at the ‘Motivating and development of a safety culture into its 1.8 • Meetings between Managing for maintaining employees’ health engaging workers and managers in set of four high-level corporate KPIs. 1.5 company H&S managers and motivating them to work safely. labour protection’ session, Roman Independent auditors conduct an annual and business units and support Following the forum, Verninskoye Dertinov, Polyus’ Director of Health, safety culture assessment of 14 safety services presented potential improvements to Safety, and Environmental Protection management elements. To measure this the compulsory insurance system. • Information campaigns on H&S and Management, stressed the role of indicator, Polyus uses the internationally Polyus proposed a number of initiatives risks and hazards all managers as drivers of processes recognised Bradley scale. to improve the mandatory insurance in enterprises – and whose undisputed • H&S instructions on all types of system in Russia. These included Since the implementation of integrated leadership qualities are demonstrated H&S and respective training organising training to manage electronic programmes aimed at raising the safety during direct participation in everyday document flows related to the return of culture level, the injury rate has fallen by 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 • H&S reviews and audits activities. An important topic was the (plan) social insurance funds and the payment 43%, while the safety culture level has • Communications via email, non-material motivation of employees of sick leave to shift employees from risen by 50%. telephone, and mobile devices and mechanisms for involving the first day of sickness from the Social contractors in labour protection issues. • Informing staff via information Insurance Fund. stands, posters, videos, and World Day for Safety and Health at Sharing H&S experience Cor r elation between The Automotive Accident Rate also We want to motivate and educate corporate publications at business Work safety cu ltu r e level an d dropped by 33% as a result of the rise in employees to report hazards and As part of ICMM membership in i nj u ry rate unit and support service level Polyus initiated the annual ‘Labour the safety culture level. eliminate risks. The goal for each 2018, we organised study visits Protection and Industrial Safety’ individual is to move from a typical to the company's enterprises for Based on the Bradley scale, for the fifth conference, dedicated to the World 28 reaction of ‘this is none of my business’ to Polyus also actively organises and representatives of other gold mining consecutive year we registered a rise Day for Safety and Health at Work, 2.4 ‘I do not ignore hazards’. Each employee participates in a number of H&S initiatives companies; the HSE Vice President of 22 2.1 of 50% in the safety culture level at and celebrated on 28 April each year. that has witnessed any deviation from the and events. These include internal H&S Anglo Gold Ashanti visited Olimpiada business units and support services. Various professional issues were 17 norms and rules governing safe operation days, issue-specific forums, conferences and Blagodatnoye. In 2019 we In 2019 the company's average safety discussed, and the event featured 20 has the right to halt work to prevent an and round-table discussions. These continued this practice. In 2019 we 1.7 culture development level rose to 2.4 an exhibition of personal protective accident from taking place. Workers are involve not only our employees, but visited a mine in Finland, which has points, up from the 2.3 registered in equipment. Speakers discussed 1.2 required to abandon their work if they also representatives of the business achieved very low injury rates in the 2018. This indicates that employees are the dynamics of changes in the 0.13 0.11 identify hazards that may be a threat to community, government authorities and past ten and has implemented an 0.09 0.08 becoming increasingly involved in safety company’s business units among HSE their life or health. international organisations. We share automated H&S management system. issues. Verninskoye attained the best contractors – and the subsequent 2016 2017 2018 2019 experience with both Russian and We also visited Evolution Mining in result in terms of raising the safety culture Maintaining an effective dialogue on measures taken. We also examined foreign colleagues and carefully study Australia, where an effective H&S level (3.5). Three out of nine business H&S issues with internal and external a number of accidents using practical LTI LTIFR Bradley Curve best global HSE practices, which allows system has been implemented. units exceeded the 3.0 threshold, which stakeholders: mainly workers and trade examples. us to progress and to work safely and demonstrates that Polyus is crossing the unions, influences how the safety culture efficiently. Correlation between ‘cultural bridge’ and entering the next develops. R e l e va n c e t o 1 safety culture level and independent level. This also indicates that We aim to ensure the free and timely at ta i n i n g S D G and ICMM principles ICMM Automotive Accident Rate we are implementing effective and sound AWA R D Partnerships for exchange of reliable information on H&S and position programmes. In 2020, we aim to raise the development 30 policies and standards, commitments and In 2019 Verninskoye won in the s tat e m e n t s : average safety culture level to 2.6 points. goals, injury prevention initiatives and Labour Protection and Health of 2.4 22 2.1 The company’s management understands incidents. Workers category at the ‘Leaders that excellence in safety can be attained of Russian Business: Dynamics, not only by improving management Responsibility, Sustainability – 1.7 23 systems and technical infrastructure, but 2018’ competition held by the 22 also by ensuring that each employee is Russian Union of Industrialists and 1.2 responsible for safety. 0.48 0.37 Entrepreneurs. 0.31 0.46 2016 2017 2018 2019 AA AARk Bradley Curve 1 ICMM. Stakeholder engagement. 66 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 67 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H e a lt h a n d S a f e t y continueD C o r p o r at e t r a i n i n g Injury prevention GRI 403-5 C a s e s t u dy New training equipment was purchased Injury prevention is a key focus of our Each injury incident at work is subject Preventing injuries from equipment also for the electric workshop at the Kuranakh approach to H&S system development. to investigation, in accordance with forms an important part of our work. We made considerable progress in terms mine. In addition, we bought and installed Polyus seeks to constantly improve applicable legal requirements. We also In 2019 we appointed individuals in of improving our training and development Virtual reality equipment for a training area, with its occupational health and safety perform a root-cause analysis of injuries, charge of safety and operations for each system. The main goal is to offer simulator for a complete simulation of the internal 6 kV performance through applying best which is regulated by internal guidelines. hazardous area. We also updated working numerous opportunities for continuous hazardous work pit line. Several times a week, electrical available practices and actively involving Based on the results of investigations and manuals, technical procedures and professional development. The Polyus training workshop employees practice their skills employees in occupational safety root-cause analyses, key risk factors are SOPs – and an action plan was developed corporate training structure encompasses The hazardous substance-unloading to take the necessary technical measures programmes. determined annually. to guarantee the visibility (using paint) of five main training blocks, which ensure simulator simulates the entire process for working in electrical installations with a dangerous parts and rotating elements. We are fully committed to achieving a zero In 2019, in order to improve performance that certain employee categories of performing a standard operation. more than one kilowatt capacity. We took steps to ensure that hazardous fatality rate and preventing injuries. To do levels in each of these five areas, we acquire both basic and specialised HSE To pass, the user must: parts and rotating elements are equipped For training in safe methods of working this, we ensure that safety management continued to roll out new initiatives, knowledge: with safeguarding elements/fencing, • choose personal protective at height, a training area was created at systems are maintained at the right including special H&S campaigns. For clear signage and interlocks. In 2019 • HSE minimum, required for all equipment and conduct a mutual Natalka. Training for the auxiliary mine level and in full compliance with related three years we have used an individual these steps made it possible to halve the employees check with a partner-bot rescue team is held continually. Measures legislation, as well as international and voltage signalling device in Kuranakh to number of related incidents compared to have also been developed to eliminate industry-specific standards. The company prevent electric shocks. The company • HSE for Line management, HSE for top • select an appropriate tool 2017. accidents at hazardous production provides personal protective equipment installed special devices on the helmets management (Leadership) • meet the car and unload sodium facilities. and constantly monitors how it is used. of workers that are sensitive to the • Improving the safety culture and injury cyanide electromagnetic field. When climbing or prevention for workers In 2020 we will increase the managers’ In 2019 we determined the next key areas approaching a line that is energised, the • unpack the consignment personal participation in training on in injury prevention: • The Driving Safety programme devices alert employees with light and working at height with compulsory The simulator uses a Tesla tactile • impacts from machinery/equipment and sound signals. • Health training practical exercises We will also promote feedback suit, which responds hand tools the participation of the CEO/Managing physically if erroneous actions are Directors in a defensive driving training • slips/trips/falls from height Share of employees trained made. The suit conveys sensations in corporate courses, % course. • electrical shocks ranging from light interaction with objects to strong discomfort in the • transport safety Occupational Safety 98% event of a virtual injury. A motion and Health 96% C a s e s t u dy • managing contractors capture system allows you to collect 96% advanced analytics of user actions. Industrial Safety Launch of SAP Success 96% A wide range of training scenarios Programme Goal of the programme Key features Factors 95% allows various skills to be practised, HSE minimum such as working with electrical Before the launch of SAP Success High Five! To prevent hand In 2019 we introduced the High Five! campaign for all contractors of 95% C a m pa i g n injuries from rotating business units and support services. The campaign has covered 98% of equipment, working at heights, Factors, the Managing company Improving the Safety 98% working in confined spaces, was unable to track the status of the mechanisms/manual employees. A range of hazard awareness activities was held, including Culture and Injury tool use. training, creating posters and safety signs, conducting behavioural safety 95% eliminating emergency situations, training process for subordinates or Prevention audits and workplace risk assessments and health inspections. providing first aid and fire evacuation the results of online testing, receiving Fact 2019 Plan 2019 procedures. results only upon request. Prior Preventing slips, To prevent falls: from The campaign activities include audits of work at height, determining to the changes, data on the HSE t r i p s , a n d fa l l s heights and from safe routes for employees around the site, replacing defective PPE and R e l e va n c e training and testing of employees from heights a height of one level, guard fences, purchasing training equipment, and employee training. In In 2019 we launched an H&S training 1 t o at ta i n i n g was stored locally by the heads of c a m pa i g n as a top priority. 2019 the project continued with the installation of systems to prevent falls programme for line managers. Some SDG and ICMM HSE at business units. In 2019 we from height. As a result, we managed to reduce the number of falls from 98% of employees undertook the principles introduced a system that allows SAP height and eliminate fatal accidents: the number of injuries fell by 20% Improving the Safety Culture and Injury and position Success Factors to generate for (five incidents in 2018, compared with four in 2019) and there were zero Prevention training course. Managing s tat e m e n t s : automatic notifications for managers related fatal accidents. Directors of business units and support if their subordinates did not pass any services attended Root cause analysis To raise the professional level of all required training and/or tests. SAP L O T O ( L o c k O u tTo prevent injuries from In 2019 we extended the LOTO (LockOut-TagOut) system project to training courses. In accordance with the rescuers, Polyus launched a course Success Factors provides remote Tag O u t ) s ys t e m rotating machinery and Olimpiada, Blagodatnoye, and Natalka. The project comprised an audit requirements of the standard on hazard on search and rescue operations for access to training documents, so electrical shocks while and assessment of hazardous sources, the delivery and installation identification and HSE risk management, Natalka specialists. As part of the that staff can prepare for tests and performing high-risk of LOTO equipment, integrating LOTO requirements into existing work Managing Directors and employees were training, employees mastered the use exams – and allows distance-learning work. methods, and employee education. We also drafted guidelines to use also trained in HSE Risk management. of insulating breathing apparatus, and courses to be viewed on mobile the LockOut-TagOut system and conducted detailed plant inspections Internal trainers were trained at the devised techniques for conducting search devices. to elaborate system guidelines. previously updated course HSE for line and rescue operations in the event management (Leadership programme). Wo r k s a f e ly ! To develop ‘work safely’ In 2019 we created a list of occupations that perform work/operations of accidents at hazardous production R e l e va n c e facilities. Training was also conducted on t o at ta i n i n g 1 c a m pa i g n information material for that are subject to ‘work safely’ information material. We also began emergency responses to oil spills. SDG and ICMM each job/operation. training line managers on using information material in safety briefings principles for relevant professions prior to commencing work. and position s tat e m e n t s : 1 ICMM. Health and safety. 68 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 69 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H e a lt h a n d S a f e t y continueD Despite all our efforts and the measures C a s e s t u dy Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) among employees by Total registered injuries (TRI) taken, in 2019 there was – to our great business unit, per 200,000 hours worked among employees regret – one fatal accident (compared to three in 2018). The cause of this fatal The Company’s leadership Alluvials 0.05 accident was electric shock. We have a responsibility to meet In 2019, due to safety measures we Krasnoyarsk BU 0.08 not only all legislative compliance implemented, the injury level among In 2019 the LTIFR fell by 11% compared expectations, but to strive to adopt employees was the lowest in the 84 91 Kuranakh 0.00 78 75 to 2018. The number of lost time injuries leading practices. Polyus conducted industry (0.08). Polyus occupies also significantly declined. Benchmarking a comparative analysis of injury levels a leading position among Russian Verninskoye 0.00 the injury rate across the market reveals at mining and metallurgical companies mining companies when it comes to that Polyus had the lowest LTIFR rate over 2018–2019. This analysis indicated reducing fatalities among employees. Magadan 0.17 2016 2017 2018 2019 among mining companies over 2018– that we occupy a leading position in We also had a zero fatality rate among 2019. Among mining and metallurgical Engeneering Service 0.00 terms of the lowest level of injuries contractor employees, which was the Lost day rate among companies, Polyus occupied a leading occurring in the production process. best indicator in the industry. Construction Service 0.21 position in terms of reducing the number employees of fatal accidents among employees. Logistics Service 0.10 R e l e va n c e t o at ta i n i n g 2 Compared to 2018, the number of SDG and ICMM principles Security Service 0.09 accidents at the Logistics and Security a n d p o s i t i o n s tat e m e n t s : services increased. In Olimpiada and 7.70 6.52 Blagodatnoye, Alluvials, Natalka and the Construction service, there were fewer 3.20 1.90 accidents than in 2018, while in other business units there were no incidents. 2016 2017 2018 2019 In 2019 the total registered injuries frequency rate rose by 17%. Lost time injury frequency Total number of employee rate (LTIFR) among employees, An analysis of the accidents indicated that per 200,000 hours worked Restricted work injuries work-related fatalities among employees, 2017–2019, % in 2019 there was not a single accident involving an intoxicated employee. All the accidents involved men, and we did not identify any predominance within a specific profession. 3 0.11 2% 0.09 0.08 Unfortunately, the Construction service 2 1% experienced a serious accident as a result 1 0 0% of an employee falling from height. An analysis of the causes of the incidents has 2016 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 shown that the main factor behind accidents is impacts from equipment and tools. To our regret, the number of total registered Total registered injuries frequency rate (TRIFR) among injuries in Polyus went up in 2019. The Number of lost time injuries employees, per 200,000 hours Medical treatment injuries number of total registered injuries was 91, (LTI) among employees worked (MTI)1 among employees including 4 severe injuries. In 2018, there were no cases of severe injuries. GRI 403-9 The company significantly reduced the 22 20 0.40 0.37 0.41 73 17 0.35 55 54 lost day rate in 2018 compared to 2017. The rate continued to decline in 2019. A positive result of the measures 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 implemented was the zero number of restricted work injuries in 2019. To our regret, in 2019 the number of medical treatment injuries was up 35 compared to 2018. 1 A medical treatment injury (MTI) is defined as an injury or disease that resulted in a certain level of treatment (not first aid) given by a doctor or other medical professional in accordance with the instructions of a doctor. 2 ICMM. Health and safety. 70 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 71 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H e a lt h a n d S a f e t y continueD Driving safety Contractor safety One of the most significant operational In 2019 Polyus introduced a revised Despite the implementation of numerous In 2019 the company worked hard GRI 403-9 In 2019, road accidents among risks relates to vehicles and heavy pit approach for vehicle management in its transport safety measures, the problem of to ensure the safety of contractors contractors declined significantly, by machinery. We therefore, pay particular Logistics service. We implemented travel driving accidents unfortunately remained. and all planned measures were fully Lost time injury frequency 14% compared to 2018, and no major attention to this issue. permit forms, depending on the risk level. The main causes of in 2019 were: completed. The updated Standard rate (LTIFR) among road traffic accidents were recorded. The In addition, dispatchers monitor vehicles Interaction with Contractors in the contractors, per 200,000 number of accidents related to drunk In 2019, as part of updating and • Driving too close to the road edge hours worked, 2018–2019 2 online: a driver should check-in with a Field of Occupational Health, Safety, driving fell (five cases in 2018, against one implementing the standard for providing dispatcher at designated places along • Lack of safe journey planning and risk and Environmental Protection was in 2019). Since 2015, no work-related fatal and organising motor vehicle safety, we approved routes. The implementation of assessment commissioned as a pilot project at accidents have been recorded among our retrofitted most vehicles with on-board the transport security section in the SAP • Violations of work-rest schedules by Olimpiada and Blagodatnoye. In 2021 a contractors. vehicle monitoring systems (OVMS). We system is also ongoing. drivers new standard will be introduced in other also updated our method of collecting In 2019 Polyus developed video materials business units. information for monthly-automated reports The number of driving accidents in 2019 • Frequent weather changes, with a 0.20 for contractors to familiarise them with of high-speed mode violations, based on was 23% lower than in 2018. The Polyus transition to sub-zero temperatures All business units implemented action Golden Safety Rules and the Safety in OVMS data. automotive accident rate (AARk) stood plans to manage the contractor safety, 0.09 road transport, Passenger Safety and at 0.28 in 2019, which was lower than the • Driving off road owing to falling asleep/ which delivered a significant reduction in Health Protection courses. Some 95% During the year, our main objectives for becoming distracted figure for the previous year (0.37). the level of injuries and accidents. of contractor employees underwent ensuring road safety comprised measures • Inappropriate speeds for weather 2018 2019 training on the Minimum Unit in the to prevent vehicle overloads. We checked Polyus seeks to initiate positive changes Automotive accident rate conditions Field of Health and Safety course. Also, and updated vehicle loading maps for based on continuously improving the (AARk) In 2019 no fatal accidents were recorded 97% of contractor driving staff engaged warehouses. Towing trailers of increased GRI 403-2 entire value chain. We launched a among the company's contractors. in transporting dangerous goods and weight were excluded. We introduced pilot project to conduct on-site HSE, passengers were trained in defensive plans for the optimal loading of vehicles, We regularly analyse driving accidentsafety, and environmental protection Main causes of accidents driving. which will reduce the risk of accidents related statistics, and, based on the inspections of procurement participants. among contractors as a result of the incorrect distribution of results of investigations, elaborate and We successfully completed the first stage During the year we drafted guidelines 0.48 cargo inside vehicles. 0.36 0.37 implement measures to mitigate against of implementation, during which a draft to perform HSE audits of potential 0.28 identified risk factors. methodology and tools were developed to contractors during the procurement stage. We also carried out additional work in verify the HSE management system for the field of drivers’ work-rest schedules. In 2020 we plan to develop a work at potential contractors. Vehicles were equipped with additional 2016 2017 2018 2019 C a s e s t u dy height safety training programme, produce safety and driver assistance systems, In 2019 we equipped 93% of the a video and organise training (30% including cameras, collision-warning Safety on transport contractor transport (passengers and coverage) for contractors. We also intend radars and contour marking to draw The total automotive accident rate dangerous cargo transport) with on2019 to conduct a HSE leadership training for attention to a car. We successfully (TAARk) also declined, by 30%. The risk of transport accidents board vehicle monitoring systems, contractors. organised pilot tests of anti-sleep systems, is crucial for Polyus and remains and 98% of contractor transport with a major focus. The Road Safety We will continue to implement a new and the dispatch service performs online three-point safety belts. We performed Total automotive accident rate project and its modules ‘Buckle up’ version of the Contractor Safety monitoring of passenger journeys. comprehensive inspections of all Logistics (TAARk) and ‘Slow down’ – and the installation Management Standard at Olimpiada and service contractors. In addition to introducing technological of remote control systems and video Blagodatnoye as a pilot project. We will innovations, considerable attention is recorders have reduced risks of fatal For contractors, the injury rate declined also develop the contractor selection Falls from height 43% paid to reducing the influence of the injuries to workers in road accidents. from 0.20 in 2018 to 0.09 in 2019 – a procedure – run by the HSE management human factor on driving safety; hence drop of 45%. The key risks of injuries for Falls from the first level 29% system office – and field audits. Thanks to the implementation of the criteria for selecting and recruiting 0.88 0.92 our ‘Risk of Tipping Over’ (Spring, contractors are the same as for Polyus Hit by an object 14% 0.72 In addition, we will engage contractors drivers were updated. Moreover, to 0.64 Autumn), ‘Drive Sober’, ‘Passenger employees.1 Accident14% performing work related to construction reduce the risk of accidents, we provide Safety in Vehicles’, and ‘Slow Safety data collected from our contractors and installation, hazardous cargo, and a number of learning programmes, Down’ targeted campaigns in 2019, indicated that they have seen a steady passenger transport in the work/service including a ‘Defensive driving’ course, 2016 2017 2018 2019 we achieved a reduction in the and significant decline in the LTIFR over risk assessment process and prepare a where drivers learn how to deal with number of high severity accidents two years. draft of Works Execution Safety Analysis. challenging situations on roads and compared to the previous year. We will also begin developing contractor acquire the necessary skills necessary to HSE motivation programmes for high-risk drive in severe weather conditions. Also, R e l e va n c e t o at ta i n i n g services. at least twice a year we conduct training SDG and ICMM principles on providing assistance in the event of an a n d p o s i t i o n s tat e m e n t s : accident. 1 1 The Polyus key risks of injuries for employees are listed in Management approach section. 1 ICMM. Health and safety. 2 Polyus has been collecting data on contractors since 2017, but transparency of the process was reached in 2018. 72 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 73 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H e a lt h a n d S a f e t y continueD E m e r g e n cy p r e pa r e d n e s s G4 DMA C a s e s t u dy Fi r e protection C a s e s t u dy Polyus regularly implements measures The regions where Polyus operates to prevent emergencies, whether natural Road incident and are often affected by fires. Hence fire COVID-19 prevention or caused by human error. In line with measures taken protection is an important area of activity procedures national legal requirements, Action Plans for the company. In 2019, business In May 2019, a minor acid leak in units implemented specialised projects In Spring 2020, before the for the Localisation and Liquidation of the the bodywork of a truck carrying including creating an intelligent fire alarm Sustainability Report 2019 was Consequences of Accidents (APLLCA) containers with nitric acid on the system and voice warning system at issued, the world faced the COVID-19 are annually developed. These contain Epishino-Eruda road was detected. Kuranakh. The current fire alarm and pandemic. Polyus took urgent action descriptions of the company's production This was due to a crack that formed voice warning systems at the facility and participated in preventing the facilities, the possible causes of accidents, as a result of the wall of the plastic are functioning, but require significant spread of the virus, seeking to set how accidents can change over time and container grinding against the metal modernisation in order to eliminate false the highest standards of itself. The the features of potential accident-related crate, due to adverse road conditions. alarms and centralised voice alerts Company established a fund to injuries. Each plan sets out respective Employees called for an additional in each building and structure. The fight COVID-19 in the Russian Far operational procedures for employees car with draining devices and emptied implementation of the programme will East, donated medical ventilators of a facility, as well as the procedure for the acid into a container. The site significantly reduce the risk of fire by to hospitals in the regions of its interacting with state emergency services of the acid spill was localised, and automatically detecting a fire, warning operation and provided the use of in the event of an accident. contaminated soil was collected people early about a fire and managing Polyus’ facilities for field hospitals. We seek to ensure that the necessary for disposal by a specialised the evacuation process. The specialised Moreover, since safety of employees resources are ready to deal with organisation. organisation Fire Safety Centre, which is and contractors is one of Polyus’ emergencies of any kind. In 2019 we accredited by the Ministry of Emergencies key values, a number of internal conducted regular theoretical and to perform fire risk assessments, carried additional measures were taken in practical training at our offices and out an independent fire safety audit. order to minimise risks during the production sites, and at each business COVID-19 outbreak. Among others, unit, we conducted training to mimic these measures included mandating emergency scenarios in quarries and on working from home where possible, hydraulic structures. Top management restrictions on travel and launch of and customer representatives also C a s e s t u dy a coronavirus awareness campaign. participate in emergency drills. All Polyus’ production assets Polyus pays close attention to working Forest fire protection remained unaffected and were with contractors on emergency operating without interruption preparedness. In 2019 we worked A challenging fire situation arose in • Conducting unscheduled training on during the pandemic. Regarding on implementation of the Emergency Siberia and the Far East in 2019. actions to be taken in the event of the employees whose work cannot Response Force Base building project Hence in addition to planned activities, a fire be performed remotely, special at Olimpiada. We identified suppliers the following were carried out: • Unscheduled tests of fire water pipes preventive measures were introduced of equipment, signed contracts, and • Checking readiness to evacuate at Polyus’ operations. The Company completed general construction work • Creating a rapid response team to people in case of a fire provided employees with personal inside the building and on the adjacent constantly monitor production facilities protective equipment, performed territory. The aim of the construction of • Additional checks of household, and surrounding territories health checks on arrival and the base was to create a unified duty warehouse, and industrial facilities • A complete ban on open fires at temperature screening for all staff dispatch service. This will reduce the • Clearing adjacent territories of facilities and conducting dangerous and contractor employees, organized response and arrival times of specialised combustible material work without a work permit access to mental health services. services (the fire department, paramilitary • Unimpeded passage through the Increased hygiene measures included mountain rescue unit, non-staff mountain • Checking the serviceability of fire territory of enterprises of animals daily disinfection of areas and rescue team) to emergency sites. At the extinguishing methods leaving areas affected by forest fires equipment. Quarantine zones were base it will be possible to conduct training established at all operating assets in and to prepare these services, rescue the event that any worker develops operations, physical training, training in COVID-19 symptoms. Updating working with special breathing apparatus, information on Polyus’ ongoing working at height and evacuation from initiatives on COVID-19 prevention is buildings. available on our web site. 74 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 75 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H e a lt h a n d S a f e t y continueD H e a lt h p r o t e c t i o n GRI 403-7 Number of employees found to be under the influence of alcohol or drugs GRI 403-6 Polyus health concept In 2019, we continued to implement the Daily Digital MedChecks Project. 543 alcohol drugs At Polyus we take the health of our Automated medical systems proved their employees extremely seriously. In 2019 effectiveness in previous years, especially we paid close attention to the following in eliminating the human factor during medical examinations. Certain groups of 352 key issues: preventing occupational Industrial diseases, and reducing the number of workers regularly undergo daily preand sanitary and post-shift medical check-ups. The Daily fatalities caused by non-occupational hygiene conditions Digital MedChecks Hub Project is also 193 177 cardiovascular diseases. The Polyus health concept comprises three key areas, aimed at boosting the effectiveness of Protecting people check-ups. Our new digital MedChecks which determine the actions to be taken in the health protection process. from workspace system modules assist in conducting 11 7 15 15 health risks health examinations and in detecting 2016 2017 2018 2019 incidences of alcoholic intoxication. GRI 403-3 In 2019 we increased the number of Industrial sanitary and hygiene automated medical examinations modules conditions to 86. These cover 98% of pre-trip In addition to the work performed to GRI 403-6 Occupational Wellbeing and pre-shift medical examinations of prevent occupational diseases, Polyus health all employees subject to examination. implemented the following activities The company carries out activities aimed • Special workplace assessments Promoting The remaining 2% of employees are in 2019: at identifying risk factors: obesity, bad • Monitoring hazards in the Managing healthy lifestyle inspected manually. We are planning to habits and chronic diseases. In 2020 we workplace • Medical training in accordance with workers’ health choices launch the Polyus Hub, a special platform plan to implement a programme to reduce the best international practices • Catering audits for collecting and analysing medical cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. This was provided to four Polyus health information from Digital MedChecks. includes tracking the number of sick leave • Water regime specialists. The launch of the hub will facilitate the days, the number of diseases and the • Disinfection, disinsection, and development of medical projects in future. • 3,869 employees were vaccinated fatality rate of employees from diseases deracination against flu and 222 against tick-borne outside the company’s territory – and GRI 403-10 encephalitis. global trends and risks. The process Occupational health Unfortunately, in 2019 three cases of • 2,100 first aiders were trained. These is organised and monitored by the hand-arm vibration syndrome (HAVS) employees are able to provide first aid management of a business unit. Any To attain these goals, we concentrated GRI 403-6 cause of CVD is analysed and closely • Preliminary, periodic, and daily among drivers were identified. If possible, before an ambulance arrives. This has on implementing proactive measures monitored by occupational health experts. MedChecks employees with identified occupational helped reach the goal of 3,971 (20%) and elaborated extensive action plans on Polyus provides voluntary medical We organised CVD risk assessments diseases are transferred to other jobs; company employees trained in first aid. • Health insurance health issues. These were customised for insurance for employees. As part of the following preliminary/regular medical if not, a disability status is issued. • Emergency responses and medical each business unit and support service, insurance program, employees have Polyus adopts a principle of zero tolerance examinations and set up appropriate evacuation and comprised four main sections: access to outpatient and hospital care, towards alcohol and drugs; this stance health groups. During pre-trip and ambulance and dental services. The Occupational disease rate1 is regulated by the Substance Abuse pre-shift medical clearance, employees • BU Medical support insurance also covers psychological • Conducting preliminary, periodic, and Policy. We achieved positive results due in cardiovascular risk groups undergo • CPR & First Aid education pre-shift medical examinations. assistance, the purchase of necessary special, more extensive check-ups. to extensive work carried out in this area, medicines and access to the first-aid including improvements to the company's • Rolling out the Daily Digital MedChecks Thanks to additional cardiovascular and Wellbeing station. safety culture level, implementing an Project. oncological screenings of employees For several years the Healthy Heart 0.014 0.013 automatic medical examination system, at Olimpiada, Kuranakh, Natalka and • First-aid training for at least 20% of Programme has been running. Employees 0.009 and randomly screening staff. Violations Verninskoye, cardiovascular mortality is • Health training employees. undergo mandatory ultrasound of our alcohol/drug addiction policy have still not the chief health issue at Polyus • Flu and tick-borne encephalitis • Updating emergency medical response examinations of the heart and blood halved over two years. (there were six related fatalities in 2018, vaccination plans. vessels of the head and neck, and, based 2017 2018 2019 and only one in 2019). Worker fatalities • Medical education on the results, can be sent for ultrasound halved over two years, due to the launch Due to the measures taken to improve tests of the upper limbs. This programme of a project to conduct additional medical working conditions at Natalka, nine class is compulsory for workers aged over 40. examinations and the automated controls 3.4 workplaces were recategorised to 3.3. of admissions to and from shifts. In 2020 we plan to update the medical support and organisation of emergency medical care standard. 1 The occupational disease rate is calculated as the total number of occupational disease cases divided by the total hours worked, and multiplied by 200,000 76 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 77 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information H e a lt h a n d S a f e t y continueD Plans for 2020 and the medium term Polyus will continue to implement Safety measures to ensure the occupational safety and health of workers. The • Continuing with key injury risk company annually sets H&S key programmes performance indicator targets. To attain • Developing a motivation programme these KPIs during the next reporting period and in the medium term, the H e a lt h p r o t e c t i o n company plans to introduce the following initiatives: • Installing information signs on each overhead power line F r a m e wo r k o f • Work to reduce key injury risks within documents working groups • Testing SAP EHS and updating • Rolling out the CVD prevention documentation following a trial operation programme • Developing standard operating procedures for routine electrical C o n t r ac t o r s equipment operations in business units • Introducing the updated Contractor • Elaborating guidelines for organising Safety Management Standard at high-risk work (at hazardous production Olimpiada and Blagodatnoye; pilot facilities). testing and further scale-up to other BUs from 2021 • Updating HSE Risk management, HSE MS and behavioural audit standards. • Training contractors on HSE leadership and providing first aid C o r p o r at e t r a i n i n g • Introducing the contractor selection procedure, run by the HSE management • Updating the injury prevention training system office, and field audits at programme for employees. Olimpiada and Blagodatnoye • Incorporating audio and video • Elaborating an evaluation system of recordings in training related to contractors’ work, by calculating their hazardous operations safety rating • Creating an educational training video • Training contractors on the on the safe execution of top-20 high-risk Environmental protection and ecological operations safety, Safe performance when working at heights courses, including practical M a n ag e m e n t training i n vo lv e m e n t • Creating a unified accounting passport • The personal participation of managers for training and qualifications for in audits of key injury risks: work at contractors’ employees height, work on electric installations • Establishing a unified procedure for and maintenance involving contact with conducting checks on the functioning rotating equipment of the HSE management system for • The personal participation of managers procurement procedure participants in training on working at height • Developing additional HSE motivation • The personal participation of the CEO/ programmes managing directors in the Defensive driving training • Developing automated remote testing programmes for line managers, to check their awareness of the work permit system 78 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 79 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information E n v i r o n m e n ta l s t e wa r d s h i p p e r f o r m a n c e ag a i n s t g oa l s Goal Status Summary of progress in 2019 Reducing the specific water intake from On track In 2019 the metric reached 0.26 m3 per tonne of ore. natural sources to 0.23 m3 per tonne of ore. Reducing levies for environmental impact Achieved In 2019 the metric reached $13.9 thousand. over set limits to $35.5 thousand. 90% of environmental permits obtained. Achieved In 2019 the metric reached 100%. Improved disposal rate for tyres and used On track In 2019 the metric reached 33%. plastic (50%). A l l o c at i o n o f r e s p o n s i b i l i t i e s D o c u m e n t f r a m e wo r k Internal HSE&SD Di r ector • Sustainable Use of Natural Resources and the Prevention of Environmental Pollution Standard • Biodiversity Conservation Standard. Head of Head of • Reclamation and Mine Closure Environmental Environmental Projects Stewardship Standard ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION IS OUR COMMON RESPONSIBILITY • Cyanide Management Standard Environmental protection expenditures • Environmental Impact Assessment A key Polyus priority is to conduct business responsibly, with a view to safeguarding Standard 11 the environment. We continuously strive to improve our management approach to environmental issues and raise environmental awareness among our people. We External $ million minimise the impact of our business activities by operating the corporate Integrated HSE Management System, which provides us with the information and tools we need to be able to manage environmental issues. Environmental Stewardship Senior Manager Waste Management Senior Manager Tailings Facilities Safety • The UN Global Compact • ISO 14001 Manager • The International Cyanide of water recycled Global sustainable development goals Management Code and reused • The ICMM Integrated Mine Closure 94% Planning Toolkit Environmental Stewardship Departments at BU • The ICMM Position Statement on Water Stewardship • The ICMM Mining and Protected Areas Position Statement spent on biodiversity ICMM sustainability principles • IFC environmental and social conservation activities performance standards 310 1 2 3 $ thousand ICMM POSITION STATEMENTS 1 ICMM. Conservation of biodiverity. ICMM ICMM ICMM 2 ICMM. Responsible production. Protected Tailings Water 3 ICMM. Environmental performance. areas governance stewardship 80 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 81 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information E n v i r o n m e n ta l s t e wa r d s h i p continueD Management approach Wat e r m a n a g e m e n t a n d a c c e s s GRI 103 Environmental risk management forms In 2019, environmental protection GRI 303-1 · GRI 303-3 · GRI 306-5 Total an d speci fic water Structure of water intake 1 , part of our corporate risk management measures cost $11.0 million, up 134% with drawn million m 3 A key priority for the company is to system. In 2019 we completed on 2018. Payments related to negative Water is essential to Polyus’ operations. conduct our business so that the environmental risk identification environmental impacts rose to $544 Water consumption therefore represents 0.30 0.29 environment is safeguarded as much assessments at all business units, in thousand. Our commitment to preserving an important environmental aspect 0.26 0.27 0.26 as possible. As a mining company, accordance with the Hazard Identification environmental quality resulted in zero of our business; it requires our close 12.08 6.4 we fully understand our obligations and HSE Risk Management Standard. environmental fines and penalties in 2019. attention, which must take into account towards preserving the quality of the We subsequently created a risk the development dynamics of our assets. environment – and mitigating any adverse register, which serves as the basis for N egative envi ron m ental We are fully aware of our obligations in 2019 11.33 impacts from our operations. We do our managerial decisions on the financing of i m pact fees pai d by Polyus, the area of responsible water resource utmost to comply with environmental environmental projects. $ thousand management. 4.87 33,879 35,774 34,391 legislation and best practices. 31,934 10.70 0.06 The voluntary property insurance Polyus participated in the ICMM Water In recent years Polyus has developed program provides coverage of Polyus Committee working group to implement its Integrated HSE Management Group expenditures on depollution. a water reporting standard (issued by 328 Pit water (used for production) System. This was initially introduced at Given the most significant environmental the ICMM in 2017) by responding to all business units and support services damage could hypothetically arise from member queries (the position on water Pit water (discharge without use) 2016 2017 2018 2019 in 2016. It includes the Environmental tailing storage facility failures, Polyus reporting indicators) and discussing Fresh water Management System, which allows us has initiated development of a special differences between GRI and ICMM water Total water withdrawal, thousand m3 Surface water bodies to promptly respond to any changes in programme of environmental impairment 530 reporting approaches. The enhanced Specific natural resourceswater withdrawal per Underground water bodies 404 production unit, m3 per tonne of ore processed the environment, thereby enhancing liabilities insurance with a limit of adoption of a consistent approach to Municipal water supply networks environmental performance. $100 million. 500 water accounting and reporting will be in 298 Other sources greater focus for the ICMM in 2020. The In 2019, the Environmental Management Annual environmental audits are 57 minimum disclosure requirement will be System was enhanced in accordance performed by state authorities at 26 14 revised (under the ICMM Water reporting with the ISO 14001 Standard. A guideline Polyus’ operations, to ensure that the 2016 2017 2018 2019 standard), and more attention will be paid Water intake for production needs, million m 3 for assessing the significance of company complies with the appropriate to evaporation, entrainment and other environmental factors was developed environmental requirements. In 2019, Above limit fees water losses. 11.33 and introduced across all business 14 inspections took place, the most 10.51 10.70 Within limit fees 10.27 units. In accordance with the guideline, significant of which was a comprehensive We operate in water-rich regions and environmental aspect and risk registers environmental audit by Rosprirodnadzor at avoid risks of water shortages that for business units were updated. Verninskoye. No violations were detected could affect local communities and by Rosprirodnadzor during the audit. the environment. Nevertheless, we still do our utmost to reduce our water intake from natural sources and to increase secondary water usage. We C a s e s t u dy are constantly improving our water management methods so as to reduce Raising environmental awareness water resource consumption; for example, by boosting the use of pit and waste 0.29 Promoting awareness among employees is an essential The programme was uploaded to the Olimpoks platform 0.15 water in the circulation system. All our component in efficiently managing environmental issues and to automate the review process. In 2019, 943 employees enterprises operate using a closed 2018 2019 minimising the adverse effects of our operations. To develop an underwent training, comprising: water circulation cycle. Water taken from environmental culture among employees, a corporate training natural sources is used to replenish water Fresh water Pit water Other sources 347 535 61 programme for the mining industry was launched in 2019, circulation systems to compensate for comprising three employee levels: workers, engineers, and losses (mainly evaporation). managers. Polyus monitors water quality and effluent Percentag e of water workers engineering managers Total water consumption in closed water treatment efficiency to ensure that r ecycled an d r eused The course was devised as part of implementing the Strategy technicians water circulation systems stood at impacts remain within acceptable limits. for Developing the Integrated HSE System. It took into account 324 million m3. The share of water reuse Monitoring is performed at laboratories, fresh developments in environmental legislation (transitioning R e l e va n c e t o at ta i n i n g was 93.6%. In 2019 the water intake from which we frequently upgrade to maintain to technological standard setting, adopting a risk-based SDG and ICMM principles natural sources per production unit was the accuracy of measurements. Our approach, separate waste collection processes, etc), with a n d p o s i t i o n s tat e m e n t s : 0.26 m3 per tonne of processed ore. work in this area resulted in zero fines a focus on gold mining processes. 90% 89.5% 93.7% 93.6% and penalties related to water resource management. 2016 2017 2018 2019 1 Pit water intake includes part that is not used in production (12.08 million m3) and is discharged. 82 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 83 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information E n v i r o n m e n ta l s t e wa r d s h i p continueD GRI 303-2 · GRI 303-4 C a s e s t u dy Air emissions To manage our water-related processes GRI 305-7 Intense dust emissions at Natalka are Significant air emissions, we launched the Water Campaign – a set Water campaign caused by dump formation works, as TONNES of managerial and technical initiatives to Air pollution is an important issue for well as the relatively shallow pit and high As part of its Water Campaign, • At Natalka: installing new metering reduce the intake of fresh water through local communities, and Polyus pays close intensity of blasting works at the initial 1,081 Polyus implemented informational, devices in factory divisions the leakage prevention in the water supply attention to air quality monitoring. In 2018 development stage compared to previous technical, and metrological activities and automatic mixers in water 4,302 systems and efficient use of waste water. a new mobile environmental laboratory year. Consequently, dust emissions at its facilities, as well as control and consumption areas. supervision activities to reduce water for measuring the concentration of throughout Polyus abnormally increased 8,215 Total water discharg ed 1 , • At Alluvials: various measures air pollutants was commissioned at in 2019. In 2020, this indicator is expected losses and the intake of fresh water. million m 3 to prevent the pollution of water Olimpiada. The laboratory measures to revert to the average values of previous In 2019 these included: protection and coastal zones of water concentrations of various components periods following completion of Vostochny 10,532 • At Kuranakh: inspecting shut-off bodies, as well as the pollution of generated by our mining activities: dump construction at Natalka. 1,137 1,094 Ʃ 24.07 valves at water and slurry pipelines. water resources by oil products. nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides, carbon 1,038 Ʃ 22.70 Ʃ 22.32 The only dangerous substance emitted 3,764 Ʃ 20.45 • At Olimpiada and Blagodatnoye: Polyus also built a biological treatment oxides, as well as hydrocarbons. into the atmosphere at our plants is 3,488 3,730 installing an ultrasonic flow meter at facility for sewage and surface water In 2019, air emissions at our assets did not hydrocyanide. All our enterprises are 8,194 8,708 the discharge unit at the Kokuysky flows at the Logistics service. exceed the maximum permissible limits. equipped with highly efficient systems for 8,053 15.54 12.08 31,905 11.71 14.85 coal mine, starting pit water However, emissions of significant pollutants trapping and purifying exhaust gases from 9,365 8,766 treatments design for Blagodatnoye. were up relative to 2018, as a result of hydrocyanide. In 2019 the total volume of 7,504 production growth. Carbon monoxide hydrocyanide emissions at all enterprises 7,073 7,968 6,713 emissions increased slightly, caused by was 333 tonnes. 10.24 R e l e va n c e t o 2 8.74 8.53 mining works intensification during the initial 7.44 at ta i n i n g S D G and ICMM principles ICMM formation of dumps at Natalka. Specific 2016 2017 2018 2019 and position Water emissions (per tonnes of processed Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 2016 2017 2018 2019 stewardship s tat e m e n t s : ore) of other key pollutants (sulphur Sulfur oxides (SOx) Discharge after usage oxides, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic Amount of nitrogen oxides includingnitrogen Pit water discharge w/o usage compounds) demonstrate a continuous dioxide (NO2) three-year downward trend. Carbon oxide, CO Solids (dust emissions) A large proportion of discharged water constitutes mine drainage (pit dewatering) that was not used in production. In 2019 the discharge of pit water exceeded waste water discharges, and stood at 12.1 million m3, compared to 10.2 million m3 of waste water. 1 Used water and unused pit water. 2 ICMM. Environmental performance. 84 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 85 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information E n v i r o n m e n ta l s t e wa r d s h i p continueD Wa s t e m a n a g e m e n t GRI 306-2 Waste reused, stored and neutralised 1 , Tr eatm ent m ethods of non hazar dous waste , thousand TONNES thousand tonnes Improving waste management is another focus area for Polyus, since considerable amounts of waste are generated during a mine’s life cycle. Since 2019, the 0.7 landfilling of certain types of plastic waste 42,262 1.76 has been prohibited in Russia; hence 0.08 Polyus pays special attention to the 94,410 0.20 handling of plastic waste. In 2019 several waste management initiatives were 0.73 launched: 42,565 25.07 36,569 18.69 • A waste disposal and recycling facility was launched at Olimpiada; construction was completed in 2018. The facility 370,568 includes a plastic grinder and tyre 279,830 shredder. 222,321 178,438 0.76 • A new landfill project for the disposal of industrial and municipal waste at 0.03 Kuranakh. 0.09 0.27 • A bio-testing laboratory at Kuranakh 2016 2017 2018 2019 Wood Domestic waste Ash Other nonreceived accreditation in December hazardous waste 2019. Neutralised Stored Reused Stored Reused Neutralised Temporary accumulation Due to a change in Russian environmental law in March 2019, we were forced to temporarily suspend the use of overburden in mining and technical Treatment methods of Total volume of overburden land reclamation activities. Currently, hazardous and n ­ on-hazardous and tailings waste, overburden is accumulated at specially Treatment methods of hazardous waste, thousand tonnes waste2, thousand tonnes million tonnes organised sites, in full compliance with environmental law. 0.25 Ʃ 47.7 324.3 Since overburden and tailings are Ʃ 15.9 specifically mining waste, we also disclose 0.3 the volume of generated and stored waste separately from total waste. The volume of recycled overburden and tailings waste can be calculated by subtracting the 65.0 stored figure from the generated figure. 0.27 44.8 42.4 9.87 29.4 12.8 0.19 0.22 1.86 1.90 0.07 0.06 0.23 0.71 2.4 2.6 0.28 0.02 0.1 0.5 0.2 Used oils Rubber product Plastic Scrap Other hazardous waste Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste Generated Stored Neutralised Stored Reused Temporary accumulation Neutralised Reused Overburden Tailings (solid phase) Temporary accumulation Stored 1 Data on 2016-2018 include waste stored and reused at own facilities only. For the 2019 data Polyus changed the approach and included figures of waste transferred to contractors for storing (2,530 tonnes), reuse (10,733 tonnes) and neutralization (504 tonnes) into total values of waste stored, reused and neutralised.For the data on waste transferred to contractors in 2016-2018 see Polyus Sustainability Report 2018 (www.polyus.com/upload/iblock/d18/polyus_sustainability_report_2018_eng_1_.pdf). 2 Non-hazardous waste (total – 47.68 thousand tonnes): wood, domestic waste, ash; Hazardous waste (total – 15.93 thousand tonnes): used oils, rubber products, plastic, scrap. Except tailings and overburden 86 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 87 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information E n v i r o n m e n ta l s t e wa r d s h i p continueD D a m s a n d ta i l i n g s f a c i l i t i e s C ya n i d e a n d GRI G4-MM3 and appraisal documentation from the hazardous C a s e s t u dy Russian regulators. They have also been s u b s ta n c e s Tailings are an unavoidable by-product certified by independent international expert organisations. In 2019, no tailingsMining and tailings management of gold mining operations. It is essential for Polyus to ensure that Tailings Storage related environmental incidents were safety initiative Polyus ensures the safety of activities Facilities (TSF) are safe, and prevent registered. After the environmental disaster related to working with cyanide and other them from leaking or becoming damaged. at the Brumadinho tailings dam hazardous substances by investigating We have developed a comprehensive Tailing materials consist of finely ground (Brazil) in January 2019, the thorough controls, strictly adhering monitoring system, which includes internal rock particles, chemicals necessary for investment community called for to internal and external regulations and external industrial and environmental extracting gold, and effluents generated in the establishment of a new publicly and raising employee awareness. monitoring, as well as safety inspections a processing plant. Since contaminating accessible and independent Management processes at business performed once a year by the HSE&SD the environment with these components international standard for tailings unit level comply with the corporate team. In 2019 a number of checks were could significantly impact a region’s dams. Cyanide Management Standard. This conducted to review TSF safety: ecology, we pay special attention to regulates our procurement operations tailings safety. • 25 internal audits In April 2019, over 100 investors and interactions with suppliers – and also representing the Mining and Tailings ensures compliance with the International As an ICMM member, Polyus fully • five target audits by HQ HSE&SD Safety Initiative, and co-led by the Cyanide Management Code (ICMC). supports the ICMM Position Statement • one target audit by HQ Internal Audit Church of England Pensions Board on Tailings Governance. We work closely and the Swedish AP Funds Council of In 2018 we completed a diagnostic audit with ICMM organisations on the text of • 11 external audits by Rostekhnadzor at Verninskoye to demonstrate that we Ethics, requested that specific damthe standard for the safe management by-dam disclosures be made by more complied with the International Cyanide During a site visit by independent of TSF, including taking part in internal than 600 companies. Management Code. The audit scope consultants, no visual signs of immediate discussions on possible implementation covered cyanide transportation routes in dam failure were identified. The Polyus fully supports this initiative, as methods. the Irkutsk Region for storage facilities at consultants presented a report, which it corresponds to our wish to ensure Verninskoye. The audit was successfully Polyus strives to minimise any tailingsincluded recommendations on expanding the safety of tailing storages. We passed and the results were included related environmental risks. Our TSFs are the monitoring system in accordance responded to the investor group by in the 2019 Action Plan. Most activities located in remote and inaccessible areas, with contemporary technologies and best providing comprehensive disclosures relate to organising document flows and far from human settlements. We minimise practices. The report was presented to the of all requested information in the submission of documents to the contact between tailing components and Board of Directors, and a decision was the TSF Safety Report, which is auditor. A major Action Plan event was the environment by incorporating specific taken to consider the recommendations publicly available. For details see our the purchase of a weather station for TSF designs. All Polyus TSFs have when planning further work. Sustainability blog: http://polyus.com/ Verninskoye, to enable decisions to be received the necessary required permits en/sustainability/blog/. made based on the most accurate data. We are planning to perform a certification Tailings dumps, total 11 R e l e va n c e t o at ta i n i n g audit at Verninskoye in the summer SDG and ICMM principles of 2020. Operating, including: 6 a n d p o s i t i o n s tat e m e n t s : Alluvial 5 Bulk 1 ICMM Water Decommissioned, including: 5 stewardship Alluvial 1 1 Bulk 4 ICMM Tailings Tailings waste, tonnes 42,371,319 governance Alluvial 41,720,532 1 ICMM. Environmental performance. Bulk 650,787 88 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 89 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information E n v i r o n m e n ta l s t e wa r d s h i p continueD GRI 304-4 Biodiversity management C a s e s t u dy GRI 304-1 · GRI 304-3 · GRI 304-2 · GRI 103 Biodiversity activities Mitigating environmental impacts on by the landscape separation by industrial monitoring of adjacent territories, biodiversity is essential to maintaining the facilities. Industrial sites, roads and in collaboration with local scientific Compensating for any adverse impacts resulting from our activities is an integral $310 Polyus spending quality of the environment in our regions quarries with steep slopes exclude institutions at all stages of the mining part of our environmental activities. The main measures implemented by Polyus to on biodiversity of operation. Polyus ensures biodiversity vegetation overgrowing and animal projects. The results – biodiversity data conserve biodiversity include studying and assessing biodiversity in our regions of conservation activities in 2019 protection in several ways, including habitat. Dumps accumulate large and conservation plans – are shared with operation, monitoring biodiversity levels and various compensation activities. wildlife preservation programmes, working amount of heat and thus increase daily stakeholders. with scientific institutions and government temperature fluctuations affecting species Polyus does not have any operations in Olimpiada and Blagodatnoye Kuranakh Natalka agencies and adhering to internal composition and number of organisms world heritage sites or in nature reserves We worked with a scientific institution Polyus monitors the environments The long-term field studies have been regulatory documents. The company in the area. There is also direct dusting protected by the regional or federal to assess the impacts of our activities surrounding the Bolshoy Kuranakh River performed at Natalka since 2008 with complies with the ICMM Good Practice impact caused by dumps formation and government. Biodiversity studies identified on biodiversity. The results identified a and nearby dumps. During the surveys the special focus on ornitofauna and Guidance for Mining and Biodiversity blasting works. A vegetation analysis in total 13 species included in the national list of local plant species (including the 70 species were identified on dumps. water invertebrates as the impact as well as the International Finance however did not reveal its obvious conservation list (Red Book, federal and national conservation list species – No conservation list (rare, vulnerable, indicator species. In 2019 27 taxons Corporation’s Biodiversity Performance inhibition, which indicates the neutral regional level) in the vicinity of mining Cypripedium calceolus L.), as well endangered) species were found within of water invertebrates were detected Standard 6: Biodiversity Conservation and nature of dust deposits. facilities. Our activities do not affect any as small mammals and insects. the Kuranakh ore field. Hydrobiological in rivers Intrigan and Omchak which Sustainable Natural Resources. Biodiversity management at Polyus is of these species. We actively prohibit It was also noted that mining and monitoring data indicate that Polyus activities is more than in 2017 and 2015 (15 and The biodiversity in the areas of our regulated by the corporate Biodiversity poaching, hunting, and fishing activities by processing activities at Olimpiada are at Kuranakh have no strong negative 17 taxons respectively). The sensitive business activities is primarily influenced Conservation Standard. We perform our employees and contractors in nature concentrated in a limited area (8km impacts on the biodiversity level in adjacent invertebrate communities showed high detailed biodiversity studies and reserves and regions of operation. radius) and have a technogenic impact territories. As part of fish compensation biodiversity indexes and its species on the environment and biodiversity. activities in 2019, Polyus released composition in 2019 was quite similar A floristic survey of the area around 294 thousand peled fry (Coregonus peled) to the undisturbed conditions in 2008Olimpiada revealed in total 177 plant into the rivers of Aldan region. 2009. As part of fish compensation species, including 153 species of activities Polyus released 247 338 Verninskoye higher vascular plants, 14 species of Coregonus peled fry in the Buyunda mosses, and ten species of lichens. Following field studies on the territory of river. 34 mammal species and 117 bird Verninskoye and reference sites, scientific species were detected during the institute experts demonstrated that the ratio of functional groups of plants on those R e l e va n c e t o at ta i n i n g study in 2019. One micromammalian SDG and ICMM principles species – water vole was spotted for territories had been preserved: in total, 265 a n d p o s i t i o n s tat e m e n t s : the first time near the Olimpiada mine species of vascular plants from 150 genera site. As part of fish compensation and 52 families were identified. Very high 1 2 measures, Olimpiada and diversity of birds was spotted in a proximity Blagodatnoye released 39,125 juvenile to the mining site – 148 species of birds Siberian starlet (Acipenser baerii) into and 27 species of mammals were detected the Yenisei River. with the vole dominance. As part of fish compensation activities, Polyus Verninskoye released 58,691 juvenile whitefish (Coregonus sp). ICMM Protected areas Polyus does not have any operations in world heritage sites or in nature reserves protected by the regional or federal government. Biodiversity studies identified in total 13 species included in the national conservation list (Red Book, federal and regional level) in the vicinity of mining facilities. Our activities do not affect any of these species. We actively prohibit poaching, hunting, and fishing activities by our employees and contractors in nature reserves and regions of operation. 1 ICMM. Environmental performance. 2 ICMM. Conservation of biodiversity. 90 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 91 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information E n v i r o n m e n ta l s t e wa r d s h i p continueD L a n d c o n s e r vat i o n GRI MM10 Distribution of land Plans for 2020 disturbed and not and the medium rehabilitated, by categories Our core mining activities oblige us to of use, ha term comprehensively rehabilitate disturbed land in our regions of operation. Polyus identified the following When developing new projects, we operational tasks for 2020 and the make considerable efforts to preserve medium term: landscapes and to reduce the area of disturbed land. During the later stages of • Implementing water R&D projects projects, we endeavour as far as possible • Implementing a project to use pit to restore sites to their natural state. In 31 water in the water circulation system the final stages, we close respective DECEMBER and to clean pit water at unloading sites in accordance with our corporate 2019 sites Reclamation and Mine Closure Standard. • Optimising management process at This establishes the key principles and landfills for industrial and household approaches of planning and organising waste (Olimpiada, Blagodatnoye, work related to the closure of sites, Verninskoye, Kuranakh, and Natalka) and ensures compliance with Russian legal requirements, ICMM sustainable Land in use 22,567 • Upgrades to environmental development principles, and the Land without operating activities 2,296 laboratories (Verninskoye, Kuranakh, provisions of the ICMM Integrated Mine and Natalka) Closure Planning Toolkit. • Developing an end-to-end monitoring and control system to ensure safety of hydraulic structures Total distu r bed an d r ehabi litated lan d, ha 7,723 2,777 1,751 1,222 1,022 659 510 223 2016 2017 2018 2019 Land disturbed Land rehabilitated 92 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 93 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information E n e r g y a n d c l i m at e change p e r f o r m a n c e ag a i n s t g oa l s Goal Status Summary of progress in 2019 Сarbon intensity per production unit Achieved The goal for 2020 was achieved ahead of time: the 2019 reduction of 15% (2020 vs 2015) metric reached 45.1% vs 2015 Own energy generation reduction On track A 8.5% decline relative to 2018 Internal energy audits across all business On track Audits are ongoing. Results will be available in the second units quarter of 2020 Building a double-circuit 1110-kV Achieved Construction of the powerline was completed Taiga-Olimpiada powerline Building a 220-kV Ust-Omchug – Omchak On track The project will be fully implemented in the second Novaya powerline quarter 2020 A l l o c at i o n o f r e s p o n s i b i l i t i e s D o c u m e n t f r a m e wo r k Internal B oa r d o f D i r e c t o r s • Sustainable Use of Natural Resources and the Prevention of Environmental Pollution standard reduction in carbon RESPONSIBLE ENERGY MANAGEMENT IS Senior Vice • Energy Policy (Verninskoye) intensity vs 2015 ESSENTIAL FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE President, Operations External 45.1% Creating a low-carbon and sustainable future is a global challenge – and large businesses play a major role in • Recommendations of the Task achieving this goal. We are dedicated to responding to climate Force on Climate-related Financial change appropriately by altering our energy management Disclosures approach based on the best sustainability practices. • ICMM Environment and Climate Change work programme HSESD Vice-President, Director Technical Policy • Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Global sustainable development goals Reduction in total GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard emissions 82.3 thousand tonnes CO2-e ICMM sustainability principles Head of Sustainable Development Working Group 1 energy saved per kg of gold produced 33.9 kWh/kg ICMM Position Statements ICMM Climate 1 ICMM. Environmental performance. change 94 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 95 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information E n e r g y a n d c l i m at e c h a n g e continueD Management approach C l i m at e c h a n g e a n d G H G e m i s s i o n s GRI 103 In addition to internal standards and Energy management and climate changeGRI 305-4 · GRI 305-5 business units. We expect to complete We will continue to improve the quality local legislation, Polyus also assesses related issues are regulated strategically audits at all business units by 2020 (at of our environmental disclosure and will Mining industry is traditionally carbon the recommendations of international by the company’s top management and the end of 2019 audit procedures were continue working with our peers to help intensive, and accounts for around 2% of frameworks when performing and the Board. These, together with other Car bon i nte ns ity completed at one business unit and there develop new sustainability standards and global energy-related GHG emissions. disclosing its business activities results. aspects of sustainability, are overseen by reduction were no specific plans regarding the policies for the mining industry. Polyus Hence there is considerable room for improvement. This also means that We actively participated in ICMM Climate Change Committee quarterly Independent Director William Champion. We are continually improving our levels 1 6 .1 % change of approach to GHG emissions calculation). We plan to improve our has already achieved strong results in its climate action initiatives, but we if mining companies make collective Attained in 2019 vs. 2018 managerial approach related to climate know there is more that both we and the sessions that discussed the new ICMM of disclosure and participate in Carbon improvements, they can make a tangible change, based on the audit results in industry can achieve; we will keep our Climate Change Position Statement Disclosure Project (CDP) assessments. contribution to a low-carbon future. 2020. stakeholders updated as we continue this (updated in 2019). The new statement In 2019 we improved our results Polyus uses The Greenhouse Gas journey. Polyus recognises its obligations strengthens the mining industry principle compared to 2018 by achieving a ‘D’ score Protocol Corporate Accounting and in relation to responsible energy of taking proactive steps to reduce in the ‘Climate Change’ category. We also Reporting Standard (UK) for GHG management and tackling climate GHG emissions and engaging key participated in CDP surveys for the emissions calculations, which have been Total GHG emissions and Total GHG emissions of change. We pay close attention to stakeholders on sustainable development‘Water security’ and ‘Forests’ categories. conducted and disclosed since 2016. business units, kt CO 2 -e carbon intensity 1,2,3 mitigating climate change risks by related challenges. Polyus also voted to In the latter, Polyus received a ‘D’ score, The calculation results are assured by boosting the energy efficiency of our support work on R&D projects instead of improving our performance relative to independent auditors. In regard to direct GRI 305-1 · 305-2 · 305-4 facilities. To respond to climate change increasing payments for GHG emissions, 2018 (F) and was the only top-25 mining GHG emissions calculation we used appropriately – and to minimise our since we believe the development of company by market capitalisation – and emission factors provided by IPCC 2006 0.120 0.108 impacts – we developed the corporate important new technologies will play one of the few Russian companies – Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas 0.087 Energy strategy and established internal a crucial role in achieving COP 21 Paris to respond to biodiversity-related data Inventories and global warming potential 0.073 environmental KPIs for GHG emissions agreement goals. disclosure requests. We plan to develop (GWP) values presented in the IPCC reduction. further our disclosure approaches in order Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). For 2019 to achieve better scores, and will strive indirect GHG emissions we used UK 1.22 1.63 1.40 1.57 to maintain a high level of awareness Government GHG Conversion Factors for surrounding climate change and to Company Reporting, 2019 and European manage this area effectively. Bank electricity carbon emission factors for Russia. 1.95 1.70 1.66 1.63 Polyus implements initiatives and Krasnoyarsk BU 1,659 managerial decisions aimed at decreasing our contribution to climate change. We Polyus Energy 620 2016 2017 2018 2019 reduce energy generation at our facilities Kuranakh 334 by connecting them to external power Indirect, Mt CO2-e Alluvials 196 grids. We are also strongly committed Direct, Mt CO2-e Verninskoye 165 GRI 201-2 to lowering greenhouse gas (GHG) Carbon intensity, t CO2-e per t ore processed Natalka 151 emissions and to boosting energy AWA R D Logistics service 58 efficiency. Construction service 25 A Climate Development Leader As part of our wide-reaching ESG programme, we established firm targets to In September 2019, Moscow hosted As part of the forum, the results of the reduce GHG emissions at all our mines. the III Climate Forum of cities 2019; a open national Climate Development Hence the reporting period saw a 2.7% Carbon intensity of business units 4 discussion platform of key challenges Leaders competition were announced; drop in our generation of GHG emissions related to low-carbon progress in more than 200 projects in six relative to the 2018 level, with Olimpiada Ore Carbon intensity, Business unit Russia. The forum mainly focused on nominations were submitted. Polyus and Blagodatnoye contributing most to processed, kt t CO2-e per t ore processed adapting to climate change. Participants took second place in the ‘Ecology and this fall. We also successfully met our Olimpiada and Blagodatnoye 22,913 0.072 also discussed interaction between the Business: Environmental Projects 2019 goal to maintain carbon intensity at state and business and the economy of of Companies in Russia’ category, the 2018 level, despite production growth: Verninskoye 3,035 0.054 green technologies. The Climate Forum for the Strategic Transition project we achieved a 45.1% reduction vs 2015, brought together both Russian and to build a 220-kV Razdolinskayaand a 16.1 percent reduction vs 2018. Kuranakh 6,882 0.048 international experts from 26 countries. Taiga powerline and a 220-kV Taiga substation. The project resulted in a Polyus continues to improve its GHG Natalka 11,248 0.013 518-thousand-tonne reduction in GHG emissions management system. In 2019 emissions by the end of 2018. we identified and measured sources of GHG emissions as part of our energy audits, which were launched across all 1 P  olyus uses the location-based method for indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) calculation. 2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) at Natalka are excluded as energy purchased comes from a hydro-electric power plant. 3 Updated direct GHG emissions for 2017-2018 due to fuel consumption adjustments. 4 Only mining business units included. 96 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 97 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information E n e r g y a n d c l i m at e c h a n g e continueD Total direct GHG emissions by fuel type, kt CO 2 -e GHG emissions of using biofuel (firewood) as an energy source, kt CO 2 -e Energy management GRI 302-1 C a s e s t u dy Renewable energy in own generation Polyus understands the important role Polyus electricity generation, 2016-2020, million kWh 2019 played by renewable energy in achieving 2.17 3 2.04 2.09 a lower-carbon, sustainable future. 1.69 As a company with energy-intensive 108 activities, we work hard to introduce 74 renewable energy to the power grids of 73 2 our facilities. 32 3 291 202 154 Coal 819.2 Our solution involves boosting the 140 127 Diesel 766.2 2016 2017 2018 2019 use of hydro-electric power plants Oil 43.5 (mostly the Mamakan plant) to supply Gasoline 3.0 our facilities. We carry out measures to raise the percentage of renewable 377 385 329 339 345 Biofuel (firewood) 1.7 energy in our generation system. In Kerosene 0.1 2019 Polyus achieved a value of 66% (63% in 2018) of renewable energy in total electricity generation, or 339 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Direct and indirect emissions of CH 4 and N 2 O, kt CO 2 -e million kWh. We plan to raise our (plan) proportion of renewable energy to 73% Verninskoye diesel power plant (2016 only) 0.70 by 2020. Natalka diesel power plant (2019 and onwards) 1.25 1.53 1.47 3.64 Krasnoyarsk diesel power plant (planned decommission in 2020) 4.81 3.53 R e l e va n c e t o at ta i n i n g Krasnoyarsk thermal power plant 3.07 SDG and ICMM principles Mamakan hydroelectricity power plant a n d p o s i t i o n s tat e m e n t s : 5.66 5.06 5.05 4.98 Share of renewable energy in electricity generation of Polyus 7.89 6.55 6.07 5.81 45% 58% 63% 66% 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 72% Indirect CH4 emissions (SCOPE 2) Indirect N2O emissions (SCOPE 2) 1 Direct CH4 emissions (SCOPE 1) Direct N2O emissions (SCOPE 1) ICMM 55% 42% 37% 34% 28% Climate change 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (plan) Non-renewable energy Renewable energy 1 ICMM. Environmental performance. 98 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 99 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information E n e r g y a n d c l i m at e c h a n g e continueD GRI 302-4 GRI 302-1 · GRI 302-4 Consumption of primary energy sources 1 , t C a s e s t u dy Decision-making on energy efficiency 1,088 Plan s f or 20 20 Oli m piada en ergy su pply: work proceeds in Polyus is based on corporate 29,524 1,656 922 a nd t h e m e dium energy strategy goals. In 2019, actions 2,766 including conservation and efficiency 1,351 1,198 1,296 13,956 965 Continually improving the energy power Key results: term 23,894 22,470 grid at our facilities is a top priority for • Reduced energy supply costs at improvements, delivered total energy Polyus. Since 2015 we have executed GRI 201-2 145,591 Olimpiada due to switching to cheaper savings of 40 kWh per kg of gold a set of energy supply projects at external federal electricity networks. produced. Olimpiada to meet growing electricity Polyus has set the following operational 171,417 • Improving the environment in goals for 2020 and the medium term: In 2019 energy consumption at Polyus 215,300 239,096 demand in the region. The projects the region by reducing energy reached almost 8.4 thousand TJ. The cost boost efficiency at Olimpiada and also consumption from non-renewable • Achieving a carbon intensity level of energy consumed is presented in the contribute to regional development by energy sources produced at own of 0.11 tonnes of CO2-e per tonne of Polyus Annual Review 2019. The volume supplying other local mining enterprises thermal power stations and diesel processed ore in 2020 of used energy resources is 1,485 TJ for with cost-effective energy. power plants, with a resulting fall in • Elaborating a climate change strategy heat and 6,918 TJ for electricity. Completed activities: GHG emissions. 517,216 and making climate-related risks During the year, Polyus initiated the active • Building a double-circuit 1110-kV • Stimulating the socio-economic assessments 397,181 Taiga – Olimpiada powerline. development of energy management 333,918 development of the region. Due to 304,827 • Elaborating a new Energy strategy for systems at its business units. Internal • Commissioning a 110-kV substation additional energy capacity, other the company, based on 2020 energy energy audits across all business units at Olimpiada – BIO-4. The substation industrial enterprises in the region audits results were launched to assess the effectiveness allowed us to decrease total coal will have the potential to increase of the Energy strategy. The evaluation consumption by 32,266 tonnes and oil production, creating new jobs and • Completing construction of the Ustresults will be available in the second consumption by 8,510 tonnes in 2019 boosting tax revenues for regional Omchug – Omchak Novaya 220-kV quarter of 2020. We plan to use the 2016 2017 2018 2019 compared to 2018. budgets. powerline in 2020 findings o to develop a new Energy Coal Diesel Oil Gasoline Others • Decommissioning TPP-1 at Olimpiada strategy for 2020, which will correspond to • Building a 110-kV substation at Future projects: Olimpiada – Vidnaya, with planned and connecting Sukhoi Log to the the most pertinent climate change issues 2020: Commissioning a 110-kV federal power grid and the outlook for Polyus regarding commissioning in 2020 due to substation at Olimpiada – Vidnaya, boosting energy efficiency. renovation of the internal power grid of Polyus. We estimate the coal 2020–2022: Installation of a third consumption decrease effect of the transformer at the Taiga substation Volume of used energy In addition, Polyus selected Verninskoye Energy management projects are very substation to be 38,877 tonnes in 2020 to boost capacity. resources, TJ to be a pioneer in energy management important for Polyus. They improve (relative to 2019) and 98,909 tonnes in system certification. During the reporting environmental and economic performance 2021 (relative to 2020). 6,918 year a great deal of preparatory activity by providing facilities with more reliable took place at the business unit, including and cost-effective energy sources and • Obtaining the technical specifications launching SAP and establishing reduce our GHG emissions. In 2019 we for connecting Olimpiada to the 1,485 documentation governing the energy continued with the construction of the federal power grid. management system. Verninskoye was 220-kV Ust-Omchug – Omchak Novaya Heat Electric energy the first Polyus business unit to implement powerline. This will cover Natalka and R e l e va n c e 3 the Energy policy. The certification audit other Magadan Region mining facilities’ (which summarises completed goals) of energy needs, as well as potential future t o at ta i n i n g SDG and ICMM ICMM In 2019 Polyus produced a total of the current energy management system energy requirements. The project is of principles Climate 1,086,693 MWh of energy and consumed at Verninskoye began at the end of considerable strategic importance in and position change 2019. The audit results will be disclosed terms of developing the region. s tat e m e n t s : 2,644,280 MWh of indirect energy. in early 2020. Based on the results for Vo l u m e s o f e n e r gy Verninskoye, decisions on setting energy consu m ption management enhancement goals for and production2 other business units will be made. Long-term contract to purchase renewable energy Parameter Volume, MWh In 2020, a five-year contract was hydro-electric power plants. The contract signed between Natalka and PJSC will not raise electricity prices for other Indirect energy 2,644,280 Kolymaenergo to purchase 310 million consumers. The deal will contribute consumed kWh of energy. This will provide over 90% greatly to developing gold-mining activities Total energy 1,086,693 of the business unit’s entire electricity and the hydropower industry in the produced needs. Electricity will be generated at Magadan Region. 1 Updated diesel fuel consumption for 2017-2018. The calculation now includes mining equipment data at Natalka. 2 Figures include electric and heat energy. 3 ICMM. Environmental performance. 100 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 101 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Local com m u n iti es p e r f o r m a n c e ag a i n s t g oa l s Goal Status Summary of progress in 2019 Further developing infrastructure in the On track We continued developing social infrastructure in the region Bodaybo Region and renovated the cultural and recreational centre. Sponsoring various projects to mark the Achieved We marked the 90th anniversary of Magadan by organising 90th anniversary of Magadan various cultural events, including the major ‘Territory. Magadan’ festival. A joint cultural project with Moscow Achieved Together with Moscow Kremlin museums, we organised Kremlin museums a series of exhibitions in various Russian cities to exhibit the museums’ collections. A l l o c at i o n o f r e s p o n s i b i l i t i e s D o c u m e n t f r a m e wo r k Internal V i c e P r e s i d e n t, G ov e r n m e n t R e l at i o n s • Charity, Donations, and Sponsorship Policy • Regulation on Charity and Sponsorship Project Management Government • Engagement with Indigenous People Public Relations Standard allocated to social support OUR ABILITY TO CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS IS CLOSELY TIED TO Relations Department (PR) Department (GR) activities, million UNDERSTANDING THE INTERESTS OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES • Regulation on Interacting with State Authorities, Local Governments and 47.3 Society increasingly expects the mining industry to contribute to the wellbeing and Infrastructure Organisations development of the local communities in which it operates. $ Polyus is committed to making a positive contribution to the quality of life and resilience of our communities. We aim to work collaboratively with them to deliver meaningful and sustainable outcomes. Executives at Business Units • Stakeholder Engagement Policy • Human Rights Policy External • UN Global Compact Global sustainable development goals Tax and licence payments made • EITI to federal budget, million $ 436.7 ICMM sustainability principles charity and sponsorship 1 projects implemented in the region of operations › 130 ICMM Position Statements ICMM Indigenous 1 ICMM. Social performance. peoples 102 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 103 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Local com m u n iti es continueD Management approach GRI 103 · GRI 203-1 · GRI 203-2 As large regional industrial enterprises, Expenditure on social support by region 3 , $ thousand Polyus’ business units are significant As one of the world’s largest gold In 2019 Polyus made significant efforts in our regions of operation. Indirect employers for local communities, 43,749 producers, we understand the importance to support its local communities, impacts include regular, transparent tax providing good working conditions and 1,595 of caring for the economic prosperity and participating in social projects at a payments made by Polyus’ business career prospects. social wellbeing of the residents of our federal level. During the year our social units to regional budgets, which, in turn, regions of operation – and of the country investments amounted to $47.3 million, contribute to the growth of regional Our operations indirectly stimulate 940 865 as a whole. To meet local communities’ $22 million out of which were allocated economies. In 2019 net payments to regional economic development through expectations, we are always open for to infrastructure development projects. governments, including income tax our work with local producers, who dialogue. We maintained our focus on education and mineral extraction tax payments provide us with goods and services. 181 and science, sports and healthy lifestyle (royalties), stood at $436.7 million. In We prioritise local suppliers whenever Polyus is committed to a proactive possible. In 2019, 17% of Polyus’ and culture and arts. These categories addition to monetary contributions, Polyus external social policy. We endeavour to procurement was sourced from the account for 88% of total expenditure on also gives employees the opportunity maximise our positive impacts on local regions where we operate. social support for regional and federal to volunteer. For more details see the communities and minimise any potential projects. Human capital section of the Report. negative effects from our operational The number of local suppliers consists activities. Hence Polyus actively supports Our business significantly impacts of the suppliers located in the same social and charity projects in our regions communities, both directly and indirectly, region as the Business Unit that makes Federal Krasnoyarsk Magadan Irkutsk Republic of of operation (Krasnoyarsk Territory, purchase. projects Territory Region Region Sakha (Yakutiya) Irkutsk Region, Magadan Region, and the Republic of Sakha). We also seek to bring value to the P o ly u s n e t pay m e n t s t o g ov e r n m e n t s , $ t h o u s a n d D i s t r i b u t i o n o f s u p p l i e r s by r e g i o n C o n s u ltat i o n s w i t h broader community through federal local co m m u n iti es level sports, educational, scientific, and Olimpiada and cultural projects. 2019 was ‘the year of the 326,991 Khabarovsk Territory 9% Blagodatnoye GRI 413-1 · GRI 413-2 theatre’ in Russia – and Polyus endorsed Kuranakh 49,386 The Republic of Bashkortostan 7% the initiative by implementing various Altai Territory 7% The company conducts environmental theatre-related projects at both federal Verninskoye 32,874 and social impact assessments within Yaroslavl Region 6% and regional levels, including cooperative EIA process in compliance with Russian Omsk Region 6% projects with Moscow Kremlin Museums Alluvials 22,937 legislation. Polyus publicly discloses the and the theatre of nations. Natalka1 3 2019 Samara Region 5% results of environmental and social impact The Republic of Tatarstan 5% assessments. At a regional level we implemented Other 2 4,482 Nizhni Novgorod Region 4% a wide range of social and economic For example, the materials on the large projects and initiatives (for details, see Primorsky Territory 4% project implemented by Polyus the the Contributions to socio-economic Other 47% construction of a mining and processing development of regions section), E x p e n d i t u r e o n s o c i a l p r o j e c t s by c at e g o ry enterprise based on the Natalka field which align with our business strategy. are available on the website of the We regularly provide social support to L o c a l p r o c u r e m e n t by r e g i o n , 2 0 1 9 administration of the Tenkinsky city Education and science 65% local communities through charitable district. Promoting gold mining industry unions 3% GRI 204-1 initiatives, donations, sponsorships and and associations projects that deliver a wide range of social 26% Furthermore, in the first half of 2020, Sports and healthy lifestyle 16% and economic benefits. We develop JSC Polyus Verninsky (Bodaybo district Regional development 6% social support initiatives in a number of 22% of Irkutsk region) submits for public Support for vulnerable social groups 3% discussion a project of increasing the spheres, including education, sports, and arts and culture, as well as environmental Arts and culture 7% capacity of a gold extraction factory. 12% The electronic version of the materials protection. Engaging with local 18% government and local communities is available on the official website of helps us to identify those areas that the administration of the Bodaybo best support residents in our regions municipality. More information on EIA of operation. assessment process may be found on the 1,581 548 950 319 475 45 410 37 company's web-site: www.polyus.com/ru/ sustainability/environment/ Krasnoyarsk Irkutsk Region Yakutia Magadan Region Region The company does not have local community consultation committees, but Total number of suppliers Number of local suppliers Spendings on local suppliers Polyus Hotlines are available to consult for requesters outside of the organization. 1 N  atalka is subject to tax exemptions under the legislation. 2 O  ther payments include payments made by PJSC Polyus, Polyus Logistika, and other companies, consolidations and eliminations. 3 E  xpenditure includes charity, donations and sponsorship. 104 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 105 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI 103 Co ntr i buti o ns to soci o eco n o m i c developm ent of r eg ions P o ly u s k e y s o c i o e n v i r o n m e n ta l projects Our principal operations are located in the eastern part of Russia: Eastern Siberia and the Far East. We recognise that a significant aspect of our Federal K r a s n oya r s k Irkutsk Region R e pu b lic of Sakha M AG A DA N R E G I O N business activity is the wellbeing projects T e r r i t o ry ( B o day b o d i s t r i c t ) of the regions where we operate. Cooperation with Moscow World University Games 2019  econstruction of cinema 'Vitim' R  5 years of gold mining in the 9 ‘Territory. Magadan’ festival We therefore work hard to Kremlin museums in Bodaybo Republic of Sakha S  chool of self-determination Polyus 'Golden Season’ festival contribute to the prosperity of Support of the Theatre of (career guidance for high school Institute of Applied Ecology of Y  syakh 2019 (national local communities and to bring Nations students) the North Yakut holiday) C  elebration of the anniversary value to the whole country. of Magadan Eastern Economic Forum W hite Fair holiday 'Vitimskiy' state nature reserve Polyus willingly launches and R  epair of a classroom develops projects in the field ‘Heat' sports festival in Polytechnic Institute Expenditure on social of North-East State University of sports and healthy lifestyle, support, thousand ‘Green’ summer festival 865 education and science, arts Expenditure on social Expenditure on social Improvement of housefronts support, thousand support, thousand and culture, ecology and S iberian branch of Russian $ in Ust-Omchug village environmental protection. $ 43,749 Academy of Science K rasnoyarsk Economic Forum Read more on page 110 $ 181 E  astern Research Institute VNII-1 Read more on page 105 Read more on page 112 Expenditure on social Expenditure on social support, thousand support, thousand $ 1,595 $ 940 Read more on page 108 Read more on page 114 LEGEND Total expenditure on social and charity projects in 2019, Education and science $ million Arts and culture 47.3 Тotal number of social and Regional development Sports and healthy lifestyle  cology, joint projects on E charity projects implemented biodiversity in 2019 137  romoting industry unions and P associations 106 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 107 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Local com m u n iti es continueD C a s e s t u dy C a s e s t u dy C a s e s t u dy C a s e s t u dy K r a s n oya r s k Territory Interactive scientific ‘Remue Menage’ French Sponsorship of ‘Heat’ White Fair holiday and educational street theatre during sports festival platform as part World University White Fair is a New Year event for Polyus has the largest mining assets of World University Games 2019 Krasnoyarsk residents, organised in in Krasnoyarsk Territory. Olimpiada Games 2019 cooperation with the administration and Blagodatnoye makes a significant of the central district of the city. contribution to the economic stability The fair was timed to celebrate the and social development of the region – New Year and Christmas holidays for and in 2019 was the third-largest Krasnoyarsk residents. Polyus acted taxpayer in the region. as a general partner of the event. Since 2016, a social and economic The fair was attended by employees partnership agreement has existed and their families, as well as between the company and the Polyus promotes healthy lifestyles a large number of city residents Government of the Krasnoyarsk and sponsors a number of major and guests. The daily number of Territory. Under this agreement, Polyus sports events. The company also visitors exceeded 100 thousand. commits to raise its production volumes support local sports clubs and teams, One in two guests of the fair visited As part of supporting the XXIX for more than five years and, as a by helping them participate in major Ded Moroz’s residence, established The World University Games (held in winter World University Games result, its tax payments. In total, we tournaments and competitions. by Olimpiada and Blagodatnoye, Krasnoyarsk), featured a multimedia Polyus organised a cultural event plan to allocate more than $1.1 billion where Ded Moroz, together with exhibition, Yeniseian Siberia, which for Krasnoyarsk residents and In August 2019 the Krasnoyarsk to the consolidated federal budget of Snegurochka, listened to children was dedicated to the achievements visitors. In the city centre the ‘Remue ‘Heat’ half-marathon took place. This Krasnoyarsk Territory, while the regional reciting poems, congratulated them of Krasnoyarsk Territory. As Russia’s Menage’ French street theatre held is the most popular summer sports government is committed to allocating on the New Year, and presented them largest gold producer, Polyus took a celebratory street parade. event in the east of the country and funds to infrastructure projects that with gifts. The fair featured a variety part in this exhibition, with an item of is traditionally sponsored by Polyus. of entertainment, including children’s improve standards of living and working Four enchanting shows with dancers gold from the Olimpiada field proving Running tracks were laid through playgrounds, a skating rink, a giant conditions in remote areas where we and four-metre high dolls decked to be the most popular exhibit. Each the historic centre of Krasnoyarsk, ice slide and a performing area. operate. out as brightly lit polar bears drew guest had the chance to hold a and over 2,300 people ran distances thousands of spectators and For several years running, we have genuine gold bar, weighing 13.3kg of 5km, 10km or 21km. Each was created a magical atmosphere. conducted a variety of sponsorship, and worth $517 thousand. treated like a winner and received This was not only a procession volunteering, educational, cultural Polyus also set up an interactive but a choreographic performance an exclusive award for taking part and charity projects in Krasnoyarsk scientific and educational platform featuring unique circus tricks. and supporting healthy lifestyles. 70 Territory. As part of these activities, devoted to gold mining. Comprised The shows were watched by over Polyus employees ran distances of 10 a number of educational and of five modules it covered modern 20 thousand people. and 21 kilometres. awareness-raising events in the field theories of the origin of gold, ore of the geology of precious metals and extraction and processing, the unique various cultural events are held for features of gold and its role in highresidents of the region. During 2019 tech manufacturing. we allotted $1.6 million to more than 50 projects in Krasnoyarsk Territory. Many new projects are currently at the planning stage. In 2019 Polyus participated in organising the World University Games in Krasnoyarsk, by giving participants an opportunity to get involved in educational and cultural activities. We endeavour to diversify recreational activities for the residents of our regions of operation, thereby helping to raise living standards. Hence the company regularly organises and supports cultural events, usually timed to coincide with public holidays. 108 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 109 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Local com m u n iti es continueD GRI 203-2 GRI 413-1 C a s e s t u dy C a s e s t u dy C a s e s t u dy C a s e s t u dy Irkutsk Region Social activities Reconstruction Green landing forces Students’ visit to operational plant in Bodaybo of cultural and in Bodaybo recreational centre highly automated. The work of the Alluvial gold fields have been ‘Vitim’ in Bodaybo Polyus has a particular focus on Wenco programme was on display. developed in Irkutsk Region for over the younger generation and the Students also saw how technologies 160 years. Verninskoye and Alluvials importance of its development. are employed in the chief mine are the key Polyus assets that We therefore provide a variety of surveying service. contribute to the region’s economic educational, career, and volunteering Verninskoye also hosts teachers prosperity and its social development. activities for children and students. from the college, who observe the The Irkutsk alluvial business unit is technologies used and then update the the only alluvial production asset in educational programme accordingly, the world that directly engages in Students of the Bodaybo Mining orientating it increasingly towards alluvial gold commercially, confirming College visited Verninskoye, where digitalisation and automation. They are its economic efficiency on an annual they witnessed the implementation of thus able to better prepare the next basis. digital technologies. They also visited Polyus supports Bodaybo residents generation of mining specialists, who a processing plant and producingA number of promising Polyus projects on an ongoing basis. Our philosophy Polyus provided financial support are in high demand. dispatching site, both of which are are also located in Irkutsk Region. is to support those who endeavour for capital repair of cultural and These include Sukhoi Log, where an to succeed and develop. Hence we recreational centre ‘Vitim’ in Bodaybo. exploratory drilling programme, begun invest in sports facilities, education, Under the socio-economic cooperation In the summer of 2019, pupils from in 2017, has been completed. Sukhoi and creative activities. agreement with the regional Bodaybo schools worked hard to Log is one of the largest extensively government, Verninskoye has allocated improve their town, cleaning streets, We also provide tickets to therapeutic studied gold ore greenfield projects in more than US$118 thousand during two square and riverbanks. The Project resorts, purchase food and the world. previous periods to repair the centre. Green landing forces has existed for household equipment for veterans, as Now it is one of the most popular and several years and provides teenagers Our assets have been operating in the well as clothes and school supplies most popular cinemas in the area. with an opportunity to gain their first region for over a century, hence we for children. The company supports work experience and professional have a deep understanding of local the local Thai boxing club and The reconstruction began in 2018: skills, as well as earn money. communities’ needs. We implement sponsors its trips to competitions. the auditorium was renovated, Participating pupils get paid and are social projects aimed at resolving the This year Polyus donated furniture to obsolete engineering systems and provided with lunches in return for most pressing issues in the region. a training centre and kindergarten. communications were replaced, and their hard work. For example, we focus on developing the interior was refreshed. These We would also like to provide infrastructure projects; in particular, actions let transform abandoned opportunities to young people living in the remote Bodaybo Administrative cinema into modern recreational in small towns to obtain additional Region, which is our main area of centre. education opportunities and to operation in Irkutsk Region. In 2019 our nurture their talent. socio-economic support agreement with the Bodaybo Administration was amended so that the bulk of support and financing now provides targeted assistance to the region’s residents. We also participate in projects to raise living standards and improve sports infrastructure. In 2019, Polyus invested approximately US$0.9 million in regional development. 110 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 111 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Local com m u n iti es continueD C a s e s t u dy C a s e s t u dy Republic Plans for 2020 and the medium of Sakha 95 years of gold mining in the Republic of Sakha Capital repair of term sports and recreation facility in Nizhniy Kuranakh is the oldest gold mining On 19 July 2019 Kuranakh Kuranakh Polyus plans to further raise living • Continuing to hold the ‘Territory’ asset in the Republic of Sakha; the organised a celebration to mark standards across its regions. We will do festival. region’s entire gold industry began from the anniversary of the gold this through contributing to developing mining industry in Yakutia. This • Continuing to support the national this asset. We promote the wellbeing our own infrastructure and social republic-wide event was also holiday Ysyakh celebration in the of the Republic’s population and, projects, as well as implementing new supported by other gold-mining Republic of Sakha. working closely with local authorities, social and charitable programmes. are implementing joint initiatives companies in the Aldan District. • Improvement of social infrastructure in Colleagues from other regions Our plans for 2020 include: Magadan Region. to drive economic growth. In 2019, Polyus contributed $181 thousand to came to support Kuranakh gold • Organising the ‘Golden Season’ • Continuing to support large-scale regional development, including social miners, took part in sports and anniversary in all four regions of federal projects. infrastructure projects and sports creative contests, and stayed to operation, including preparing an and educational initiatives. Polyus celebrate the holiday. • Continuing to support the cultural exhibition with Multimedia Art Museum concluded a basic socio-economic In 2019, Kuranakh performed project with Moscow Kremlin The central feature of the (MMAM) and a concert of classical cooperation agreement with the a thorough overhaul of sports and museums. event was a sports and music. regional government in 2011, under athletics contest. To hold this, recreation facility Metallurg, located which we regularly carry out charity we renovated and built sports in Nizhniy Kuranakh. Metallurg is the projects and social initiatives. infrastructure in the town, property of Polyus and we maintain including gyms in local schools the facility and provide it free of charge and a sports centre, which can for all the residents, at a cost of be used by all residents. $386 thousand annually. GRI 413-1 A delegation led by Head Many Republic of Sakha citizens are of Yakutia Aisen Nikolayev indigenous people. Polyus appreciates delivered a congratulatory and respects the cultural traditions message and expressed of communities in the areas where thanks to Kuranakh CEO it operates and we regularly support Alexey Noskov and his staff for national holidays and regional cultural their work. Polyus CEO Pavel events. In 2019 Polyus continued Grachev presented the prizes. the tradition of celebrating Ysyakh Olonkho – a New Year celebration Mr Nikolayev and other based on the traditions of the Republic guests also visited the gold of Sakha’s indigenous people, such as beneficiation plant in Kuranakh There are two swimming pools, two Evenkis and Evens – and took part in conducting a ceremonial gyms, and a ski lodge established on its organisation. meeting and presenting gifts to the territory of the facility. Metallurg employees. offers 13 sections for children and adults and conducts sports contests. The center is usually visited by more than 3 thousand people every month including Polyus employees as well as local residents. 112 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 113 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Local com m u n iti es continueD GRI 203-2 GRI 203-2 C a s e s t u dy C a s e s t u dy C a s e s t u dy Magadan Region ‘Territory.Magadan’ festival Improving house Classroom refurbishment at Polytechnic Institute exteriors in Ust-Omchug of North-East State University village Polyus principal asset in Magadan Polyus refurbished and Region is Natalka, ranked sixth in equipped a classroom the world in terms of undeveloped at Polytechnic Institute gold reserves. In 2018 Natalka of North-East State began operating at full production University. The new capacity, and as a result became classroom is equipped one of the most dynamic projects for students studying the in the region. process of benefication: wall coatings and As part of our collaboration with flooring were renovated the Government of Magadan and new lighting and Region, Polyus conducts Polyus sponsors improvements in furniture installed. An socio-economic development Ust-Omchug village. This activity interactive board with a programmes in the region and began in 2017, when the company projector has also made develops infrastructure as the The ‘Territory. Magadan’ festival sponsored the renovation of house the learning process company’s activities evolve. and school was organised by Polyus exteriors. Over 2017–2018 Polyus, more contemporary and In 2019, Polyus allocated together with its partners: the together with the Telkinskiy Urban stimulating. $0.9 million to the region’s social Territory festival and the Moscow District Administration, worked projects. Of particular note is Museum of Modern Art (MMOMA). regularly to improve living conditions, The classroom design a city-planning project – the first This was one of the most valuable including installing benches, bins, reflects Polyus’ corporate integrated project to develop initiatives of 2019. During the festival, fences and lamp posts. style and represents the Magadan. The project is being over 4 thousand Magadan residents technological chain of developed with the Magadan watched performances by artists gold production. Government and a city planning from leading Moscow theatres. At the consulting agency. In 2019 the same time over 60 pieces of fine Polyus CEO participated in art from MMOMA and the Magadan discussions to ascertain the needs museum were on display at an of the residents of Magadan. exhibition. In 2019 a variety of sponsorship, As part of the ‘Territory. Magadan’ volunteering, educational, cultural, festival the fourth ‘Polyus. Golden and charity programmes were Season’ competition was held among held in the region, some of which theatres, cultural associations In 2019 Polyus allocated more than marked the 90th anniversary of and amateur troupes from Polyus’ $30 thousand to this work, including Magadan. regions of operation, with 27 groups renovations of windows and doors applying to participate. in Ust-Omchug. In 2019 Polyus continued work to improve the region’s social During the festival in Magadan an infrastructure, including acting as immersive show entitled ‘Visiting. a social partner in the small town Europe’ by the German theatre Ust-Omchug located in Telkinskiy company Rimini Protokoll was District. performed for the first time. The performance was conducted in residents’ flats. In total, five flats were used, including the memorial flat of Vadim Kozin and Lyudmila Gorlachyova’s (Magadan Region Minister of Culture and Tourism) flat. 114 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 115 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Additional I n f o r m at i o n 118 About this Report 122 Independent assurance statement 126 G  RI content index 136 C  ontacts 116 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 117 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI 102-50 About this Report Approach to reporting Report boundaries I d e n t i f i c at i o n o f m at e r i a l t o p i c s GRI 102-50 The sustainability information included in this Report covers the GRI 102-46 and drawing up a list of material topics. As part of preparing performance of Polyus’ operational business units and support the Sustainability Report we annually carry out a materiality The 2019 Sustainability Report (‘the Report’) covers the key services. A materiality assessment was conducted to select the topics assessment of the topics that are relevant to our internal and results of Polyus’ sustainability performance from 1 January 2019 that matter most to the business and stakeholders for inclusion external stakeholders, in accordance with GRI Standards. When GRI 102-45 assessing whether a topic is material, two main criteria are used: to 31 December 2019, as well as the company’s plans for 2020 in the Report. The assessment consisted of three main stages: and the medium term. an analysis of open sources, collecting stakeholder feedback, the significance of economic, environmental, or social impacts and the influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions. Assets included in th e Report GRI 102-51 · GRI 102-52 · GRI 102-54 b o u n da r i e s Polyus has been preparing annual Sustainability Reports since A p p r oac h t o i d e n t i f y i n g m at e r i a l t o p i c s Referenced in 2012. Its last report, published in 2019, covered the results Name of subsidiary the Report as 1 2 3 for 2018. The company’s reports can be found on the Polyus  n a lys i s o f o p e n A C o l l e c t i n g D  r aw i n g u p a l i s t website: http://polyus.com/investors/results-and-reports/. Business units sources s ta k e h o l d e r o f m at e r i a l t o p i c s Additional information about sustainability performance can f e e d b ac k be seen here: http://polyus.com/en/sustainability/. The 2019 JSC Polyus Krasnoyarsk (Krasnoyarsk BU) Olimpiada and Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with Global Blagodatnoye Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards (‘GRI • Analysis of industry trends and risks • Interviews with the representatives • Approval by the Sustainability JSC Polyus Verninskoye (Irkutsk ore BU) Verninskoye Standards’). As with previous versions, this Report has been of functional units involved in Working Group of the list of material • Analysis of publicly available prepared according to the Comprehensive option of these JSC Polyus Aldan (Yakutia Kuranakh BU) Kuranakh managing sustainability issues topics information about the company standards. When preparing the Report, the company continued • Analysis of internal stakeholder • Presenting the list of material topics to use where applicable the requirements of the GRI Mining and JSC Polyus Magadan (Magadan BU) Natalka • Benchmarking of material topics survey results to the Board of Directors Metals Sector Supplement. disclosed by peers PJSC Lenzoloto (Irkutsk alluvial BU) Alluvials • Analysis of requests from investors Moreover, throughout the Report we disclosed relevance of • Aligning the preliminary list of and ESG analysts Polyus’ sustainability-related activities to attaining the United Support services material topics with the sustainable • Agreed list of material topics to be Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), our compliance development goals identified as JSC Polyus Logistics Logistics service included in the Report with ICMM sustainable development framework including ICMM’s being relevant for the company ten sustainability principles and eight position statements as well • Updated list of material topics LLC Polyus Stroy Construction as our commitment to UN Global Compact Principles. service • Preliminary list of material topics GRI 102-32 LLC Polyus Project Engineering service The Sustainability Working Group coordinates the Report preparation process. The Board of Directors reviews the Report PSF Polyus Schit LLC Security service and finally approves it. Polyus Energy, comprising JSC Energy service Following the materiality assessment a list of 18 GRI topics was drawn up. Vitimenergo, JSC Vitimenergosbyt, These topics were grouped into six comprehensive material topics in the context of and JSC Mamakanskaya Hydroelectric which we structured our Report. Power Plant Multi-functional centre Multi-functional centre (MFC) Information about the company’s labour performance also covers PJSC Polyus (‘the Holding company’) and MC Polyus LLC (‘the Managing company’). Data on the MFC was considered only when calculating indicators on labour performance and industrial safety. Charity and sponsorship data are not aggregated in Support services. In other cases, where reporting boundaries for specific indicators differ from those described above, information about enterprises included in the scope is specified in the text hereto. 118 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 119 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information About this Report continueD GRI 102-47 Data p r e pa r at i o n t e c h n i q u e s R e s tat e m e n t s a n d s i g n i f i c a n t changes GRI 102-46 M at e r i a l t o p i c s o f t h e R e p o r t a n d t h e i r b o u n da r i e s GRI 102-48 · GRI 102-49 The sustainability performance information for the Report was Within the Outside the collected through the company’s corporate data reporting system. In 2019 no restatements or significant changes were made to the Material topics GRI Topic Report page group group Under this system, sustainability data are initially collected and methods used to measure data, except for those listed above. reviewed by respective specialists at business units and support Ethics and Human • Economic performance 42 V – services. Information about material sustainability issues is Assurance Rights • Anti-corruption 38 V V regularly consolidated and verified at Managing Company level. GRI indicators are presented on the basis of accepted GRI 102-56 • Diversity and equal opportunity 37 V V international metrics and calculated in accordance with GRI The company appointed Deloitte & Touche CIS AO to provide Human Capital • Market presence 46 V V Standards or the company’s internal requirements. The financial independent assurance of the Sustainability Report. This is performance indicators reported were converted into US dollars • Employment 47 V V intended to ensure the quality, accuracy, and completeness of according to the yearly weighted average exchange rate for 2019. the reported data and to facilitate improvements to the whole • Training and education 53 V – The company calculates greenhouse gas emission indicators sustainability reporting process. based on the recommendations of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol • Freedom of association and collective bargaining 24 V V The Report was subject in 2019 to a limited assurance Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. The ICMM engagement under the International Standard on Assurance Environment and Climate Change work programme stipulates • Socioeconomic compliance 52 V V Engagements (ISAE) 3 thousand (Revised). More detailed respective requirements related to measuring, reporting, and information on the boundaries and the subject of assurance can Health and Safety • Occupational health and safety 60 V V verifying net greenhouse gas emissions, and the company makes be found in the Independent assurance statement and GRI every effort to meet these requirements. Content Index sections. Environmental • Water 83 V V Stewardship In terms of the company’s employment structure, male • Biodiversity 90 – V employees are mostly engaged in labour-intensive production, due to the specifics of Russian labour law, which prohibits • Effluents and wastes 86 V V females from working in certain professions. Female employees work primarily in service units and their number is relatively low. • Environmental compliance 82 V V Due to this imbalance, it would be unrepresentative to show Energy and Climate • Energy 99 V V certain statistical data required under GRI Standards (e.g. health Change and safety statistics) by gender, and such information is not • Emissions 97 V V collected by the Polyus corporate reporting system. Local Communities • Indirect economic impacts 104 V V • Procurement practice 106 V V • Local communities 108 V V 120 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 121 AO Deloitte & Touche CIS About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional 5 Lesnaya Street Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Moscow, 125047, Russia GRI 102-56 Tel: +7 (495) 787 06 00 Fax: +7 (495) 787 06 01 deloitte.ru To form our conclusions, we undertook the following procedures: I n d e p e n d e n t a s s u r a n c e s tat e m e n t  Conducted site visits to two business units Polyus Krasnoyarsk (Krasnoyarsk region) and Polyus Verninskoe (Irkutsk region), and shared service centre – Multi-functional centre; AO Deloitte & Touche CIS  Analysed on a sample basis the key systems, processes, policies and controls relating 5 Lesnaya Street to the collation, aggregation, validation and reporting processes of the selected Moscow, 125047, sustainability performance indicators; Russia  Conducted interviews with employees of PJSC Polyus responsible for sustainability Tel: +7 (495) 787 06 00 performance, policies and corresponding reporting; Fax: +7 (495) 787 06 01 deloitte.ru  Conducted selective substantive testing to confirm accuracy of received data to the selected key performance indicators;  Made enquiries of management and senior executives to obtain an understanding of the overall governance and internal control environment, risk management, materiality INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT assessment and stakeholder engagement processes relevant to the identification, management and reporting of the sustainability issues and selected performance Independent practitioner’s limited assurance report by AO Deloitte & Touche CIS indicators and ICMM disclosures; (‘Deloitte’) to PJSC Polyus Board of Directors on the 2019 Sustainability Report  Performed selective review of the disclosures in the Report on compliance with for the year ended 31 December 2019 the GRI Standards;  We corroborated ICMM assertions contained within the Report through selective Scope of limited assurance engagement inspection of supporting evidence. We have been engaged by PJSC Polyus to perform an assurance engagement in We believe that our evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) limited assurance conclusion. (‘the Standard’) to provide public limited assurance on accuracy of Selected Data presented in INDEPENDENT PJSC Polyus Sustainability ASSURANCE Report REPORTprepared in accordance with the GRI Standards Inherent limitations (‘the Report’) for the year ended 31 December 2019. Independent practitioner’s limited assurance report by AO Deloitte & Touche CIS Inherent limitations exist in all assurance engagements due to the selective testing of (‘Deloitte’) Limited assurance to PJSC Polyus Board procedures and roles of Directors on the 2019 Sustainability Report the information being examined. Therefore fraud, errors or non-compliance may occur and for the year ended 31 December 2019 not be detected. Additionally non-financial information, such as that included in reporting Selected Data documents is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given Scope of limited assurance engagement the nature and methods used for determining, calculating and sampling or estimating We carried out limited assurance on accuracy of the following data related to 2019 year and such information. We have included intobeen engaged by PJSC Polyus to perform an assurance engagement in the Report: accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to PJSC Polyus those matters we 1. (‘the Standard’) Selected key to provide public performance indicators assurancebelow limited specified on accuracy in the sectionof Selected “Selected Data presented nonare required to state to them in this Report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent in PJSC financialPolyus Sustainability performance dataReportfor public limitedinassurance”; prepared accordance with the GRI Standards permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than 2. (‘the Report’) and Assertions for the year ended disclosures related to Polyus’s2019. 31 December application of the International Council PJSC Polyus for our work, for this Report, or for the conclusions we have formed. on Mining and Metals (‘ICMM’) Sustainability Development Framework on page 18 of Limited the Report;assurance and procedures and roles Our engagement provides limited assurance as defined in ISAE 3000 (Revised). 3. PJSC Polyus's self-declaration in preparing its Report in accordance with The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and Selected Data the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement and Standards as stated on page 118 of the Report. consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is We carried out limited assurance on accuracy of the following data related to 2019 year and substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable Our included key limited into theassurance Report: procedures assurance engagement been performed. To1. achieve Selected limited key performance assurance, indicators the ISAE specified below 3000 (Revised) requires in thethatsection we review “Selected nonRoles and responsibilities financial performance data for public limited the processes, systems and competencies used to compile the areas on which we provide assurance”; our2.assurance.Assertions and disclosures Considering the riskrelated of material to Polyus’s error, we application planned and of the International performed our work Councilto  The Directors are responsible for the preparation, accuracy and completeness of obtain all onofMining and Metalsand the information (‘ICMM’) Sustainability explanations Development we considered necessary Frameworkto provide on page 18 of sufficient the sustainability information and statements contained within the Report. They are evidence theto Report; support and our assurance conclusion. responsible for determining PJSC Polyus sustainability objectives and for establishing 3. PJSC Polyus's self-declaration in preparing its Report in accordance with and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting from which the reported information is derived, including disclosure of enforcement Standards as stated on page 118 of the Report. and compliance to the PJSC Polyus’s ICMM Sustainable Development Framework.  Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Selected Data based on our Our key limited assurance procedures procedures. We conducted our engagement in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (Revised) Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial To achieve limited assurance, the ISAE 3000 (Revised) requires that we review Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. the processes, systems and competencies used to compile the areas on which we provide our assurance. Considering the risk of material error, we planned and performed our work to obtain all of the information and explanations we considered necessary to provide sufficient evidence to support our assurance conclusion. Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”), its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a more detailed description of DTTL and its member firms. © AO Deloitte & Touche CIS. All rights reserved. 122 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 2 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 123 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information Independence and quality control Limited assurance conclusion  We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements established Based Limited on the scope of our assurance work and the assurance procedures performed nothing has conclusion by the Rules on Independence of Auditors and Audit Firms and the Code of Professional come to our attention that causes us to believe that the aforementioned Selected Data, Ethics for Auditors approved by the Audit Council of the Ministry of Finance of which Based weon were scope of to the engaged ourprovide work and limited assurance procedures on, as specified the assurance ‘Roles and in the nothing performed has the Russian Federation and by the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued responsibilities’ come to our attentionsection above are materially that causes misstated. us to believe that the aforementioned Selected Data, by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which are based on the which we were engaged to provide limited assurance on, as specified in the ‘Roles and fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, responsibilities’ section above are materially misstated. confidentiality and professional behavior.  The firm applies the International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and Natalya Kaprizina applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Engagement partner Natalya Kaprizina Selected non-financial performance data for limited assurance Engagement partner 5 May 2020 We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of PJSC Polyus to perform limited assurance procedures on accuracy of the following key performance data of the 2019 5 May 2020 reporting year included into the Report: Composition of governance bodies ● Number of employees by assets, region, category, gender and age group and breakdown of employees per ● Percentage of employees by assets, region, category, gender and employee category age group (%) Employee turnover ● Total number of new employee hired ● Employee turnover (%) Career development ● Number of employees trained ● Employees trained as percentage of average headcount (%) Fatalities and injuries of ● Total number of work-related fatalities employees ● Total lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) (per 200,000 hours worked) ● Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), by business units (per 200,000 hours worked) ● Number of total registered injuries (TRI) ● Total registered injuries frequency rate (TRIFR) (per 200,000 hours worked) Energy/electricity use and ● Purchase of primary energy resources (fossil fuel/its derivatives) (tonnes) climate change ● Consumption of primary energy sources (fossil fuel/its derivatives) (tonnes) ● Amount of electricity produced and sold (million kWh) ● Amount of heating produced and sold (thousand Gcal) ● Amount of electricity purchased (thousand KWh) ● Amount of heating purchased (thousand Gcal) Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions ● Direct GHG emissions (Mt CO2-e) ● Indirect GHG emissions (Mt CO2-e) Significant air emissions ● Carbon oxide emissions (CO) (tonnes) ● Sulphur oxides emissions (SO2) (tonnes) ● Amount of Nitrogen oxides emissions including nitrogen dioxide (tonnes) ● Solid dust emissions (tonnes) Waste ● Waste reused excluding overburden and tailings (thousand tonnes) ● Waste stored excluding overburden and tailings (thousand tonnes) ● Waste transferred and neutralised excluding overburden and tailings (thousand tonnes) ● Total amount of overburden waste (million tonnes) ● Total amount of tailings (million tonnes) Water ● Total water withdrawn for production needs (thousand m3) ● Structure of water intake, for production needs (thousand m3) ● Total volume of water discharged (thousand m3) ● Percentage of water recycled and reused (%) The Entity: Public Joint Stock Company Polyus Audit Firm: AO “Deloitte & Touche CIS” Regulatory compliance ● Total monetary value of environmental fines (USD thousands) Primary State Registration Number: 1068400002990 Certificate of state registration № 018.482, issued by ● Number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with The Entity: Public Joint Stock Company Polyus theAudit MoscowFirm: AO “Deloitte Registration & Touche Chamber on CIS” 30.10.1992. environmental laws and regulations Certificate of registration in the Unified State Register № Primary State Registration 84 000060259 of 17 MarchNumber: 1068400002990 2006, issued by Interdistrict Certificate Primary Stateof state registration Registration Number: 018.482, issued by № 1027700425444 Sponsorship and charity ● Social support structure by regions and type (USD thousands) Inspectorate of Federal Tax Authorities №2 of Krasnoyarsk the Moscow Registration Chamber on 30.10.1992. Certificate territory, of registration Talmyr in the Unified (Dolgan-Nenetsk) Register Stateautonomous and Evenki Certificate of registration in the Unified State Register № 84 000060259 of 17 March 2006, issued by Interdistrict okrugs № Primary State Registration 77 004840299 of 13.11.2002, issued1027700425444 Number: by Moscow Inspectorate of Federal Tax Authorities №2 of Krasnoyarsk Interdistrict Inspectorate of the Russian Ministry of territory, Address: 123056, (Dolgan-Nenetsk) TalmyrRussian Federation, and Evenki Moscow, autonomous Krasina St., Certificate Taxation № 39.of registration in the Unified State Register okrugs 3 bldg 1 № 77 004840299 of 13.11.2002, issued by Moscow Interdistrict Member Inspectorateorganization of Self-regulatory of the Russian Ministry of of auditors Address: 123056, Russian Federation, Moscow, Krasina St., Association Taxation “Sodruzhestvo”, № 39. ORNZ 12006020384. 3 bldg 1 Member of Self-regulatory organization of auditors 124 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 3 4 Association PJSC Polyus Sustainability “Sodruzhestvo”, ORNZ 12006020384. Report 2019 125 4 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI 102-55 GRI Content Index GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comment Omissions GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comment Omissions GRI 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES 3. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 1. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102-16 Values, principles, About Polyus: Polyus at a glance, p. 4 standards, and norms of Anti-corruption compliance: GRI 102-1 Name of the organization About Polyus, p. 4 behavior Whistleblowing line, p. 40 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, Annual Review, p. 38 GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice Anti-corruption compliance, p. 38 products, and services and concerns about ethics GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters The company is headquartered in Moscow, Russia 4. GOVERNANCE GRI 102-4 Location of operations Where we operate, p. 6 GRI 102-18 Governance structure Sustainability governance, p. 16 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Review, p. 124 GRI 102-19 Delegating authority Sustainability governance, p. 16 GRI 102-6 Markets served Where we operate, p. 6 GRI 102-20 Executive-level Sustainability governance, p. 16 responsibility for GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization Annual Review, p. 4 economic, environmental, and social topics GRI 102-8 Information on employees Workforce composition and Employees by employment contract: and other workers engagement, p. 47 Permanent – 17 691 GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders The company’s functions are in charge of on economic, collecting feedback from the stakeholder Temporary – 1 692 environmental, and social groups they interact with. The resulting Employees by employment type: topics feedback is communicated to the highest Full-time – 19 277 governance bodies when functions present results of their work for the period. Part-time – 79 All the mainstream company’s activities GRI 102-22 Composition of the Annual Review, p. 106 are performed by workers. Share of highest governance body workers who are not employees is and its committees insignificant. GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest Annual Review, p. 103 GRI 102-9 Supply chain Annual Review, p. 35 governance body GRI 102-10 Significant changes to In the reporting period no significant GRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting Annual Review, p. 103 the organisation and its changes were made to supply chain the highest governance supply chain body GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or In the reporting period the company did GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest Ethics and Human Rights, p. 30 approach not apply the precautionary approach to identify, monitor, and manage risks GRI 102-26 Role of highest Sustainability governance, p. 16 governance body in GRI 102-12 External initiatives ICMM membership, p. 18 The initiatives presented in the setting purpose, values, Our contribution to Sustainable mentioned sections are voluntary. and strategy Development Goals, p. 20 Collective knowledge of Sustainability governance, p. 16 GRI 102-27 Commitment to UN Global Compact highest governance body Principles, p. 24 GRI 102-28 Evaluating the highest Annual Review, p. 103 Commitment to external initiatives, governance body’s p. 25 performance GRI 102-13 Membership of ICMM membership, p. 18 GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing Sustainability governance, p. 16 associations Our contribution to Sustainable economic, environmental, Development Goals, p. 20 and social impacts Commitment to UN Global Compact Principles, p. 24 GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Annual Review, p. 115 Commitment to other external management processes initiatives, p. 25 GRI 102-31 Review of economic, Sustainability governance, p. 16 2. STRATEGY environmental, and social topics GRI 102-14 Statement from senior Interview with the Chairman, p. 8 decision-maker Interview with the CEO, p. 10 GRI 102-32 Highest governance About this Report, p. 118 body’s role in GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and Interview with the Chairman, p. 8 sustainability reporting opportunities Interview with the CEO, p. 10 Sustainability governance: GRI 102-33 Communicating critical Annual Review, p. 88 Sustainability risk management, p. 15 concerns 126 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 127 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI Content Index continueD GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comment Omissions GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comment Omissions GRI 102-34 Nature and total number Sustainability issues are communicated GRI 103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH of critical concerns to the Board on a planned quarterly basis. In 2019 no critical sustainability GRI 103-1 Explanation of the About this Report, p. 118 The information on material topics concerns was raised. material topic and its primarily covers the company’s Boundary activities and impacts as information on GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual Review, p. 118 impacts arising within supply chain is not systematically aggregated. GRI 102-36 Process for determining Annual Review, p. 119 Remuneration of the Board of Directors remuneration is defined in accordance with the GRI 103-2 The management The management approach is presented Directors’ Remuneration Policy. The approach and its in the Report before the disclosure of GRI 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement Annual Review, p. 104 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders components data on each material topic. in remuneration approves it. Other interested parties are not involved in determining the amount GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the Evaluation of management approaches of remuneration. management approach is carried out in the framework of certification and supervisory audits of the GRI 102-38 Annual total Annual Review, p. 119 Information cannot be disclosed due to respective management systems, as well compensation ratio the reasons of protection of personal as in the framework of corporate audits. information. Messages about these events are GRI 102-39 Percentage increase Annual Review, p. 119 contained in the text of the Report. in annual total compensation ratio MATERIAL TOPICS 5. Stakeholder engagement GRI 200 ECONOMIC GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder engagement, p. 34 GRI 201 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining In 2019, 86.06% of employees are Direct economic value Transparency and disclosure, p. 42 agreements covered by collective bargaining GRI 201-1 generated and distributed Annual Review, p. 132 agreements GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting Stakeholder engagement, p. 34 GRI 201-2 Financial implications Climate change and GHG emissions, stakeholders and other risks and p. 97 opportunities due to GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Stakeholder engagement, p. 34 climate change engagement GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan The company fully complies with GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns Stakeholder engagement, p. 34 obligations and other Russian laws by paying pension fund raised retirement plans contributions. No corporate pension programs were introduced. 6. Reporting practice GRI 201-4 Financial assistance No financial assistance was received GRI 102-45 Entities included in the About this Report, p. 118 received from government from the government during the consolidated financial reporting period statements GRI 202 MARKET PRESENCE GRI 102-46 Defining report content About this Report, p. 118 and topic Boundaries GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry Motivation, p. 51 The company does not tolerate level wage by gender any form of discrimination, thus all GRI 102-47 List of material topics About this Report, p. 118 compared to local employees, regardless of their gender minimum wage or other diversity factors, receive equal GRI 102-48 Restatements of About this Report, p. 118 wages for the same scope, quantity, information and quality of labour GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting About this Report, p. 118 GRI 202-2 Proportion of senior Attracting talent, p. 49 management hired from GRI 102-50 Reporting period About this Report, p. 118 the local community GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report About this Report, p. 118 GRI 203 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report, p. 118 GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments Local communities, p. 102 All company’s sites strive to enhance and services supported the positive impact and at the same GRI 102-53 Contact point for GRI content index, p. 126 time minimise the negative effect that questions regarding the their business may have on the local report communities. No significant cases of negative impact on local communities GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in About this Report, p. 118 have taken place in the reporting period. accordance with the GRI Standards GRI 203-2 Significant indirect Local communities, 102 economic impacts GRI 102-55 GRI content index Contact information, p. 136 GRI 102-56 External assurance About this Report, p. 118 Independent assurance statement, p. 122 128 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 129 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI Content Index continueD GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comment Omissions GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comment Omissions GRI 204 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES GRI 303 WATER GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on Local communities, p. 102 GRI 303-1 Interactions with water as Water management and access, p. 83 Currently the company does not local suppliers a shared resource engage with suppliers or customers on their significant water-related impacts GRI 205 ANTI-CORRUPTION minimization. GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for Anti-corruption compliance, p. 38 In late 2019, the Anti-corruption Policy GRI 303-2 Management of water Water management and access, p. 83 risks related to corruption was updated, it can be found on the discharge-related impacts Сompany's website. The topic will be covered in more detail in the next GRI 303-3 Water withdrawal Water management and access, p. 83 When assessing water stress in the Sustainability Report. regions of operation we relied on the data provided in the State Report “On GRI 205-2 Communication and Anti-corruption compliance, p. 38 the State of Environmental Protection in training about antiRussian Federation in 2018” corruption policies and procedures GRI 303-4 Water discharge Water management and access, p. 83 GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of Anti-corruption compliance, p. 38 GRI 303-5 Water consumption Water management and access, p. 83 corruption and actions taken GRI 304 BIODIVERSITY GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 304-1 Operational sites owned, Biodiversity management, p. 90 leased, managed in, or GRI 302 ENERGY adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high GRI 302-1 Energy consumption Energy management, p. 99 Total fuel consumption within the biodiversity value outside within the organization organisation from non-renewable protected areas sources 16.7 thousand TJ; The company consumes neither cooling GRI 304-2 Significant impacts of Biodiversity management, p. 90 nor steam for its business activities; activities, products, and services on biodiversity The company sells neither cooling nor steam; GRI 304-3 Habitats protected or Biodiversity management, p. 90 Total heating sold – 339 TJ; restored Total electricity sold – 1,221 TJ; GRI 304-4 IUCN Red List species Biodiversity management, p. 90 Conversion factors used: and national conservation 1 cal = 4.184 J list species with habitats in areas affected by 1 kWh = 3600 kJ operations GRI 305 EMISSIONS GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Climate change and GHG emissions, Biogenic CO2 emissions are not GRI 302-2 Energy consumption The data are not aggregated emissions p. 97 generated at the company’s facilities. outside of the organization within the current reporting system. GRI 302-3 Energy intensity Energy intensity ratio: 0,38 TJ/kt ore processed. GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Climate change and GHG emissions, Base year is not set in the GHG The ratio denominator: kt ore GHG emissions p. 97 emissions calculation. processed. Data on primary energy sources GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) The data is not consumed within the organisation were GHG emissions aggregated used. within the current reporting GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy Energy management, p. 99 system consumption GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Climate change and GHG emissions, p. 97 GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy Energy management, p. 99 Not applicable requirements of products due to the Reduction of GHG Climate change and GHG emissions, Gases included in the calculation: CO2, nature of the GRI 305-5 and services emissions p. 97 CH4, N2O. product GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozoneNo significant emissions of ozone depleting substances depleting substances were identified in (ODS) the reporting period 130 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 131 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI Content Index continueD GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comment Omissions GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comment Omissions GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), Air emissions, p. 85 The company does not measure GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to fullThe company provides the same sulfur oxides (SOX), emissions of persistent organic time employees that are benefits to all employees, except for and other significant air pollutants (POP). not provided to temporary additional medical insurance, which is emissions Source of the emission factors or part-time employees not provided to part-time employees. was used according to the Russian GRI 401-3 Parental leave The comapny complies with the legal environmental legislation. requirements. All employees entitled GRI 306 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE by law to go on leave for child care/ parental leave are free to do so with GRI 306-1 Water discharge by Destination Kokui river, Enashimo retention of their position. quality and destination river, Titimukhta stream, Olimpiadinskiy stream (Olimpiada and Blagodatnoye); GRI 403 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Nygri river (Natalka); GRI 403-1 Occupational health Management approach, p. 62 Omchak river (Natalka); and safety management Lena water basin rivers systems (Irkutsk Alluvial BU) GRI 403-2 Hazard identification, risk Management approach, p. 62 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and Waste management, p. 86 assessment, and incident Emergency preparedness, p. 74 disposal method investigation GRI 306-3 Significant spills During 2019 there were no significant GRI 403-3 Occupational health Health protection, p. 76 spills (reportable environmental services incidents) GRI 403-4 Worker participation, Management approach, p. 62 GRI 306-4 Transport of hazardous The company is not involved in consultation, and Safety culture development, p. 66 waste transportation, import, export, or communication on treatment of waste deemed hazardous occupational health and under the terms of the Basel safety Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII GRI 403-5 Worker training on Management approach, p. 62 GRI 306-5 Water bodies affected by Water management and access, p. 83 18 water sources significantly affected occupational health and Corporate training, p. 68 water discharges and/or by water discharge; safety runoff None of them designated as protected areas. GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker Health protection, p. 76 health The information on size of water bodies and related habitats affected by GRI 403-7 Prevention and mitigation Health protection, p. 76 water discharges and/or runoff will be of occupational health disclosed in the Sustainability Report and safety impacts 2020. directly linked by business relationships G4-MM3 Total amounts of Dams and tailings facilities, p. 88 overburden, rock, tailings, GRI 403-8 Workers covered by an 100% of Polyus employees and and sludges and their occupational health and contractors are covered by H&S associated risks safety management management system. system Employees of all Business Units and GRI 307 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Support Services excluding MFC are GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with In 2019 the company received no noncovered by externally audited and environmental laws and financial sanctions. certified Integrated HSE Management regulations System which comprises 97% of the Inspections by the regulatory authorities average headcount of the company’s identified one non-compliance case, employees. which has been eliminated within the reporting period. GRI 400 SOCIAL GRI 401 EMPLOYMENT GRI 401-1 New employee hires and Workforce composition and The Company plans to report on the employee turnover engagement, p. 47 number of new employees hired by Attracting talent, p. 49 gender and has been updating its reporting system in order to do so. The Company's turnover rate was 23.08%. The turnover rate of Business Units: Olimpiada and Blagodatnoye – 11.01% Verninskoye – 11.84 % Kuranakh – 15.17 % Natalka – 10.99 % Alluvials – 75,10 % 132 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 133 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI Content Index continueD GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comment Omissions GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comment Omissions GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries Injury prevention, p. 69 The number of hours worked for all GRI 407 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING employees is 44,547,181. The number of hours worked for 407-1 Operations and suppliers We strictly comply with the laws of contractors is 19,818,029. in which the right to the country of presence. According to freedom of association and Collective bargaining agreement and Information on injuries is disclosed for collective bargaining may our Human rights policy the freedom all employees of the company (mining be at risk of activity of public associations and and service units) and for contractors at collective bargaining is guaranteed. the company’s sites. The company does not aggregate GRI 413 LOCAL COMMUNITIES the data on severe injuries under the criteria specified in GRI. This company GRI 413-1 Operations with local Local communities, p. 102 discloses the number of serious community engagement, accidents that are severe under the impact assessments, and laws of the Russian Federation. development programs The methodology for calculating LTI GRI 413-2 Operations with Local communities, p. 102 All company’s sites strive to enhance for contractors is in the process of significant actual and the positive impact and at the same development. The indicator will be potential negative impacts time minimise the negative effect that disclosed in further reporting periods. on local communities their business may have on the local communities. No significant cases of GRI 403-10 Work-related ill health Health protection, p. 76 The indicator is partially disclosed in the negative impact on local communities Health protection section. The issue of have taken place in the reporting full disclosure of the indicator is being period. considered as part of the preparation process of the 2020 Sustainability Assessment of significant impact on Report. local communities is done within the EIA. For more information see GRI 404 TRAINING AND EDUCATION www.polyus.com/en/sustainability/blog/ polyus-publishes-a-special-report-onGRI 404-1 Average hours of training Training and development, p. 53 safety-of-tailings-storage-facilities/ per year per employee GRI 419 SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading Polyus doesn’t have transition employee skills and assistance programs provided to GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with Annual Review, p. 34 In the reporting period there were transition assistance facilitate continued employability and laws and regulations in recorded no significant fines and programs the management of career endings the social and economic sanctions for non-compliance with laws resulting from retirement or termination area and regulations in the social area of employment. GRI SECTOR SPECIFIC: EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees All employees undergo performance receiving regular reviews on the basis of a functional and G4-DMA Additional Guidance Emergency preparedness, p. 74 performance and career individual KPI system development reviews GRI SECTOR SPECIFIC ASPECT: CLOSURE PLANNING GRI 405 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY MM10 Number and percentage Land conservation, p. 92 of operations with closure GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance The Board by gender: plans bodies and employees Male – 89% (8 of 9 members) Female –11% (1 of 9 members). The Board by age: 21-30 – 11,1 % 31-40 – 11,1% 41-50 – 33,3% 50 and above – 44,4 % GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and The remuneration in Polyus doesn’t remuneration of women differentiate women and men. to men 134 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 135 About Leadership Our approach Our material Additional Polyus Messages to sustainability issues information GRI 102-53 C o n ta c t I n f o r m at i o n PJ S C P o ly u s Address: Krasina St. 3 bldg. 1, Moscow, 123056, Russia Phone: +7 (495) 641 33 77 Fax: +7 (495) 785 45 90 E-mail: info@polyus.com Group Head of S u s ta i n a b l e D e v e l o p m e n t Daria Grigoreva E-mail: GrigorevaDK@polyus.com I n v e s t o r c o n ta c t Victor Drozdov E-mail: DrozdovVI@polyus.com Alex Čaičics E-mail: ChaychitsAV@polyus.com M e d i a c o n ta c t s Vitaly Petlevoy E-mail: PetlevoyVE@polyus.com Victoria Vasilyeva E-mail: VasilevaVS@polyus.com 136 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 PJSC Polyus Sustainability Report 2019 137 polyus.com
