Communication on progress UN GLOBAL COMPACT 18th March 2020 FY 2019 UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN GLOBAL COMPACT CONTENT Background ................................................................................ 4 Our Vision ........................................................................................................... 4 Our Mission ........................................................................................................ 4 Our Core Values .............................................................................................. 4 Message from our Chief Executive Officer .................................. 5 Human and labour rights ...................................................... 6 3 Assessment, policy and goals ............................................................... 6 Implementation & Measurement of outcomes ....................... 6 Environment ................................................................................ 7 Assessment, policy and goals ............................................................... 7 Implementation & Measurement of outcomes ....................... 8 Business ethics .......................................................................... 9 Assessment, policy and goals ............................................................... 9 Implementation & Measurement of outcomes ....................... 9 GLOBAL UN GLOBAL UN COMPACT COMPACT UN GLOBAL GLOBAL UN COMPACT MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO BACKGROUND At Greenfish, we believe in a fully sustainable and profitable future. Growing rapidly, we are showing that success and profitability goes hand in hand with sustainability. With more than 200 of us across Europe, we provide sustainable consulting services and smart greentech solutions to organisations caring about the future. As a leader of opinion, we continuously Our Vision. innovate ourselves and create knowledge in the sustainable sector by setting up synergies Conscious of the human impact on our planet, we believe in a fully between our consultants and our clients. sustainable and profitable future. As the Positive Impact Company, we are committed to sustainable development through our three core values: Transparency, Commitment and Responsibility. These are translated into our two service lines: Our Mission. ▶ TECHNICAL ADVISORY provides you engineering support and know-how on the following We provide sustainable consulting services and smart green tech solutions competences: QHSE Management, Energy Transition, and Operational Performance. to organisations caring about their future and willing to remain competitive. We constantly position our consultants and client’s needs at the heart of ▶ STRATEGIC ADVISORY targets strategic projects, evaluates your needs and provides expert our business while actively looking for the latest innovations and trends in advice on CSR & Sustainability, Energy Transition, Environmental Intelligence, Mobility, and sustainability. Change Management. Both service lines are supported by our Marketing & Communication Intelligence team, 4 concentrating on knowledge creation and management. 5 Our Core Values. Last year, our “Scale” program supported us in growing our network and further improving the As the Positive Impact Organisation, we are committed to sustainable positive impact we have on businesses. In that context, we fully embraced our ecosystem into development through our core values: our day-to-day activity and have been accepted as a participant of the UN Global Compact, which highlights our continuous commitment to further develop our sustainable business conduct. This year, our “Unify” program will reinforce our commitment to conduct business and pursuing our goals in an innovative and unified way, across all of our locations. We do this in keeping with our mission, vision and values as a one global company. This will strategically strenghten our positive and sustainable impact on society, as well as foster value creation for all our stakeholders. TRANSPARENCY COMMITMENT RESPONSIBILITY Not only current opportunities, but also the technologies of the future to solve environmental Believing in honest and Assisting our clients to achieve Striving to positively impact our issues make me optimistic. Today’s awareness about climate change convinced businesses to transparent relationships with their sustainable business environment and minimize our take into account sustainability into their long-term business strategies. our stakeholders objectives through our human impact on the planet range of services and by carefully choosing our greentech solutions daily actions As the Chief Executive Officer of Greenfish, I am resolute to maintain the leadership and provide the resources to make sure that this policy is fully endorsed by our company. Finally, I would like to invite all our stakeholders to join us on the journey to sustainable growth for the future. Thank you, Nassim Daoudi Brussels, January 31st, 2020 Chief Executive Officer UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS an internal Code of Conduct as well as a Supplier Code of Conduct. By doing so, the organisation undertakes to observe these standards and to have them observed by its subcontractors and suppliers. Assessment, policy and goals. At Greenfish, the workforce’s happiness is also a frontline matter. Therefore, Greenfish As Greenfish’ first core value indicates the organisation’s transparency and has taken care of further improving a healthy balance between professional and commitment to honest relationships, it implies a fundamental need to create a private life and has acted in many ways. For example, Greenfish made sure to create corporate culture that ensures and promotes Human Rights both internally and a feeling of belonging for all employees through several organised team-building externally across its stakeholders. events per year. The organisation has also started to provide career management and training opportunities (training for a set amount per person and a career path Therefore, Greenfish aims to apply all principles of the International Human Rights set per level of seniority). Charter and the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). As a committed equal opportunity employer, the organisation will abide by all As a clear outcome and measurement of these yearly initiatives, the Human Capital fair labour practices and ensure that our activities do not directly or indirectly violate team has started to assess the need for special needs arrangements at the workplace human rights in any country (e.g. forced labour). through a happiness survey which is, in other words, an annual well-being evaluation. Hereafter, the positive results: In addition, Greenfish is based on collaboration, which is closely linked to our core values. This state of mind requires tolerance and mutual respect between colleagues and teams that are shaped as these various projects unfold. This respect is related • 70% think Greenfish listens to their ideas. 6 to the freedom of believe and personal convictions. It requires openness, honesty 7 and integrity. In this context, any discrimination of any sort will not be tolerated. The • 94% would advise a friend to apply for a job at Greenfish. organisation specifically emphasises its willingness to implement a fair and equal • 93% wish to see the organisation grow and succeed remuneration, eliminating any gender wage gap within the workforce. Thus, all • 71% feel happy at work. colleagues will be payed fairly by assessing their work on an equal basis. • 87% are satisfied with their position at Greenfish. • 92% feel recognised as individuals. Implementation and Measurement of outcomes. In order to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations, Greenfish came up with real initiatives and concrete actions regarding gender equality, diversity and inclusion, charters, and ENVIRONMENT employee’s well-being. Over the past year, Greenfish has taken care of increasing the diversity of its workforce. Arising from this initiative, the ratio between the number of women and Assessment, policy and goals. men across the staff committee has reached 30,5% and efforts to keep this figure improving are part of Greenfish’s daily task. Also, all our legal documentation has been Respecting and preserving the environment on the long term is an integral part of adjusted to ensure gender friendly language. Alongside these improvements, and to Greenfish’s mission and thus of its business activities. In fact, the organisation provides improve transparency, Greenfish has recently published a salary grid applicable to all sustainable consulting services and smart green tech solutions to organisations employees according to their level. caring about their future and willing to remain competitive. Greenfish constantly positions its consultants and clients’ needs at the heart of its business while actively Regarding charters, in order to formalise a certain number of principles of action and looking for the latest innovations and trends in sustainability. minimum standards, Greenfish has made sure to publish important codes such as UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN GLOBAL COMPACT Implementation and Measurement of outcomes. BUSINESS ETHICS Greenfish believes in a fully sustainable and profitable future. Therefore, the preservation of the environment is one of our focus areas. Also, we are committed Assessment, policy and goals. in taking action by positively influencing our employees towards a more responsible lifestyle through a Mobility Plan, CO2 emissions measurement and reduction plan, It is our policy to conduct all our business in an honest and ethical manner. We etc. take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to act professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships, The company has developed and integrated a Greenfish Mobility Plan which wherever we operate. considers its staff and consultants’ working conditions and fits perfectly into its CSR approach and its ISO 14001 & 9001 certifications. This plan offers the choice between Greenfish recognises that bribery and corruption are both illegal and unethical, either different attractive packages composed of multi-modal commuting solutions. As the of these activities could cause Greenfish serious damage to our values, credibility, Positive Impact Organisation, Greenfish thinks more closely about mobility and the and reputation. It is, with this in mind, that we commit to preventing bribery and environment, and it encourages to select the one that best meets the planet’s needs. corruption in our day-to-day business activities and take our legal responsibilities seriously. To assure full compliance, we are fully committed to implement this policy And, in terms of mobility, Greenfish has reached impressive figures. For example, into our business processes. 90% of employee travels between key Greenfish’ key locations (Brussels, Amsterdam, Paris, and Lyon) have been made by train. Also, a reduction of the number of Each employee, regardless of his or her hierarchical position, has a personal employees having a car has been made by 18,2%. Moreover, 30% of our employees responsibility and obligation to conduct Greenfish’s business activities ethically and 8 are commuting by bike, and this number is increasing every quarter. Greenfish’s top in compliance with all applicable laws based on all countries in which Greenfish 9 management has also decided on a ‘non-conventional car’ policy and completed a conducts business. Failure to do so may result in a disciplinary action, up to, and market study determining alternatives and viability of the ‘no-company car’ scheme. including, dismissal. According to the gravity of the behaviour adopted, disciplinary action can also encompass a written warning, a blame, a fin, a suspension, etc. Another important initiative of this past year was the creation of a Zero Emissions Club, which is an internal initiative launched to turn CO2 objectives into action. It focuses on mobility and waste management, as well as behavioural changes within Implementation and Measurement of outcomes. the company. Alongside this project, Greenfish has completed and presented a full CO2 emissions calculation. In order to fully commit to honest and ethical manners, Greenfish has published ‘anti-discrimination’ and ‘anti-bribery and corruption’ charters. Moreover, to complete The development of an office guide has also been a main decision of 2019. It deals its engagement towards Business Ethics, Greenfish has recently set up a ‘sexual with topics such as: workplace strategy, energy use, information communication, harassment’ and ‘whistle-blower’ procedure in place to enhance and enforce its technology, document handling, waste and recycling, and the progress of monitoring human capital’s safety, comfort, and human rights. Alongside these forms, Greenfish methods. has also introduced the concept of a ‘confidence person’, to respond professionally in case of an event or conflict or other situations involving psychosocial risk. Another aspect Greenfish has been cautious about, is integrating and fully enforcing the GDPR’s most recent regulation which is now mentioned in all communication involving privacy data. Other actions, such as the introduction of a limit on expenses made during business lunches, have also been set in place to improve our resilience towards bribery. UN GLOBAL COMPACT
