Sustainability Report 2019 VERSIÓN 14-4-20 Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 Letter from the President 4 Letter from the CEO 6 Gonvarri Industries Our company Our sustainability vision 9 18 Governance 26 Drive People Drive Profitable growth Efficiency Management model Sustainability Innovation In te ce rna an l Au pli diting & Com Current framework 31 Balance sheet 33 Main effects, risks and opportunities 35 Profitable growth Customers 39 Supply chain 43 IT security and support 44 Our team 46 Talent attraction and retention 48 Work environment 53 Diversity People Work relationships: Freedom of association 54 55 Health and lifestyle habits 56 Social benefits 58 Efficiency Model 60 Control mechanisms: Integrated SGI Audit 61 BTM Key processes 62 Efficiency Health and Safety 63 Environmental 71 Quality and customers 77 SPG Gonvarri Production System 78 Social action 79 Sustainability Emotional Driving 84 Energy and climate change 94 Digital WorkPlace 102 Innovation model 106 Culture of innovation 106 Innovation Product Innovation 107 Innovation in progress 108 Innovation Gonvarri 4.0 109 Internal audit and compliance 110 Compliance model Code of Ethics 112 Complaints and ongoing disputes 113 External verification report 115 Report Profile 116 Annexes Quantitative Information GRI Content Index 117 121 Global Compact Principles 125 Perimeter considered 126 Doing Well by doing Good Gonvarri maintains the same values from its origin “honesty, humility, tenacity and work”, together with the principles and guidelines from the Code of Ethics and Conduct, a comprehensive and balance management, the collaborative of a team qualified professionals who are proud to work at Gonvarri Industries, have enable us to growth as a solid, profitable and sustainable company with a global presence. This ethics and corporate values that have remarked the path, are what inspired the purpose of the company “Doing Well by Doing Good”. Only acting correctly, believing in what it is doing, working honestly and consistently, things can be achieved correctly. Letter from the Executive Chairman Jon Riberas 102-14 For yet another year, I am pleased to present Gonvarri Industhe Czech Republic, which is part of the Gonvarri Material tries' Sustainability Report for 2019. It shows the main milesHandling division, and the start-up of the new Gonvauto tones and achievements of the year, within the framework of Nitra plant in Slovakia stand out. a strategy aimed at a profitable and sustainable long-term In addition, we have made significant investments to improbusiness, in which the creation of value plays a special role. ve processes and the product portfolio, adding blanking lines The global environment showed signs of deceleration as earfor hot-stamping at Gonvauto Navarra and Gonvarri Valencia, ly as the second half of 2019. The growth expectations were hybrid blanking lines (steel and aluminium) at Gonvauto Souaffected by trade tensions between the United States and th Carolina, Gonvvama Chungshu, Gonvvama Shenyang and China and the rise in tariffs, the slowdown in the Eurozone, Gonvauto Nitra, as well as a new high thickness cutting line the Brexit without an agreement in the United Kingdom, the at Gonvarri Tarragona, among others. devaluation of some currencies and, for the automotive secThis Report summarizes the most significant advances made tor, increasingly demanding environmental legislation. in the first year of the 2019-2021 Strategic Plan, which inFurthermore, we start the year 2020 with a rather uncercorporates and articulates the lines of action of the Drive tain outlook for the economy. Since the end of December, Management Model in each axis: people, efficiency, sustaiwe have been witnessing a global COVID-19 pandemic that nability, innovation and compliance. Performance objectives started in China and is affecting us indiscriminately, stopping are based on a roadmap which aims to contribute to a more production and distribution in most sectors around the world. sustainable and efficient world, in line with the growth and The massive spread of the pandemic and the lack of informaprofitability of the company, as well as the well-being of our tion on its duration bring us to anticipate a very complicated professionals. macroeconomic scenario. In this model, the United Nations' Sustainable Development However, despite this complex environment, the diversificaGoals (SDG) are, for Gonvarri Industries, a clear model of cotion of our business model has achieved a remarkable comllaboration between companies, governments and society, pliance with the budget set for the year 2019, showing its as well as an opportunity for growth and improvement in our strength and ability to adapt. In Gonvarri Industries, turnover business. For this reason, we are committed to contributing reached 3,728 million euros, with an EBITDA of 194 million to achieve them on a global scale, mainly by integrating those euros. objectives that are most related to our business. In addition, The 62 million euros in CAPEX must be mentioned. Among we reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations Global the investments, the acquisition of the Kredit plant in Compact. Gonvarri Industries 4 Sustainability Report 2019 Since 2014, through the Emotional Driving road Aligned with SDG 16 and in order to contribute to safety project, we have strengthened our commitmore equitable societies, we are making progress in ment to our employees and society, in line with the approval, implementation and development of SDG 3.6, to help halve the number of road traffic deaths and policies and standards that make up our Compliance Model , injuries worldwide by 2020. with the goal of optimizing the mechanisms for monitoring, Among the most remarkable activities of this year; we conmeasuring and controlling the risks identified, in order to grow tinue to promote road safety through education and early as an ethical, integrated and transparent company. awareness through talks and conferences in schools and by collaborating in the motivational congresses of the What We contribute to SDG 8 by promoting decent emReally Matters Foundation. ployment and job security. In 2019, 730 new proFollowing the success of the study on young people and fessionals joined the company, bringing our total mobile phone use at the wheel in collaboration with Movisheadcount to 4,952, 89% of whom have permanent contar, the second edition of the study Spaniards at the wheel, tracts. As part of our efforts to attract and retain talent, in Fedistractions and mobile phone use was published in 2019, bruary we launched the Gonvarri Academy platform, aimed gathering the views of more than 2,000 Spaniards, represenat offering online training to all the company employees. This ting a wider audience, between 18 and 65 years of age, and has already resulted in more than 4,500 people registered we began a process of internationalisation with Argentina who have managed to complete more than 8,000 hours of as the first milestone, where the study Argentinians at the training, with 7,823 logins in 2019. wheel, distractions and mobile phone use was presented We also continue to implement various initiatives to reinforce with great success. the Doing Well by Doing Safe Safety Plan, which contribute In addition, and in collaboration with the Real Madrid Founto creating safe working environments, aiming for zero acdation, we are strengthening our program with people with cidents. This year, the efforts made by the Gonvauto Iberia different abilities. The purpose is to introduce complemenDivision (Gonvauto Barcelona, Galicia and Navarra) and the tary values to the practice of sports, which will be develoDongguan plant in China should be highlighted, as they obtaiped throughout the season in adapted and inclusive schools, ned certification under the new ISO 45001 standard before where, with the collaboration of Emotional Driving, a further the internally established deadlines. step is taken in road education adapted to this group, which improves their autonomy and level of social integration. Within the innovation and digitalization processes aligned with the SDG 9, the deployment of the In environmental matters, our contribuDigital WorkPlace (DWP) project throughout the tion to the fight against climate change group stands out. This project will transform the way the stands out, in line with SDG 7 and SDG company operates and enhance the talent of the professionals 13, establishing plans to minimize our emissions. In this reworking in it. In June, the global deployment of DWP began gard, 2019 is a period of analysis and reflection for Gonvarri with the participation of more than 2,000 professionals who Industries to define a new roadmap in accordance with current already work on this platform, 2,101 attendees to webinars and needs and trends, as well as the demands of our stakeholders, 1,400 participants in national and international workshops. where the fight against climate change, the reduction of CO2 Given all this, at Gonvarri Industries we aim to build a proemissions and a carbon-neutral future play a fundamental role. fitable and sustainable business model that is committed Likewise, social demands focus on plastic due to its massive to creating value in the economic, social and environmental use in society, its impact on the environment and the difficulspheres. ty of its management. Gonvarri Industries participates in this initiative by launching the project #Unplastic: Fight against Finally, I would like to invite you to read and share this plastic , which will be gradually implemented in our facilities Memory, hoping that it will be to your liking. and offices in the 2020-2021 period. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 5 Letter from the CEO Josu Calvo 102-14 For the seventh consecutive year, I am pleased to present Industry 4.0 and digitalization Gonvarri Industries' Sustainability Report for 2019. It outlines our main commitments and achievements, as well as our exGonvarri 4.0, framed within our strategic axis of Innovation, pectations towards consolidating ourselves as a world-class represents our commitment to digital technologies. The objecindustrial group. tive of Gonvarri 4.0 is to seek efficiency in our operations and safety in our factories. To meet these objectives, we have a This is the first year of our 2019-2021 Strategic Plan, which portfolio of 20 projects in different stages of execution, from is aligned with the Drive Management Model, the evolution of those in the conceptualisation phase to others that are in the which is summarized in the various chapters of the Report. global deployment phase. In Gonvarri 4.0 we are developing Numerous external aspects have influenced the course of this projects that range from the digitalisation of our production year, where, after a period of growth, a change in trend can be lines through a production execution system, to the eliminaobserved, primarily due to the decline in the automotive sector tion of paper in the maintenance function or the incorporation in the last half of the year, in addition to other factors such as of elements for handling goods with automatic detection of the rise in tariffs and the devaluation of some currencies. objects and people to increase security. In conclusion, Gonvarri With all this in mind, our vision at the end of the year shows 4.0 is a transversal and global project. stable financial results in line with those of the previous year Through innovation and new technologies, we are more effiand a significant improvement in non-financial and sustainacient in our processes and improve our products according to bility objectives, particularly the progress made through the the customer needs. A clear example is the search for lighter Emotional Driving road safety project, such as the successful and more resistant materials, such as high-strength steels and Ponle freno initiative. aluminium. Also, in this field, the advances in the design and Adapting to the changes, challenges and opportunities in our production of metal parts through additive manufacturing, caenvironment is crucial for the sustainability and profitability of rried out in our facilities in Addimen, stand out. our business. In this context I would like to highlight two asIn recent years we have seen the growing need to adapt to a pects which, due to their relevance, will be key to our future deworld that is moving exponentially towards a digital and innovelopment: the digital transformation, through the Industry 4.0 vative way of working. This directly affects our business, both project, and the fight against climate change, with a roadmap in the way we produce and in the way we relate to our emplofor an emissions neutral future. Both are aligned with our comyees, customers, suppliers and society at large. mitment to the Sustainable Development Goals, mainly SDG 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure and SDG 13 Climate We are experiencing a process of change through the deploAction , respectively. yment of the Digital WorkPlace (DWP) project, adopting MiGonvarri Industries 6 Sustainability Report 2019 crosoft technology and Office 365 work tools throughout the • Gonvarri Metal Structures, including Road Safety which group. This project is transforming the way that the company develops a very wide range of vehicle containment systems operates and empowering the talent of the professionals worfor roads and safe supports for lights; Energy aimed at deking within it. signing and supplying innovative solar structures, fixed and A rigorous implementation and training plan was established mobile, with wireless communication and self-powering tefor its development, with numerous initiatives and support machnology, as well as street lights and electrification towers, terials, which helped to conclude the first phase of the DWP and Mecano for the development of cable carrier systems, adoption project with great success. buss enclosures and profiles, with their accessories, adapted to the needs of the clients. • Gonvarri Material Handling, in charge of the design and Roadmap to a carbon-neutral future manufacture of storage and handling systems for all industrial environments, offering a comprehensive service. This year the COP 25 met in Madrid where the situation and progress in the fight against climate change was presented, • Gonvarri Precision Tubes, dedicated to the manufactudiscussed and analysed. There, numerous reports from scienre of low carbon steel and stainless-steel pipes, which are tists and experts were presented, warning us of a complicaadapted to the customer's requirements. ted future, where the rise in temperatures and the increase in natural disasters continue, unless urgent action is taken by governments, businesses and society in general. Along these People, safety and talent guidelines, the European Union's New Green Deal is beginAt Gonvarri, our people and the attraction and retention of ning to define the main courses of action for the coming years, talent are key aspects, which is why, among the different iniin order to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 as an opportutiatives, we are committed to the training and qualification of nity to modernize, facilitate innovation and improve the comyoung professionals, to give them an opportunity for developpetitiveness of the European economy and generate quality ment and growth. Through the programmes: FP Dual where employment. the educational centre and the company are jointly responsiTherefore, evaluating the demands of the environment, the ble for the training provided, and Young Engineers , focused on risks and the expectations of our stakeholders, this year reattracting young people with high potential to broaden their presents for Gonvarri Industries a period of analysis and reexperience by assigning them to a certain region of the group flection in which a new roadmap can be defined in accordance in which they rotate through different companies, contributing with current needs and trends, where the fight against climate to their employability. change, the reduction of CO2 emissions and a future without Health and Safety training and awareness is also key to recarbon emissions play a fundamental role. ducing the number of accidents and mishaps and creating a The plan will include improvements in reporting and control of safe working environment. Therefore, the training provided by information and data, energy efficiency measures, promotion the plants to their own and external personnel has increased of the use of renewable energy and the purchase of energy significantly this year. This year, the training of the 2nd State certified in origin, as well as other measures aimed at reducing Collective Agreement for Industry, Technology and Services and improving travel, and other compensatory projects such as in the Metal Sector for the plants and offices in Spain, given reforestation. In the next report we will detail these plans and by approved suppliers and with a high level of participation, measures. stands out. I do not want to say goodbye without mentioning the serious crisis arising from the health, social and economic impact of Gonvarri Industries and its four divisions COVID 19 throughout the world, which has affected us since With regard to our business, to improve our services, we have nearly the beginning of 2020 and which has led to the enorrearranged all our activities and lines of work under the umbremous tragedy of this disease with the loss of so many lives. lla of four divisions: The risk of infection for our professionals and society at large, • Gonvarri Steel Center, including Automotive where we are the stoppage of non-essential activities for significant periods making progress in the use of new lighter and more resistant of time in almost every country and the severe crisis that will materials and Industry and Household Appliances focused remain as a result of this pandemic, suggest a complex scenaon the supply of flat steel and high quality profiles for very rio for Gonvarri in the coming years, which forces us to rethink diverse sectors (household appliances, construction, etc.). our plans and strategies, in a very uncertain environment. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 7 GONVARRI INDUSTRIES Gonvarri Industries is a global company, thanks to its commitment for the innovation and quality it has become a reference in the flat steel and aluminium transformation sector worldwide. Global presence +5,000 employees in 43 plants and 24 countries Diversification: 4 lines of business: Gonvarri Steel Center, Gonvarri Metal Structures, Gonvarri Material Handling and Gonvarri Precision Tubes Materiality 10 material issues Opinion of internal and external stakeholders Social media +15,000 stakeholders following corporate social media SDG Sustainable Development Goals Emotional Driving, Climate Change, Innovation, Training and Employment Gonvarri Industries 8 Sustainability Report 2019 Our Company Gonvarri Corporacion Financiera, S.L. (henceforth Gonvarri) was founded in 1958, conducting business in manufacturing, processing and trading in steel products and metals related to the iron and steel industry. From the beginning, Gonvarri Industries has experienced In 2019, the companies Gonvauto Nitra in Slovakia, GMH huge growth, diversifying itself to a global level, and it has ¨Canrena¨ plant in Sweden and Laser Automotive Zaragoza a presence in 24 countries with 43 operating plants and 24 plant in Spain were fully integrated into the business. Factodistribution centers. ries of Pune (India), Resende (Brazil) and the new acquisition The scope of the Sustainability Report includes all the inforof GMH Kredit are not included in the scope, at the end of the mation about 40 factories, 24 offices and distribution centers. fiscal year. Purpose Vision Mission Doing well by doing Good Gonvarri: Metal To improve the Performance of our Doing well by doing Gonvarri Solutions for customers providing Innovative a safer and and Sustainable Metal Solutions sustainable based on a World Wide highly future Collaborative Organization Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 9 Milestones Evolution since its beginning Gonvarri Hiasa Burgos Gonvarri Gonvarri Valencia Barcelona Gonvauto Barcelona 1958 Gonvarri Portugal 1972 1978 1982 1991 1993 Gonvauto Navarra Gonvarri Tarragona AMG Paraná (Brasil) Gonvarri Galicia Gonvarri Polska Gonvauto Thüringen AMG 1998 Campinas (Brasil) Gonvarri Senica 2000 Gonvarri Puebla (Eslovaquia) (México) 2001 Gonvarri Kaluga Rusia 2004 Gonvauto South Carolina Gonvarri Arizona 2006 Gonvarri Pune India SGA UK Turquía Gonvarri Argentina Gonvarri Colombia Laser Automotive Barcelona Gonvarri 2009 Turkey Laser Resende 2012 Automotive GVS Czech Dongguan 2013 Gonvauto Aluminium 2014 Laser Automotive Brandenburg S&A 2015 Popesline Gonvarri Baja California Grupo GMH Gonvvama Laser Automotive Valencia Flinsa GMH Kredit Addimen 2016 2017 Gonvauto Laser Nitra Automotive 2018 Zaragoza 2019 Gonvarri Industries 10 Sustainability Report 2019 2019 Gonvarri Industries in figures 102-7 Gonvarri Industries understands the Sustainability as a model ders, in order to enjoy a cleaner environment and with fewer that integrated responsible management and a commitment inequalities that contributes to achieve the Sustainability Deof ethics, transparency and collaboration with our stakeholvelopment Goals. Below it is summarized the main figures in 2019: Economic Contribution Our business activity generates numerous benefits in the society which we live. The company dynamize local development by nourishing employment in the region, the growth of new suppliers and businesses, as well as improvements of the infrastructure through the payment of local taxes and duties, among others. Social Contribution Our business activity requires the hiring of numerous local workers to whom we offer a stable employment, which increases the economy of the area and the purchasing power of families. In addition, the company carry out numerous 69% 3,728 social action activities to improve the environment. Local suppliers Income expenses Million € de € Sensitized youngsters 3,691 194 +15,000 4,952 Own EVD EBITDA Emotional Driving Million € employees Million € € 62 CAPEX 43 13% Turnover +200,000 Training 24 Million € Factories in hours operation 67% Countries Employees of Presence local origin % Certification OHSAS 18001 98.7% Emissions produced 69% Certification 96,267 Tons CO2 ISO 14001 Environmental Contribution Our business activity is directly related to the reduction Circular of vehicle emissions, through lighter and safer structures. economy Furthermore, the company plants are managed to minimize 767,269 Energy 100% Steel our environmental impact, in particular through the measures implemented in terms of energy efficiency. consumption (GJ) Reciclable Emissions avoided Note: the economic data is related to Gonvarri’s global 421,791 scope. The rest of them are to the report’s scope. Tons CO2 Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 11 Worldwide Presence 102-4 AND 102-6 DATA AS AT 31 DECEMBER 24 43 24 5,252 GLOBAL 23 40 24 4,952 PERIMETER OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Countries Operational Distribution Own facilities centers and offices Professionals Steel & Alloy Popes Lane Steel & Alloy Gonvauto Automotive Newton Aycliffe Gonvarri Aluminium Steel & Alloy Bridge Street GMH Dexion Germany Steel & Alloy Union Street Steel & Alloy Cannock GMH UK DC GMH Holland DC GMH Belgium DC Gonvarri Portugal Gonvauto South Carolina Headquarters Gonvarri Burgos Gonvarri Barcelona Gonvauto AMG Campinas Gonvarri Tarragona Puebla Gonvarri Valencia Suports Mexico Gonvauto Barcelona Gonvauto Galicia Gonvarri Gonvauto Navarra Colombia Hiasa Gonvauto Asturias Laser Automotive Barcelona Laser Automotive Valencia Suports AMG Resende* Flinsa AMG Paraná Addimen Río Grande GMS Bilbao Off. Gonvarri Laser Automotive Argentina Zaragoza Road Steel Engineering Gonvarri Solar Steel Gonvarri Vizcaya Gonvarri Industries 12 Sustainability Report 2019 GMH Canrena GMH Sweden Off. GMH Sweden DC GMH Denmark DC GMH Constructor Finland DC GMH Norway Off. GMH Norway DC GMH Constructor Russia SG Kaluga GMH Dexion Romania AMG Senica Gonvarri Turkey Gonvauto Nitra Gonvvama Shenyang GMH Slovakia DC Offices Gonvarri Asia Gonvvama Changshu GMH Hungary DC GVS Dangguan Gonvarri Poland Gonvvama Loudi GMH Poland DC Gonvvama Chongqing GMH Kredit* GMH Czech DC GAIPL Pune* Factories Distribution centres and offices * Not included in the scope of the report ** Global presence map updated April 2020 Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 13 Main milestones in 2019 102-6 The company has a presence in 24 countries, which allows us to cover the entire global market in collaboration with our customers. The company continue to invest in service facilities, with new production lines subject to the increase in demand and internal initiatives, which allows us to strengthen our position in the global market. February January Gonvarri Valencia New Gonvauto Blanking Line for South Hot-stamping Carolina Gonvauto Gonvarri South Carolina: Navarra start-up of the New Blanking Line and new hotplant expansion stamping line 7 March April Digital WorkPlace was launched at Madrid Headquarters Leadership Gonvauto Navarra is certified Meeting under the energy efficiency standard Gonvarri 50001 II Conference “Women of Steel Iberian Peninsula” May Ponle Freno rewards June Emotional Driving for its road First Digital safety program at work WorkPlace Day First anniversary of the 4.0 Drive in the factory Corporate Intranet Gonvarri and Movistar present the second study “Emotional Driving 2019: Spaniards at the wheel, distractions and mobile use . Gonvarri Industries 14 Sustainability Report 2019 July Gonvarri Valencia presents its new Blanking line Road Steel is involved in the construction of the Boekelose Bridge August Suports presents its new website Gonvarri Polska: Extension of the finished product warehouse September Welcome to Gonvarri Industries' Brand Center Gonvarri Material Handling acquires 100% of Kredit October GVS successfully passes the IATF: 16949 2016, ISO 45001 and ISO 14001 audits Gonvarri Tarragona: New high thickness cross November cutting line Gonvvama Shenyang: new blanking Hot Stamping line Gonvauto Nitra: new plant with hybrid blanking and automatic roll storage Senica: Expansion of the finished product and raw material warehouses and new hot stamping blanking. December Çepas participates in the Mobile World Jon Riberas Congress in Los Angeles with the new received recognition development of GSM towers from the Juan XXIII Roncalli Fundation OneSAP: The new SAP model for the Group companies begins to take shape. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 15 Main brands and products 102-2 Gonvarri Industries is a company with more than 60 years We anticipate the future, maintaining the essence of our and with a remarkable growth from its origin. roots, with a set of universal values, Honesty, Humility, This growth is linked to the development of metal compoTenacity and Work , which represent the greatness of the nents for the automotive, road safety, solar structures, stocompany, its strength and the commitment of its workers, rage solutions and industry sectors. Although steel continues preserving our Mission, providing metal solutions for a sato be our main raw material, aluminium is becoming more and fer and more sustainable future, adapted to our customers' more relevant. needs. Gonvarri Gonvarri Steel Center Metal Structures Road Safety Develops a very wide range of road vehicle restraint systems and safe supports for luminaries, through innovative products, that rigorously comply with all quality and safety standards, as engineering services for its evaluation, application and implementation. Automotive Leaders in the supply of flat steel, steel tubing and 3d laser cutting to the main automotive Tier 1s and OEMs as well as to important stamping companies. Energy Designing and supplying innovative fixed and mobile solar structures, with wireless communication technology which are self-powered, as well as streetlights and electricity pylons. Industry Supplying flat steel for profiles and tube for different sectors Mecano (domestic appliances, construction, cable tray, metallic Develops cable tray, bus bar trunking and profile systems, furniture, …), of high quality and according to the needs of with appropriate accessories in accordance with customer our customers. requirements, for sectors as mining, oil and energy. Gonvarri Industries 16 Sustainability Report 2019 Business brands We are strengthening the diversification of the company's business by maintaining the unity of the Gonvarri Industries brand, consolidating our global leadership. Under this scheme, our products are commercialized with its respective business brands. Gonvarri Gonvarri Material Handling Precision Tubes Precision Tubes The manufacturing of low carbon alloy steels encompasses a range from Ø8 up to Ø130 mm, and from Ø25 up to Ø104 mm in stainless steel. We can manufacture for both steel Material Handling types, either round tube or its different derivatives sections, Ones of leading suppliers for the engineering and manusuch as square, rectangular, oval and some other special facturing of storage and handling systems for all industrial shapes, with different cutting processes, as per customer environments offering an integral service. requirements. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 17 Our sustainability vision Gonvarri Industries understands the Sustainability as a model that integrated responsible management and a commitment of ethics, transparency and collaboration with our stakeholders, in order to enjoy a cleaner environment and with fewer inequalities that contributes to achieve the Sustainability Development Goals. Drive and the Sustainable Development Goals Our way of integrating Sustainability After the launch of the United Nations Sustainable DeveloOur SDG impacts pment Goals (SDG) in 2015, we started a road map aligned with the Agenda 2030 that it helps to the compliance of Gonvarri Industries defined and integrated in its strategy imthis goals, in particular those related with our main activities. portant economic, social and environmental challenges for Therefore, we integrate this goals in our Drive Management more profitable and sustainable future, firmly committed to the Model. creation of a long-term value and care of the environment. We have considered aspects related to our activity and strategy, the stakeholder’s opinions (materiality) and the more Drive relevant social demands. As a result, we have defined the Sustainable Development Goals that we impact most directly on, setting targets with which to objectively measure our contribution. In all of them the “SGD 17. Strengthen the means of implementation and People revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development” is a key for its consecution. Efficiency Profitable growth Activity Sustainability Strategy Innovation Int e ern al Au lia nc dit&Comp Drive is the Management Model that pushes Gonvarri Industries to reach its objectives for profitability and growth. This Model is based on people, efficiency, and the continuous improvement of its processes, on the particular effort in innovation, and always with a focus of sustainability and the Stakeholders Tendencies Internal Audit&Compliance framework. and demands Gonvarri Industries 18 Sustainability Report 2019 Gonvarri Industries and SGD Emotional Driving and the SGD In Spain, each year 400,000 deaths occur due to accidents Facing this reality, Gonvarri will continue working in order to at work, where 1 in 3 is related to traffic, the majority being increase Emotional Driving and its philosophy is applied day accidents in itinere (when travelling to work). by day in all drivers, since preventing accidents (and therefore (Source: Dirección General de Tráfico). to save lives) is a constant activity. In this context, it should be noted that: • Gonvarri Industries is a leading company in the auxiliary automotive sector and in the manufacturing of vehicle Monitoring KPIs containment systems for highways which contribute to I. Increase the volume of road safety awareness in minimizing the impact of traffic accidents. the population by 2% a year until 2024. • The company analysed the movement of the staff, with a In 2019 we continued to raise awareness among more result make of more than five million trips per year, most than 15,000 youngsters through congress and talks, we of them by car. This indicates a high exposure to a traffic impacted to all the employees in Argentina through a accident. roadshow. Also, we impacted to 100 employees through a lecture about “in intinere” road safety coinciding with For this reason, our activity is directly aligned with SDG the Occupational Health and Safety Day. 3/3.6. By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents” and indirectly to the SGD 11/11.2 “By 2030, provide access to safe, affordaII. Collaborate and develop new alliances for ble, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all, projects related to road safety and new NGO, improving road safety”. foundation, or Public Body until the year 2024. Two collaborative projects stand out: With Real Madrid foundation we have extended the Our contribution to road safety number of sessions to do in the adaptive schools This means that as agents involved in the road sector, we with the aim to reinforce the knowledge among the feel responsible for reinforcing safety and well-being, both youngsters with different capacities. within the company and in society, especially with the vicWe made a campaign or announcement with What tims of traffic accidents. Really Matters foundation in order to commemorate the For this reason, the Emotional Driving Program was launday of the victims of traffic accidents, showed in the ched in 2014, with the purpose of making drivers themselves most part of the congresses of the foundation and on the protagonists and main force in the road safety messages, Emotional Driving social networks. by appealing to their beliefs, values and emotions for safe driving. III. Develop a relevant initiatives (roadshow, local The balance of these five years could not be more positive. studies, …) in a new place, in order to achieve the What began as a modest initiative for our employees in Ma30% of the countries where we are presence in drid headquarters, today reaches thousands of people in our 2024. country at the national and international level, in countries In 2019 the study “Españoles al volante” was continued where we have a presence like Argentina, Portugal, Germany, by increasing the number of the sample and the study Colombia and soon Brazil. Employees have become the am“Argentinos al volante, distracciones y uso del movil” bassadors of a safe drive, moreover the awareness campaign was developed and published. got into the schools and are experienced by youngsters and by professionals of the road. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 19 Gonvarri Industries and SGD Climate Change and the SGD Since the approval of the historic Paris Agreement (COP 21) Our contribution to the fight against in 2015, many initiatives have been developed, such as the European Green Deal, which includes a Climate Roadmap for climate change the coming years for a fair transition to a carbon-neutral ecoEnergy is a key aspect in our business. The measures aimed nomy. at reducing these consumptions are extremely beneficial, in The increase of societal, economic and political demands addition to reducing costs and improving production processhould also be mentioned, these require a shift in consumpses, these allow us to reduce CO2 emissions and, by doing so, tion patterns, a cleaner and emission-free environment, and contribute to the fight against climate change. towards a more just and equal society, enabling us to face To this effect, the ECO-ENERGY Project was initiated in the world´s biggest challenge: climate change. 2015, through which we monitor consumption and obtain The Fight against Climate Change is directly aligned with real segregated data. This allows us to detect points of imSDG 13 Climate Action and indirectly with SDG 7 Ensure provement in the less efficient processes and to implement access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern Energy Saving Measures (ESM) that revert and optimize this energy for all and SDG 12. Ensure sustainable consituation. This project is gradually being implemented in all of sumption and production patterns by developing projects our plants. that contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. 2019 represents a period of analysis and reflection for GonMonitoring KPIs varri Industries in which a new roadmap must be defined in I. Monitor all our plants with the ECO-ENERGY line with the current needs and trends, as well as the demethodology, in order to have data available mands of our stakeholders, which will be published in the on 80% of Gonvarri´s total consumption by year 2020. 2030 (electricity and natural gas). ECO-ENERGY was implemented in 18 plants of the group. In 2019 we have advanced with new lines and extensions to plants already monitored. This means that we have information on 67.5% of the electricity and natural gas consumed in Gonvarri II. Reach energy savings of 12 GWh/year by 2020. In 2019, 15 measures were implemented in different plants of the group, assuming an increase in the annual rate of energy savings by 3.21 GWh/year. The total energy savings amount to 13.97 GWh (natural gas 30% and electricity consumption 70%). Gonvarri Industries 20 Sustainability Report 2019 Gonvarri Industries and SGD Innovation and the SDG We understand innovation as a factor of change and adapOur contribution to innovation tation to the new requirements of customers and markets, Our initiatives are aligned with SDG 9 / 9.4. By 2030, upgenerating added value to the business and minimizing its grade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them environmental impact. Therefore, innovation is one of the sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and strategic pillar of Gonvarri Industries, contributing to its susgreater adoption of clean and environmentally sound tainable and profitable growth. technologies and industrial processes, with all countries Our innovation model is orientated to answer the requiretaking action in accordance with their respective capabiments and necessities of our customers in the short, medium lities , through two tracks: and long term. • Road safety division where the improvements in the This commitment is embodied in the R&D+i team, with an guardrails are conducted directly to reduce the mortality increasing number of qualified professionals and in the consand, in this case, to minimize its impact. tant search for opportunities and improvement projects, • Automotive division and its contribution to the developwhich allow us to anticipate the market, offering differential ment of safer and lighter cars. and more efficient products, in line with the new technological trends. Also, we develop different projects in order to improve our products and processes, as well as transforming the way we work through digitalization, to be more efficient and minimize our impact, and indirectly contributing to the SGD 12 “Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns”. Monitoring KPIs I. To communicate and disseminate among our employees the importance and participation of innovation in the company through the innovation workshops, with the aim of reaching 2,000 hours in the period of the Strategic Plan 2019-2021. In 2019, 7 workshops were held with a total of 1,398 hours (69% achieved). Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 21 Gonvarri Industries and SGD Education and the SDG According to the ILO report World Employment and Social Our contribution to decent work Prospects: Trends 2019 , the evolution in the reduction of At Gonvarri we believe that global change is required to move unemployment at a global level is not accompanied by improtowards formal, diverse, secure and stable employment that vements in the quality of work, where millions of people are complies with human and labour rights, improving education, forced to accept poor working conditions, complicating the reducing pay gaps and inequalities, paving the way for a attainment of SDG 8 Decent work . more fair and equal society. In 2018, the majority of the 3.3 billion employed people in Therefore, as a global company with a presence in 24 counthe world did not enjoy sufficient levels of economic security, tries and with over 4,500 direct employees, we contribute material well-being and equal opportunities. Currently, 700 to the improvement of this environment through providing million people live in extreme or moderate poverty despite stable, lasting quality employment, which allows us to create being employed. local wealth in the communities that we operate in, and so The report highlights the lack of progress on the gender gap. contribute to the achievement of SDG 4 Quality education The female labour force participation rate was 48% comand SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth . pared to 75% for men. Another concern is the persistence of informal employment with 2 billion workers (61% of the world's workforce) and one in five young people (under 25) not working, studying or receiving training, thus compromiMonitoring KPIs sing their job prospects. I. In order to create local wealth in the countries It also emphasizes that, should the global economy succeed we operate in, through stable local hiring, paying in avoiding a major slowdown, unemployment is expected to living wages, with legal working hours. Gonvarri continue to fall and training to improve in many countries has a double objective: to maintain the average of local employment and permanent contracts >80%. In 2019 local employment reached 99% and 89.4% of our professionals are on permanent contracts. II. Incorporate 3 new annual courses in the online platform “Academy” in the 2020-2025 period. Academy platform started in 2019. In the next fiscal year, we will summarize the new courses scheduled. Gonvarri Industries 22 Sustainability Report 2019 Materiality Identification and communication with stakeholders 102-40, 102-42 AND 102-43 At Gonvarri Industries we believe that taking care and improSince 2013 we have updated our stakeholders to improve ving the relationship we have with our stakeholders is a key their coverage and communication, to know their expectaaspect to improve our performance. Within this context, we tions better and to focus the contents of the Report on their consider any collective that may hold a substantial influence, main economic, social and environmental requirements. We and that is or may be affected by our activity. have different specific communication channels available for each of the identified stakeholders, as is outlined next: • Global satisfaction climate survey • Intranet Leading The Change • Catalogues and stands at trade • Interdepartmental meetings with fairs management • Supplier evaluation surveys • “B2B Platforms” as a • Work council and Health and Safety communication tool • Regular visits and meetings Committee • Supplier’s portal • Annual satisfaction survey • Claims management • Regular visits and meetings Employees • Claims management Suppliers Customers NGO´s Local Communities • Joint initiatives and Authorities with third sector organizations • Collaborations and volunteering Media Shareholders • Relationships with local authorities, sectoral / Senior body associations and other organisations are • Daily analysis of Competence • Periodically reports typically organised by relevant news between the General Management at each Managers and the CEO plant. • Press releases • Forums and associations • Each quarter, the most • Events and days of • Social media significant results are “open doors” channels and a • Specific included on the order of website collaborations the Board of Directors day • Institutional meetings Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 23 Results 2019 Twitter YouTube LinkedIn TOTAL Followers 2,080 303 12,683 15,066 Total number of contents posted in 2019 86 61 52 199 Visits to our profiles/ impressions 6,216 --16,500 22,716 We highlight the internal and external communication with In 2019, social networking activity was very focused on dithe stakeholders through social networks, the website and ffusing campaigns related to driving safety, with contents that the intranet, with contents that allows to measure the positiallow us to measure the positive impact of the messages. This ve impact of the messages, where our presence is increasing. is reinforced through our Emotional Driving webpage. Relevant aspects: Materiality study 102-44, 102-46, 102-47, 102-49, 103-1, 103-2 AND 103-3 Over the las few years we have been working on our matrends, issues treated by our competitors and analysts), and teriality analysis, in order to detect and update the relevant on the other, the policies and programs developed by Gonvamatters regarding sustainability. Since 2018, the study has rri Industries, as well as our appearances in the communicabeen carried out evert two years, so the next materiality tion media. This allows us to group the relevant information study will be updated in 2020. into 19 matters. Those matters were pondered by the stakeFor the identification of material matters we consider, on holders to identify those most relevant from an internal and one hand, the matters that affect our environment (current external perspective. External and internal coverage 102-46 External Benchmark Press Analysts´ Employees’ Customers Supplier´s sectorial analysis reports opinion opinion opinion Internal Management Contractual Key Strategy opinion obligations aspects Gonvarri Industries 24 Sustainability Report 2019 For this identification, we have conducted an extensive consula technological data and information analysis tool that assestation with our main stakeholders including: management, emses the importance and perception of the identified matters. ployees, suppliers and customers. The survey is done through The average engagement of each stakeholder group is summarized below: PARTICIPATION Surveys sended: 1,936 Managers Employees Customers Suppliers 95% 61% 41% 55% response response response response After this analysis, its weighing and revision, a global total of This, as summarized in the Report, it is very important for the 9 material matters were defined for all stakeholders. It should society, for our customers and to management, as well as inbe noted that with respect to last year, this year we have increasingly regulated. Therefore, we are designing a roadmap corporated the “Fight against of Climate Change” as material with the aim to moving towards a carbon neutral company. aspect. In the table the 10 material matters and the chapter in which they are elaborated on are outlined: Material Matters Chapter 102-47 1 Sustainable financial profitability Drive: profitable growth 2 Risk control Drive: profitable growth 3 Data protection Drive: profitable growth 4 Compliance Drive: Internal Auditing & Compliance 5 Customer relations Drive: efficiency 6 Innovation Drive: innovation 7 Health and safety Drive: efficiency 8 Management of environmental impacts Drive: efficiency 9 Promotion of the Circular Economy Drive: efficiency 10 Fight against Climate Change Drive: sustainability In addition, were material from the internal approach: the attraction and retention of talent, and from the external approach: the homologation of suppliers and climate change. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 25 Governance Gonvarri Corporación Financiera, S.L. (henceforth Gonvarri Industries or Gonvarri) was founded in 1958, conducting business in manufacturing, processing and trading in steel products and metals related to the iron and steel industry (102-1). The corporate structure of the Gonvarri Corporacion Financiera is 99.99% owned by HOLDING GONVARRI S.R.L. (102-5) The headquarters are located in (102-3): St. Embajadores, 482. 28053 Madrid Spain Governance Structure 102-18 The governing bodies of the society are the General ShaAs of December 31st 2019, the Board of Directors is formed by: reholders´ Meeting and the Board of Directors, which is the highest governing, supervision, decision and control body of Gonvarri. In the Statutes of Gonvarri, the functioning of the Board of Directors and the requirements and deadlines for convening the General Shareholders´ Meeting are reflected. Mr. Juan María Gonvarri is a non-quoted company, whose members of the Riberas Mera Board of Directors represent all shareholders, and therefore President there is no legal imperative to have representatives from other Mr. Ramesh Mr. Francisco José stakeholders, nor to take other factors related to diversity, Kumar Kothari Riberas Mera minorities, etc. into consideration (102-22 and 102-24). The Vice president Secretary President of Gonvarri hold an executive position (102-23). The performance of the Board of Directors is not reviewed, Mr. Paul Stephan Mr. Jesús Calvo since some of the members are the owners of the company Brettnacher Moreira through their shares and represent all partners. This year theBoard Member Board Member re have not been any changes to the members or the organizational practices (102-28). Mr. José Manuel Gonvauto, S.A. The Board of Directors makes relevant decisions in plenary Board Member Arias García session and delegates, when applicable, the execution of Board Member these. Additionally, special powers of attorney can be agreed by the Board of Direction in favour of employees of the comAcek Desarrollo Agrícola La pany to carry out specific elements in those operations prey Gestión Veguilla, S.A. viously approved by this body (102-19). Industrial, S.L. Board Member The powers for the designation of the Board Directors coBoard Member rrespond exclusively to the General Shareholders´ Meeting, which constitutes the interest of all the company partners (102-24). For either a natural or legal person to be appointed as administrator, being a partner, it is not required. Likewise, The company ACEK DESARROLLO Y GESTIÓN INDUSTRIAL, S.L. the conditions that prohibit such function are established in represented by Mr. Juan María Riberas Mera held the position of Managing Director at 31 December 2019, vested with each and the Statutes. every one of the powers attributed to the Board itself, except those that according to the Law or the Articles of Association may not be delegated. Gonvarri Industries 26 Sustainability Report 2019 The partner will not be able to exercise his voting right assoThe responsibilities, functions, ciated with their participations when in one of the conflict of interest cases established in article 190 of the Royal Legislaticommunication and knowledge ve Decree 1/2010, of the July 2, in which the Consolidated Text of the highest governing body in of the Corporate Law was approved (102-25). relation to sustainability Regarding the information and consultation mechanisms (10221), these are done through the different administrations that Through our parent company, we count with a global corpoact as a conduit between the Board of Directors and the dirate culture that retains the very same values and principles fferent stakeholders. Furthermore, the General Manager holds from our origin, but which are tailored to the local needs of biannual meetings with all the corporate staff. In these meeeach country, to the current market conditions and to the tings, the relevant elements related to the management and stakeholders´ demands. the company´s situation are outlined and the feedback from The Board of Directors is responsible for the approval and the staff on these matters and other matters of interest is recommitment to complying with the Code of Ethics, the Susceived, with all the corporate staff in Madrid available for direct tainability Policy, as well as the compliance policies. Moreoconsultation. ver, company employees can be expressly empowered to caConcerning the governing members, 89% are over 46 years rry out specific elements of operations previously approved old, and the remaining 11% are between 36 and 45 years old. by this body (102-20 y 102-26). Similarly, 78% of the governing members have the local nationality and all are men (405-1). Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 27 Specifically, the following corporative policies were approved In regard with the Sustainability Report, this is coordinated in 2019: In the procurement area, the Corporate Purchasing through the Corporate Management of Communication and Policy and Code of Conduct for Suppliers, and in the accounSustainability. A materiality study is performed every two ting and financial area, Consolidation Corporate Procedure, years in which key points for its stakeholders are gathered Corporate Chart of Accounts Management Procedure in SAP and implemented throughout the Report. Its function is transGCF, Accounting Policies Manual and Corporate Protocol for versal within the organization, as it covers the different socieCash Management. In addition to the Corporate Environmenties within the Group (102-32). tal Crisis Policy, Code of Conduct for customers, the Code of The Report follows a supervision and revision process, to fiConduct for stakeholders & collaborators, Corporate Protocol nally be approved by the General Manager. Additionally, to for Logistics, Corporate Intellectual Property Management ensure the trustworthiness of the information, it is externally Protocol, the Corporate Disciplinary Regime, Harassment verified by an independent body. Prevention Guide (V2), the Corporate Insider Trading and Confidentiality Policy, and Protocol for Relations with Legal Counsel. Risk Management Functions The heads of the different administrations keep a permanent of the highest governing body and fluent communication with the General Manager of the company. Any important worry is immediately conveyed by For the development and execution of new projects, a thothe heads of the different areas to the General Manager, rough study is performed in which all the quantitative and who, if necessary, will convey this to the Board of Directors qualitative aspects of the project are analysed and weighted, (102-33). just as the investment, financing and potentials risks for the The company participates and integrates it´s economic, sodifferent administrations of the company and the Managecial and environmental responsibilities into the different mament Committee, prior to its presentation and subsequent nagements, whose highest managers bring any decisions to approval to the Board of Directors. be taken to the General Manager and, where appropriate, to All these activities and the possible risks derived from thethe Board of Directors. Additionally, they are permanently inse are continuously analysed by the management and the formed of economic, social and environmental matters, throuGonvarri teams, which allows for risk detection and the implegh different internal communication mechanisms, such as: mentation of the necessary correcting measures in a fast and periodical meetings with the directors of the different areas, agile way. In the Risk Management section, the risk managethe biannual meetings of the General Manager with the staff, ment and identification methodology are described (102-29, the development and approval of the Sustainability Report 102-30 y 102-31). and different communication mechanisms like the intranet ¨Leading the Change¨ (102-27). Gonvarri Industries 28 Sustainability Report 2019 Nature and amount of aspects In regard with the most relevant topics which were dealt with, the annual accounts of the previous year were designed and raised in the Board of Directors in all meetings the projects, investments, budgets, sales and 102-34 market situation were followed up on, just as the on the issues most relevant to each administration. The General Shareholders´ Meeting will be invoked by the administrators and, when applicable, by the liquidators of the Society, within the 6 first months of each year, to ratify the Remuneration corporate management, to approve, when applicable, the fiof the Board of Directors nancial statements of the previous year and to determine on the use of the result. The remuneration of the Administrative Body consists of a The administrators will convene the General Shareholders´ fixed pecuniary amount that will be set in a General ShareMeeting this way when they deem it necessary or conveholders´ Meeting prior to the end of the year. This will be nient and, in any event, when one or various partners that compatible with other professional or payments that, when represent at least 5 percent of the share capital request so. applicable, correspond to the administrator for any executive When the Management and representation of the Society or advisory function they perform in the Society and will deare entrusted to a Board of Directors the established guidelitermine standards for their corresponding payment. nes for that purpose will be followed. In the case that the Administrative Body takes the form of It will gather at least 4 times a year, and additionally when the Board of Directors, it will determine the amount each of its President or Vice-President deem it appropriate. The anits members has to receive, in function of their dedication to nouncement will always be made in writing, directed to each the direction of the Society. If the Administrative Body takes Counsellor, minimally five days in advance of the meeting. another form, it will correspond to the General Shareholders´ Meeting to decide if, in function to said parameters, the remuThe Board of Directors can designate an Executive Commisneration of each administrator will be the same or will vary. sion or one or more Managing Directors among themselves, (102-35). determining the people who must perform said roles and their course of action, it may delegate, totally or partially, The remuneration of the Board of Directors and Senior Matemporarily or permanently, all the powers which are subject nagement is available under “(c) “Compensation of key mato delegation pursuant to Law. nagement personnel and directors” in the Audit Report, Consolidate Financial Statements and Consolidate Management All debates and agreements of the Board shall be recorded in Report at 31 December 2019. the Minutes Book, which shall be signed by the President and the Secretary or by the Vice-President and the Vice secreTo calculate the remuneration stakeholders shall not be contary when applicable. sidered nor consulted (102-36 y 102-37). Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 29 DRIVE. MANAGEMENT MODEL Beyond the financial and business results, we are committed to promoting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), integrating them in our “Drive” Management Model. Distributed economic value 3,691 € million Professionals 4,952 direct professionals and 715 external professionals Training 216,861 hours of training 44 hours per employee Expenditure on local suppliers 69% (2,504 € million) Goal: 0 accidents New Health and Safety Plan Doing Well by Doing Safe CO2 balance 325,524 tons of CO2 avoided indirectly Profitable growth Gonvarri Industries was founded in 1958, has experienced huge growth, diversifying itself to a global level, with factories and distribution centers in 24 countries and a wide range of products and services for the manufacture, transformation and trading in steel products and metals related to the iron and steel industry. Current framework Raw steel production increased by approximately 2.1% from The whole industrial sector is affected as it has reduced or January 2019 to January 2020, according to the 64 countries ceased activity due to the virus affecting workers, to the reporting to WorldSteel, amounting to a total of 154.4 million prohibitions of the different governments and to the lack of tonnes. supply of raw materials and resources necessary for the adeChina remains the largest producer with 84.3 Mt, which is an quate development of its activity. increase of 7.2%. In contrast, India, Japan and South Korea This global problem will negatively impact and slow down reduced their production by 3.2%, 1.3% and 8.0% respectiproduction and growth prospects, which leads us to assume vely. In the EU, France stands out with an increase of 4.5% that the macroeconomic scenario will be very complicated. compared to Italy with a reduction of 4.9%. The production in the United States increased by 2.5%, while Brazil decreased its production by 11.1%. Performance varied in other countries, with Turkey showing a Growth significant increase of 17.3% and Ukraine 0.4% less. Since its beginnings, Gonvarri Industries has experienced noGlobal steel demand is projected to continue its very motable growth, and has diversified worldwide culminating in a derate growth in 2020, this is in line with the slowdown in presence in 24 countries, 43 operating factories and 24 disthe global economy, as it will suffer from uncertainty in the tribution centres and/or offices. business environment, volatility in financial markets and the The company made numerous investments in 2019 to impolitical situation in many regions, which indicate a possible prove technology, increase production and efficiency and to dampening of business confidence and investment (Source: expand its product portfolio. The most relevant are shown WorldSteel). below: The global shift in momentum is largely due to lower expectations in the automotive industry, which will impact on growth. WORLD STEEL CONSUMPTION Millions of tons 2019 var.% 2020* var.% Asia and Oceania 1,248 6.2 1,270 1.8 European Union 166.8 -1.2 168.6 1.1 NAFTA 141.5 0.6 142.6 0.8 Middle East 47.9 -4.6 48.0 0.2 CEI** 58.0 4.8 59.2 2.0 Central and South America 43.8 -0.4 45.5 3.9 • Gonvauto Navarra: the new blanking line for hot-stamAfrica 36.0 -1.4 37.2 3.2 ping came into operation in February. Other European countries 32.9 -12.1 34.5 5.0 • Gonvarri Valencia: the new blanking line for hot-stamTOTAL 1,775 3.9 1,806 1.7 ping began operating in March. *Forecast to 2020/** Commonwealth of Independent States Source: World Steel Association. Chart EE.Staff • Gonvauto South Carolina: Its premises completed the expansion of a new steel and aluminium hybrid blanking In addition, since the end of 2019 when the pandemic cauline, which began production in January. sed by the new strain of Coronavirus COVID-19 began, global • Gonnvvama Chungshu: increased its capacity with a economic activity has been significantly affected, leaving a new hybrid (steel and aluminium) blanking line, which has very uncertain outlook for 2020. been in operation since November. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 31 • Gonvarri Polska the expansion of its finished product warehouse (2,880 m2) was completed in August. • Gonnvvama Shenyang expanded its capacity with a new hybrid blanking line (steel and aluminium), which is expected to begin operating at the end of the year. • Gonvarri Tarragona a high thickness cross-cutting line was acquired, for thicknesses of up to 25mm, which came into operation in October. • Gonvarri Senica expanded the finished product and raw material warehouses and installed a new blanking line for hot-stamping in November. GMH Kredit At the end of 2019, Gonvarri Industries, through the Gonvarri Material Handling (GMH) division, acquired 100% of the shares of Obchodní společnost Kredit, a 28-year-old Czech company in the storage sector. The plant covers a total area of 32,000 m2 (12,000 m2 built) and employs approximately 200 people. It produces and sells mobile racking bases, as well as cantilever racks and vertical storage towers. Kredit has been integrated into the GMH framework as an independent company with its own products, brand, and distribution channels. The Steel&Alloy Popes Lane (UK), GMH Canrena (Sweden) • Gonvauto Nitra the raw material warehouse was autoand Gonvauto Nitra plants are now fully integrated and opemated (coils) and a new hybrid blanking line was installed rational, as is the Addimen (Bilbao) facility which focuses on in November. the design and production of metal parts through additive manufacturing. In addition to all these expansions and improvements we are further strengthening our position in several countries, and we are diversifying our product into new markets through new acquisitions. Gonvarri Industries 32 Sustainability Report 2019 Balance sheet 201-1 In 2019, Gonvarri Industries Group concluded a complicated At the same time, the GI Group is increasing its production financial year amidst great market uncertainty, particularly in for other markets like metal structures, to which it brings the automobile market, which was largely due to the political its state-of-the-art technology in the manufacture of road situation and instability in some of the regions where the GI safety elements and structures for photovoltaic plants, and Group is present. These variables have resulted in a decrease it is also increasing production for the industrial market, after in sales volumes against budgeted estimates, and in greater making a strong commercial effort. pressure on margins. In 2019, the construction of the Gonvauto Nitra factory in Despite this market instability, the GI Group has managed to Slovakia was completed, a joint venture with the Arcelor attain 88% of the budget set for 2019, obtaining an EBITDA Group. This new plant began operations in November. of 194.2 million euros. We should highlight the result of our In the area of the Group’s inorganic growth, of special note is “Western Europe Division” which, although it continues to be the acquisition of the company Kredit SRO (Czech Republic), the division which contributes the most, has been affected by dedicated to the manufacture of industrial storage solutions, this decline in volume of the automotive market. The Asian which is part of the Gonvarri Material Handling (GMH) Divimarket, on the other hand, has seen an increase in activity sion. This acquisition forms part of the GI Group’s developwhich has resulted in our “ASIA” division exceeding the foment and diversification strategy. recasts for 2019. Likewise, the “Metal Structures” and “MaAt the end of the year we reached an EBITDA. of 194,184 terial Handling” divisions, which are dedicated to the metal thousand euros, and a consolidated result for the year of structures business in different markets, despite narrowly 104,927 thousand euros, which is a slight decrease in EBITmissing the agreed budgets recorded a great improvement DA levels and results compared to 2018, despite the downwith respect to the figures provided in 2018. turn experienced in the automotive market this year. The main consolidated economic figures of the Group are summarized in the attached table: ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED (thousand €) 2019 2018 Turnover 3,728,164 3,575,180 Financial Income 2,684 3,335 Other income 26,904 38,851 Total EVC 3,757,752 3,617,366 ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED (thousand €) 2019 2018 Operational Costs 3,371,846 3,216,691 CAPEX 61,781 251,198 Payments to capital 47,818 47,086 providers Taxes 48,324 69,366 The automotive world, which continues to be the main cusPersonnel 160,157 156,634 tomer of many of our plants and the Group’s worldwide benchmark, has seen a slight decline compared to 2018. The deInvestments in the 1,373 1,763 Community monization of and policies against diesel engines have had a Total EVD 3,691,299 3,742,738 great impact on this market since the technological change and replacement of these engines is not immediate. Within this context, the GI Group used 2019 to strengthen and ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED (thousand €) consolidate relations with the large car producers, managing 2019 2018 to increase the volume of tons sold from 4,875 thousand tons in 2018 to 5,006 thousand tons in 2019 (representing Total EVR 66,453 -125,372 a growth of 2.68%), and to enter into the treatment of more complex materials with higher margins, such as aluminium. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 33 The municipalities or regions in which Gonvarri has a presenInvestments ce received a total of 51,702 thousand euros in tariffs, fees A net profit of 113,238 thousand euros was presented in and taxes, which have contributed to the improvement of the 2019 and a CAPEX of 61,781 thousand euros. standard of living and the services for the inhabitants of the area. Its distribution by country is outlined in the attached In this area, the investments made in Kredit, Senica, Flinsa table. and Gonvauto Navarra in Spain and the finalization of the new plant in Nitra (Slovakia) with a total of 31,139 thousand TAXES euros invested. Country Thousand € INVESTMENTS Germany 3,856 REGIÓN EXECUTED 2019 Argentina 1,553 Brazil 4,707 Western Europe 8,120 China 486 Iberia Gonvauto 6,426 Colombia 291 Metal Structure 4,600 Spain 23,759 France 54 GI Corporate 2,308 Honduras 34 Central Europe 13,179 Italy 155 NAFTA 1,714 Morocco 110 LATAM 1,292 Mexico 3,007 Norway 99 Asia 4,579 Poland 2,847 Gonvarri Material Handling 2,753 Portugal 3,189 Precision Tubes & Addimen 4,869 Czech Republic 213 New Projects 11,942 Russia 1,593 Turkey 252 TOTAL 61,781 UK 1,609 USA 359 Finland 472 Sweden 676 Belgium 59 Romania 1,484 Denmark 194 Slovakia 28 Netherlands 435 Hungary 183 TOTAL 51,702 Additionally, the company received financial aid and subsidies equivalent to 534 thousand euros, distributed between the factories in Hiasa and Addimen to finance R&D projects (201-4). Regarding the other accounting obligations, the companies that make up the Gonvarri Group are, for the majority, obliged to prepare annual audit reports on their individual annual accounts due to the total volume of their assets, the turnover and the average number of employees. After approval by the corresponding body, these reports are presented in due time and form to the commercial register for each of their accounting periods, the legalization of their official Books and the deposits of the annual Accounts. Furthermore, the Group companies are up to date with their payments to the Social Security Treasury and their tax obligations. Finally, as stated in the Code of Ethics and Conduct, it does not provide financial aid to Governments (415-1). Gonvarri Industries 34 Sustainability Report 2019 Main effects, risks and opportunities 102-15 Gonvarri Industries is subject to various risks inherent to its are subject to continuous supervision. With regard to this risk activity as a result of its commercial, financial and economic related to Regulatory Compliance and of a criminal nature, to operations, as well as the legal obligations it must fulfil in the the “Compliance Model” has been developed, with the aim countries in which it operates. of improving the mechanisms for monitoring, measuring and To manage all these risks of all types and nature, the group controlling the related risks. has various mechanisms and systems for detecting, assesIts design began in 2017 after finalizing a situation diagnosing and managing risks within its own business processes sis. The risks associated with our activity were identified and and operations. assessed, and the mitigation controls and the mechanisms In 2016 the internal Audit Area was formally created in order to for continuous improvement and supervision were defined. formalize in an integrated manner the various mechanisms and These controls are various in nature and they are included in processes for the detection, assessment and management of the Groups internal regulation. risks already present in all business processes and operations. The ¨Corporate policy for risk control and management¨ This risk management system provides reasonable assuranstands out in this area and aims to establish the basic princice that all meaningful risks: strategic, operational, financial, ples, the framework for internal controls and for the manageand of compliance; are prevented, identified, evaluated, and ment of all the kinds of risks that Gonvarri Group faces. Strategic and Financial environmental risks Risks RISKS RISKS Derived from possible changes in the Group’s strategic lines Market Risks: derived from exchange rates and interest rates. or the country´s situation which it operates (political and reCredit Risks: Derived from cash and cash equivalents, from gulatory changes, currency depreciation, trade restrictions, derivative financial instruments and deposits and receivables. product or process obsolescence, supply chain management Liquidity risk: derived from sustaining sufficient cash and and assurance, digitalization, disruptive technology and innomarketable securities, availability of financing and capacity vation, etc.) to settle market positions. With respect to project financing, compliance clauses or comMITIGATION mitments in labour, environmental and human rights matters, • Country and global risk analysis. directly related to compliance with international treaties and/ • Country risk analysis. Application of the ¨Methodology or the Equator Principles, have been required in 6 contracts for the development and viability analysis¨ and external in 2019 (412-3). Due Diligences in the processes of inorganic growth or in the opening of new businesses in new geographical MITIGATION areas. • Simulation of scenarios considering refinancing, roll• Strategy of profitable growth, geographical and business overs, alternative financing and hedging. diversification. Global presence. • Use of hedging in purchase-sale transactions to avoid • Third party management policies and compliance with exchange rate fluctuations taking the Dollar as a reference. international trade sanctions. • Liquidity Policy and credit limits periodically revised by • Currency coverage instruments. the Board of Directors. • Strategy for innovation and detection of disruptive • Flexibility in financing and tracking of the liquidity technologies. reserves. • Insurance policies with companies of the first order. • Insurance to ensure collection for clients considered to have a risk of default. OPPORTUNITIES OPPORTUNITIES Important local economic impact through the The prevention mechanisms for financial risks generation of new business opportunities serve us to control growth and investments better (local suppliers and services), new employment by diversifying to other countries and by offsetting opportunities, economic resources for public those risks or potential incidences, so that our administrations (taxes), etc. growth is profitable and sustainable. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 35 Environmental risks Health and and Climate change safety risks RISKS RISKS Derived from incorrect behaviour or errors in the protection The actual environment clearly shows us the risks associaand safety mechanisms, which may lead to workplace accited with environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues dents and even death. as the Climate Change, water scarcity and Human Rights, are increasingly relevant. Therefore, it’s necessary to incorporate them into the company’s decision making, business strategy, MITIGATION performance and management. • Integrated Policy, its requirements and obligations are set in the ISO 45001 management system. Good management of these aspects minimizes risk to reputation, regulation, labour, access to capital and credit, among • Communication, training and awareness-raising. others. • Plans and programs aimed at improving security. “Doing Among these risks, the one derivate of “Climate Change” Well by Doing Safe”. stands out. To combat this risk various initiatives have been • High level of involvement of management and emploimplemented as the “New Green Deal” from the European yees. Tracking and control measures. Union, the more restrictive regulations in many countries and • Technological investment and innovation. the demands of all the main customers of the company and the society. All of them provide a clear roadmap towards a carbon-neutral future at two key milestones 2030 and 2050. OPPORTUNITIES Improving health and safety at work increases MITIGATION productivity and pride of belonging, and it also Gonvarri Industries incorporates these demands adapting its reduces personal, economic and reputational strategy and developing a roadmap that allows us to advanrisks, as well as potential sanctions. ce along this path, in accordance with the demands of the governments, customers and society. Likewise, it will include innovation and efficiency measures, reforestation, promotion of renewable energies, purchase of energy certificated in origin and sustainability mobility, Governance, ethical, among others, and it will be published during 2020. corruption, fraud, and Likewise, precautionary and continuous improvement princicompliance risks ples through the Code of Ethics and Conduct, the Integrated Policy and the Sustainability Policy (102-11). RISKS These derive from behaviour that goes against the guidelines established in the human rights, ethics and anti-corrupOPPORTUNITIES tion policies, which gives rise to important economic and reBy establishing control and improvement putational risks. mechanisms, contributing to the mitigation of Climate Change, the Circular Economy and the MITIGATION Sustainable Development Goals. This allows • Updating the risks and controls map. Audit processes. us to position ourselves in the market and • Having official Policies and Codes in place to regulate anticipate the regulations, which are increasingly these risks. restrictive in this area. • Specific training on each of the key aspects. • Consultation channels and complaint mechanisms. OPPORTUNITIES Through analysis and diagnosis, audit conclusions, revision and continuous improvement mechanisms and investigations into complaints, numerous improvement activities are detected which serve to strengthen the Groups ethic principles, to minimize our risks and improve our reputation. Gonvarri Industries 36 Sustainability Report 2019 Operational and Cybersecurity risks, data infrastructure risks protection and Information confidentiality RISKS Risks derived from technological or quality defects, manaRISKS gement problems, etc. that develop into problems in product Systems are a key element for the execution of business proquality, delivery times, among others. cesses and for implementing strategy, even more in a context of collaboration and innovation based on emerging technoloMITIGATION gies and in an increasingly turbulent business environment. • Project and initiatives to improve, track, measure and The systems and the “IT” organization are essential to take adincrease efficiency (SPG, ISO 9000, ISO/TS-IATF, TQM, vantage of the most powerful wave of digital transformation. and others), contingency plans, etc. Cyberthreats keep growing, online fraud is constantly evol• Continuous training. ving and is responsible for millions in losses in companies • Innovation and development projects to adapt to the around the world. market needs. Gonvarri 4.0 This makes necessary to revise and reinforce our systems • Broad-ranging insurance policies with security policies, so that these are less vulnerable and are adapted to changes in personal data protection regulations. OPPORTUNITIES Through efficiency and improvement in products and MITIGATION processes, we can reduce consumptions, production In 2019, in order to improve our security policies, among time, waste, etc. and, this way we can improve our other, we are doing the following: costs and profitability. • Periodic system scans in order to identify and correct Furthermore, innovation allows us to grow, adjust to vulnerabilities the customer requirements and improve our sales. • Information security and information risk diagnostic (ISO 27001). • Raising awareness to employees of the group Risks associated with • Installations of new versions of software antiregulatory compliance ransomware, new tools to catalogue and protect the corporate information and to protect smartphones and RISKS tablets Risks arising from regulatory changes affecting to the Group’s • Improvements to adapt to the European data privacy operations and from the demand for regulatory compliance, Regulations (GDPR). with increasingly complex, heterogeneous and demanding requirements in terms of the application of material and human resources. OPPORTUNITIES In Gonvarri we are convinced that information is MITIGATION a strategic value for the company to guarantee • Education, awareness and continuous training its security. • Code of Ethics and Conduct For this reason, we implemented prevention, • Ethic Channel. Channels for consultation and reporting communication and improvement measures, mitigating economics, personal and reputation • Management of Regulatory Compliance Model, risks. These improvements allow us to work in a improvement, monitoring and updating agile, fast, comfortable, safe and efficient way. • Internal policies related to the Regulatory Compliance OPPORTUNITIES Compliance with standards of a sustainable social development, Fight against poverty and the defense of human right, fight against climate change and protection of environment, among other dimensions. All this contributes to improve the reputation of the Group and minimize the risk of sanctions for non-compliance. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 37 Risks concerning Human Rights and diversity • Handbooks for harassment protection. RISKS • Third Party Management Policies and Codes of Conduct The forecasts indicate that the world population will exceed for third parties. 10 billion (UN) over the coming decades, primarily in developing countries. At the same time, our society is becoming • Human Resources Management Policies. Diversity and increasingly aware of abusive and illegal behaviour, going equality plans and programmes. against human rights, primarily in the most vulnerable coun• Reporting Channels. tries. • Training and awareness. Our society is currently immersed in a period in which women and diversity play a more important role, and in which OPPORTUNITIES inequalities, wage gaps, etc. are an increasingly significant Our global presence gives us the opportunity risk in companies. to work with different cultures and therefore enrich our knowledge and increase our capacity MITIGATION to adapt to different countries. This way we can • Compliance Policies, Code of Ethics and Conduct, and the improve our decision-making and values, like Sustainability Policy. tolerance, from different perspectives and so • Sustainable Development Goals and the Global Compact. foment local development. Most relevant risks in 2019 In 2019, Gonvarri faced different risks which derived from • The increasingly restrictive policies on vehicle emisthe situation of the market in the countries it operates in, sions and the use of fossil fuels. which have not had a significant global impact on the yearly • The uncertainties from the consumer perspective in results due to its diversification over different markets. the automotive market, generates falls in consumption Most relevant identified risks: and production. • The economic and social situation in some countries • Cyberthreats and online fraud where we have a presence, such as Turkey or Argen• The growth of environmental, social and governance tina, together with the volatility of some currencies in awareness, also the risk derived from climate change, countries where we have a specific gravity (Turkish lira, natural disasters and disease. Argentinean peso, yuan). • Risks that derive from the continuous regulatory chan• The volatility of raw materials and consequently of ges that require changes in the Group´s processes. the valuation of the stock available at the factories, • Internal risk to achieve the operational excellence in together with the greater pressure from customers some countries with respect to price, which results in a narrowing of margins at each step of the supply chain • The general economic slowdown because of the various uncertainties described above and the neces• The risks arising from protectionist policies and the sity of a fast adaptation to changes produced in the establishment of tariffs between the main actors in markets and customers. international trade. • Risks that derive from geopolitical changes that imply trade restrictions, embargoes and sanctions, as well as It is important to remark the enormous risk that we are fachanges in tariff policies. cing derivate from the Covid-19 pandemic of global dimensions. Therefore, we started this financial year 2020 with a • The notable increase in opinions with nationalist and very uncertain situation for the economy, after its start in Eurosceptics positions and the abandonment of the UK China paralyzing all the country, we witness its expansion from the European Union make it foreseeable, among to the world affecting the population indiscriminately, which other impacts, the appearance of uncertainties as the produces a standstill in the economy, closing the production consequences of negotiations with potential introducand distribution of the most sectors and affecting employtion of tariffs to certain industries, loss of economic ment. The enormous expansion of the pandemic and the activity or its relocation. lack of information about its duration, make us foresee a very complicated macroeconomic landscape. Gonvarri Industries 38 Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Proximity to the customer Gonvarri is committed to personalization and constant improvement of our service, for which it has sales teams that are specialized and adjusted to the type of business and product, through which more specific coverage is provided. Auto For Gonvarri, the Automotive sector generates the main turothers, on the use of the new materials such as high strength nover. Its main customers are the OEM´s, stamping compasteel and Aluminium, which are lighter, safer and which have nies and Tier1 and Tier2 integrators. less CO2 emissions. The Corporate Area of Global Auto Sales has a highly qualiIn 2019 the processing of materials for Hot Stamping procesfied team of professionals all over the world. ses increased, incorporating projects, mainly in Europe and The deployment of the Key Process ¨Management of Offers¨ Nafta, from new OEMs and Tier1s to our portfolio. in 2018 means standardization of this process at Group level, Likewise, Gonvarri continues to win projects for exterior and a crucial pillar to guarantee efficiency and sustainability wiinterior aluminium components in all the geographical perithin the organization. meters in which it is established. The auto sector has clearly evolved towards vehicles with The launch in Gonvarri Valencia in 2018 of the new facility more efficient, technological equipment and a lower environfor cutting of 2D blanks from coils, with the advantages in mental impact, such as the electric vehicle. For this reason, terms of flexibility that this implies for the cutting of small sewe are collaborating with our customers in the development ries in Steel and Aluminium, has been a complete success and of new solutions, processes and products, focused, among is being very well accepted by our clients throughout 2019. Road Steel At Road Steel we develop, design, manufacture and install • Development of the P-4 terminal. all kinds of vehicle containment systems, which allows us to • Development of the H3 containment system for roadsides. offer our customers an integral tailor-made service. • Development of tri round H2 containment systems for Our engineering team develops the most novel containment roadsides and bridges edges. systems, which are always state-of-the-art. Our main achie• Development of transition from H2 containment systems vements in 2019 include the following: to concrete barrier. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 39 Industry Most of the Industry business activity is done in Spain and Also, to new initiatives such as: Portugal. This year we have enhanced our presence in ex• Plan to promote the marketing and sale of each comports from both countries. pany’s own products. In 2019, this business line has continued its significantly • Development of work teams with our main customers in growing trend, partly due to the continuation of initiatives order to research product and logistics improvements. which were started in recent years, such as: • Investment in a new transverse thick plate line in Gonvarri • Expansion of the action plan initiated in 2016, which Tarragona. contributed to increasing our market share in the distriAmong the initiatives set in motion over the past year, we bution sector and reaching historic sales quotas for Gonshould highlight our continuing active presence in the forums varri. 2019 has been a record year for export distribution that the customer associations of the distribution sector orsales. ganize in France and Spain. • Regarding the SPOT (non-programmed) over scheduled We have maintained a calendar of visits, in all companies on sales remain high during 2019, which balances the ovethe Iberian Peninsula, for the teams of our main customers rall sales mix. that visited our plants and vice versa, our teams that visited • The continued growth of foreign trade, through the creathe facilities of our customers. tion of new sales delegations in different geographic areas in which we had little presence. Energy Solar Steel’s main customers are companies involved in the fair (Colombia). In these fairs the company was presented, development and construction (EPC) of solar parks. After particularly the Solar Steel line, in addition to monographic 2019, we provide this service mainly from Gonvarri Solar meetings with customers and potential customers. Steel, SL, which is the entity created in Gonvarri to ring In addition, we participated in congresses and fairs like: World together all the resources allocated to the solar business. Future Energy Summit (Abu Dhabi), MIREC Week (Mexico), CIIn respond to a globalization of solar sector, Solar Steel has REC Week (Chile), in the RecamWeek (Panama) and the Foro developed a global Supply Chain that is supported by the Energyear (Panama). factories as Hiasa, Gonvarri Turkey and Gonvarri Colombia, as On the other hand, Suports, an engineering company for the well as the international external suppliers. design and development of solar structures for rooftops, parThe development of innovative products that are self-poweking shelters and fixed structures included within the Solar red and equipped with wireless communication technology Steel scope, experienced a spectacular growth of more than stands out. Similarly, Solar Steel participated as an exhibitor 150% in 2019, favoured by the competitiveness of its alumiin the fairs of: Intersolar Europe (Germany), Genera Madrid nium solutions. (Spain), Solarex (Turkey), ExpoSolar (Colombia) and the FISE Gonvarri Industries 40 Sustainability Report 2019 Gonvarri Material Handling Gonvarri Material Handling Group is one of Europe’s Our solutions cover a wide range of customers; from small leading suppliers for engineering and manufacturing of stolocal companies to large international corporations, covering rage and handling systems for all industrial environments. multiple sectors: automotive workshops and tyre storage, Our main solutions include: pallet racking, shelving, vertical food and drink companies, cold storage, construction, eComstorage machines and storage systems for automated wamerce, 3PL, among others. rehouses. In 2019 we have participated in the LogiMAT fair in StuttOur professionals combine a high level of knowledge, guidangart, which attracted over 60,000 industry professionals ce and practical assistance. Our solid sales and marketing from around the world. networks allow us to reach our customers through multiple The GMS division, Gonvarri Colombia, developed the Wachannels with sales offices in 15 European countries and glorehouse business line, which covers the Latin American and bal coverage through our renowned brands Dexion, ConstrucCaribbean market. tor, Kasten, Stålteknik and Kredit. It is oriented towards the industrial and commercial sectors, GMH brings together all phases of the process including: placompanies in the logistics sector and large supermarkets, nification, design, supply and installation of storage systems, with important storage and logistics management needs. Our including aftersales service. All of this through a notable sermanagement model is based on the development of innovavice capacity, which allows us to attend thousands of custotive products and on providing specialized technical advice to mers annually, where 80% of them are recurrent. clients, mainly in Latin America. Precision tubes Gonvarri’s tubes division has a production capacity of In its permanent goal of continuous improvement, important 150,000 tons/year in the Flinsa and Gonvauto Asturias facR&D+i project are carried out of the development of new sotories. The manufacturing of low carbon alloy steels encomlutions and products, where the use of Advance High Resispasses a range from Ø8 up to Ø130 mm, and from Ø25 up tance Steel (AHSS) of the largest generation takes on special to Ø104 mm in stainless steel. We can manufacture for both importance. steel types, either round tube or its different derivatives secA clear example is the improvement made in the tubes of tions, such as square, rectangular, oval and some other spethe headrests in cars, during their processing they showed cial shapes, with different cutting processes, as per customer certain difficulties due to their limited plasticity. After a long requirements. research process and with new use of “extra ductile” steels Furthermore, in order to provide a complete solution, various we defined a new type of high-quality tube, which exceeds cutting mechanisms are available, using sawing or lase cuthe requirements of current standards. Also, important improtting and drilling technologies, in addition to the hardening vement was made in the “Finetubes”, significantly improving process and some other forming operations. the surface finish, as in many cases they required high quality aesthetic components, as chrome plating, metal paints, ... Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 41 Customer satisfaction At Gonvarri we consider customer surveys to be an imporHiasa and Gonvauto Asturias tant support tool to assess their level of satisfaction, identify Hiasa and Gonvauto Asturias jointly sent a questionnaire to points for improvement, build loyalty and increase our market the main customers of the cutting line (flat product) and tube share. For this reason, we periodically conduct personalized line. In 2019, the survey was sent to 76 customers, 97.4% surveys, based on the type of product and/or geographic of these customers submitted the survey which represent area. 95.23% of the invoicing of this year. The average Global Satisfaction Index was 85.10% (82.5% for the flat product and 86.7% for the tube) with an average Solar Steel of 4.23 (on a scale of 1 to 5), meeting the proposed target. Solar Steel sends a simple survey to its main national and international customers each year to assess different factors (price, product and service quality, technical support, terms, responsiveness and sales team) based on two parameters: importance and satisfaction. 85.10% This year´s results show a slight improvement compared to IMS the year before, with an average score of 3.8 out of 5. As part of the solar business division’s policy of continuous improvement, the new entity Gonvarri Solar Steel was awarded ISO-9001 certification in 2019. Sent: 76 Answered: 74 Almaceno Gonvarri Iberia In Gonvarri Colombia, surveys are carried out every two years Gonvarri Iberia carries out an annual online survey for its in order to plan and implement improvement measures. main customers, from Gonvarri’s factories in Burgos, Valencia, Therefore, the 2018 survey is still valid, based mainly on Barcelona and Portugal. three aspects: service, sales personnel and product, with an Once again, we have requested our customers for their opiaverage consolidated result (IMS) of 86.9%. The obtained nion on the products and service provided. The response rate results were as follows: was higher than last year, with the customers of Burgos and Portugal having the highest participation rates. Even though there is a satisfactory average valuation, in which quality, the wide range of products, logistics and commercial attention (know-how), delivery times and prices are maintained as points of improvement. SERVICE BURGOS PORTUGAL SALES STAFF 83.4% IMS 71% 89% Participation Participation 88.1% IMS Sent: 128 Sent: 74 Answered: 91 Answered: 66 PRODUCT VALENCIA BARCELONA 88.6% IMS 45% Participation 60% Participation Sent: 75 Sent: 109 Answered: 34 Answered: 65 Gonvarri Industries 42 Sustainability Report 2019 Supply Chain As part of the negotiation process, the obligation to read and accept a series of policies and procedures is made, among 102-9 which the Code of Ethics and Conduct is included, to transfer our values, principles and our commitment to respecting HuAt Gonvarri, the process for purchasing are carried out in a man Rights to our suppliers. differentiated manner which depends on the buying rate and volume. Similarly, suppliers that provide products and/or services on a regular or potential basis to the Gonvarri plants, and that, due to the nature or criticality of the product/service, may have Steel purchases influence on the quality of the final product Gonvarri supplies The purchasing activity constitutes one of the key functions to its customers, will be subject to a homologation process of the company due to its high economic impact, where not and a posterior re-evaluation, in order to ensure their ability only aspects related to price, quality and delivery time are to supply in accordance with the specified requirements and considered, but also those related to behaviour in terms of to verify compliance with those requirements over time. For ethics, compliance, sustainability, human rights, environment that matter, it is an indispensable requirement for the supplier and health and safety. to have the ISO 9001 certification. Maintaining its commitment to responsible business management and contribution to sustainable development, the Local purchases purchasing function and the relationship with the supply 102-10 chain, is also configured as an area in which the values, principles and guidelines of conduct for the development of the In this section the minor, non-centralized purchases made in professional activity must be materialized. plants are included. The selection, homologation and re-evaluation processes for These are normally carried out through local suppliers and suppliers are conducted based on impartiality and objectivity. the homologation criteria are not homogeneous to the diTaking into consideration the assumption of the principles of fferent plants, with the environmental and health and safety behaviour and the management of Gonvarri Industries, thus criteria being more frequently applied than social or human facilizing and promoting the fulfilment of common goals in the rights criteria. supply chain. For all these reasons, purchasing management is based on Expenditure in local suppliers 204-1 and harmonizes with the following principles: In 2019, the total expenditure in suppliers rose to 3,637,028 • To ensure the standards and commitments acquired with thousand euros, from which 69% (2,504,406 thousand euour customers by guaranteeing the mechanisms that ros) corresponds to local suppliers. allow for continuous improvement. EXPENDITURE IN LOCAL SUPPLIERS • Create space for dialogue with the different suppliers to transmit the company´s commitments to sustainability, Expenditure in local % Expenditure suppliers (thousand €)) in local suppliers as well as the collaboration of its supply chain. Germany 252,047 64% • Negotiate ethically, responsibly and competitively, accorArgentina 10,490 30% ding to business expectations. China 25,783 99% • Promote compliance to basic standards or criteria among Spain 1,792,577 84% suppliers with regard to human and labour rights, occupaUSA 89,598 84% tional health and safety, respect for the environment and Mexico 74,690 22% ethical behaviour. Poland 15,831 9% • Guarantee the supply through adequate risk managePortugal 76,547 56% ment of the suppliers we work with. Czech Republic 11,496 96% For the approval of suppliers, Gonvarri Industries’ Code of Russia 80,524 85% Ethics and Conduct, as well as its CSR purchasing policy, is Slovakia 15,329 61% sent to all suppliers (100%). Information on their dispatch, Turkey 4,850 76% reception and signature or acceptance is properly monitored Romania 15,200 57% and filed. Sweden 12,615 33% Finland 7,768 52% Non-steel purchases Norway Denmark 1,891 2,534 17% 29% Focused on the purchases of other auxiliary raw materials Britain 8,373 32% (oil, lubricants, chemicals, etc.), other materials (packaging, Netherlands 1,081 9% spare parts, etc.) and services (cleaning, transport, trips, etc.) Belgium 2,016 29% that require a structured negotiation process and the appliHungary 3,165 30% cation of a specified methodology due to the volume they TOTAL 2,504,406 69% represent. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 43 IT security and which keeps critical infrastructure and data under Gonvarri’s control, but allows for their integration with machines at the process support plants and with applications and data in the cloud. It is an enabler for data collection and process automation, one of the pillars of the digital transformation strategy. Business process support In some cases, in order to manage the scalability of IT capacities, it may be necessary to collaborate with third parties, At Gonvarri we firmly believe that information has become a which are selected through an impartial process of publishing strategic asset for the company and that guaranteeing inforspecifications, receiving and evaluating bids and making the fimation security is one of the Group’s greatest challenges. nal selection based on the quality criteria for business support Systems are a fundamental element for the execution of buand system efficiency. siness processes and for the implementation of our strategy, even more so in this innovative and collaborative environment that relies on emerging technologies in an increasingly turbulent business environment. Systems and IT organization are essential to harness the most powerful wave of digital transformation. Gonvarri’s IT department faces a challenging balance between the need for digital innovation on a company-wide scale and the need to maintain and operate with today’s most advanced systems and processes in order to maintain operational excellence. 2019 has been a very challenging year in this regard: The Group’s centralised ERP SAP system, infrastructure services and communications were both maintained and improved, with a focus on business support, efficiency, and profitability. At the same time, transformation projects have been launched to align our business and systems strategy and move forward on the journey towards digital transformation. In order to guarantee optimal alignment between the business and systems strategy, Gonvarri has worked to finalise the definition and launch of a strategic systems plan in 2019, which, based on an analysis of the current situation and the needs Information Security of the business areas, seeks to respond both to the business Currently, cyberthreats continue to grow in ingenuity and and technological context and to our customers’ and suppliers’ frequency, online fraud keeps evolving due to new social enrequirements. gineering techniques and these are responsible for millions in The IT department, in collaboration with the Communication losses in companies around the world. and Sustainability department, has been responsible for the The fast proliferation of smart devices and the connectivity incorporation of new companies (Gonvarri Turquía, Nitra) into given through the internet of things (IoT), paired with the lack the Group’s ERP systems. At the same time, and in a coordiof global security standards makes that many of these devinated manner, it has worked on the new challenges the orces have significant vulnerabilities which leaves personal and ganization faces, which include creating new IT capabilities to business information exposed. increase productivity and efficiency. The department has been actively involved in Innovation initiatives, in collaboration with Proof of this trend is the increase in the hijacking of business the Communication and Sustainability Department, especially computing equipment by hackers, in order to ¨mine¨ cryptothose within the new “Industry 4.0” paradigm, and has transcurrencies, by using modern malware designed to go after formed the workplace through the Digital Workplace initiative, business networks, which can cause these to collapse or a cultural change that embraces technology to improve the even damage the hardware. way employees work and interact with customers and suAttempts at fraud through impersonation (phishing) are also ppliers, enhancing experience, satisfaction and productivity increasing, which makes it even more important to adjust inthrough collaboration. formation security policies and devices to protect both the Simultaneously, and with the aim of eliminating the innovation assets and people´s security. “latency”, i.e., to enable and accelerate the adoption of initiatiTherefore, we establish the necessary mechanisms to safeves in this area, work has been done on adopting new technoguard the privacy of information and the protection of cuslogies to add IT capabilities and new operating models, such as tomer and supplier data, and to manage and treat documenthe so-called “hyper-convergence”, which makes it possible to tation in accordance with its level of relevance. In order to close the gap between the traditional infrastructure and public strengthen security, information security procedures are pecloud services and production lines. Hyper-convergence proriodically revised, and the security systems are continuously vides a “hybrid cloud” approach in an industrial environment, tested to ensure their rigorousness. Gonvarri Industries 44 Sustainability Report 2019 In the year 2019, the following steps, among others, have To reinforce awareness and training of the group´s emplobeen taken to improve security policies: yees’, campaigns and training sessions were held. • Periodic system scan to detect external and internal vulAfterwards, training sessions were held to learn about prenerabilities and their correction according to the level of vention and protection techniques, both in corporate offices criticality. as in the plants, to mitigate the risk to people and assets that • Diagnosis of the information security and its risks based this new type of crime brings. on the ISO 27000 standard. Furthermore, new versions of anti-ransomware software During 2019 we have continued to support and improve the were installed and are analysed through pilot tests, new relevant measures in order to adapt to the new European tools for cataloguing and protection of corporate information data privacy regulations (GDPR) that came into force in May (IRM – Information Rights Management) and for the protec2018. This implies a transversal level of supervision on the tion of smartphones and tablets (MDM – Mobile Device Maprotection of person data information. nagement). Associations and organizations 102-13 Corporate level Gonvauto Galicia Gonvarri Portugal • Fundación SERES • Asociación de Industriales Metalúrgicos • Associação Nacional das Empresas • Fundación Consejo España China de Galicia (ASIME) Metalúrgicas e Electromecânicas • Clúster del Automóvil de Galicia (ANEME) Europe (CEAGA) • European Steel Association (EUROFER) Steel&Alloy Gonvauto Navarra • Confederation of British Metal Forming Spain • Asociación de Empresarios del Metal • Confederación Española de (ANEM) GMH Romania Organizaciones Empresariales del Metal • Federation Europain de Manutention (CONFEMETAL) Gonvarri Burgos (FEM) • Unión de Empresas Siderúrgicas • Federación Empresarial del Metal (FEMEBUR) GMH Russia (UNESID) • St. Petersburg International Business • Asociación Española de Contabilidad y • Federación de asociaciones Association (SPIBA) Administración de Empresas empresariales de Burgos (FAE) • AMCHAMSPAIN • Red de recursos humanos y Red de Gonvarri Turkey prevención de riesgos laborales de • Kahramankazan Industrialists’ and • Asociación Innovación en Prevención Castilla y León. Businessmen’s Association (KASIAD) • Asociación Española para la Calidad • Instituto Empresa Familiar Hiasa and Gonvauto Asturias • General Galvanizers Association (GALDER) • Asociación española de compliance • Federación de Empresarios del Metal y Afines del Principado de Asturias • Turkey Section of the International • Instituto de auditores internos (FEMETAL) Solar Energy Society (GÜNDER) Gonvarri Barcelona • Steel Guardrail and Road Safety • AIPN Associació Industrial per a la Gonvarri Tarragona Systems Association (TOD) Producció Neta • Asociación Provincial de Empresas del Metal de Tarragona (APEMTA) Gonvauto South Carolina Gonvauto Barcelona • HR Association Chamber of Commerce. • Clúster de Automoción de Cataluña Flinsa • Federación de Empresarios del Metal Gonvarri Colombia • Asociación de Empresarios de de la provincia de Alicante (FEMPA) • Asociación Nacional de Industriales de Castellbisbal • AIJU Instituto Tecnológico Colombia (ANDI) • Unió Empresarial Metalúrgica • Asociación de Empresarios de Ibi y • Ser Colombia • Consell dusuaris del Transport de Comarca (IBIAE) • Corporación Colombiana Internacional Catalunya (CCI) • Patronal multisectorial de Empresas Gonvarri Germany Catalanas (CECOT) • Initiative Erfurter Kreuz Gonvauto Puebla • Camara Nacional de la Industria de Gonvarri Valencia • IHK Südthüringen Transformación (Canacintra) • Asociación Valenciana de la Industria • Initiative Erfurt Cross • Relaciones Industriales de Puebla y de Automóvil (AVIA) GMH Germany Tlaxcala A.C. (Riptac) • Asociación Empresarios Camp de • European Racking Federation (ERF) Morvedre (ASECAM) Gonvarri Argentina • Verband für Lagertechnik • Federación del Metal de Valencia • Asociación de Recursos Humanos de Betriebseinrichtung (LBE) • Unión de almacenistas del hierro de Argentina (ADRHA) • Gütegemeinschaft (RAL España (UAHE) Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 45 People People Axis is what places Gonvarri at the heart of its employees, meanwhile promoting a sense of pride, team and wellbeing of its employees. HR develops initiatives to attract and retain talent. Our team 102-8 In 2019, the Gonvarri team is made up of 5,252 internal and Compared to the previous year, information of GMH Canrena 757 external employees distributed over 24 countries. (Sweden) is included, acquired at the end of 2018, as well The scope of the report includes a total of 4,952 own proas Gonvauto Nitra (Slovakia) and Laser Automotive Zaragoza fessionals and 715 external professionals in 23 countries, (Spain), which was newly built. representing 94% of the total (are not included in the scope The plants of Laser Automotive Brandenburg and the Czech Resende (Brazil), Pune (India) or GMH Kredit as it was acquiRepublic, and the distribution centers of S&A Darlastone and red at year-end) (405-1). Arizona are not included in the scope of consolidation. In addition, Gonvarri Baja California began to cease activity in 2019. TOTAL Norway Sweden Finland Belgium Hungary Int.4,952 Int.29 Int.132 Int.45 Ext.0 Ext.1 Ext.0 Int.9 Int.10 Ext.715 Ext.0 Ext.0 Holland Germany Int.29 Denmark Int.402 Ext.0 Int.17 Ext.36 Ext.0 Romania USA U.K. Int.399 Int.97 Ext.0 Mexico Int.233 Ext.7 Int.110 Ext.15 Poland Russia Ext.53 Int.135 Int.156 Ext.0 Ext.6 Portugal Czech Rep. Int.98 Int.5 Ext.13 Ext.0 Spain Slovakia China Colombia Int.1,653 Int.174 Int.362 Int.244 Ext.413 Ext.0 Turkey Ext.23 Ext.105 Int.203 Ext.41 Brazil Int.358 Ext.2 Argentina Int.52 Ext.0 It is not included in the scope Resende (Brazil) with 57 own employees, Pune (India) with 243 own employees and 42 external employees, and GMH Kredit as it was acquired at the end of the year, making a total of 300 own employees and 42 external employees. Gonvarri Industries 46 Sustainability Report 2019 Own Personnel Regarding the distribution of personnel, 85% are men and 15% women. By age, the majority are between 36-45 years old (32%) and over 46 years old (35%). By professional category, 84% are administrative and plant personnel. Percentage distribution of the workforce by country Turkey 4.1% 8.1% Germany Sweden 2.7% 1.1% Argentina Russia 3.2% Romania 8.1% 7.2% Brazil United Kingdom 4.7% 7.3% China Portugal 2.0% Poland 2.7% 4.9% Colombia Mexico 2.2% 2.8% Others Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Holland, Hungría, Norway Slovaquia 3.5% and Czech Republic. USA 2.0% 33.4% Spain OWN PERSONNEL PERSONNEL BY AGE MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Germany 339 63 18-25 286 47 Argentina 43 9 26-35 1,064 243 Belgium 7 2 36-45 1,319 257 46 1,560 176 Brazil 294 64 4,229 723 China 304 58 Colombia 209 35 PERSONNEL BY CATEGORY Denmark 13 4 MEN WOMEN Spain 1,474 179 Manager 147 25 USA 88 9 Middle manager 497 122 Slovakia 140 34 Plant personnel 3,585 576 Finland 36 9 4,229 723 Netherlands 23 6 Hungary 7 3 Mexico 98 12 Norway 23 6 External personnel Poland 101 34 In 2019, we have 715 external collaborators (685 Men and Portugal 78 20 30 Women), 28% of which are subcontractors and 72% of United Kingdom 193 40 which are temporary employment agencies (TEA´s). Czech Republic 3 2 EXTERNAL PERSONNEL Romania 330 69 Subcontractors TEA´s Russia 124 32 Men 195 490 Sweden 111 21 Women 2 28 Turkey 191 12 197 518 TOTAL 4,229 723 Annex 3: Table 1 includes the breakdown of staff by country, Annex 3: Table 2 includes details of external staff by country, gender and age. gender and type. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 47 Talent attraction and retention At Gonvarri, we are aware that people are our main asset, as we have excellent professionals in all business areas and countries. Having a strategy that allows us to rely on trained, qualified and motivated experts in a pleasant work environment is a key aspect to grow as a competitive, solid and sustainable company, as the development and future of the company depends on the work of its team. Therefore, attracting and retaining talent is a key factor for the Human Resources Management in all the different phases. 1 Hiring 2 Training and skills The search for the best fit development for the position. Training mechanisms adapted to the personnel. Continuous 5 Internal Promotion development plans. Career development and talent recognition. Mobility opportunities between countries. 3 Job stability 4 Performance Job security to show trust in the team review and in long-term relations. Objective assessment of their development and promotion. 1 Recruitment and turnover 401-1 We look for employees that fit the requirements for each The “average turnover rate” (considering the number of leaposition, avoiding any type of discrimination in relation to ves among the total staff) is 13% for the whole staff (13% race, gender, age, nationality, religion, political ideas, sexual men and 14% women). orientation, marital status, disability, social origin or any other condition of the person. HIRES AND LEAVES In 2019, 730 new employees were hired (611 men and 119 Men Women TOTAL women) and 666 employees left the company (564 men and HIRES 611 119 730 102 women). Regarding leaves, 36% were dismissals and Leaves dismissal 204 36 240 64% voluntary leaves. Voluntary leaves 360 66 426 The hiring by country, 21% was in Spain, followed by 12% LEAVES 564 102 666 in Brazil and 10% in Romania. Dismissals followed the same tendency with 19% in Spain, 14% in Brazil and 13% in In Annex 3: Table 3, information on hires and leaves (dismisRomania. sal and voluntary) by country, gender and age is detailed. Gonvarri Industries 48 Sustainability Report 2019 2 Training and skills development TRAINING 404-1 AND 404-2 Hours Germany 14,314 Gonvarri continues to grow and increase its presence in diArgentina 3,891 fferent countries. For this reason, having trained and qualified Belgium 76 young people available, to whom we offer opportunities and Brazil 12,314 stable and paid work, is fundamental for sustainable growth. China 9,320 Colombia 23,877 Thus, the number of hours of overall training was 216,861, Denmark 0 which corresponds to 44 hours per employee (average of 42 Spain 69,621 hours for men and 55 hours for women). USA 16,445 In terms of compliance, since its launch in 2018, a total of Slovakia 4,436 2,432 employees have completed online training on the Finland 94 Code of Ethics, of which 5.2% correspond to the financial Netherlands 84 year 2019 (205-2 and 412-2). Hungary 16 Mexico 7,466 Norway 101 Distribution of Poland 11,231 hours by gender Portugal 3,629 United Kingdom 8,117 Distribution of Czech Republic 64 hours by category Romania 17,790 Russia 3,645 82% 18% Plant personnel Sweden 739 Women Turkey 9,592 TOTAL 216,861 82% In Annex 3: Table 4, information on training Men hours by country, gender and category. 15% Middle 3% managers Managers Gonvarri Polska awarded the “Good Employer 2019” prize Gonvarri Poland was awarded with “Good Employer 2019” prize in a unanimous decision by the “National Social Responsibility Leaders Program” in its 12th edition. This certificate shows the good relationship with employees, ensuring their development and well-being at work, as well as offering them the best health and safety conditions in the work environment. The judges of the program evaluated positively the activities regarding the implementation of the principles of Corporate Responsibility, highlighting its good relationship with the company’s employees. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 49 Gonvarri Academy: A new approach Gonvarri Academy offers the possibility of accessing courses and itineraries, which can be of three types: to learning and improvement • Obligatory: for all the people who are members of the Our priority is to have mechanisms and plans to meet and company train all the staff, adapted to the different levels and profiles • Important: associated with each training profile of the company. Through the Gonvarri Academy platform, we develop continuous and personalized training plans. • Recommended: open for voluntary work. On February 28, 2019, the Gonvarri Academy platform was In addition, it has a Knowledge Center where the documenlaunched, aimed at offering online training to all the comtation regarding different processes, business lines and propany’s employees. Thanks to this, there are already more ducts of the company is gathered. than 4,500 people registered who have completed more than 8,000 hours of training, with 7,823 accesses in 2019. Some of the training courses are already available at Gonvarri Academy: online languages, introduction to This new multi-language platform has training courses adapagile methodologies, Gonvarri’s competencies within the ted to the different training profiles: “Growing Yourself” itinerary, among others. • Management Team • Office / Plant Supervisor In order to improve the internal management and • Collaborator Office / Plant employability of the youngest people, we have implemented • Sales Team many programs for their development, under the so-called “Gonvarri Young Talent”, as summarised below: • Talent • New employees • Start-Up Teams Dual FP Program The project is conducted through a new modality of Professional Training (FP) in which the educational centre and company are jointly responsible for the training of the apprentice. The training is done alternating between the educational centre and the company, so that the apprentice can put what they have learned into practice at work. Through this program, Gonvarri gets involved in the training of its future employees and they will be more committed to the company. The goal is to hire these young people after completing the program and make them part of our teams. Two people were incorporated into Gonvauto Barcelona as part of this program during 2019. Young engineers’ program The goal of this program is to attract high-potential young people, who will be assigned a certain region of the Group in which they will rotate through the different companies. The purpose of the project is to improve their training and development so that these people can hold positions of responsibility in the future. Club Benefits The company has a “Benefits Club” tool which every employee can access to offers and discounts applied to both online and physical purchases. Access is via Leading the Change or from the LTC Mobile APP, on Android and IOS. Its use is very easy, intuitive and customizable. This platform is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Gonvarri Industries 50 Sustainability Report 2019 Effective Feedback 4 The training in “Effective Feedback”, aims to deepen the importance of knowing how to give and receive feedback by Performance Assessment practicing communication. In addition, this session allowed us At Gonvarri we have a performance evaluation system by obto generate a Feedback Guide applicable to the whole comjectives which is centralized at corporate level on the “ETWeb” pany, available at Gonvarri Academy. platform. The system provides our employees with information regarding their annual objectives, and they can monitor their progress and know their degree of compliance, through the performance and competence evaluations (404-3). In 2019, a total of 386 evaluations were initiated, distributed among 13 countries and, at year-end, a total of 170 (136 men and 34 women) were completed, as shown in the following graphic. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION “ETweb” People Germany 15 Argentina 9 China 3 Plant Supervisors School Spain 108 Between 25th and 29th November the 4th edition of the School Mexico 14 of Supervisors was held in Gonvarri Tarragona, in which the Poland 6 participants were able to learn more about aspects such as: Portugal 8 Russia 7 • Leadership and management of work teams TOTAL 170 • Security • GSP • Environment At the same time, some plants have their own evaluation • Quality systems implemented that include the plant personnel, and • Safari which generally covers 100% of the staff, with a methodolo• Maintenance gy that is adjusted to their business activity and which mea• Innovation sures criteria such as polyvalence at the workstation. A total of 2,807 evaluations were carried out for middle maOn this opportunity, 25 professionals from the plants of Gonnagement and plant personnel, the distribution of which is varri Argentina, Gonvauto Puebla, Gonvarri Colombia, Gonvasummarised below: rri Tarragona, Gonvauto Galicia, Gonvauto Navarra, Gonvarri Barcelona, Gonvarri Portugal, Gonvarri Valencia, FLINSA, GonNº. OF EVALUATIONS varri Burgos, Gonvauto Barcelona and Hiasa attended. Germany 164 Argentina 52 Brazil 311 3 China 307 Colombia 315 Job stability Spain 472 102-8 USA 93 Slovakia 142 Job stability is a way to show trust in the team and in longFinland 44 term relations. Polonia 125 As a result, 89.4% of our professionals are employed on a perPortugal 89 manent basis. We also encourage local employment, where U.K. 227 98.7% of employees have local nationality. Romania 404 Russia 57 Permanent Temporary Practice Turkey 5 Men 76.9% 8.4% 0.5% TOTAL 2,807 Women 12.5% 1.4% 0.3% TOTAL 89.4% 9.8% 0.8% In Annex 3: Table 5, the information is detailed by type of contract and duration of contract, gender and country. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 51 5 Internal promotion and mobility The ¨Internal Promotion¨ process enables our employees to Mobility acquire new responsibilities and challenges to improve their performance and motivation. At Gonvarri, we are in constant growth which makes it necessary to cover vacancies outside of Spain and transfer certain At Gonvarri, we contribute to our employees´ development employees as ¨expatriates¨, for which we have efficient ¨Moand growth through job offers, internal promotion and mobility. bility¨ mechanisms in place. Whenever a vacancy is not covered by any of these mechanisms, external hiring processes are initiated, for which we make Opportunities are also offered to other employees for use of media such as LinkedIn, InfoJobs or external headhunting 1-4-month displacements, as is the case with the ¨Startagencies, depending on the position in question. Up Teams¨, who are responsible for transferring experience, knowledge and the corporate culture to the new centres in We periodically publish job offers through the ¨Job Posting¨ tab the different countries and training the new employees. on the corporate intranet or via other media such as the announcement boards, which allow us to cover specific internal In 2019, 35 employees were moved as “expatriates” and 7 positions. Interested candidates go through an interview proas “ start-up teams”. cess with Human Resources and with the area requiring the position, so that the most ideal candidate can be selected. Germany USA Slovakia 7 Rusia 7 2 3 USA 4 Czech Rep. 3 China Turkey China 11 1 3 Expatriates Displaced Argentina 1 35 7 There was a total of 54 direct promotions, the distribution of which is summarized in the following table: PROMOTIONS Germany 7 Argentina 7 China 3 Colombia 5 Spain 17 USA 3 Mexico 2 Poland 1 Czech Republic 1 Russia 2 Turkey 6 TOTAL 54 Gonvarri Industries 52 Sustainability Report 2019 Work environment In order to retain our employees, knowing their opinion, their level of satisfaction and motivation is essential, for this reason we conduct a ¨Work Environment¨ survey biannually. In 2019, the corresponding survey was carried out in which 52 facilities (factories, offices and services center) sending a total of 4,438 surveys with a 74.22% response. The new survey improved the quality and accuracy of the data provided by the online platform for the analysis of the results, offering information with ponderate data by the number of employees and segmentation of groups. From the analysis of each factor that influences the global perception of work environment, each company design and implements specific improvements action plans and also that can be cross-cutting to other companies. The best rated issues were Health and Safety conditions and aspects related with the commitment with the company. The • Gonvarri Colombia celebrated Family Day and invited all lowest rated issues were remuneration and training plans. the families of employees who wanted to attend the waTherefore, we contribute to improve the commitment and ter park to have fun, eat and spent a very pleasant day. well-being through “Growing Together” program. As part Also, it provided school kits to the children of employees of the initiatives developed, we emphasize the improvement at the factories to benefit 139 employees and more than of flexibility in vacation days, intensive days in summer and students 200 in kinder, primary, high school and universischedules, … In factories, where the work I conditionate to the ty, with the aim of helping them in the studies and can to customer necessities and is worked by determinate shifts, achieve their dreams. flexibility and the adjustments are made individually. Work climate survey Scope Countries Participation rate 52 22 74.2% centers + Top rated topics: · Health and Safety Worst rated subjects: · Retribution · Commitment · Training and development “Growing Together” To improve teamwork and pride of belonging, we develop diverse activities for employees and their families, among other: • Gonvarri supports the culture and local traditions in • In June it held the School Day Off in which Gonvarri emcountries where has presence, in Mexico, the Day of ployees and their sons, between 3 and 12 years old, took the Dead celebration is a very important holiday where part. Boys and girls had the chance to enjoy and have families create offerings to honour their departed family fun with several activities. Also, in March the I Family members that have passed. Day was held in collaboration with the “Ingeniera Soy” In order to preserve this Mexican tradition an promote Association, focused on promoting STEM (Science, Teintegration in Gonvauto Puebla, on October 30th the first chnologies, Engineering, Maths) areas among children. In offerings contest was held with the participation of 8 addition, the first Smart City Gonvarri was built, with the teams, all the offerings were characterized by their creainvaluable help of Pepper robot. tivity, originality and preservation of tradition. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 53 Diversity 405-1 Diversity Management is a commitment to the people who On December 3rd, “International Day of Disabled make up the organization. Diverse talent improves business Persons”, we carried out an internal communication results, corporate reputation, job stability, and investor and campaign with the aim of continuing to raise awareness customer relations. of the importance of diversity. Likewise, Juan XXIII Roncalli At Gonvarri we believe that the heterogeneity of the people Foundation awarded Gonvarri for helping to spread its and their distinctive contribution give us an unquestionable message of inclusion and to promote its video on social competitive advantage. The perspective and way of thinking networks and internal communication channels, where the that professionals from different origins have helps us to actors were the Foundation own employees and workers. achieve positive change in the organization, in the working All of this allows us to contribute to the integration of people methods and to increase our innovation capacity and our cawith different abilities and/or in risk of social exclusion. pacity to respond to this demanding market. We also promote local employment to create value in the That´s why we launched “Proyecto Diversity”, in order to countries where we are present. 98.7% of the workforce is foment diverse talent and inclusive leadership in the organiof local origin. zation. The Program incorporates and coordinates this variable within the organization through policies, processes and dissemination and awareness measures. In relation to gender diversity, in 2017, the “Women of Gender Steel“ project was launched, with the objective to sensitize and raise awareness about equality between women and men, and the need to break with old sexist paradigms. In commemoration of “International Women´s day“ on the Men Women 8th of March, different activities took place in our centers and all women in the group were given a gift. One of the activities 85% 15% was the II Women of Steel Day that took part in Madrid with the aim of continuing to develop the necessary actions within the frameworks of our commitment to equality. As for our professionals with different capacities, we currently have 59 employees (52 men and 7 women) distributed among Spain (54%), Germany (25%), Brazil (8%), Turkey (7%) Different abilities and 2% Slovakia, United Kingdom and Romania respectively. PROFESSIONALS WITH DIFFERENT ABILITIES Men Women MEN WOMEN 88% 12% Germany 14 1 Brazil 3 2 Spain 28 4 Slovakia 1 0 United Kingdom 1 0 Romania 1 0 Local nationality by category Turkey 4 0 TOTAL 52 7 Middle Plant Managers management personnel With regard to people with different abilities, in addition to the people employed at the different plants, we have hired one person in the Madrid offices in collaboration with the Juan XXIII Foundation, by purchasing fresh fruit, renting rooms 95% 96% 99% for different events, etc. as well as conducted sensitization workshops on this subject. Gonvarri Industries 54 Sustainability Report 2019 Integration Event in Gonvauto Puebla Gonvauto Puebla held an integration event with all the plant personnel. During the event, numerous dynamics were carried out to reinforce skills such as communication, integration, assertiveness and empathy, with the aim of generating reflection, coexistence and companionship. The participation was very high, and the day turned out to be a success due to the skills and experience acquired by the attendees. Work relationships: Freedom of association 102-41 Sectoral 69% collective Gonvarri supports the rights to association, union represenagreements tation and collective bargaining of all its employees, always or similar with regard for the legal and cultural characteristics in each arrangements country it operates in. In all cases, the right to freedom of Others 26% association and union representation is respected and the labour requirements and obligations in each country are always met (102-41). 5% Through collective bargaining agreements or similar agreeHandbook ments, work conditions are regulated (salaries, working hours, vacations, etc.) and so is the relationship between No centres nor significant providers were detected in the the company and the unions. In some countries, in which the operating facilities in which the freedom to association, and collective bargaining agreements are not applicable, working the right to reach collective agreements could be violated or conditions are compiled in so-called ¨Handbooks¨. threatened. VII Edition of the HR Meeting On November, Gonvarri Industries Human Resources teams met at the VII Edition of the HR Meeting in which they defined the challenges to face in the coming years. They worked on the latest developments that have been launched from the Corporate area to meet the needs of our plants, focusing on Development and Training as fundamental building blocks for the growth of our teams. Added to the previous challenges, they were determined to reach the Space with the help of Conkistadores, in their particular Space Race. They built the ships, deciphered the hidden messages coming from other planets, and ultimately, passed the test as a team working Bizpills and Speexx, transforming their vision of learning. towards a common goal, to be drivers of change. They also had the assistance of Solutia and Sergi Riau Subsequently, they all worked together on the first Learon how to run management and other key aspects of ning Day of Gonvarri with the guidance of TAK, Esperta, absenteeism. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 55 Health and lifestyle habits The overall well-being of our employees is fundamental to This is part of our shared values and culture, and we want having healthy, happy, committed and more competitive to offer a broad range of programs and opportunities. Among teams. At Gonvarri, we incorporate the business line ¨Healthy these the following should be noted: Company¨ in the ¨People¨ axis of Drive, in order to contribute to living a happy, healthy and full life. GMH Germany offers weekly fresh fruit to its employees, NUTRITION counts with the presence of regular doctor and offers health ckecks ups and flu vaccinations. According to the program about “Addictions” applicable mainly to employees with alcoholism problems, which includes informative presentations We conduct awareness and prevention campaigns in favour on addiction in general and communication with ex addicts of healthy eating habits for the general well-being and preand their families, showing their own experiences.. vention of illnesses. Moreover, we strengthen our medical Gonvauto Galicia, continues developing Healthy Lifestyle services, through personalized consultations for nutrition, Campaign: Eat Right, Live Better that promotes the acquisihealth and fitness programs. tion of good habits of alimentation. One of their initiatives is Among other initiatives we would like to highlight the fobuying boxes of variated fruit the first week of each month to llowing: consume by employees. Gonvarri Tarragona, Gonvarri Portugal y Gonvarri Gonvarri Colombia, where 20 employees participated in Kaluga (Russia) provide fruit in the canteens for all emploa “Screening with a nutritionist” to identify food or nutritioyees of the factories with the aim to acquire healthier habits nal problems and 15 employees received a master class to in their diet. prepare healthy food. In addition, 20 employees participated Gonvarri Madrid, in collaboration with Viena Capellanes, orin a project to prevent heart problems in three phases: carganized visits of a nutritionist with the aim to give orientation diovascular evaluation, body mass index and hair glycemia. to people interested with the healthy eating habits. After the assessment, they were given nutritional and healthy lifestyle recommendations for the prevention of heart problems. SPORTS AND HEALTHY SPACES People with very high well-being are satisfied and committed • Corporate (Madrid) where 14 employees participated in to their lives and work. the Madrid Rock ‘n’ Roll 2019 race, which includes three We evaluate aspects such as ergonomics, light, noise, temmodalities: 10 km, half marathon (21 km) and the maraperature, humidity and air quality as well as all aspects rethon (42 km). It also sponsored the Africa Direct Solidarigarding the health and safety of our employees in all of our ty Golf Tournament. plants. • Gonvarri Valencia sponWithin this context, physical exercise contributes to good sored the races carried out health. The workplace, where we spend most of the day, by the members of the “Club presents an excellent opportunity to encourage this activity. Running”, such as the “steel race”. Among the initiatives carried out by Gonvarri we highlight the following: • The “Gonvarri Running Challenge”, with the aim of reaching 10,000 kilometres run in 21 days among all run• Gonvauto Barcelona took part in the 24-hour cycling ners, of fighting sedentarism through sporting activity. Ficompetition at the Catalonia Circuit. nally, thanks to the efforts of the 675 runners from the • Gonvarri Tarragona has full passes for the Estival Park 50 participating factories, the figure reached 25,000kms. sports centre. • Gonvarri Burgos participated in the fourth edition of the Solidarity Paddle Tournament. Gonvarri Industries 56 Sustainability Report 2019 • In December Gonvarri participated in the “XX Race for • Gonvarri Polska organizes a canoe trip for employees Companies” and counted with runners from GMS, HIASA, who want to attend as part of an integration and sports Gonvarri Valencia, Gonvarri Burgos, Gonvarri y Gonvauto promotion event. In addition, 10 employees participated Barcelona, Gonvarri Madrid and Gonvauto Navarra. in the Polish Indoor Football Championship for Companies and Institutions. • Gonvauto Galicia subsidized the equipment of several workers for the development of their favourite sports, prioritizing those joint activities with their co-workers. In addition, it runs a theoretical and practical training workshop on healthy lifestyle habits, focusing on “watch your back” postural hygiene. • Gonvarri Kaluga (Russia), participated in sports competitions against other plants in the area. In addition, 10 factory employees climbed the peak on Mount Elbrus, 5,642 meters above sea level, the highest peak in Europe. The mountaineers raised the company flag on the top of the mountain where they could enjoy beautiful views. • Gonvarri Metal Structures (GMS) as part of its Healthy Challenges programme, directed different actions and messages to its employees related to the importance of physical exercise to encourage healthy lifestyles, handing out fruit and carrying out sporting activities such as indoor football, pilates and a paddle tennis tournament. • Gonvarri Colombia, carried out numerous activities aimed at the well-being of its professionals. For example, 17 workers participated in an aerobics and cardiovascu• Gonvarri Puebla participated in the 3rd Yakult race in lar work class, improving their physical condition, coordithe 5 and 10 km categories, obtaining excellent results nation and motor skills. and sharing this event with their families. • Gonvauto Barcelona, in order to promote the sport, subsidizes the clothes for the cycling, athletics and paddle teams, as well as the tracks where the matches are played. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 57 Social Benefits Gonvarri is a diverse company, where social benefits are not In addition, the factories have other own benefits, for homogeneous but adapted to the characteristics of the diexample: fferent plants and countries. Germany, the factories of Gonvarri and GMH give checks In any case, there are no significant differences between and annual vaccination possibility against the flu. Also, Gonbenefits offered to part-time workers and those offered to varri Thüringen gives economic bonus named “health bonus” full-time workers. for employees that don’t get the flue every 3 month, a coupon for “Baby things” for each birth and bonus for childcare, The social benefits in the different facilities and countries private pension subsidies, seniority benefits and employee are outlined next (401-2): discounts. • Health Insurence, this Benefit is available to the facArgentina has medical insurance and canteen service. Also, it tories of AMG Brazil, AMG Slovakia, Gonvarri Argentina, gives presents for each birth, Women Day, and in the ChristGonvarri Barcelona (for permanents employees), GMH mas Lunch, includes the Christmas box and participation in Russia (for employees with full time conract), Gonvarri raffles. Kaluga (except temporary employees), Gonvarri South Carolina, Gonvarri Portugal (for employees and their China, GVS factory has housing for the workers who so wish families, and for manager only covers their child), Gonor contributes to housing and expenses (water, electricity, vauto Puebla, Gonvarri Baja California, Gonvarri Turkey, etc.) for those residing outside the facilities. Moreover, beGonvarri Germany, Steel&Alloy UK (for white collar nefits are included for relatives that visit employees during employees). Also, the distribution centers and offices the weekend (free transport, etc.) and one-off contributions of GMH in Denmark, Netherlands and Norway and the when they get married, births, bereavement, gifts at certain GMS Bilbao office. dates, annual bonuses, etc. • Life Insurance, this Benefit is available to all factories Colombia has established a “Labour Well-being Plan”, with a in Spain, AMG Brazil, GMH Canrena, GMH Germany, Gontotal of 74 initiatives in 2019 focused on promoting healthy varri Kaluga (excepto temporary), Gonvarri Polska, Gonenvironments. vauto Puebla, Gonvarri Baja California, Gonvarri South These initiatives include communication activities to mainCarolina (Full time employees) and Steel&Alloy UK. Also, tain relationship flows, with assertive information that allows the distribution centers and offices of GMH in Denmark, employees to be updated and aware of organizational chanNetherlands, Belgium, Sweden and Denmark and UK. ges and movements. In addition, campaigns and tourna• Disability insurance, it is available this Benefit to all ments were held to strengthen the ties between the areas, factories in Spain (with the health insurance) Gonvarri for example: the internal soccer tournament, birthday celeKaluga (except temporary), Gonvarri Polska, Gonvarri brations, farewells for retirees, the Christmas party, and the South Carolina (Full time employees), Gonvauto Nitra, lustrums of services, among others, and to celebrate family Steel&Alloy UK (managers and middle managers) and day a visit to the water park was organized. GMH Belgium distribution center. The “Gonvarri Treasures” stand out as an immaterial source • Ticket restaurant and canteen service, It is availaof compensation of great value; during 2019 108 treasures ble this benefit to the factories of AMG Brazil, AMG Slowere exchanged, highlighting: “choose your working hours” vakia, GMH Russia, GMH Germany, Gonvarri Argentina, (53%) and “work from home” (41%). Gonvarri Kaluga, Gonvarri Polska, Gonvarri Portugal, GonUSA, voluntary life insurance for employees and children was varri Colombia, Gonvauto Puebla, Gonvarri Baja Califorincluded in 2019 at a significant discount and production emnia, Gonvarri Turkey, Gonvarri Germany, Gonvauto Nitra ployees have a bonus for mealtime. and Steel&Alloy UK. Also, The distribution center and office of GMH in Finland, Netherlands, Sweden and UK. Slovakia, AMG Senica offers free coffee and tea, Christmas party and massages. Gonvauto Nitra celebrates the Christ• Transport Service is availbale to the factories of AMG mas party with gifts for employees. Brazik, GMH Romania, Gonvarri Burgos, Gonvarri Kaluga, Gonvarri Portugal (transport allowance), Gonvauto PueFinland, has sports and culture cards with an amount of 200 bla, Gonvarri Baja California, Gonvarri Turkey y Gonvauto euros per year, to be used, for example, in the payment of the Nitra. Also, the distribution center of GMH in Nethergym fee or to go to the museum. lands and Sweden. Mexico, In Puebla, social benefits are collected in the ¨Em• Maternity/Paternity leave, this benefit is available ployee Pension Plan¨, in which various initiatives are incorpoto factories of Gonvauto Puebla, Gonvarri Baja California, rated, such as: food vouchers, major medical expenses insuHiasa, Gonvauto Asturias and its engineering’s. rance, saving funds, in-kind paternity/maternity assistance, scholarships, minor medical expenses insurance, accident insurance, marriage or death grants. Gonvarri Industries 58 Sustainability Report 2019 Spain The medical insurance, canteen contributions, nursery and transportation contributions can be issued through privaPension Funds and/or te coverage through the Flexible Retribution Plan (FRP), with retirement plans which the tax benefits established by the Law can be acces201-3 sed. Its distribution in 2019 is summarized below. These are only available in some countries, or because of local legal requirements or because of past commitments. Vouchers Food In particular, pension funds are provided in the United KingTraining Nursery 68 Service dom, Germany, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Denmark, 4 Slovakia and South Carolina. Retirement plans are available 16 on a voluntary basis, in the United Kingdom. Gonvauto BarCard Transportation celona has a partial retirement plan included in the 2017 – 5 2022 Company Pact. Either way, these are very specific situations of little relevance to the company as a whole Medical Insurance 584 Settlement 401-3 The maternity and paternity leaves in 2019 corresponded to 107 Men and 38 Women, of whom 96% of the Men and 84% of the Women have already been reincorporated. Gifts are also given for different reasons, such as births, Christmas baskets and a Christmas lunch in which a raffle with various prizes is included. Burgos has a company bus, Tarragona provides its workers Gonvarri Treasures This strategy was defined in 2019 and based on exchanwith the possibility to enjoy the installation of the ¨Estival geable bonus which administrative employees can use Park¨; Gonvarri Barcelona concluded an offer with a tyre comthem depending in their own necessities. pany located near the factory that will allow all employees to The treasures are divided in seven categories: solve any type of incident in a short period of time, with the corresponding discounts. 1 Your family is the most important thing: half a day to celebrate their children birthday (1 bonus) In Baja California, different social-family events are held 2 Enjoy your degree (1 bonus) and there is a monthly incentive system and in-kind scholar3 For your health: annual occupational check up ships are given for primary-, secondaryand highschools. 4 You are our greatest treasure: Half a day off when you have a certain amount of time in the company (1 Poland, has a company social benefit fund, in addition to cash Bonus) benefits for holidays and other occasions. 5 Work from home (4 bonuses) Portugal, gifts/presents are given for different reasons such 6 School kit (4 bonuses) as; birth, Christmas meal including a raffle with prizes, Christ7 I choose my work schedule (4 bonuses) mas boxes, a gift for children under 12 and a gift for Easter. The results obtained will then be presented. In both seUnited Kingdom, participates and finances the “Cycle to mesters the category “choose your work schedule” stands work & Lifestyle Scheme” for sustainable mobility. out, followed by working from home and with a smaller percentage, your child’s birthday and enjoying your deRomania, has aid for birth, death and Easter and Christmas gree. A total of 69 treasures were exchanged and more gift tickets than 136 administrative people participated. Russia, Gonvarri Kaluga finances 50% of the employee gym. Use of Treasures Use of Treasures GMH Russia has benefits for relocation and for the use of 1st and 2nd Quarter 3rd and 4th Quarter own transport. 29 16 Sweden, GMH Sweden subsidizes the gym for employees Elijo mi horario Choose my de trabajo chedule and GMH Canrena offers massages to improve conditions for production personnel. 12 Working from Turkey, has a rest area with free coffee and tea. home 7 1 Graduation 1 Working 1 Children’s 1 from home birthdays 1 Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 59 Efficiency Gonvarri Industries Efficiency Model is focused on increasing our capacity to achieve a desired effect with minimum resources and impacts on the environment. In an increasingly complex and competitive world, only by doing thing even better can we ensure the profitable and sustainable growth of our company. Efficiency model Within the framework of the current Strategic Plan 20191. Establish sound work systematics to avoid the loss or 20121 Gonvarri Industries, Efficiency axis is reinforcing its dispersion of this culture and know-how and make it systems of continuous improvement systems and its Core available to the company as a whole. knowledge management through actions coordinated by SGI 2. Guarantee future continuous improvement, by providing (Integrated Management System, the result of the merger of our employees with a framework that is safe, respecting the Health and Safety, Environment, Quality and SPG/Lean the environment and professionally enriching. Manufacturing areas) and BTM (Business Technology ManaThe model is described throughout this chapter. gement). The final objective is two objectives: Excellence Continous Improvement 1 1 Testing Strategic and calibration 5 planning, business Logistics development, budget 2 Documentation management 2 SPG: Standarization 3 Communication & 6. Customer claims management Monitoring 4 & operational control Production information systems 4 Maintenance Quality 3 Management 3 5 Support of & Efficiency of financials Programming the system 4 2 6 Human resources Management Procurement review process & Supply Chain 7 Technical suport, engineering & construction 5 1 New contracts Offers & Price & project launching 8 Communication Upgrading Strategic Operational Support Processes Processes Processes Environment Safety People Involvement & Empowerment Gonvarri Industries 60 Sustainability Report 2019 Control mechanisms: Integrated SGI Audit Gonvarri Industries has two Efficiency control systems. During 2019, 27 centres were audited based on this methoOne of them is the certification of all its centers according dology, existing a ranking. to the most rigorous international standards: ISO 9001, IATF 16949, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 (now replaced by ISO Region Rank Region Rank 45001). Gonvauto Iberia 1 Galicia 72.5% In addition, there is an Integrated Audit of the SGI (Integrated Management System) which all the companies of the Group Central Europe 2 Polska 71.9% must to pass annually. Gonvauto Iberia 3 Navarra 67.8% Created in 2017, the Integrated SGI Audit replaces all partial NAFTA 4 Puebla 58.1% system audits, providing a comprehensive vision of the situation of each audited centre compared to international stanWestern Europe 5 Portugal 57.2% dards (OHSAS 18001, ISO 14001, IATF 16949, ISO 9001) Gonvauto Iberia 6 Gonvauto 56.6% as well as against internal standards (Health and Safety systematics, Environmental Behaviour Index, TQM methodology LATAM 7 Argentina 54.8% and the SPG model). Central Europe 8 Kaluga 54.4% The audit as such takes place in a single week, during which the audit team reviews 4,000 items. The quantitative asLATAM 9 Campinas 53.9% sessment, segmented from lower to higher compliance into 4 Western Europe 10 Tarragona 53.4% levels for each of the 364 questions, turns the reference into a real roadmap to achieve Excellence in all areas related to Western Europe 11 Barcelona 53.3% Efficiency (Health and Safety, Environment, Quality and SPG). Western Europe 12 Burgos 53.2% In order to promote the mainstreaming of good practices and Western Europe 13 Valencia 52.4% increase the homogenization of our operating methods, Gonvarri is immersed in a process of regionalizing the auditors: LATAM 14 Paraná 49.9% factories are audited by certificated technician from other Metal Structures 15 Gonvauto Asturias 48.2% companies, who are able to propose improvements to those audited and learn more efficient methods. In 2019, the regioMetal Structures 16 Hiasa 45.8% nalización degree achieved was 68%. Metal Structures 17 Colombia 45.4% Central Europe 18 Thüringen 37.6% Region Rank Western Europe 19 S&A Bridge Street 37.1% Western Europe 88% Western Europe 20 S&A Newton Aycliffe 37.0% Gonvauto Iberia 100% Western Europe 21 S&A Union Street 36.8% Metal Structures 19% Western Europe 22 S&A Popes Lane 36.5% Central Europe 63% Asia 23 Dongguan 35.1% NAFTA 88% Metal Structures 24 Çepas 32.2% LATAM 83% Asia 0% Miscellaneous 25 GCF 26.2% Precision Tubes 0% Central Europe 26 Czech 22.6% Material Handling 0% NAFTA 27 South Carolina 17.6% Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 61 BTM Key processes 8 Key Business Processes have been deployed at the end of 2019 (Steel Purchasing, Management of Offers, Scrap ManaBTM OneSAP gement, Approval Flows, Commercial Risk, Greenfields, PeoSince 1999, Gonvarri Industries has been using SAP/R3 as ple Development and Operational Notifications), and another ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) in the most of the organi2 (Stock Management and Customer Relations) were in the zation. The fast growth of the company has meant that there process of being launched under review. The total number of are plants with different ERP’s, as Navision or J.D. Edwards. planned Key Processes is 16. In 2019, the Group has embarked a new ambitious project Our differential knowledge is concentrated in these Procesof renovation through a 5 years program to replace all cuses, and non-compliance could result in economic, operatiorrent ERP’s by SAP/S4 HANA complemented with other tools nal or reputational damage to the company. (102-15). We (MES, …). This evolution will be used to take advantage of may already consider them to be part of the Gonvarri Induswhat this new system has to offer: tries Culture. For their elaboration, 16 working groups have been created with the participation of the approximately 150 Gonvarri employees who best know the business, representatives from all countries, companies and functions of the organization. Simplified Simplified Furthermore, BTM also leads the IT alignment with this new Architecture Processes scheme. Live Business, And easy Scalability, integration The deployment process consists of onsite training conducAutomotion, of Cloud ted by the BTM Corporate team, in which all the employees Internet of concerned of each company participate. At the begging of Things 2021, once the launch phase Is complete, the degree implementation will begin to be audited. A planification exists Simplified which this process will be integrated into the SGI Integrated User Experience Audit mentioned above. People centric roles The 2020 goal is to finish deploying the remaining Key Pro& cockpits. cesses, improve those processes that have been outdated Free text search due to the development of the business and extend the for all objects. Embedded workflows application scope to newly incorporated companies (Gonvarri for any device. Material Handling, Flinsa, etc.). 1 Steel Purchasing The first phases are being led by the BTM team in its role of 9 Map of Audits interpreting of the business lines, which needs definitions are 2 Management of offers being organized which staff from all the company has been 10 Integration of participated: Brownfields 3 Scrap Management 11 Establishment 4 Inventories of Greenfields Order to Cash Source to Pay Operations Record to report Management 12 Development Supplier Stock 5 Customer of People Quoation management management Finance Satisfaction 13 People Orden Sourcing Production Planning and Investments 6 Approval flows Management Management sequencing management 14 Roles & Logistic Contract Production Product 7 Cash Responsibilities Execution management execution costing Management Cost controlling Replenishment 15 Business Risk Invoicing Quality and profitability 8 Commercial Risk Planning analysis Management Management Collaboration Assets Collaboration Request to Pay Portal Management Portal 16 Operational Notifications During 2020, the Template definition will finish, and the Model will be implemented in a pilot factory where the proposed solutions will be tested and validated. Gonvarri Industries 62 Sustainability Report 2019 Health and Safety Management model Gonvauto Iberia. The Health and Safety model at Gonvarri Industries is based on the principle of integrating Safety throughout the organiISO 45001 Certification sation, by dividing the responsibilities among all participants in the organizational structure, in all the decisions that are In 2019, the transition process from OHSAS 18001 made, and in all the new processes and projects that are to the new ISO 45001 standard was carried out at taken on. Gonvauto Iberia’s plants. Our initiatives and measures have evolved over the years, since 2007, when the Health and Safety policy was announced by the President of the company, the first policies and tracking indicators for its minimum compliance were defined, as the first policies to ensure a minimum compliance in the matter. This commitment was reinforced in 2011 when the CEO launched the ¨One Step ahead¨ plan, and in 2014 with the inclusion of a specific axis for Health and Safety in the global Strategic Plan of Gonvarri Industries and in 2017 the “Doing Well by Doing Safe” Safety Plan. The three plants of the Division (Gonvauto Barcelona, Navarra and Galicia) achieved individually the ISO 45001 certification by the accredited body Bureau Veritas, before the OHSAS 18001 ends the validation period, in March 2021. Therefore, Gonvauto Iberia is the first Division of Gonvarri Industries to be fully certified in this standard. During 2019 fiscal year, Gonavuto Iberia has been working to improve the Occupational Health 67% of our factories are certified under international health and Safety Management System in order to optiand safety standards (ISO 45001/OHSAS 18001). The mize its efficiency and contribute to a better H&S factories of Laser Automotive (Barcelona, Zaragoza and risk management, enabling a greater prevision for Valencia), Flinsa, the GMH plants in Germany, Russia and its employees and the organization. Canrena (Sweden), Gonvarri South Carolina, Gonvauto Nitra One of the best evaluated points by the audit and the Gonvvama factories in China are still pending. was the participation of all employees as key During 2019 and 2020, the companies now certificated in factor in the improvement process in the factories OHSAS 18001 are proceeding to be certified under the new as one of most relevant aspects that brings this ISO 45001 standard. Gonvauto Iberia Division (Gonvauto new Norm. Bacerlona, Galicia and Navarra) and Dongguan factory in The collective work of the Factory Direction and China have been certified ahead of schedule. Gonvauto Iberia Division has been essential to Safety Gonvarri Model did not just settle for complying to reach this successful milestone, with the multithese international Standards and the different local legisladisciplinary teams of the respective factories and tions that apply to each plant, but we have opted to go furwith the support of the Direction of the plants ther, by implementing a range of global systems and policies and the regional Director itself. This is ahead of that aim to create our very own preventive culture, which is the company’s objective for the certification of all much more demanding than the mentioned standards, with the group’s factories by 2020. Safety as its main focus. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 63 Responsibilities and tasks These are integrated throughout the whole organizational The monitoring and controlling of the health of workers is structure, with the plant Management being the highest level outsourced, relying on medical services as required by local responsible for compliance with standards, working condilegislation. tions and the state of the workstations, compliance with the In 2019, it is highlighted the participation of the Managers regulation and, generally speaking, the protection of Health in “One to One” project, maintaining numerous meetings and Safety regarding the people present at the plants. with the workers to know their concerns, that allows them At each plant there are workers designated to manage Healto expose their commitment to the Health and Safety of the th and Safety, with regulated training in this area. Based on employees and to gather their demands in a direct and perthe size and needs of the plant, these employees either work sonalized way. exclusively in occupational Health and Safety management This Project tries to foster the consultation and participation or they share this activity with others. of the workers in the activity and the preventive improveOn-site control of risks in operations and workplaces relies ment, but above it is a tool where the intention of the Maon supervisors and department managers as the direct supenagers to show a VISIBLE commitment with the safety and riors of the employees and people at the plant. health of all their employees where are the plants. New Health and Safety Plan “Doing Well by Doing Safe” After several years that saw a significant reduction in acci• New management systematics aimed at asdent rates and improvements of the workspaces, in which pects such as, for example, the supervised monitothe risk level has been reduced substantially, Gonvarri deciring of the practical part of the training process for ded in 2017 to speed up the sensitization regarding Health new employees, the periodic safety performance and Safety for all its employees, raising awareness of the evaluation for each employee by their superior, binding nature of the measures transmitted in the training the treatment and internal cascade dissemination actions. of the weekly “Incident Notifications” transversaThe Safety Plan “Doing Well lized by corporate (both in Top Management and by Doing Safe” defines the Top 5 Plant meetings), etc. new measures that concern • “Safety Tips”: series of interactive awareness our Safety culture, but it also videos about the main risks present in our activity. contributes to strengthen • “Chasing risks”: creates workshops in specific the concept of ¨Stop > Think lines and areas, with the purpose of involving the > Act¨, which expresses the workers in the risk identification and the definition concept of “Shared Security” of preventive measures from the real players of in which each employee not security that are the employees.. only worries about his own • CCTV closed-circuit television, focusing on the security but also about that use of recorded images only for security purpoof his colleagues, transfeses, assisting in the investigation of accidents and rring our common concern incidents, and enriching the training of personnel for the security of all, adviby showing accomplished facts that occur more or sing them and even helping less frequently through images that explain more them in their training processes. than just the explanation of those facts.. Several initiatives were developed for its implementation • “One to one”: to improve the commitment of and dissemination, among which the following stand out: Plant Managers and department managers, with a focus on visualising behaviour and an approach that is always assertive, interactive and motivating, and never coercive. • External diagnosis of the preventive culture: mandatory for all plants. It was carried out in Burgos and Colombia in 2019. Gonvarri Industries 64 Sustainability Report 2019 CCTV Gonvauto Navarra Project Gonvauto Navarra developed with great success the installation project of the tracking and control system through cameras, lead by the IT Department in collaboration of other departments, within the Gonvarri 4.0 project. The Project counted with the collaboration and support of all the employees and representatives’ figures and allows them to have covered in a real time any circumstance affecting the safety of people and facilities. It is necessary to stand out that Gonvauto Navarra by its great performance, remained for almost 365 days without having any accidents (with or without leaves). As a result of the project and the work carried out, practical lessons were drawn that are cross-cutting, since they have implications from the legal, data protection, labour relations, technical and, of course, preventive points of view. For this ment (SGI-DOC-130) was drawn up establishing the premises, reason, and in order to compile all these experiences and guidelines and requirements that will have to be met by future cover all the requirements that these areas demand, a docuprojects developed in the rest of the Group’s plants. • Safety Stewards: initiative created by Steel & Alloy and extended to other plants of the Group. • Schools of Supervisors training them on the importance of their position in order to achieve the ¨0 injuries¨ goal, explain the tasks and responsibilities that are required by the company in terms of establishing and complying with regulations, notifying events and anomalies that occur in work areas, and protecting the safety of their own and other personnel present in the plant. • Increase in the participation of department managers in safety inspections, investigation of accidents, monthly safety meetings and in the definition of risk evaluations and safety instructions. • Inclusion of Safety projects within Industry 4.0 initiatives, in particular the design of a prototype forklift with sensors and a screen for detecting the proximity of people and objects in order to prevent collisions. The project was successfully designed and developed by the Industry 4.0 team. • New Personal Protection Equipment matrix for the minimum equipment to be used in the plant depending on the activities or positions performed. • Advanced training for Managers: with the collaLikewise, some factories have already completed the boration of Dupont Sustainable Solutions, the memdesign and implementation process of the Loc Out-Tag bers of the Management Committees of the Western Out systems focused on developing in a safety way the Europe divisions and Gonvauto Iberia were given maintenance, revision and adjustments works, …. Inside specialized trainings in Leadership and Safety Culture the lines by means of consignment stops, energy releaDevelopment. se and signalling of hazardous mobile elements. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 65 Monitoring and measurements Evaluation of occupational risks We have two monitoring and measurement platforms availaThe “Evaluation of Occupational Risks”, which identifies and ble for all our workers and subcontractors´ Health and Safety measures the different risks our workers are exposed to, is issues: updated and revised whenever changes in working conditions or the conclusions of the investigations of incidents and accidents require so. In 2019, 26 jobs were identified among Gonvarri Colombia, Turkey, South Carolina and China. None of the identified risks have caused any occupational disease (403-3). Additionally, emergency drills are held annually at the plants to prepare for possible incidents that may arise, such as, fires, spills, rescue operations for staff stuck at heights, first aid, use of defibrillators, and efficient evacuations of work centres. Platform “SygrisHealth&Safety” For the comparative monitoring where the investigation of incidents and accidents that occur in the plants, the proactive indicators of performance and compliance with the Group’s policies, and the monitoring of continuous improvement in all the Group’s plants (including Joint Ventures) are consolidated. This platform enables a large number of the company’s employees (including all management and any person managing aspects related to health and safety) to have updated data from the plants, both absolute and relative, on the accident rate and other management ratios compared to previous periods and to the rest of the plants, as well as the investigations of each accident and incident that has occurred or Fire prevention the state of progress of the corrective or preventive actions detected and open to improvement. and defense The consortium of insurance companies Chubb, RSA and ZÜRICH, through Willis the insurance broker, cover any Monitoring and measuring contingencies that may occur in any of Gonvarri Industries’ plants. of subcontracts: CTAIMA 2.0 For this reason, in 2019 they presented the plan of visits At Gonvarri, measures, controls and obligations established that includes the factories of Gonvarri Burgos, Gonvarri for our employees are equally applicable to all external comBarcelona, Gonvauto Barcelona, Hiasa, Gonvauto Thürinpanies that access our work centres, whether these are subgen, Gonvauto Puebla, Gonvarri Argentina, AMG Paraná contractors, TEA staff, contractors who carry out work unreand AMG Campinas, to verify the state and conditions of lated to our activity, transporters or visitors. prevention and defense against fires. In order to ensure that before any activity is begun, the traiThe goal is to minimize the level of risk of fire in terms ning, experience and qualifications of any worker of the exof existing measures and systems for its prevention, the ternal company is adequate and also to contrast the level of means of protecting facilities in the event of an incident, compliance with the legislation by these companies, we have and the resources and organization to mitigate its consethe CTAIMA tool, currently applicable to plants in Spain and quences. Portugal. After a visit, a report was presented assessing the exisIn 2019, the platform was updated with the new version 2.0. ting level of risk considering human and technical factors Its goal is to coordinate and exchange documentation with and making recommendations. The results are classified external companies, to guarantee compliance to information into different levels according to the final weighted result and control requirements, and subsequently to allow these of the different factors evaluated. companies and their workers access to the plant based on No relevant incidents have occurred and the recommentheir compliance with our corporate policies and with the lodations are implemented by each of the affected factocal legislation by these companies and their workers. ries, reporting to the company the Action Plans arising from the reports issued. Gonvarri Industries 66 Sustainability Report 2019 Main indicators 403-2 The accident rates for each of the countries the company is present in are detailed below: In 2019, for the first time, it has been possible to lower the Frequency Index to a single figure, leaving it at 8.6. A total of RATE OF ACCIDENTS WITH LEAVE 102 accidents with leave and 422 accidents without leave Own Personnel External Personnel occurred during the year. Men Women Men Women Nº ACCIDENTS Nº ACCIDENTS Germany 27 28 45 0 WITH LEAVE WITHOUT LEAVE Argentina 19 0 0 0 Men Women Men Women Brazil 4 0 0 0 Own Personnel 69 6 283 19 Colombia 5 0 4 0 External Personnel 27 0 112 8 Spain 10 3 20 0 TOTAL 96 6 395 27 USA 15 0 0 0 Finland 15 59 0 0 The increasing presence of subcontractors and personnel Mexico 6 0 0 0 from temporary employment agencies (without the same saPoland 0 18 0 0 fety awareness and culture as our own employees) has led Portugal 32 0 0 0 some of the plants to worsen their accident levels, with the U.K. 2 0 0 0 degree of incidence of this accident being greater among exRomania 2 0 0 0 ternal companies, with 28% of the accidents. In other words, Russia 5 0 95 0 these external subcontractors, which are used to carry out Sweden 0 0 119 0 their own activities, and the employees from temporary emTurkey 22 0 17 0 ployment agencies, although they work far fewer hours, have TOTAL 9 5 17 0 a much higher relative accident rate, which leads to better Rate: No. of accidents with medical leave x 1,000,000 / No. of hours worked. overall results among their own staff. Accidents with leave are 0 in Belgium, China, Denmark, Slovakia, the Netherlands, Hungary, Norway and the Czech Republic. The fact that the plants have been able to identify, report and analyse over 1,040 incidents without personal harm should RATE OF ACCIDENTS WITHOUT LEAVE be noted as a positive point, as this data has been very useful OWN PERSONNEL EXTERNAL PERSONNEL for future learning and the continuous improvement. Men Women Men Women The severity of accidents (quantified as the total relative Germany 61 56 101 385 working days lost due to work accidents) has been reduced Brazil 11 0 0 1,353 over the last year, no particularly serious accidents have ocChina 3 0 0 0 curred. Moreover, working conditions are not usually the cauColombia 11 0 28 0 se of accidents in our Group, and it is the behaviour that we Spain 76 35 96 256 must try to monitor and educate. USA 44 0 0 0 It should be pointed out that an analysis of the quantitative Slovakia 6 0 0 0 data on accidents with leave in four companies accounts for Mexico 12 0 49 0 more than half of all accidents with total leave in the Group. Poland 6 0 0 0 The global qualitative statistical studies carried out over the Portugal 111 0 134 0 years (and reported quarterly to the plants) allow us to have UK 37 17 103 0 a standard accident profile at Gonvarri, with accidents to the Russia 9 0 0 0 hand due to cuts and blows caused by carelessness or misdiSweden 6 0 0 0 rection making up the majority of accidents. Turkey 7 0 0 0 TOTAL 37 15 71 137 Rate: No. of accidents without medical leave x 1,000,000 / No. of hours worked. The accidents without leave are 0 in Argentina, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Holland, Hungary, Norway, Czech Republic and Romania. Regarding to occupational disease, during 2019, (403-3), one occupational disease was registered in our own staff in Spain, which amounts to an average rate of 0.02, by gender is 0.03 in men and 0.0 in women (no. of illnesses/no. of hours worked by own staff*200,000). In the rest of the countries, no illnesses have occurred. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 67 Training and communication Days lost due to accidents Training The registered accidents have led to a loss of 2,064 working Training and awareness are a key part of our Safety culture. days per accident, of which 90% correspond to male and 10% The organization has identified the training needs for each to female. Four companies account for half of the total number position so that each worker can complete a full training itiof working days lost, and it should be noted that 40% of acnerary that guarantees comprehensive knowledge concercidents resulting in leave result in less than four working days ning the position. This itinerary has to be revised every three lost (60% less than 10). years. In 2019, total Health and Safety training hours amounted to RATE OF DAYS LOST PER ACCIDENT 67,385 hours for our own staff, meaning over 13 hours per MEN WOMEN employee. In addition, a total of 12,525 training hours were Germany 0.6 0.2 given to external personnel. Argentina 0.7 0.0 Brazil 0.3 0.0 Colombia 0.1 0.0 Spain 0.2 0.0 USA 0.2 0.0 Finland 0.7 10.3 Mexico 0.3 0.0 Poland 0.0 0.1 Portugal 2.1 0.0 U.K. 0.2 0.0 Romania 0.3 0.0 Russia 0.2 0.0 Turkey 0.2 0.0 TOTAL 0.2 0.2 Rate: No. of days lost due to occupational accidents x 1,000 / No. of hours worked. In the rest of the countries the rate is “0” (Belgium, China, Denmark, Slovakia, The Netherlands, Hungary, Norway, the Czech Republic and Sweden). Days lost due to other causes In 2019, a total of 53,871 days were lost due to unplanned absenteeism, of which 89% correspond to male and 11% to female. RATE OF DAYS LOST DUE TO OTHER CAUSES MEN WOMEN The effort made by the plant to train its staff and the staGermany 11 6 ff from TEAs has increased this year, which leads to them BraZil 1 1 knowing all the risks and regulations applicable to the disChina 1 1 charge of their duties, as well as making them aware of the Colombia 3 2 importance of this aspect. Denmark 2 2 For several years now, we have involved not only employees Spain 10 10 but also their families in Safety sensitization, through diffeUSA 19 0 rent activities such as: guided visits, drawing contests for chilHolland 7 7 dren, family workshops with different activities, etc. Norway 19 33 The practical training in the plant supported by the superviPoland 5 5 sors and colleagues must also complement the theoretical Portugal 13 10 teaching, following the guideline that excellence in safety U.K. 2 1 does not consist of specific acts but in a work habit. Romania 5 7 Russia 6 3 This is a key aspect in safety management that not only reSweden 5 1 sults in the knowledge of risks and rules to be applied so that TOTAL 6 4 each employee knows what to do and what not to do in each case, but also in promoting the awareness that our company Rate: No. of days lost due to other causes / No. of hours worked x 1,000. In the remaining countries the rate is “0” (Argentina, Belgium, demands to work safely. Czech Republic, Finland, Hungary, Mexico, Slovakia and Turkey). Gonvarri Industries 68 Sustainability Report 2019 Training: II Metal Agreement This year we have focused on compliance with the II To this end, the plants (including the central offices in Metal Collective Agreement on Industry, Technology and Madrid) resorted to contracting training courses with Services in the Metal sector (CEM) for the plants in Spain approved suppliers. that incorporates as main novelty the establishment In the case of management and office staff, these courses of the minimum training in a prevention labor risk and (of 6 hours, where appropriate) could be carried out online recycling and includes training for both production and/ through platforms designed for this purpose, which cover or maintenance workers and directors, administrative the regulatory agenda: personnel. AGENDA OF THE TRAINING PROGRAMS Managers Plant personnel A. Integration of the prevention in the A. Definition of jobs management of the company • Security of the product B. Preventive technics • Handbook (policies, procurements, plans, …) • Display screens • Integration with different systems (Quality and • Emergency measures. Basic knowledge. environment). Total management. • First aid, first aid kit maintenance, etc. •Internal audits C. Auxiliary resources, equipment and tools B. Obligations and responsibilities • Adequate furniture against postural and • Functions, obligations and responsibilities. ergonomic risks, etc. • Verification, identification and monitoring of the C. Organization and planification workplace and its environment. • Occupational risk prevention plan. • Observing and knowing the risks and the • Risk evaluation. necessary preventive measures. • Planification of the prevention. • Knowledge of the workplace environment, • Control systems about current risks lighting, work environment. • Preventives approaches • Type of risk. Psychosocial factors. D. Rights and obligations D. Costs of accidents and cost effectiveness • General and specific regulatory framework. of prevention • Dissemination and participation. • The costs of accidents at work. • Methods of calculating accident costs E. Road Safety E. Basic prevention legislation and regulations • Introduction to the legal field Training for office staff will address, among other • Basic and development legislation. things, the risks arising from the use of data display screens (DSPs), incorrect posture, mental and visual F. Road Safety fatigue, fire hazards, and electrical contacts, as well as the corresponding preventive measures. Likewise, emphasis will be placed on road safety aspects, particularly if the training action is aimed at employees from the company’s commercial area. The plants are in compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, following the deadlines established therein in an uneven manner. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 69 Communication and advice Different communication channels have been created in In the rest of the countries, as this is not a legal requirement Gonvarri Industries to facilitate a bidirectional flow which everywhere, its characteristics meet local requirements, alallows for direct information and participation of all the though, in all cases, their objective is to treat health and sainternal and external staff with regard to Health and Safety. fety issues and to mitigate potential risks or work-related acEvery month the Management of each plant meets monthly cidents for any person present at the work centres, including with the Management Committee to monitor the System (ob100% of the workers (403-4). jectives, Programs, Plans, investments, indicators, etc.) and All plants have prevention delegates, with the following comprioritize the most important issues in a swift, transparent position (403-1): and integrated manner. Likewise, daily 5-minute meetings of the working groups are held, where the first topic to be dealt with is always Safety. REPRESENTATIVE Furthermore, participation channels are created for workers Germany 28 Netherlands 2 that bring their knowledge of the tasks to plan and impleArgentina 10 Mexico 8 ment improvements in safety and ergonomics to the work Brazil 30 Poland 7 places and facilities, such as Ideas for Safety Improvements, China 39 Portugal 8 Chasing Risks, etc. Colombia 8 UK 35 Based on the characteristics and culture of each country, Denmark 2 Romania 8 periodic monitoring meetings are held with the workers´ reSpain 58 Russia 5 presentatives. The Health and Safety Committee meetings USA 6 Sweden 6 are held quarterly qt the Spanish plants. The constitution and Slovakia 6 Turkey 11 the number of Prevention Delegates in Spain is constituted TOTAL 277 in accordance with the applicable legislation (Chapter V of Law 31/1995 of PRL), being a joint committee and compoDue to their importance and/or activity (distribution centres), these committees are not applicable in Belgium, Finland, Hungary, Norway, and the Czech sed equally by the social part and by persons designated by Republic. the company. Health & Safety workshop in Barcelona During July 2 to 4, the Health & Safety Workshop has taken • Presentation of the Good Practices for the improveplace in Barcelona, with the following topics: ment of the Health and Safety culture implemented in each plant, as well as other aspects that may be of interest both in relation to the System and to the im• Training by an external consultant about the new Interprovement of the facilities. national ISO 45001 Regulation, with the aim to certificate the factories in 2020. Group work is included through the celebration of a disruptive Workshop developed by the Project Manager This training was complemented by the Gonvauto Ibeof the Industry 4.0 , with ideas focused on mitigating ria Working Team presentation of its experience and and diminishing the existing risks in the facilities, macertification of compliance of this standard in its plants. king the dangers we have cease to be so in the medium • Review of the key points of the Doing Well by Doing term, and maintaining the focus on the most pressing Safe Plan, as well as the Non-Conformities and other dangers (bridge cranes, forklifts, machines, etc.). recurrent aspects detected in the internal audits ca• To visit Gonvarri Barcelona and Gonvauto Barcelona rried out in the plants in recent years. factories. Gonvarri Industries 70 Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental Management approach Advanced Environmental Risk Gonvarri´s commitment to the environment starts with the certification of the Environmental Management System unManagement der the ISO 14001 standard, which 69% of our plants cuIn order adopt a proactive and preventive position against rrently hold. The plants of Laser Automotive (Barcelona, Zaenvironmental impacts, Gonvarri began to deploy a new enragoza and Valencia), the GMH plants in Germany, Russia and vironmental reporting methodology in 2017, based on the Canrena (Sweden), Gonvarri South Carolina, Gonvauto Nitra “Sygris-Environment” software, which has the following comand the Gonvvama factories in China are pending of certifiponents: cation. • Incident Reports: environmental incidents parameteriIn order to cover the materialisation of possible environmenzed by origin, nature, specific location by machine and reletal risks, at Gonvarri Industries we make financial provisions vant area have begun to be reported. and have guarantees to cover the occurrence of environmenA subsequent objective analysis or the specific recurrence tal risks in the insurance policies it has taken out: in the machine or region allows us to adopt preventive measures to mitigate or eliminate its impact. • Environmental Responsibility Insurance • Water and air emissions: all values of the analytics are • Sudden and Accidental Pollution Liability coverage in the monitored and compared to equivalent discharges and/ General Liability policy. or emissions in other plants of the group, which serves to During 2019, it was not necessary to activate the guaranidentify trends and mainstream the best practices internatees of the Environmental Responsibility Policy that the lly available. Group has contracted. • Relationship between consumables and waste as a risk control: the ratios generated by these consumables serve to determine if the reported incidents were the only ones that occurred. • Centralized report of the legal requirement for the Environmental risk waste register: this register does not only provide us with information on the quantity of waste generated but análisis at Hiasa also allows us to know the total cost of its management. In accordance with Law 26/2007, of 23 October, on Environmental Responsibility and Orders ARM/1783/2011 Environment Performance Indicators and APM/1040/2017 deriving therefrom, it is compulGonvarri monitors environmental impacts that derive from sory to submit an environmental risk analysis (ARM) for our activity through different indicators that measure our activities classified as priority level 2, before 30 October environmental performance, which lets us quantify our evo2019. lution and identify opportunities for improvement. In Spain, only the Hiasa factory is classified in this category, and its management is carried out in accordance • Water and discharges with the guidelines established in its certified EnvironExcept for some specific processes, our business activity mental Management System. does not require water for its operation, which is why we In order to present the corresponding MRA, a specialized have low consumptions. However, as water is an essenexternal company was contracted, which after a detailed tial and increasingly scarce natural resource, it is monitoanalysis of its facilities, the corresponding environmenred for its sustainable use. tal risk assessment and the primary and compensatory Total consumption in 2019 was 331,677m3. 85% of the repair measures, concluded that “the amount of the consumed water originated from the water system and obligatory guarantee would be 1,154,743.95 euros, an 15% from groundwater sources. The consumption was amount that is between 300,000 and 2,000,000 euros, primarily industrial (86%), followed by sanitary use (9%) so as the operator is certified by the UNE-EN ISO 14001 and the watering of green areas (5 %). environmental management system, he is exempt from It should be noted that no source of water was signifiproviding this obligatory financial guarantee”. cantly affected by the water collection activities of the company (306-5). Regarding discharges, it is estimated that total discharIn addition, as part of our commitment to correctly measuring ges amounted to 243,004 m3, of which 86% were disand minimizing the impact of our activities, initiatives are becharged in the sewage system, 13% in water courses ing developed with two main lines of action: advanced envi(river, sea, etc.) and 1% in septic tanks (306-1). ronmental risk management and a life cycle approach. In addition, a total of 47 non-significant spills occurred in 2019, all of which were properly managed and did not cause any damage to the environment (306-3). Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 71 • Waste Competition for 306-2 Waste produced in our facilities is adequately segregated, monitored, identified, stored and managed through certified managers. the promotion of Gonvarri Industries produces a total of 335,876 tonnes environmental education of waste, most of which is non-hazardous (93%). WASTE TONS Non-hazardous waste 312,230 Hazardous waste 23,646 TOTAL 335,876 From the total non-hazardous waste produced, scrap stands out with 97.6% of the total, followed by wood, plastic and paper and cardboard together with 1.8% and the remaining 0.6% with mixed, tablex, organic and construction waste, among others. Regarding the removal and disposal of non-hazardous waste, practically 100% is managed through authorized waste managers for recycling (except organic waste, which accounts for 0.1%). In Gonvauto Barcelona and Navarre factories, the “Create in the Family” competition was held, in which the youngest children participated with the aim of promoting environmental education and creativity linked to family work. The work consisted of designing a campaign using a poster and a drawing that included a slogan or written Hazardous waste accounts for 7% of the total and, with message related to “what we can do to take care of the the exception of oil, comes mainly from factories that use environment”, or to make my parents work more safely. galvanizing, pickling and painting processes, where the feA 10-inch tablet and a Nintendo New Switch system rrous chloride from pickling accounts for 80%, followed by were raffled off on each floor, and all participants were ferrous chloride with zinc from galvanizing, with 15% and given a surprise gift of a personalized mug with each 5% respectively, made up of ashes and galvanizing mats, participant’s drawing. absorbent material, packaging and paint residues. The drawings were published in the company’s annual In addition, a total of 4,891 m3 of oil were produced. calendar and two of them were selected to be included Regarding the elimination of hazardous waste, 100% is in paper cups for the Gonvauto Iberia plants. managed through certified agents for its treatment and/or its landfill. Gonvarri Industries 72 Sustainability Report 2019 Lifecycle Approach: Circular Economy Part 1: The role of our products in the circular economy Steel is a key material in our company and is the main comThe economic system needs to move from the current linear ponent for all processes, making up 99% of all consumptions model, in which products are made from raw materials and At Gonvarri we believe in the decisive contribution of steel are disposed of after use, to circular models in which products to global socio-economic growth and the development of can be repaired, reused, returned and recycled. more sustainable production models, such as the ¨Circular The steel industry has been working in this direction for some Economy¨, a concept that is destined to gain importance in time and we believe at Gonvarri that steel is becoming a mathe coming years. This is confirmed by the latest signals sent terial with a high circularity potential, showing great advantafrom international institutions, in particular from the Euroges over other materials: pean Union. STEEL AND ALUMINIUM CONSUMPTION (301-1) STEEL ALUMINIUM TONS TONS Germany 327,508 939 Argentina 42,167 0 Design and innovation: reducing the weight Brazil 581,496 0 and quantity of the material used China 148,288 280 The new high-strength steels have enabled Colombia 18,150 0 weight reductions of between 25% and 40% Spain 2,784,418 1,273 over the last three decades, with corresponding USA 160,259 1,879 savings in energy and emissions. Slovakia 301,536 273 Mexico 280,479 452 Poland 214,142 6 Portugal 182,686 5 The steel may be reutilized or reconverted UK 287,009 82 Czech Rep. 7,811 in different ways. It’s the most recycled Romania 16,747 material in the world Russia 96,496 The reutilization ratios have a great potential for growth due Sweden 2,869 0 to the eco-design, recycling and the increase in efficiency, as Turkey 48,256 it will not lose its properties TOTAL 5,500,316 5,188 Our steel and aluminium products are almost 100% recyclable and the scrap metal has a significant value in the market. For every tonne of steel recycled, the steel industry saves around one and a half tonnes of iron ore, 85% of water, 80% of energy and 95% of coal and all their associated emissions (Source: UNESID). Part 2: A transition based on 5 transversal elements In addition to developing and spreading a circular vision throughout the organization, 5 concrete elements were identified which underpin Gonvarri´s intent to make a progressive transition towards a circular economy. Systemic thinking and design Rely on digital technology Design processes need to be based on circular concepts, Incorporate new technologies that allow the measurement, integrating the whole lifecycle of the materials and monitoring and optimization of the use of resources and products in order to extend their useful life and to connectivity between the different parts of the organization facilitate their future reuse. and the different actors in the value chain. Prioritizing the use of renewable energies and resources Encourage the efficient use of renewable and Collaborate non-toxic materials and energies Identify possible synergies and collaborations with other companies or institutions that allow us to find Exploit the full potential of the generated waste solutions to foster economic growth while also reducing and extend useful life environmental impacts. Maximize the useful life of resources and try to take advantage of waste as a source to generate secondary products. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 73 Part 3: Circularity in Gonvarri Industries At Gonvarri we want to use the Circular Economy as a tool to entail the whole lifecycle, from production and consumption guide us towards the continuous improvement of our producto the waste management, which includes the secondary raw tion processes and greater environmental responsibility, ramaterial market. ther than having this concept as our final goal. The proposals 1 Integrated scrap management 2 Purchases of recycled steel 3 Reuse of secondary external Gonvarri has an integrated system in The steel industry has been going products all the plants of the group for the centhrough significant changes in recent After several months of analysis, tralized collection and recovery of steel years. The expected scarcity of raw collaboration began between Gonvarri discarded in the production process. materials and the growing availability Tarragona, Gonvarri Burgos and Hiasa The amount of discarded steel varies of scrap, together with other economic with the company Dupont Ibérica, to greatly depending on the type of plant reasons, are encouraging greater use of reuse the residual hydrochloric acid and the manufactured product. electric furnaces to manufacture steel that Dupont generates in its processes from old steel. A large part of the steel and use it for the pickling and galvaniDue to an efficient centralized system, used in Gonvarri´s processes comes zing processes of Gonvarri. 100% of the scrap discarded in the from recycled steel. In 2019, after complex compatibility production process is collected and valorised, and subsequently introduced By extrapolating the data analysed testing, this collaboration was set in to the value chain, so fomenting steel at two of our main plants in Spain, we motion, and it has brought substantial production from recycled materials estimate that approximately 20% of reductions in costs and environmental which gives rise to substantial savings the steel used in the group comes from impacts for both companies. in raw materials and emissions. electric steelmaking and the remainder According to the available data on from conventional steelmaking. On the pickling and galvanizing process, In 2019, a total of 304,744 tons of the other hand, when considering the since its implementation last year, it is scrap were processed. origin of the steel, it is estimated that estimated that there has been a 51% 100% of the steel made in electric reduction in the cost of acid in euros steelmaking comes from scrap against per ton of steel processed compared to 20% in conventional steelmaking. 2018. On the other hand, expenditure All in all, we estimate that 36% of the on the treatment of ferrous (waste) steel used in the group has recycled in euro/Tn of steel processed increaorigins which, in addition to our effised by 9%, as double acid is required cient scrap management, favours the due to its higher concentration (17%) development of a more circular steel and lower yield than commercial acid value chain. (32%). Total product 5,500,316 Tn. Total recycled product 1,980,114 tn. (36%) Steel from non-recycled sources 3,520,202 tn. (64%) Steel from conventional siderurgy 4,400,253 Tn. 80% NO Recycled Steel 80% 3,520,202 Tn. 20% Recycled Steel 20% 880,051 Tn. Steel from electric siderurgy 1,100,063 Tn. Gonvarri Industries 74 Sustainability Report 2019 4 ACV: Our products The European Union, through the “NewGreen Deal”, establithe price of steel could rise by more than 60 euros per ton in shes the main lines of action in the coming years, to be CarEurope (Source: EU ETS). bon Neutral by 2050. To provide complete and rigorous information on the impact The European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) of our products, two complex Product Carbon Footprint (CFP) was the first major (GHG) Greenhouse Gas Protocol emissions studies have been carried out in 2019 for the Road and Solar trading scheme in the world, in which emission allowances divisions. are auctioned or allocated for free, and can be traded subIn these studies, the entire product life cycle was analysed, sequently. If emissions exceed the allowances, they are purincluding its final recycling stage completing the craddchased from third parties. Conversely, if an installation has le-to-craddle approach with the ISO/TS 14067 & GHG meperformed well in reducing its emissions, it can sell its surplus thodology that specifies the principles, requirements and credits. This allows the system to find the most cost-effectiguidelines for the quantification and communication of a prove ways to reduce emissions without significant government duct’s carbon footprint (CFP) based on the International Life intervention. Last year, emission allowances were increased Cycle Assessment Standards (ISO 14040 and ISO 14044) for to 600% of their value. If industry exhausts its CO2 quotas, its quantification. Customer Resources Exploitation 1st distribution Transformation 2nd distribution Production Use End of cycle distribution Gate to Gate Cradle to gate Cradle to grave Cradle to cradle Terminology related to the scope of a LCA This study is particularly interesting as it shows the lower im• Steel fence: pact of the steel road fence compared to our main competitor, Road Steel Enginering’s steel fence weighs about 30 or the concrete safety fence. 40 kg per linear meter depending on whether it is a bionda or a trionda, this means that for every linear meter of • Concrete fence: steel fence the CO2 emission is between 38 and 51 kg. Depending on its dimensions the concrete fence requires With this comparison we can say that the carbon fooalmost 2 m3 of concrete to build a block covering 6 linear tprint (CFP) of the steel fence is 3 times lower than meters of road (waste during the production process is that of the concrete fence. not included) and about 30 Kg. of steel rebar per m3. With This calculation can also be used for decision making in this information and according to the data extracted from industry and in governmental or non-governmental orgathe construction’s carbon footprint reports, the carbon nizations (e.g. strategic planning, priority setting, design footprint per m3 of HA-35 Concrete for prestressed in-sior redesign of products and processes). tu slabs is 274 Kg. of CO2 and the kilogram of B-500 Steel in rebar is 3.04 Kg. of CO2 (O. Liébana, 2015). This shows that the carbon footprint of the 6-metre concrete fence is 730.4 Kg. of CO2 which is equivalent to 122 Kg. of CO2 per linear metre (not including waste). Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 75 5 Plastic reduction/elimination project Plastic is constantly present in our lives and due to its charac• Communication, volunteering and good practices: teristics, it presents multiple benefits since it is very versatile, to contribute to raising awareness among all employees light, with high resistance to corrosion, low cost, etc., so it has and collaborators through an internal and external commultiple applications. munication programme, the design and delivery of good As for their production, around 40% are single-use articles. practice manuals, and volunteer actions, which contribuLikewise, only 14% of plastics are estimated to be effectively te to the cleanliness of the planet (beaches, rivers, etc.). recycled, which means that the remaining 86% remain on the planet. It is a material that the planet cannot digest. For its launch, a pilot has been defined in the Gonvauto Iberia Plastic waste is a global problem that pollutes our oceans, division (the factories of Gonvauto Navarra, Barcelona and clogs up landfills, enters the fish food chain and, through this, Galicia), to be later extended to the rest of the Group. damages human health. During the first four months of 2020, the necessary actions In 2018, the EU also presented its new Strategy for Plastics will be implemented: in Europe, which lays the foundations for a new, more sus• Eliminate 100% of single-use plastic in offices (cups, botainable plastics economy. Its objectives include eliminating ttles, etc.). single-use plastics, converting all plastic packaging on the EU • Improve the selective management of those plastic office market by 2030 into recyclable or reusable packaging, redumaterials (writing materials, folders, etc.) whose replacecing consumption of disposable plastics and restricting the ment cannot be undertaken at present. deliberate use of microplastics. • Eliminate plastic from catering services. This will encourage innovation in plastic packaging, increase the demand for recycled plastic or its replacement by other • Initiate communication and dialogue with the main sumaterials and encourage proper recycling. ppliers in order to replace plastic packaging with other materials that are more easily recyclable and have less Therefore, Gonvarri Industries is committed to gradually eliimpact, as this is the most relevant plastic waste. minating/substituting plastic in its work centres and improving its management, through the project “#Unplastic: Fi• Initiate communication and dialogue with the main clients ght against plastic 2020-2021”. to eliminate, where possible (depending on the type of format, distance, etc.), the plastic packaging used in the To this end, a series of specific actions were defined in 2019, shipment of finished products. including plastic in offices and factories, based on three lines of action: • Improve the segregation of plastic according to its recyclability and the availability of authorized managers for • Purchasing: replacement at source where easy and its collection. economically viable alternatives are available. • Management: correct management of 100% of In the next Report we will communicate the result of this non-substituted plastics for recycling. project. Disposal of plastic at Gonvauto Navarra Gonvauto Navarra is fully aware of minimising its environmental impact. Along these lines, among the best practices aimed at reducing plastics, we would highlight the one carried out with its main customer, Volkswagen Navarra. VW Navarra is located close to Gonvauto, which means that formats are delivered directly by lorry, requiring no other additional means of transport, thus simplifying transport. At first, all the material supplied to VW Navarra was packed with plastic. In collaboration with the customer, a series of tests and analyses were carried out for their elimination, with a very positive result, as there was no increase in the number of defective parts, despite the initial uncertainty. Therefore, Gonvauto Navarra supplied VW with all the external parts, all the frames of the mobile elements and other internal parts, until their capacity was completed, without any type of packaging. Since the end of 2001, this has allowed us to benefit from each other. On the one hand, Gonvauto Navarra reduced the use of plastics for the formats delivered by around 94% and, on the other, Volkswagen Navarra saves the cost of recycling them, reducing the environmental impact on both companies. Gonvarri Industries 76 Sustainability Report 2019 Quality and customers Gonvarri´s success is based on our capacity to identify and But Gonvarri goes further in order to improve the level of its meet our customers´ needs. The keystone is the certification service. To this end, during 2019 a series of initiatives have of all our companies in the quality management systems IATF been launched to create a proactive culture of quality: 16949 (Auto and Industry) or ISO 9001 (Metallic Structures). • Start of the deployment of TQM (Total Quality ManageDuring 2018, the certification was completed for the Gonvament) in Auto plants, promoting Advanced Product Quarri centres (except for Metal Structures and Gonvarri Material lity Planning (APQP) for new projects, strengthening proHandling) under the new standard Auto IATF 16949, which cess quality control and standardizing the best practices is much more demanding in the identification and mitigation to respond to incidents. of risks. • Project Control Plan, through the creation of 5 standard With regard to the labelling of products (steel and aluminium plans for slitting, cut-to-length, blanking, reception and blanks), our obligations are centred on being able to provishipping. de the necessary data to ensure adequate traceability and • Project standard FMEA, starting from the tasks of a mula correct definition of its characteristics (thickness, coating, tidisciplinary group. et.). In any case, our products do not feature any chemical or environmental risk (417-1). In 2019, a Quality Protocol was signed with our main client that will serve as a reference framework for relations between Gonvarri’s centres and those of the client. During 2020, joint presentations and workshops will be held throughout the world so that the local teams understand the agreement and adopt its operation in a climate of stability and transparency. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 77 SPG Gonvarri Production Systems Based on the Toyota Production System (TPS), the Gonvarri Activities carried out in 2019: Production System (SPG) is the Lean Manufacturing program • Around 3,630 employees participated in SPG measuof Gonvarri. res, 488 GAPs (Autonomous Production Groups) working In this sense, it is not only a range of tools or a structured meunder SPG standards thod to reach our objective, but it is a philosophy, a culture of • 21,212 hours in SPG training continuous improvement that is based on the implication of • 854 workshops were done (5S, standardized work all the teams, as well as on the fluid communication between STDW, SMED, Value Stream Mapping, Total Productive them. Within this framework, it is the very same operators, Maintenance, Lean Office…) organized in GAP (Autonomous Production Groups), that take most of the operational decisions in a proactive and autono• 252 GRPs (Problem Solving Groups) were started. Of all mous way, but in harmony with the rest of the organization. SPG tools the most important are focussed on improving involvement, by strengthening the communication chanLike any other Lean Manufacturing system, SPG entails all nels within the organization. the processes, products, activities and people of Gonvarri. Its methodology for achieving operational excellence is founded Furthermore, each GAP has specific communication areas, on the integral elimination of all kinds of muda (=inefficienwhich are managed by the same operators, in which the indicy, waste): defects, overproduction, transport, waiting time, cators and information that affect their performance and kept stocks, useless movements of people, unnecessary procesand revised. ses and wasted creativity. After almost a decade of implementation, in 2019 SPG has SPG comprises of around thirty tools (SMED, Standard Work, worked especially on the digitization of its tools (Digital Lea5S, Value Stream Mapping, Communication Boards, GAP, Top flet, Digital Dashboard), participation in the MES project (Mameetings at all levels, etc.), which are organized in 4 modules: nufacturing Execution System) and other Industry 4.0 proStaff implication, Means Efficiency, Flow Efficiency and Lean jects, among which the Digital Supervisor project stands out. Office (adaptation of the administrative area). The figure of the Supervisor is considered in Gonvarri to be The working method is that each Gonvarri´s interiorize the one of the keys to achieving excellence in our operations. Gimost efficient way to carry out their work, improving day ven that his area of work should not be the office, for some by day, within a framework of full communication with their time now we have been working on mobility tools that faco-workers. cilitate leadership in and from the workshop. The expected benefits of this important project are This means that the trainers (a specialist technician at each plant, together with a corporate team) directly work with all • Reducing your travel the staff: operators, administrative workers, technicians and • Facilitate your administrative tasks managers. • Freeing up your time so that you can devote itself to value-added tasks • Improving training by optimizing the use of audio-visual media • Increase the productivity and quality of the team by improving leadership and communication • Reinforce control of workshop operations Gonvarri Industries 78 Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Social action 102-12 AND 413-1 Contribution from Corporate One of the Gonvarri priorities is to support local development in those areas where we are present. Therefore, we have stablished collaboration agreement with non-profit organizations which we carry out various local and corporate activities. Foundation What Really Matters. Since Real Madrid Foundation. We have supported 2014, we have supported the Foundation What the Foundation since 2018, with the aim to Really Matters with disseminating universal, educate in road safety to people with different moral and ethical human values through the capabilities. development of motivational conferences. This year we develop the “Road safety educaIn 2019 we have been present at the following tion: a great value” in the schools of the Founcongresses Madrid, Oviedo, Valencia, Malaga, A dation, those where the students can practice Coruna, Bilbao, Seville and Palma de Mallorca. football and basketball. Also, we increase the number of sessions. Aesleme. We have supported the Foundation since 2013. with the aim of preventing traffic United Nations Global Compact. We have accidents through training and social awaresupported the Foundation since 2013, to contriness, as well as offering psychological and legal bute to the dissemination and compliance of the support to those affected by road accidents. 10 Principles and the Sustainable Development In 2019 we have specifically supported the proGoals. motion of road safety in schools in the CommuIn 2019 we participated in various conferences nity of Madrid, in addition to collaborating with to improve our contribution to these objectives, sports events. among others, participated in the campaign #Alliesof theSGD promoted by the Spanish NeWCK. We have supported the Foundation since twork of the UN Global Compact on the reason 2013. Its mission is to end food insecurity and of its fourth anniversary and the anniversary malnutrition in areas of humanitarian catastroof the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), phes. In 2019, we made a special contribution presented a dossier of Good Practices in which that helped provide 10,000 basic meals in it included the training program “Emotional places where there have been natural disasters. Driving”. Foundation Juan XXIII Roncalli. We have Seres Foundation. We have supported the supported the Foundation since 2007, apart Foundation since 2016, to contribute to the from being its Trustee. Its mission is to improve joint construction of a stronger society and with the lives of people with intellectual disabilities competitive companies lasting over time. and to foment their social integration. In 2019 we collaborated as Trustee of the This year the company has supported the Founfoundation and participated in projects aimed at dation with the rent of its spaces and utilities. improving communication. In addition, from the corporate level we carry out specific collaborations with the following foundations/NGOs: Education and youth Economic Social Well-Being • ASTI Talent and Technology Foundevelopment • Soñar Despierto Foundation, to support children to dation, Gonvarri provided support • Polo Positivo, where give them the same opportunities as other childs to the “Asti Robotics Challenge” for through the union of at their ages. the implementation of a competition different companies of • Emalaikat Foundation, FUNDEBE Foundation and focused on identifying opportunities Burgos, it contributes Africa Direct, to support development in Africa. and innovative solutions in the area of to the development of collaborative mobile robotics. • African Medical and Research Foundation the R+D+i network in (AMREF), an annual solidarity dinner collects funds • Princess of Girona Foundation, to suthe region, providing its for aid in Africa. pport the professional development of support to Star Ups. young people without any resources. • CESAL, focused on promoting the human development of the world’s most disadvantaged people. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 79 Local Contribution We create measures and programs to develop the local comDistribution by action munity in different countries and with different approaches. Their contribution is summarized in the attached graph. No operations with significant (real and potential) negative 25% Health and sports impacts on local communities have been detected (413-2). Economic Education 20% 4% development 13% Environment 28% Social well-being 10% Culture Health and Sports Within the initiatives related to health and sport that have a social component, we highlight the following: AMG Brazil (Paraná y Campinas) Gonvauto South Carolina Provided donations to different projects, as summarized Contributed through a donation to the sponsored “Union below: Country Little League” for softball and baseball where chil• “Projeto Nívea” contributing to the practice of volleyball dren of employees participate. for children and youngster in a vulnerability situation in partnership with the Associação dos Servidores da PreSteel & Alloy feitura do Município of Araucária. Actively collaborated with health and sport through various • Project “Pela Vida do Idoso em Tratamento com Câncer”, campaigns, such as: contributing to the improve the reception of cancer treatment in elderly people without resources, in partnership • Fight against cancer through a variety of fundraising with the Liga Paranaense de Combate ao Câncer and campaigns for the “Cancer Support Centre”, in addition to Mantenedora do Hospital Erasto Gaertner. donating the badminton championship prize. • Project “Exercício e saúde na oncologia” contributing to • Funding a fundraiser with the charity “Barclays Bank for finance the wellbeing and improvement in the treatment Minds”, to help people with mental health problems. of children with neoplasia through a structured program • Employee Siobhan Harkess participated with a group of supervised physical activities, in partnership with the touring the Andes (Peru) to collect funds for pancreatic Associação dos Servidores da Prefeitura do Município de cancer. Araucária. • Company employees attended the EBC charity race to • Project “Atendimento Terapeutico na Primeira Infancia” collect money for “Staffordshire Air Ambulance”. contributing to provide clinic and therapeutic care through a multidisciplinary team for children with intellectual Hiasa disabilities and /or multiple disabilities from 0 to 6 years old attended at the School os estimulation and DevelopHas collaborated with the Association of Families of children ment (CEDAE)m in partnership with Associação de Pais e with cancer (Galbán) from the Principado de Asturias to conAmigos dos Excepcionais. tribute to the needs of parents of children with cancer , who receive treatment in the “Central Universitario de Asturias • Project “Oficina do Gesso” where Paraná employees (HUCA) hospital” participated in a voluntarily way in the development of manual activities with plaster with the hospitalized children and their families at the Pequeno Principe Children’s Gonvarri Burgos Hospital. Held the 4th edition of the Solidary Paddle to raise money for the Spanish Association Against Cancer (AECC) with the parGonvarri Puebla ticipation of 14 pairs. Held a collection of plastic caps to collect money for the AsIn addition, he collaborated with the Tizona Basketball Club sociation “Una Nueva Esperanza A.B.P.” which helps children and donated toys at Christmas Ed. and low-income youths with cancer. Gonvarri Industries 80 Sustainability Report 2019 Gonvarri Valencia Participated in different sport events such as: • “IV Carrera Amuhcanma” organized by the Fisabio Foundation, which guarantees research on women with triple negative cancer at the Sagunto Hospital. • Solidarity Race “Con otra Mirada” organized by the “Espiga Group Association”, and the projects: Solidarity Toys and School Support. 25% of the money raised is for the Spanish Association Against Cancer in Sagunto. Hiasa and Tarragona Collected bottle lids for a solidarity project, aimed at providing Gonvarri Germany underprivileged children with unregulated medical treatment Made a donation for the acquisition of equipment for a socin the health system and/or materials that will enable them cer team (children from 5 to 10 years old), in collaboration to alleviate the physical problems they suffer from, treatwith the Soccerteam Plaue. ments they would otherwise not be able to obtain. Environment Gonvvama Changshu Made a donation of recycled materials for children’s in a kindergarten. The delivery were made by an employee who explained the importance of recycling, to raise awareness about the protection and care of the environment. GMH Romania Staff involved in a journey of cleaning up green areas around Zarnesti. Gonvauto Puebla Annually donates uncontaminated wood to the African Safari Zoo (21,798 kg), in support for the protected “Parque Nacional Izta Popo” in Mexico. The wood is used for the construction and reparation of the recreation area of the animals, as well as for building toys and food storage. In addition, in its commitment to environmental conservation, it donated 114 white cedar (Cupresus lusitánica) trees to Flor del Bosque Gonvarri Turkey State Park. Close to the plant numerous abandoned pets, mainly dogs and cats, were by themself and getting inside the factory faGVS Dongguan cilities. In order to help these animals, employee of Gonvarri Carried out a small reforestation around the factory to improTurkey have developed numerous initiatives to improve the ve its environment and contribute to the CO2 emissions abquality of life and find them new families. sorption. The workers are in charge of its maintenance. Among other, voluntary financial donations were made to cover food and veterinary expenses, some pets were adopGonvvama Shenyang ted by the workers and pictures were disseminated through social networks to find them a new home and the city council Organized a voluntary activity for the cleaning (garbage cowas informed to try to care of them until they found a new llection) of urban parks, in which 19 employees participated. home. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 81 Culture Social Well-Being AMG Brazil Steel & Alloy Supports cultural development in its region through different Raised funds to be donated to different charities. In total tal projects: £2123.30. • “Oficinas Culturais”, helping to finance workshops and GMH Romania free shows of theatre, dance, capoeira, circus and music for about 300 students from public schools and NGOs in Collaborated with the Bucuria Darului Association to provide any Brazilian municipality in partnership with the Direção daily meals to 450 people withou resources. Cultura. GVS Dongguan Múesqiuceanono The workforce donated blood to “Dongguan Redcross CenP • The “Musica no hosptial” project, which Prí ncipe ter” and made a financial and food donation to elderly people brings to the Pequeno Principe Children’s hospital pediátrico do without resources in Baihuali. Hospital a whole year of smiles full of vai levar para o maior O projeto Música no Pequeno Príncipe diversos ritmos e sons! Serão 18 apresentações musicais sorrisos embalados por além de 40 oficinas de país um ano inteiro de e em instituições parceiras, do Pequeno Príncipe do internamento. gratuitas no interior as crianças e adolescentes gratuitas, voltadas para musicalização, também Justificativa A música não tem fronteiras. e democratizar o acesso Brasil, que é marcado à música instrumental também É uma linguagem universal que, por onde passa, é uma maneira de garantir é especialmente importante Oferecer música instrumental por profunda desigualdade social e econômica. O intuito do projeto Música no Pequeno encanta e sensibiliza. Oportunizar a cultura como direito continentais como o em um país de dimensões criar oportunidades Isto significa Príncipe é oferecer de maneira fundamental de todos. música para a different rhythms and sounds, with 18 Gonvvama Loudi musical performances and 40 music wore promover a transformação. pelo Hospital Pequeno Príncipe, contribuindo Por meio instrumental àqueles que passam colaboradores da instituição. pacientes, familiares e o projeto também promove a do acesso à arte e à cultura aos hospitalar, democratização realizadas em ambiente momento oficinas, inteiramente a estas ações em um das apresentações e das garantindo o acesso atividades culturais, An employee visited the home for disabled veterans to delidescentralização das de fragilidade das famílias. kshops all free of charge, aimed at children suas Objetivos Pequeno Príncipe e instrumental no Hospital gratuitas de música • Realizar 18 apresentações de 1 ano. Príncipe. longo e Cultura do Pequeno instituições parceiras ao no Setor de Educação de musicalização gratuitas social para crianças, ver a donation to help improve their nutrition and quality of • Realizar 40 oficinas instrumental, a inclusão meio do acesso à música parceiras. • Oportunizar, por do Hospital Pequeno Príncipe e instituições familiares e colaboradores ampliação das ações • Contribuir para a and adolescents in hospital. música instrumental. culturais com foco na de plateia. • Estimular a formação life. Duração serão realizadas ao As atividades do projeto longo de 12 meses. • The “Meu Amigo Grande Project” lasts 6 months, where Gonvvama Chongqing employees and children from the CPTI Institution exchanOllected clothes, shoes, books and toys among its employees ge letters to stimulate writing, humor and interaction with for the primary school in Gansu province. The school has 8 the lyrics. classes and 66 students, for whom they delivered 2 boxes of clothes, 1 box of toys and 30 children’s books. • Project “FUNCRIA SocioEducational Project”, contribuAMG Brazil ting to assist needy children Carried out two campaigns for donations to charities: collecliving in a vulnerable area tion of warm clothes (708 garments) and collection of food, with social and educational books, toys. activities at CPTI. Gonvarri Portugal Organized the collection of solidary bottle lids, as well as clothes, toys, books, etc. in collaboration with the associations Gonvauto South Carolina “Associacao Meninos de Ouro” and “Centro de Apoio ao Sem Contributed through donations in the Abrigo” to defend the rights of children and help provide a lighting of the lake for the “Annual Independence Day Celehome to this vulnerable group. bration” in collaboration with the Union County Chamber of Hiasa, Gonvarri Valencia and Gonvarri Argentina Commerce, and also for the “UCHS Bass Fishing Team” for the celebration of local fishing tournaments. Organized a food collection among the plant staff in favour of the “Virgin Mary” Children’s Dining Room and the Food Bank HIASA Foundation of Asturias and Sagunto respectively. Supports the “What Really Matters” foundation to communicate universal values through financial contributions and by Gonvauto Galicia diffusing the actions it carries out among its employees. All employees collaborated with Caritas Marin by providing clothes, toys and food for the Christmas period. Gonvarri Barcelona Donated to the “Gegants de Castellbisbal”, to contribute to Gonvarri Valencia maintaining this tradition. Made a donation for the printing of a calendar illustrated. The calendar will be sold to fund the “Asociacion de Discapacitados Camp de Morvedre”. Gonvarri Germany Made a donation for the purchase of a new children’s game at the “Pusteblume” nursery school in Arnstadt. Gonvarri Burgos Attended a solidarity dinner to raise funds for different NGO’s. Gonvarri Industries 82 Sustainability Report 2019 Education GMH Romania Collaborated in various activities to improve the education and integration of disadvantaged children and youth, as sumGonvauto Galicia marized below: Created the “Excellent Scholarships” program for the 2018• Donation and volunteering with the “Libra Foundation” 2019 academic year, with the objective of rewarding the for the improvement of the life of disadvantaged children efforts of the youngest and helping them to fulfil their and young people in Romania. dreams. These scholarships are intended for the children of • Implementation of projects and activities for the ecoworkers who attend 6th Primary, ESO, Bachillerato or Vocanomic, social, educational and cultural development of tional Training and pass the entire Academic Year in June, obpersons belonging to minorities at risk of social exclusion, taining an average grade in their academic record equal to or persons with disabilities or special abilities, with the asgreater than 8. sociation ELTERA. Flinsa • Donation for the “Festivalul Brazilor de Craciun 2019” orCollaborated with the secondary school Navarro Santa Fé de ganized by Save the Children Romania, in order to collect Villena with the students of FP of mechanical manufacture funds to contribute to the reintegration of young people in the project “Nasa Buga Meteor Gro”, for the design and and children who work or want to leave their education. construction of a hybrid automotive vehicle driven by a stir. ling engine type “alpha”, through the donation of materials for its construction (safety tubes and regulation of carbon steel, stainless steel, etc.). In addition, it donated a prize to the winner of the best final work of the “University Master in Engineering, processing and characterization of materials 201819” of the Polytechnic University of Valencia Alcoy Campus. Hiasa Contributed to the informative project “Klikers Congress”, designed to complement those training aspects that are not always taught in schools (emotional intelligence, empathy, assertiveness, strategies against harassment and talent). It provides material for young people between 14 and 16 years of age, parents and teachers to work on. AMG Brasil Through the Marist solidarity network, participated in the projects “Projeto Conviver Marista” and “Projeto Cotidianidades” financing programs destined to the care of children. Gonvarri Colombia Food was provided to 750 children and socio-educational Delivered the 2019 SCHOOL KITS, benefiting 139 employees programs were developed in which at least 50% of the famiand more than 200 students from kindergarten, primary, selies participated, ensuring a minimum of 75% attendance at condary and university. It also donated computer equipment these programs. to help train and provide psychosocial support to children in vulnerable situations, in collaboration with the LifebyLife Gonvarri Turkey Foundation. Through donations from employees, collaborated with Hamdi Elementary School Eriş in Ankara-Kazan by participating in the spring festival, as well as supporting the Parent Teacher Association in the expenses of the students and the school with a small contribution. Madrid Economic development Within the Emotional Driving project, there are many training GVS Dongguan steps carried out in schools to educate on Road Safety. Employees and their families participated in the cleaning and adaptation of a public park in the area. Gonvauto Barcelona Held the “Francisco Riberas Scholarship” program, in order to Gonvarri Burgos support the studies of the children of employees with special Collaborated through a donation to the project DIHBU 4.0 needs and the children of deceased workers. ITCL.HUB technological for the transition of companies to the new industrial revolution. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 83 Emotional Driving The Emotional Driving program was created in 2014 with the On the occasion of the “International Day of People with objective of raising awareness on the importance of road saDisabilities” held in December, the United Nations Global fety, both inside the company and in society as a whole. Compact presented a dossier for “good practice” in the SDG The differentiating factor of this program lies in the transmis10, Reduced inequalities, including the program developed sion of positive and motivational stimuli and messages to enby Emotional Driving and Real Madrid Foundation to educate courage responsible and respectful habits on the road. people with disabilities in values and road safety. The project contributes to the Sustainable Development Furthermore, over the past year Emotional Driving joined the Goals, primarily to Goal 3.6: “by 2020, halve the number of Fifth United Nations Global Road Safety Week under the sloglobal deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents”, while gan “Leadership for road safety” aiming to strengthen leaderit also has a positive impact on goals 11.2, “by 2030, provide ship and commitment worldwide. access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all and improve road safety” and 17, “partnerships to reach the goals”. Emotional Driving Program and Stakeholders Employees. Our drivers Preventive driving What motivates you to drive safely? Partnership with 12,000 +10 million trips +20 5 countries: Spain, Portugal, employees, family members and customers per year roadshows in plants Germany, Colombia and Argentina Since its inception, the Emotional Driving program´s main acIn 2019, on the occasion of its tenth anniversary, employees tion has been holding roadshows. This action, undertaken in of Gonvarri Argentina and their relatives attended the Emodifferent plants of the, both at nationally and internationally, tional Driving roadshow. The event gathered around 100 distinguishes three stages: testimonial, experiential and trapeople, mainly employees of the company, but also people ining. Its aims to sensitize employees and their relatives in of other companies of the Group, as well as customers and road safety. suppliers. Gonvarri Industries 84 Sustainability Report 2019 Argentina has high road accident rates due to its overloaded recorded their thoughts on what motivates them to drive satraffic system and the lack of road safety education. And fely, by writing them on Post-It notes. These messages coveBuenos Aires, city where Gonvarri factory is located is one red a damaged car providing evidence that positive emotions of the main examples of this problem. The Emotional Driving can provide us from reckless behaviors at the wheel resulting presentation raised awareness on road safety and on the in road accidents. traffic accident rates that take hundreds of Argentinian lives. Furthermore, by the end of 2019 Emotional Driving and MiThey shared moving testimonies on behalf of the victims of chelin joined forces to check the tyre conditions of Gonvarri traffic accidents and there were conferences from a fireman Madrid employees and improve their road safety. For such and a road trainer, that showed worrying statistics on the trapurpose, a check&go arch was placed at Embajadores parffic accident rates in the Argentinian region, as well as their king and, at the time employees passed through as they do commitment to minimizing these figures. Still moved by the every day, a scanner analyzed the status of the tires and autestimonies they witnessed, the attendees to the roadshow tomatically sent a detailed report to the employees’ emails. Primary and Highschool students Motivated drivers Influencing parents Road safety is also a matter for children Partnership with 18,000 +100 schools and +15,000 +1,000 participations: beneficiaries with children aged 9 to 16 educational centers messages, drawings... different capacities The ED School project, together with AESLEME, launched in Their work does no end here. Students become Emotional 2016 at the beginning of the school year. This project aims Driving’s best ambassadors and bring this message home, fato educate the youngest about the importance of driving savoring reflections regarding behaviors at the wheel and shafely and responsibly through presentations. ring thoughts about our daily road safety and the importance We visited 150 schools and study centers in the Madrid of getting home safe and sound. Community, reaching over 8,000 students with our message. The third edition of this project finished in 2019, and in SepSimilarly, participation in the ED School challenge was high, in tember, taking advantage of the start of the new school year, which the students wrote handwritten messages on Post-It we will recommence our commitment to this collective throunotes to their parents to ask them to drive more responsibly gh the fourth edition of ED School. and safely. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 85 University students Future drivers – Responsible use of mobile phones The best message, like the best driver, is the one that arrives Partnership with 35,000 young people aged 16 to 18 10cities +1,700 +1,000 participations experiences in road safety Emotional Driving, in alliance with Movistar, participated in 8 her appearance by stating “the best message, as the best drinational congresses of the WRM Foundation, in which more ver, is the one that reaches its destination”. than 10,000 young people were educated about responsibiComplementary to this, Emotional Driving provided the youlity on the road and, particularly, about the danger of using a ths with a rollover simulator and invited them to reflect by mobile phone while driving. These congresses were held in writing a message to their relatives and loved ones encouraMadrid, Oviedo, Valencia, Malaga, La Coruña, Bilbao, Sevilla ging them to drive safely and responsibly. and Palma de Mallorca. The 2019 edition brought an important innovation. EmotioIt was the third year in which both companies develop such nal Driving supported and had a significant presence in the action. In 2019, the message of the campaign was transmiApp developed by WRM Foundation. Youngsters had access tted by Frida, a human robot, who raised awareness on road to all Emotional Driving projects, its sensitizing audiovisual safety among thousands of youngsters around Spain. Frida campaigns and even a competition in which thousands of emphasized the importance of not distracting when driving youngsters told us what they would say to their relatives and using all five senses on the road as part a responsible beand loved ones to motivate them to drive safe. At the end of havior at the wheel. In addition, she called upon feeling that each congress, two winners were selected and awarded for differentiate humans from robots, to remember somebody the moodiness and power of their messages we love in order to motivate us to drive safe. Frida concluded Gonvarri Industries 86 Sustainability Report 2019 People with disabilities Intellectual disability – Road safety and the value of Autonomy in favor of social inclusion An innovative road safety project to promote the autonomy of the most vulnerable groups milestones 2 Partnership with +700 2 Value of Autonomy Adapted materials sporting disciplines inclusive recipients football and adapted basketball editions Points-based card 2019 has consolidated a pioneering and innovative project, The trainees took part in inclusive football and adapted basa unique program in Spain that brings road safety closer to ketball sessions and got to know the different road signs, people with disabilities. learnt how to cross the road properly and shoed that they are This project aims to educate in road safety and values throucapable of helping people in need. Over 300 people with digh sports practice and it took part all year long at adapted fferent disabilities were benefited from this program supporand inclusive schools. ted and cheered by Valorcito and Valorgol, pets in charge as well of transmitting values and raising awareness in the field One of the Foundation’s main goals is the all-round training of values and road safety. of beneficiaries through sports that, in collaboration with Emotional Driving, takes a further step in road safety adapAll along 2019, a number of constituents of Gonvarri directorted to people with disabilities, improving their autonomy and ship, amongst them Josu Calvo, CEO Gonvarri, witnessed firstdegree of social integration. hand the development and implementation of this project. Road haulers Value chain – One more minute behind me, a whole life ahead of you In 2019, Emotional Driving has perpetuated its action focused they are often exposed to great risks mainly caused by exhauson Gonvarri’s value chain: road haulers. They have been the tartion. We have sensitized and motivated this collective aiming to get of our actions for the spend a lot of hours on the road and encourage a preventive and safe behavior at the wheel. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 87 Communication Digitized society – Global sensitization Emotional Driving seizes cutting-edge technologies to put Down below, the main campaigns undertaken in 2019 are across its sensitization message to society through different summarized: channels in an effective and direct way. • In Easter, Emotional Driving presented “These dates, Among its activities, the publication of the new website make a responsible use of mobile phones”, starred stands out. A meeting point in which our road safety program by employees of the department of Communications and gathers all the information, its different action lines, audioviSustainability. In 2019, the company embarked on a path sual materials, its commitment to the SDG or our latest deleading to the digitalization of the employees’ workplace, velopments. called Digital WorkPlace, boosting top-notch technology for the performance of their duties. Applied to the field of Emotional Driving, the company also wanted to send a message of responsibility presenting the “Disconnection Box” so that all employees and the society as a whole may keep their mobile phones inside to avoid distractions when driving. • In summer, Emotional Driving presented in collaboration with Movistar the study “Emotional Driving” Spanish at the wheel, distraction and use of the mobile phone” at Telefónica Building in Madrid’s Gran Vía. The study gathers the opinion of over 2,000 Spaniards of ages between 18 and 65 years old. The presentation was a complete success. Different mass media representatives attended the presentation and published about it in newspapers, TV and online platforms. • The third Sunday in November World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims. Emotional Driving showed its commitment and paid tribute to this collective with a video in collaboration with What Really Matters Foundation and the participation of the speakers that represented Emotional Driving for the last three years in the congresses. We all have become a united voice which preaches responsibility through positive messages in favor of road safety and the reduction of road fatalities. Gonvarri Industries 88 Sustainability Report 2019 • The year ended with the presentation of a new edition of “In Christmas, do not make use of the phone when driving” that aimed to prevent the use of mobile phones behind the wheel and, subsequently, avoid road fatalities. The video shows is starred by an actor playing the role of a senior executive who after a long day at the office goes back home to meet his family. He sets the mobile flight mode and start his journey. On the road, he witnesMoreover, we have experienced augmented reality and video ses inappropriate behaviors he disapproves but finally he mapping technologies and we have had an active role in soarrives home safe and sound. cial network: Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube or Facebook. Awards and recognitions In 2019 Emotional Driving received one of the most important awards in the field of Road Safety, Ponle Freno Award to the Best Occupational Road Safety Award. The jury placed significant emphasis on Emotional Driving’s trajectory in this category, as well as the celebration of roadshows undertaken at factories, its commitment to innovation and technologies (Mobile App, turnaround simulator…) to send its positive message to the employees of the company or the materials used for such purpose: speeches, training, the book “Reflections for an optimistic understanding of road safety”, the web series… All these actions have the same common denominator, to raise awareness through positive and emotional messages. Josu Calvo, Gonvarri CEO, received the award from hands of Carlos Sáinz, president of the jury and general counsel of Ponle Freno. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 89 EMOTIONAL DRIVING STUDIES To see first-hand the society’s Driving habits – Social Observatory Spanish at the wheel, distractions and use of mobile phones As a follow-up to the study presented in 2018, “Emotional CONCLUSIONS Driving: young people at the wheel, distractions and use of Distractions at the wheel and use of the the mobile phone”, Gonvarri and Movistar developed a new mobile phone road safety survey, on this occasion broadening the sample and gathering the whole of Spanish society. The study, caMore than three out of four Spanish drivers (76.98%) state lled “Emotional Driving: Spanish at the wheel, distractions that tend to distract when driving. and use of the mobile phone”, was presented in June 2019 Out of this percentage, 60% assures it hardly ever happens and gathered the opinions of over 2,000 Spanish citizens beto them, 17% admit experiencing it usually. The number of tween 18 and 65 years old. people who never get distracted barely reaches 23%. The study reflects the main distractions causes of the SpaGOAL nish citizens when driving: mobile phones 90%, fatigue 65%, aggressive driving 57% and using the GPS 38%. To determine distractions in general and mobile phone use in particular while driving, as well as road safety awareness and motivation. What actions with the mobile phone do distract us? DATA Searching for information 86%, typing a sms or WhatsApps Autonomous regions 85%, reading news 84% or taking photos 83% and recording Socio-demographic profile videos 82% are the main distraction causes of the Spaniards. 2 every 10 respondents (20.19%) say that once in a while a third person has drawn their attention when driving telling them to stop using the mobile phone. 2.37 seconds is the maximum average time Spanish citizens believe they can be using their phones and watching out the road at the same time without any danger, rising up to 3.55 View the full campaign seconds in case of youngsters between 18 and 24 years, www.emotionaldriving.com equivalent to covering more than 100m (100 km/h) using their phones without paying attention to the road. Gonvarri Industries 90 Sustainability Report 2019 Goal To determine distractions in general and mobile phone use in particular while driving, as well as road safety awareness and motivation. CONCLUSIONS CONCLUSIONS Road Safety Motivation Reduction of road fatalities. Road Safety Our motivations Responsible Driving Having an accident 82%, the responsibility for chauffer-driOver half of the Spanish polled, (54.46%) consider that peoving people 75% and thinking of family 72% are the main ple do not drive responsibly and safe in Spain. However, 9 motivations that make us drive more responsibly. every 10 (91.27%) ensure they do drive responsibly and safe. Arriving is what matters Responsibility and technology Over 6 every 10 surveyed people (63.59%) ensure that they With responsibility and technology road fatalities would halhave taken their foot off the accelerator when thinking of ve. The vast majority of Spanish drivers think that road fatacertain person (parents, couples, sons & daughters, friends…) lities would halve if we were more responsible (95.63%), if considering that arriving is what matters. technology avoided drink-driving, drugs or fatigue (90.58%) and if technology prevented us from using the mobile phone Is there enough information and road educaat the wheel (84.13%). Over 80% of respondents think that tion in Spain? technology might help them drive safer (85.71%). A high percentage of respondents, over 80%, have never received any information or training regarding road safety after getting their driving license (82.59%). Causes of driving distractions 90% 65% 57% 38% 28% 25% 25% 24% 21% 17% 13% 7% 6% 3% Mobile Fatigue Aggressive Using GPS Thinking Eating or Weather Routine Smoking External Talking to Radio Carrying Others phone driving about drinking distractions occupants slope pets other things Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 91 Emotional Driving 2019: Argentinians at the wheel, distractions and use of cell phones Gonvarri and Movistar, with a significant presence in ArgenCONCLUSIONS tina, decided to broaden the survey to new geographies and Distractions at the wheel learn about the opinions and thoughts of the Argentinians and use of the mobile phone in road safety. The study “Emotional Driving 2019: ArgentiOver 3 every 4 Argentinian drivers (81.2%) state that get disnians at the wheel, distractions and use of cell phones”, gatracted when Driving. Main distraction causes: thered the answers of 1,018 people of ages between 18 and 65, selected by gender, age and region rates out of 5,000 Amongst them, 56% ensures that hardly ever gets distracted, people invited to participate, registering a response rate of 26% admits getting distracted sometimes. Those who never 20.4%. get distracted behind the wheel rise amounts to 18%. The distraction causes of Argentinians are: cell phones 94%, fatigue 68%, el reckless driving 57% or eating and drinking GOAL 39%. To determine distractions in general and cell phone use in particular while driving, as well as road safety awareness Cell phones, main distraction cause and motivation. 9 every 10 distractions behind the wheel are related to cell phones. WhatsApping 83%, reading news 83%, searching for DETAILS information 82% or checking a sms or WhatsApp 79% are the main distraction causes for Argentinians when driving as Autonomous regions a result of using cell phones. Socio-demographic profile 4.69 seconds is the maximum average time Argentinian citizens believe they can be using their phones and watching out the road at the same time without any danger, rising up to (in case of youngsters 7.82 second and high-class people 6.17). More than 1 in 3 respondents claimed that they have sometimes been told to stop using the cell phone behind the wheel View the full campaign (37.72%). www.emotionaldriving.com Gonvarri Industries 92 Sustainability Report 2019 Goal To determine distractions in general and cell phone use in particular while driving, as well as road safety awareness and motivation. CONCLUSIONS CONCLUSIONS Motivation concerning Road Safety Reduction of road fatalities. Road Safety Our motivations Responsible Driving The responsibility for chauffer-driving people 83%, thinking of More than 8 every 10 Argentinians consider people do not drifamily 81% and having an accident 80% are the main motivave responsibly and safe in Argentina (84.58%). However, more tions that make us drive more responsibly. than 8 every 10 (82.32%) ensure they do drive responsibly and safe. Arriving is what matters Over 7 every 10 polled Argentinians (73.08%) ensure that Responsibility and technology they have taken their foot off the accelerator when thinWith responsibility and technology road fatalities would king of certain person (parents, couples, sons & daughters, halve. The vast majority of Argentinians drivers think that friends…) considering that arriving is what matters. road fatalities would halve if drivers were more responsible (96.66%), if technology avoided drink-driving, drugs or faIs there enough information tigue (89.88%) and if technology prevented us from using and road education in Argentina? the mobile phone at the wheel (77.11%). Over 80% of resOver half of the respondents, (54.52%) state they have been pondents think that technology might help them drive safer trained and received information in the field of road safety (85.71%). after getting their driving license. Causes of driving distractions 94% 68% 60% 39% 33% 30% 24% 21% 17% 16% 14% 10% 8% 3% Mobile Fatigue Aggressive Eating or Using Thinking Weather External Smoking Talking to Carrying Routine Radio Others phone driving drinking GPS about other distractions occupants pets slope things Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 93 Energy and Climate Change Energy Energy Consumption The production process of Gonvarri has an intensive energy consumption, mainly in the plants that have galvanic and electro-galvanizing coating processes. For this reason, the main points in the environmental management system are the monitoring, reduction and control of the energy consumption. Internal energy consumption 302-1 In 2019, Gonvarri used a total of 767,269 GJ of energy, not originating from renewable sources, of which 435,532 GJ come from electrical consumption (scope 2) and 331,737 GJ from LPG, natural gas, propane and diesel (scope 1). Practically all electric energy consumption is committed to production. Only around 6% of the total amount is used in air conditioning. The table included shows the distribution as a function of the consumption type and country: ENERGY Electricity Gj LPG Gj Natural Gas Gj Propane Gj Diesel Gj Germany 17,637 0 10,982 0 1,185 Argentina 2,958 0 0 0 0 Brazil 26,087 4,527 33,065 0 0 China 30,264 0 14,939 0 882 Colombia 7,037 621 18,692 0 75 Denmark 255 0 0 0 0 Spain 249,799 69 165,131 2,192 4,876 USA 19,448 0 115 2,514 0 Slovakia 10,448 0 2,402 0 22 Finland 832 0 900 139 0 Netherlands 111 0 310 0 0 Mexico 5,726 2,528 0 0 12 Norway 75 0 0 0 0 Poland 7,217 0 2,708 0 587 Portugal 7,341 0 0 83 269 UK 13,546 250 16,357 10 0 Romania 10,241 0 30,943 1,898 0 Russia 10,457 1,048 9,727 1,053 272 Sweden 6,665 0 0 0 0 Turkey 9,391 0 29 0 323 TOTAL 435,532 9,042 306,301 7,889 8,505 Gonvarri Industries 94 Sustainability Report 2019 External energy consumption Gonvarri manufactures different products/formats, with different finishes. Moreover, depending on the geographical Photovoltaic energy in location, the usual transport type is also variable (ship, train, truck, etc.). This makes the calculation and availability of data Gonvuto Puebla for the scope 3 estimation complex. Currently we are working on a methodology to calculate this Climate change represents a growing threat to the plaenergy consumption and, therefore, we expect to be able to net’s natural and human capital. Therefore, mitigating report this information by the year 2030 (302-2). this impact is a key aspect for Gonvarri Industries. Among the initiatives carried out in 2019, the project to install photovoltaic solar energy panels for self-conRenewable Energy sumption in Gonvauto Puebla factory, called Gonvauto 1 A photovoltaic installation was put into operation in Gonvauand 2 by their location in the different production areas to Navarra in 2010 (capacity 1.9 GJ), and in 2011 the instawas implemented. llations of Gonvauto Barcelona (capacity 2.5 GJ) and Gonvarri With both facilities, it is estimated to cover 42.7% of the Barcelona (capacity 2.0 GJ) followed. Annual production in energy used in Gonvauto 1 and the 68% in Gonvauto 2. 2019 amounts to 6,686 GJ (fully sold to third parties) and 59 The installation was full operational by August 2019. GJ for consumption at the same installation. Through this activity we estimate a total of 530 tons of CO2 emissions were avoided. Energy intensity 302-3 Gonvarri considers that a good way to measure efficiency and the impact of its processes is by measuring the energy intensity. The resulting annual ratio is calculated by dividing energy consumption by the total weight of products sold in each country. The calculation takes both electricity and fuel, only relative to their internal use, into consideration. ENERGY INTENSITY (GJ/tons of product sold) Germany 0.09 Argentina 0.07 Brazil 0.11 China 0.31 Colombia 1.46 The main characteristics of the installations are Spain 0.15 summarised below: USA 0.14 Salovakia 0.04 GONVAUTO 1 GONVAUTO 2 Mexico 0.03 Poland 0.05 Peak power 397.98 KWp 297 KWp Portugal 0.04 Area 2,412 m2 1,800 m2 UK 0.11 Nº of modules 1,206 900 Romania 2.57 Modules power 330 Wp 330 Wp Russia 0.23 Inverters power 110 KW 40 KW Sweden 2.32 PV Energy produced 684 Mwh/year 518 Mwh/year Turkey 0.20 % of total consumption 42.7 % 68 % TOTAL 0.14 Tons CO2 avoided* 398 301.7 * considering a factor that 0.582 tons of CO2/Mhw, according to the National Electricity System Emission Factor for 2017 published by the Energy Regulatory Commission. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 95 Energy Efficiency 302-4 In our commitment to sustainability, Gonvarri continues to Annual Energy Saving (Gwh/year) work on maintaining our highly efficient production through optimizing energy consumption in all our processes, production lines and auxiliary equipment, striving at all times to achieve maximum production rates with the lowest energy cost possible, whilst always maintaining high-quality standards. 4.23 Natural Gas In order to meet this objective, the ECO-ENERGY project has been under development since 2015. This project has the following main targets: • The implementation of an energy management and mo9.34 nitoring system in the different plants. • The search for and execution of measures to improve 10% Electricity energy savings, which can primarily reduce gas, electricity and water consumptions. Among the measures taken in 2019, especially significant Currently we have 18 plants which are monitored, with the are those that aim to optimize boilers and steam networks, objective continuing to expand the number of plants monitocompressed air systems, air conditioning, heating and heat red over the next year. exchange processes and water pumping or gas extraction The control and monitoring of the general gas, electricity and systems. water consumptions, as well as the consumptions of all the It is also important to highlight the reduction in the water and production lines, compressors, lighting, heaters, air conditiochemical product consumption necessary for its adaptation ning, etc., is focused to: in the production processes, achieved through some of the • Conduct a detailed follow-up on the specific consumpimprovements implemented in 2019. tions of our lines and auxiliary equipment that serves to The strong value that Gonvarri places on its commitment to detect possible deviations in our base lines. sustainability and the environment means that the company • Analyse and assess the consumptions of our installais always looking for and investing in the most efficient solutions in order to identify opportunities for improvement tions and technologies for its processes that allow it to reduand energy optimization that will allow us to reduce our ce its energy consumption as much as possible. energy costs. With regard to energy saving measures and the reduction of tons of CO2 emitted into the atmosphere, we continue to work year after year and exceed the objectives set at the beginning of the project. Savings Account Electricity Natural Gas Water 9.74 Gwh/year 4.23 Gwh/year 7,125 m3/year 779 ton CO2 In 2019, 15 energy saving measures (ESMs) were implemented in different plants. This allowed us to increase Gonvarri´s energy savings by 3.21 Gwh, which, added to the savings obtained in previously implemented measures (68 ESMs since the start of the project), amount to annual savings of 13.97 Gwh, of which 30% correspond to natural gas consumptions and 70% to electricity. Gonvarri Industries 96 Sustainability Report 2019 Climate Change Risks and opportunities associated with climate change 201-2 Global situation In spite of the economic downturn and the decline in the use The European Union positioned themselves as leaders in the of coal, carbon dioxide emissions have increased to new reface of the problem, presenting the “New Green Deal”, which cords, with a growth of 0.6% compared to last year (in 2018 establishes the main lines of action for the coming years to and 2017 this increase was of 2.1% and 1.5% respectively), achieve climate neutrality by 2050, as an opportunity to according to the last Global Carbon Project report. As the modernize, promote innovation and improve the competitiWorld Meteorological Organization has highlighted, 2019 is veness of the European economy and generate quality jobs. the final year in the hottest decade ever recorded. The pact calls for a 100-billion-euro commitment between The scientific community warns that, with the present pro2021 and 2027 to achieve this goal. jections and measures, the temperature increase may exceed However, it is the year 2020 in which real and tangible comthree degrees by the end of the century, which directly points mitments and plans will have to be presented to reduce carto the production of polluting gases: If the report’s forecasts bon emissions and respond to this emergency, which is why are indeed met, CO2 emissions will be 4% higher than in we must wait for COP 26 in Glasgow, Scotland and hope that 2015, when the Paris Agreement was signed. countries such as the USA, China and India will form part of Although the use of coal (the main pollutant, accounting for this commitment. 40% of total fossil fuel emissions) is declining, this will be offIn Spain, the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan set by increased use of natural gas and oil worldwide. 2021-2030 (PNIEC) sets out the guidelines for electricity The scenario envisaged by the four most polluting regions generation to be 100% renewable by 2050, with intermediain 2019 is quite diverse. China, which continues at the top, is te milestones such as in 2030, with a reduction of one third expected to grow by 2.6%, the United States and European in greenhouse gas emissions, 42% renewable energy in the Union (second and third places) are expected to decrease by electricity system and 74% in electricity generation, in line about 1.7% and India, the fourth most polluting country, is with the commitments made in Agenda 2030. expected to grow by 1.8%. Regulatory framework Stakeholders’ expectations There has been a significant increase in social mobilization Following the commitment of the Paris Agreement (COP 21), over recent years, prompting governments to take urgent acall countries were required to agree on measures to reduce tion to curb the rise of global average temperatures, which is global greenhouse gas emissions to levels which are consisdocumented in numerous rather pessimistic scientific reports. tent with climate security, as outlined in the reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The position of our main customers with plans and policies The objective is to limit the increase of the average global focused on the reduction of emissions in the medium/long temperature to 1.5ºC with respect to pre-industrial levels, term stands out. For Gonvarri Industries, meeting their exwhich requires an accelerated change in the development pectations is a strategic aspect, which is why we work in line model in the coming decades. with their commitments to reach a common goal. Little progress has been made at the annual meetings held In this context, the financial sector has also taken a step from 2015 onwards, mainly on Article 6 which defines the forward. Many institutions have already committed signirules for the carbon market. The latest meeting, COP 25 in ficant amounts to finance investments related to reducing Madrid, has succeeded in giving visibility to the problem and emissions over the next 10 years, acting as a Climate Bank, in disseminating the scientific and expert reports which guawith a commitment to reducing the carbon dioxide (CO2) foorantee a complicated future if no urgent action is taken. Motprint of their credit portfolios pursuant to internationally rereover, the demonstrations and demands of civil society have cognized criteria, and to channel savings and financial resourbeen remarkable. ces towards sustainable investments in the future. Within this voluntary framework, the Sustainable Development Goals, mainly those directly related to climate, such as SDG 13 “climate action” and SDG 7 “affordable and clean energy”, cannot be overlooked. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 97 Our position Gonvarri Industries is aware that it faces various risks arising from climate change, which include: Steel in the • Regulatory risks. Through the increasingly restrictive automotive sector emission requirements. The global transport industry contributes significantly • Business risks. To adapt to the requirements and the deto greenhouse gas emissions and accounts for about mands of our customers. 24% of total emissions (International Energy Agency, CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights, 2018 • Financial risks. Derived from financing requirements, Ed., p 13). which increasingly value these issues and consider them To minimize this impact, increasingly restrictive regulain their customer portfolios. tions are established for emissions, for which the avai• Risks in the environment. Derived from climate change lability of lighter vehicles is key, and for lower emission (increase in storms, floods, etc.) at our suppliers´ facilities, fuels. which would cause supply problems. The steel composition of a typical vehicle is summarised • Reputational and image risks. Derived from globalization below: and the social awareness on these issues. • 34% is used in the body, panels, doors and trunk locks for high strength and energy absorption in case of an accident In that regard, in 2015, after the approval of the Sustainable • 23% is used in the drive train, which consists of cast Development Goals, we changed our way of integrating and iron for the engine block and carbon steel for the communicating sustainability, aligned with our main initiatigears to make these more resistant to wear. ves to the fulfilment of the SDG most directly related to our • 12% is found in the suspension, which uses hibusiness. gh-strength rolled steel tape. Therefore, taking the environment, the risks and the expec• The remainder is in the wheels, tyres, fuel tank, steetations of our stakeholders into consideration, 2019 reprering and braking systems. sents a period of analysis and reflection for Gonvarri Industries in which a new roadmap must be defined in line with the current needs and trends, as well as the demands of our stakeholders, in which the fight against climate change, for the reduction of CO2 emissions and a carbon-neutral future, play a fundamental role. We are currently defining a roadmap with the commitment to move towards a long-term carbon-neutral model, based on different lines of action: • To have a complete measurement of emissions from all three scopes. • To have KPIs that allow us to objectively measure the reductions achieved in the various projects underway. • To promote the use of renewable energy in our facilities and the purchase of energy from renewable sources Today, advanced high-strength steels (AHSS) are used (PPA’s). in almost all new vehicle designs, making up almost 60% of their body structure. These make it possible to • Definition of investments for projects that contribute to reduce the weight of vehicles by 25-39% compared to minimising emissions (ECMs and technology), as well as conventional steel, making them lighter, safer and more more precise monitoring and measurement systems. fuel-efficient. • Lighter and more efficient products. For example, when AHSS steel is applied to a five-pas• Others: reforestation, sustainable mobility, training and senger type family car, the overall weight of the vehicle awareness, etc. is reduced by 170 to 270 kg, which corresponds to a saving of 3 to 4.5 tonnes of greenhouse gases over the In the next Report a detailed plan will be published for the longtotal life cycle of the vehicle. This saving in emissions is term goal of becoming carbon neutral. greater than the CO2 emitted during the production of all the steel in the vehicle (Source: WorldAutoSteel). Source: WorldAutoSteel Gonvarri Industries 98 Sustainability Report 2019 Greenhouse gas emissions 305-1 AND 305-2 SDG 13 “Climate Action” requires urgent action to combat The direct emission of greenhouse gases (scope 1) come climate change and its impacts. Greenhouse gas emissions from the combustion of fuel in the production process (nacaused by human activities are increasing this threat. In fact, tural gas, propane, and diesel) and amount to 18,882 tons emissions have never been so high. of CO2. By measuring its carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, Gonvarri The indirect emissions (scope 2) are those generated in eleccontributes to improving the communication of its impact and tric power generation plants as a result of the electric conto the collection of specific data with the aim of setting possumption in plants and offices, which amounts to 38,929 sible improvement targets. tons of CO2, and raise the total to 57,811 tons of CO2. Regarding the calculation of the CO2 emissions, these are reported as directed by the Green House Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) standard, taking as a reference the emission factors provided by the IEA 2019 (2017 figures). ENERGY Electricity LPG Natural Gas Propane Diesel Ton CO2 Ton CO2 Ton CO2 Ton CO2 Ton CO2 Germany 2,043 0 616 0 88 Argentina 288 0 0 0 0 Brazil 848 286 1,855 0 0 China 5,237 0 838 0 65 Colombia 262 39 1,049 0 6 Denmark 11 0 0 0 0 Spain 19,984 4 9,264 138 361 USA 2,274 0 6 159 0 Slovakia 464 0 135 0 2 Finland 24 0 50 9 0 Netherlands 13 0 17 0 0 Mexico 759 160 0 0 1 Norway 0 0 0 0 0 Poland 1,421 0 152 0 43 Portugal 732 0 0 5 20 UK 922 16 918 1 0 Romania 1,422 0 1,736 120 0 Russia 996 66 546 66 20 Sweden 24 0 0 0 0 Turkey 1,203 0 2 0 24 TOTAL 38,929 571 17,183 498 630 With regard to indirect emissions from other sources, in this Emission intensity 305-4 scope we consider emissions that derive from business trips Gonvarri also takes note of the emission intensity to measumade and emissions that derive from employee commutes. re the efficiency and impact of its processes. The resulting Their distribution is shown next (305-3): yearly ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of its direct and indirect emission (305-1 and 305-2) by the total weight of all the products sold in each country. In the following table OTHER EMISSIONS (TONS CO2) the obtained results are specified: Corporate Trips 4,499 EMISSIONS INTENSITY Transportation 33,957 employees (tons CO2/tons of sold product) SCOPE 3 TOTAL 38,456 Germany 0.008 Mexico 0.003 Argentina 0.007 Poland 0.008 Brazil 0.005 Portugal 0.004 Corporate Trips China 0.049 UK 0.009 Colombia 0.075 Romania 0.211 Spain 0.011 Russia 0.021 Rental car Travel by plane Travel by train USA 0.015 Sweden 0.014 206 4,274 19 Slovakia 0.002 Turkey 0.025 tons CO2/year tons CO2/year tons CO2/year TOTAL 0.01 Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 99 Avoided indirect emissions Emissions derived from other sources 305-5 305-7 The company is very aware of the possible negative effects Regarding emissions derived from other sources, these are that can induce climate change and against this real risk, few and isolated in our business, as the majority of the plants Gonvarri contributes to its mitigation through the Solar Steel are not submitted to regulatory controls. The plants that perdivision. form special treatments (galvanization, electro-galvanizing The main activity of this division is the manufacturing and coating, etc.), where controls are carried out by a certified provision of solar structures, mainly fixed structures with a body with the periodicity established in the corresponding single-axis tracker, that are part of photovoltaic plants which licenses and legal requirements, are affected. are built to generate renewable energy without greenhouse Next, we summarize the main emissions: gas emissions. In 2019, solar structures for the installation of a total of EMISSIONS 2,357 MW were provided, distributed over 19 countries. Emissions Burgos Hiasa Barcelona Tarragona By calculating, among others, the net sun radiation hours per project, as well as the percentage of the total cost of the proNOx (Kg) 2,125 2,307 629 316 ject that these structures and the conversion ratio in each SO2 (Kg) 0 32 106 3 country, we estimate to have contributed to the avoidance CO (Kg) 355 3,386 52 4 of a total of 420,933 tons of CO2 in 2019. NH3 (Kg) 0 0 403 0 Similarly, concerning the energy savings that derive from CO2 (Kg) 887,356 0 0 0 Particles (Kg) 65 584 12 0 the ESMs, these amount to 779 tons of CO2 avoided and a HCl (Kg) 2 2,219 516 30 total of 75 tons of CO2 deriving from renewable energy insZn (Kg) 0 0 51 0 tallations and 4 tons of CO2 derived from the reforestation COT (Kg) 0 0 430 0 of Mexico. CO2 Produced CO2 Avoided 96,267 tons CO /year 2 421,791 tons CO /year 2 SCOPE 1 18,882 tons CO2/year SOLAR STRUCTURES* SCOPE 2 BALANCE 420,933 tons CO2/year 38,929 tons CO2/year CO 2 Avoided EFFICIENCY 325,524 779 tons CO2/year SCOPE 3 38,456 tons CO2/year RENOVABLES (PUEBLA) tons CO2/year 75 REFORESTATION 4 *Indirect contribution, calculated on the basis of structures manufactured for solar parks that we do not own. Gonvarri Industries 100 Sustainability Report 2019 Reforestation in Gonvauto Puebla Gonvauto Puebla is committed to climate change mitigation. For this reason, it made a donation of 114 trees of the white cedar species (Cupresus lusitánica) to the protected reserve of the Flor del Bosque State Park. With this, it is estimated that it contributes to the absorption of 3.9 tons of CO2/year. Gonvarri Colombia: Sustainable Mobility Plan 2019 In Gonvarri Colombia, a sustainable mobility plan, “Plan Furthermore, in order to promote the MES Plan, GonvaMES”, was implemented to reduce the emissions derirri Colombia defined the “Gonvarri Treasures” program ved from the displacement of employees by 20% by where different social benefits can be obtained through 2022. exchangeable bonds. According to Resolution 1379 of 2017, all public and These include the option of teleworking which helps to private organizations in the jurisdiction of the Aburrá reduce emissions by avoiding travel. This treasure was Valley Metropolitan Area with more than 200 workers the second most requested. (direct and indirect) must implement a “MES Plan”. These plans aim to reduce emissions from mobility by 10% in the first year. Through this plan, the involved companies can identify the environmental impacts of their employees’ travel to and from their workplace and, thus, define mobility strategies that reduce their impact on air quality. In 2018 the project began with a survey that enabled us to gather all the necessary information regarding the movement of our employees and collaborators and, with this information define and formalize the commitment and strategy to achieve the objectives set. The information resulting from the survey is integrated into the portal provided by the metropolitan area, in order to meet all the requirements. In 2019, the measures defined in the “MES Plan” were implemented in order to mitigate the impacts produced by travel, defining “peak and plate” measures with restrictions depending on the type of vehicle, license plate, fuel, etc., which become more restrictive during the dry season or on important dates (e.g., International Earth Day). In addition, the availability of the certificate of the technical-mechanical review and the compulsory SOAT insurance was required. For its follow-up, detailed control and monthly tracking was carried out at each stage, which included messages, communications, etc. The monitoring is reflected in monthly graphs in which the evolution of the project is shown. It should be noted that the 10% target was achieved, and bicycle use increased among Gonvarri Colombia’s workers. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 101 Cultural Change & Digital WorkPlace 2019-2021 “Digital WorkPlace” project began in 2019 aiming to embrace Microsoft technology and provide employees with the Office 365 tools to continue advancing in the company’s digital transformation. Collaboration Cloud It is a process that demands an important management of the Foster Work Anytime, Collaboration cultural change of the whole company, in a collaborative enviCulture Anywhere ronment that allows to approach successfully this challenge of incorporating the new digital technologies, but another piece of an ambitious project throughout the company in these 3 areas: • Digital Competences: increase digital competences, knowledge and skills to adapt to a constantly changing Efficiency market and environment. Boost Personal Performance • Digital Workplace: define how new technologies may Engagement improve the way of working in all aspects. Increase Employee Innovation Company Engagement Intelligence • Digital Experience: boost digital agility in all work Powered aspects. The main change derives from the integration of Outlook, “Digital Champion” campaign OneDrive and SharePoint tools in the Office 365 platform. The implementation of the project began in March with the The project is aligned with SDG 9 and our innovation and di“Digital Champion” campaign. This aims to identify collaboragitalization strategies. tors in each area and country where the company is present; It’s been implemented based in two approaches: based on an active, open, constructive, and motivated profile On the one hand, transfer all the information to the new plaof employees who do not fear technology. tforms, where: Once identified these profiles, it was formed a group of 210 • Migration of all information hosted in the document Digital Champions spread through all the countries in which manager into the new SharePoint platform, updating Gonvarri is present. This group became a very active asset admin profiles and adapting the access to each group to of the project, playing a key role of functional support and the new available profile options. assistance to final users during the transition process. • Each user migrated its personal information into During their apprenticeship, the group received specific traOneDrive. ining to provide them with the necessary knowledge and On the other hand, all employees were encouraged and tratools to enable the identification and problem resolution, feeined to use this new technology. To this effect, a thorough dback compilation on the identification of the main resistance implementation and training program was developed, incluto change. ding a number of initiatives and training materials, enabling With the support of these team of Champions, the following to conclude with great success the first stage of the DWP training stage in the usage of DWP tools began. To this effect, adoption project. The main milestones are shown below: a number of activities were developed, to mention some: Gonvarri Industries 102 Sustainability Report 2019 Training Digital Workplace Hub On site: developed by experts during the different stages of The Digital Workplace Hub is a SharePoint site That gathers the project, aimed at different target (managers, champions, all the information with regard to the DWB project. There all employees, and so on). They were shown and explained the employees can access to DWP training materials, FAQs douse of the tools and had the chance to actively test them. cuments, webinars, training courses hosted in Gonvarri Academy, tips, calendars, the Digital Champions network, feedback, and so on. Online training webinars: online live training for multiple groups of employees. This training consisted of a brief description of the tools an its advantages, as well as a detailed description of its usage and a wide range of possibilities they offer. Videos: Videos presenting and summarizing DWP project. Videos – training pills: short videos in the shape of case studies to explain specific aspects and advantages of the new tools. Other Referential training guides for Outlook, OneDrive and SharePoint: these materials include manuals that cover all the usage instructions and the different functionalities of Office 365 tools in a very simple and graphic way. Frequent asked questions (FAQs): documents that gather the most common queries about these tools, general tips regarding their usage and questions that other colleagues have made which are every bit as useful. Tips for the tools: Tips to get the most out of the Outlook, OneDrive, SharePoint and Office Suite tools. Gonvarri Academy: platform that offers training of the diSatisfaction Survey: Surveys to know the opinion off the fferent tools of the Digital WorkPlace, its features, benefits, employees about the materials and actions performed. tips, etc. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 103 Workshops in offices and factories A series of workshops were designed and developed in offi• organized in groups by departments they discovered the ces and factories between April and December aiming to voice-interaction technology and the different concepts motivate and train employees in a fun, easy and comfortable and features of the DWP at the Innovation stand; way. 2019 workshops were held in our offices in Bilbao and • they made suggestions of the features they would Madrid and factories of Barcelona, Navarra, Galicia, Valencia, like to find with regard to the new digital tools at the Asturias, Argentina, Brazil, UK, Mexico and Thüringen. Efficiency stand; All of them consisted in an introductory speech explaining • they experienced the coedition at the Collaboration the corporate history in the adoption and technological evostand; lution processes and the development of playful dynamics on DWP. Afterwards, attendees took part in a tour with five • they took selfies and learnt about the new features of experiences based in the five pillars of the project: Collaborathe mobile App at the Commitment stand. tion, Innovation, Efficiency, Commitment and Cloud. • and they addressed the new Intranet and the vision “Work anytime, anywhere” at the Cloud stand. 3, 24 April 2 5 and 2 ID MADR June 11 15 June HIASA ICIA GAL ASTURIAS 17 June A ARR NAV er 17 emb r Sept obe CIA Oct 18 N 1 7/ VALE r EL & Octobe STE OY 4 /2 4 ALL 2 SOUTH INA CAROL Gonvarri Industries 104 Sustainability Report 2019 1,400 2,101 8 5 Nº of attendees Nº participants in Nº of training Nº of training to the Workshops the webinars hours per person hours per Audiovisual person Materials Presencial (all languages) 3,200 210 Nº of video 300 Digital Nº of migrated displays group works Champion il 4 Apr A ON April 9 CEL BAR EL R STE SOLA AO BILB 5 er 2 emb 2 Sept emb er 1 RAZ IL Sept B RID MAD e r Novemb6 5 and r 17 PUEBLA te mbe (MEXICO ) Sep A IN ENT ARG Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 105 Innovation Innovation is the pillar that will allow us to develop competitive products, access new markets, and increase the value contribution to our customers. The line of innovation in 2019 will be piloted mainly on 5 axes, as summarized throughout the chapter. Innovation model Collaborative innovation within the group, the foundation of the digital transformation The model tries to favour the transformation and continuous improvement of the company through innovation, as a fundamental and transversal pillar of growth. Therefore, the training and education of new profiles involved in the coordination and implementation of innovation and new transforming ideas has been reinforced. A clear example is the “GATE Training Program”, developed with the aim of creating future Innovation Coordinators who can support projects in the scope of Industry 4.0. Culture of innovation The technological training of emerging talents has Inspiring innovation-Engineering Meeting allowed us to put creativity at the service of innoWe are committed to intra-enterprise, which began with the vative objectives INSPIRING INNOVATION initiative. In this line, the GMS Division developed the first edition of the “Engineering Meeting”. Strengthening the culture of innovation is a key aspect for During this meeting, the knowledge and experiences of the the development of new ideas and projects. To this end, the different Engineers of the Division were shared, always keeparticipation of diverse teams, with different skills, allows for ping the Strategic Plan of Innovation as a reference. more and better innovative ideas that contribute to the growth of the company. Reinforcing this culture through the Communication Plan is essential to encourage innovative, entrepreneurial and creative behaviour, transforming new ideas into results. For this reason, in 2019 we have increased the number of initiatives in the area of communication, as summarised below. Technology-Innovation We intensified communication, by combining our own communication activities in Innovation with the “Roadshow” of the Digital Workplace project, with the aim of advancing the digital transformation of the whole Group. GATE Training Program Innovation Days This programme, developed in 2019, is integrated by 30 employees with different profiles and skills, both from the plants and We continue with the initiative “Innovation Days” by the Defrom the corporation, who received training on new enabling tepartment of Innovation, allowing to know in more detail, inchnologies within the framework of Industry 4.0. formation on different actions that are being carried out and promoting the possibility of identifying new cases of use. To this end, three face-to-face sessions were held, in addition to several online tutorials led by external trainers from the industrial sector and with the support of some members of Gonvarri as teachers. To conclude the programme, several projects will be carried out based on real Use cases, which will be evaluated for their subsequent implementation. Gonvarri Industries 106 Sustainability Report 2019 Product Innovation Improvements and new designs focused on reduRoad Steel cing raw material consumption, while maintaining This year, the strategic projects that were initiated in 2016 a commitment to environmental protection. with the Institute for Business Competitiveness were comAfter the success of the previous year, we continue to study pleted successfully, which involve developments adapted to new applications in the steel sector, as well as alternative the new standards, as summarised below: materials aimed at improving the properties and reducing the • Analysis and development of predictive models against weight of vehicles in the automotive sector.. breakage of metallic materials and their joints for safety applications. Addimen • Advanced methodological systems for testing, simulaIn the field of Additive Manufacturing, we have acquired spetion and validation to optimally design new road safety cific skills and knowledge through which we have been able infrastructure products. to establish ourselves as one of the leading companies in the design and manufacture of mold inserts with optimized coo• Standard EN-1317-4, focused on the development of ling through conformal channels. safe transitions in case of vehicle impact. Resulting in the new transition model TR-N2LCON which joins concrete with a steel barrier. Solar Steel • Application of the future standard EN-1317-7, with reAfter the success of the TracSmarT+ tracker, our teams consearch into new concepts and energy absorption mechatinue to innovate and improve its design and began the devenisms for application to safe terminals This has resulted lopment of a new tracker in the TS5.0 project in the P-4 Terminal. In addition, digitalization, big data and artificial intelligence technologies are incorporated into our products, in line with the new trends in innovation. Steel Construction The engineering team developed a pole maintenance system at ground level. Mecano This mechanical system allows the lighting fixture to be moved along the length of the lamp post, improving the range as In this sector, we started the design and industrialization of required and allowing for other uses. the straight sections of a staircase type cable carrier system in graphed aluminium. This new connection system between rail and step makes it possible to reduce costs while maintaining high quality standards. Aligned with our customers’ requirements, we design laddertype cable carrier systems that are suited to the special specifications of the shipbuilding market. We also developed an augmented reality mobile application oriented to the commercial area. Among other benefits, this application allows for easy presentation and organization of information, more innovative and impactful adaptation to customer needs, and improved access to installation instructions. It also includes links to the website and YouTube channel, and is downloadable on Android under the name Mecano RA Logo. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 107 Automotive GMH Gonvauto Asturias completed the “MANZANA” R+D project, GMH Canrena, has recently introduced a new battery poweaimed at identifying the effects of welding on the final mared electric pull-out unit. The pull-out units ensure an ergonoterial in the profiling process of high strength steels. To this mic picking process thanks to the loading surface being easily end, new temperature measurement elements were added, accessible from three sides. An economic return can also be among others. obtained due to a higher picking levels, which offer additional The ensuing success has driven a new line for research and locations for the pallets. This is possible as the removable improvement, through the “ADVANCED TUBES” project which units can free up the extra separation space required above goes one step further, acting on the welding line to mitigate the pallets. the heterogeneities detected in the previous phase of the With the battery-powered electric model, no muscle power is project. required to pull or push the removable unit, and no plugs are required in the vicinity, which facilitates optimal and ergonomic handling even for the heaviest loads. Induction coil Weld Rolls Weld Point Apex Innovation in progress The road to sustainability by reducing consumption and waste Additive Manufacturing is now a part of the Lean Manuthe design to the simulation of the thermal distortions of facturing system. For this reason, we are moving forward the parts. with research to improve its tools and get maximum perfor• The RECLADDING project includes the development of mance from the technology and processes. new metallic powder materials for high temperature In line with the improvement of the capacities of the additive applications. manufacturing process, we are immersed in two projects: This initiative is proposed as a continuation of the LEAN Sys• A new research and development project for new matetem implemented in all our automotive plants, which optimirials, focused on 3D metal printing. This project, under the zes the performance and durability of blanking press tools, name ADDIMOLD, deepens the knowledge of the diffealways oriented towards sustainability in terms of reducing rent stages of the production process chain, ranging from rejects and scrap. Gonvarri Industries 108 Sustainability Report 2019 Gonvarri Innovation 4.0 During this period, we continue with the implementation of various “Use Cases” initiated previously, in addition to starting new ones. Among them, the following stand out: Gonvarri 4.0 Digitalization Gonvarri 4.0 Asset and of the Bridge Crane Maintenance Management Focused on the digitalization of the bridge cranes that are The project is built on the development of a maintenance and responsible for the reception and management of raw maasset management SW system built on the current SAP-PM terials in the plant. The system, based on laser technology, module. is designed to geo-position the coils and dies, and to identify The main objectives of this initiative: these automatically and in real time. • Move towards a new maintenance management strategy based on “asset health” and real-time line information. • Optimization and simplification of the current maintenance processes • Access to simple, reliable, and accurate information. • Significant improvements for the user: friendly, agile, simple, and intuitive system. Through digitalization it is easier to concentrate maintenance activities towards tasks of higher importance, which has an impact on work optimization. Gonvarri 4.0 On-site Truck Management This project consisted of the development of a mobile and web solution to optimize the planning, control and management of the intra-plant trucks, based on real-time data analysis. The objective is to increase the efficiency of the expedition process and the safety of Gonvarri’s truckers and personnel involved in this process. The solution consists of several modules that cover the truck flows before and during their stay in the plant, improvements to the logistics process of shipments, improvements in the manoeuvrability of trucks in the plant and optimization of the loading process, thereby reducing waiting time. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 109 Compliance Model Internal audit and compliance 205-1 AND 205-2 The development of the new “Compliance Model” is aiModel. In addition, we are continuing with the efforts to dismed at improving the tracking, measurements and control seminate, train and communicate the Compliance Model and mechanisms for the identified risks. In 2018, as a part of this the policies that comprise it, which will be maintained on an project, the Compliance Committee was established as the ongoing basis as a basic part of the Model itself. Delegate Body of the Board of Directors responsible for the Some of the norms that make up the Compliance Model are Model´s application and revision and for the Management of summarized next: the Ethics Channel. The Code of Ethics and Conduct is applicable to all Group The project is jointly led by the Internal Audit area, the ComCompanies, as well as to investee companies that are under pliance Committee and the different areas of Gonvarri to upeffective control. In the investee companies where the Code date and prepare the Internal Regulation applicable to the is not applicable, principles and guidelines consistent to this Model. In the Internal Audit Statute, the functions, competenCode are promoted. ces, responsibilities and acting principles of the Internal Audit At the same time, the Ethics Channel and the Regulation and Compliance Management are defined. that contains the operating principles and terms of use on At its beginning, a deep revision of the Code of Ethics and which this Channel is based were redefined. This includes the Conduct was conducted, just as the revision of various anfunctions and responsibilities of each of the bodies involved ti-corruption, risk, commercial sanctions and information exin the management and processing of queries/complaints. change policies, among others, which were all approved by Throughout the Report, the code of ethics and complaint the Board of Directors. channels will be further elaborated upon. Its implementation is carried out in phases. It started in 2018 The Statute of the compliance committee, the superand was completed in 2019, including the whole process of vision Policy and Plan of the compliance model define the design and continuous improvement, dissemination, managescope, responsibilities, roles and powers of each Gonvarri ment, training and supervision. From 2020 onwards we entemember and of the Compliance Committee in order to control, red into a recurrent process of detection and management of supervise, evaluate and improve the ¨Compliance Model¨. regulatory compliance risks and the monitoring, supervision, updating and improvement of the implemented Compliance Compliance Model Code of Ethics and Governance and Conduct Transparency Compliance Committee H&S Communication Environment & Quality Training Internal Rules and Ethics Policies Key Oversight Channel Processes Operations Human Resources IT Tax and Compliance Finance Gonvarri Industries 110 Sustainability Report 2019 The Global Compact Principles Sustainable Development Goals Anticorruption Economic Human Rights and Labor Standards Social Environment Environmental The “Rule zero” is directly related, which describes the proIn addition and together with these, various internal reguladuction, approval and publishing of the internal regulation tions are issued that detail and deploy our principles, defined devised by Gonvarri and is designated to the people that are in the Code of Ethics, in each of the areas of interest, among in its structure or related to it in any of their own areas of others: Management of relations with third parties, Accepactivity. tance and delivery of gifts, invitations and incentives, Health In the anti-fraud and corruption Policy the commitment and safety standards, Safety in transport, Recruitment and of the Group to the corporate values and behavioural guidelitraining of personnel, Performance evaluation, Code of Connes set out in its ¨Code of Ethics and Conduct¨ is established, duct for suppliers, Code against harassment, Protection of explicitly expressing the objection of the Gonvarri Group to the environment, Management of conflicts of interest, privilecommitting any type of conduct that implies or might imply ged information, Purchasing and Investment Policy, Security an act of fraud or corruption. of Systems and information, Transparent Relations with Public Administrations, etc. In line with the foregoing, the Corporate Competitive Information Exchange Policy establishes the rules and Regarding the Protection of Personal Data in the Eustandards that guide the exchange of information between ropean Union, 19 consultations of different matters and employees and the personnel of competing companies, and complex were received. No security incidents or request for the Corporate Trade Sanctions Policy complements the rights management have been received or detected from the general provisions established in the Group’s Code of Ethics data subjects. During 2019, the Group has started to adapt and Conduct and Compliance Policy in relation to compliance the procedures related with the Protection of Personal Data with all laws and regulations on international trade sanctions to the various local regulations that are being developed in and restrictions. It encompasses broad economic sanctions different countries where the Group is present. In 2020, the against a country or territory; as well as the particular econogood practices implemented in the Group will continue to be mic sanctions based on lists, in which certain entities, people transferred to the rest of the locations where Gonvarri is preand organizations are included. sent, adapted to local requirements where appropriate. Finally, the Corporate policy for risk control and manaOnce the compliance model is updated and these internal gement and the Corporate policy for tax risk managerules are issued, an ambitious plan for the diffusion, commument have determining basic principles, such as an internal nication and training for 2020, with continuity in future years, control framework and the management of any type of risk has been developed. that the Group Gonvarri, as their goal. Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 111 Code of Ethics • Form through https://gonvarri.i2ethics.com, also accessible on the Group’s website http://www.gonvarri.com 102-16 AND 102-17 • Email: ethicschannel@gonvarri.com • Ordinary mail with the address: Internal Audit and ComThe Code comprises of an express declaration of the values, pliance C/Embajadores s/n. 28053 Madrid. principles and behavioural guidelines that must be adopted by the people of the Group in their professional role, regarding topics such as relations with customers, employees, collaboIn addition, it is accessible through the Call Back option rators, providers and the community, and so consolidating the available on the platform https://gonvarristeelservices. existing trust between the Group and third parties. i2ethics.com It is mandatory for employees, collaborators, directors and the managers of the Group know the full content of the Code and especially the principles and behavioural guidelines in it. WhatsApp APP Gonvarri Web application It is also mandatory to have training inherent to this material +34 679 981 922 IOs & Android https://gonvarri.i2ethics.com and to pass an exam concerning the principles and directives the Code contains. Furthermore, the Compliance Committee and the Ethics Email address Postal service Channels have been redefined to bring any of the undue siethicschannel@gonvarri.com Att./ Comité de Cumplimiento C. Embajadores, 458 tuations, doubts, queries or shown malpractices, as well as 28053 Madrid Spain legal or disciplinary measures to their attention. An audit plan will be made annually to verify its adequate dissemination Once the query/complaint has been communicated through and compliance. the given platform or through one of the other available media, the user will receive an email from the external provider (i2ethics) with information to confirm the information sent to Ethics Channel the Channel and start of their operation. The Ethics Channel is made available to all employees, A new Code of Ethics and Conduct was approved by the directors, managers and collaborators in the Gonvarri Group Board of Directors in September 2017 and so were the Acand also to other external stakeholders, such as customers, tion Protocols of the Ethics Channel in January 2018. providers or the society in general. This with the same objective of consulting doubts about the application of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, just as notifying the possible misconAwareness and training ducts that correspond to the breach thereof. In 2018, training began on the Code of Ethics and the Ethical The Ethical Channel Regulation define the operating prinChannel as the main parts of the Compliance Model, which ciples and the terms of use on which the Ethics Channel is was completed in 2019. based, and the functions and responsibilities of each of the For the dissemination of the Code and the Ethical Channel, bodies involved in the management and processing of quean online course was developed, accessible from the intranet ries/complaints. and the mobile application, in which videos, texts and results The Compliance Committee is the managing body of this tests were incorporated to facilitate comprehension, with an channel that establishes the action protocols to analyse, inestimated duration of between one and two hours. In addivestigate, conclude and communicate the outcomes of the tion, a major training effort was made throughout the year to complaints received. It will periodically report on activity madisseminate the principles of the Code, which will continue in naging the Ethics Channel: the number of queries and comsuccessive years. plaints received, complaints concerning critical situations, Around 200 hours total were invested in its elaboration, state of complaints, etc. to the Board of Directors and its 3,034 employees were enrolled, of which 2,640 have commembers. Similarly, any relevant issue will also be reported pleted the course. This amounts to 3,960 training hours for if necessary. employees who have completed the course. Employees of The external provider is in charge of providing and maintaicompanies with shared control where independent complianning an accessible channel, guaranteeing the confidentiality ce models exist are not included. During 2020, training will of the communications made and their management, safebe completed for the employees of the companies that have guarding and filing the data according to the applicable regujoined the group in 2018 and 2019. lations, and acting as an intermediary between the user and From 2020, the development of the comprehensive indivithe Compliance Committee to guarantee confidentiality as an dualized compliance training plan will begin. Therefore, deoperating principle. pending on the position, department and tasks that each There are different possible ways to access the Ethics employee develops, a specific training itinerary for individual Channel: compliance will be defined. This training is mandatory for all employees of the group. The training itineraries are based on online courses through Gonvarri Group training platform. These itineraries also include recurrent ad reminders. Gonvarri Industries 112 Sustainability Report 2019 Complaints and ongoing disputes Gonvarri Ethic Channel is open both for internal use of emFour of the complaints were resolved with disciplinary meployees as for any interested third party (supplier, customers asures of varying degrees of severity, depending on the and others). Through the channel, irregular or improper situaseriousness of the facts established after the investigation tion that violate the Group’s Code of Ethics may be reported. (205-3). Ethic channel is currently available in 18 different languages, Two cases of discrimination have been identified, one compin order to make it accessible to all potential users around laint by a third party and one anonymous complaint (406-1). the world. No sensitive activities related to human rights, forced labour In the year 2020, the Ethical Channel platform will be updaand child labour have been identified that would have a sigted, which will benefit the users of the Channel, while increanificant impact on the company’s different operations (408-1 sing security and usability, as well as due compliance with and 409-1). current regulations. With regard to the management of personal data protection, During the period under analysis, 754 visits to the ethino communications have been registered or received regarding cal channel were recorded, 39% fewer than in the year the security incidents or data management of those concerned. channel was launched (1,228 visits in 2018). Almost all the In 2019, no proceedings have been initiated as a result of accesses were from Spain (64%), with visits from 25 different accidents at work that could result in penalties for surcharcountries. ging benefits. Of the two procedures initiated in 2017, have In 2019, 12 valid complaints were received on the Gonvarri already been unresolved and no new administrative sanction Ethical Channel, none of which are pending resolution to date. has been received during 2019 as a result of occupational accidents (403-2). The following is a breakdown of the complaints received according to the nature of the behaviour reported: Regarding other procedures initiated against the society, ongoing disputes and sanctions, there are no other meaningful instances that have a relevant economic impact on the ComRECEIVED COMPLAINTS pany with regard to: Harassment 4 Conflict of interest 1 • Unfair competition, monopolistic practices and practices Corruption and bribery 2 against free competition (206-1). Discrimination 2 • Health and safety impacts of products and services Fraud 1 (416-2). Others 2 • Justified complaints related to customer privacy violaTOTAL 12 tions or to customer data losses (418-1). • Non-compliance to the laws and legislation in the social, environmental and economic areas (307-1 and 419-1). • Non-compliance concerning information and labelling of products and services (417-2). • Non-compliance concerning marketing communications (417-3). Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 113 ANNEXES The content of the Sustainability Report follows the guidelines of the “GRI Standards” reference guide, the Materiality Study result and the Sustainable Development Goals. Its content has been verified by the independent company EY. ANNEX I External verification report ANNEX II Report Profile ANNEX III Quantitative Information ANNEX VI GRI Content Index ANNEX V VI Global Compact Principles Scope Gonvarri Industries 114 Sustainability Report 2019 ANNEX I Independent Review Report 102-56 Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 115 ANNEX II Report Profile The Sustainability Report has been made in accordance with the Significant Changes information and indicators established in the reference guidebook In comparison to the previous year, the scope of the Report now ¨GRI Standards¨, comprehensive option, (102-54) and the relealso includes the quantitative and qualitative data concerning vant factors that derive from our Materiality Study, as an integral the following installations: GMH Canrena, Gonvauto Nitra, L.A. part of our Management Model ¨Drive¨ and our commitment to Zaragoza and all distribution centres and offices of Gonvarri Mathe Sustainable Development Goals. The GRI table of Contents is terial Handling with less than 15 employees (not included in the annexed to this report, together with the independent external ve2018Report) (102-49). rification report from the Company EY (102-56).). Only with qualitative information the plant of GMH Kredit, acquired The purpose of this report is to communicate the most important at the end of the year. initiatives and issues, through an approach aligned with our understanding of sustainability and its impact on the management The minor changes are indicated in their corresponding sections. of the Company. There has not been any restatement of information regarding the previous financial year (102-48), nor any changes to the supply chain (102-10). Presentation cycle As in previous years, the Report has an annual periodicity (10252), and covers the information from January 1st 2019 and DeContact of the report cember 31st 2019, the last report being that from 2018 (102-51). General questions about this report can be addressed to (102-53): rsc@gonvarri.com +34 91 379 10 00 St. Ombú 3, floor 1. 28045 Madrid. Spain Gonvarri Industries 116 Sustainability Report 2019 ANNEX III. Quantitative information Human Resources OWN PERSONNEL MEN MANAGER MIDDLE MANAGER PLANT PERSONNEL 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 Germany 0 0 4 3 0 2 5 24 26 66 85 124 Argentina 0 0 1 0 0 7 3 1 5 13 10 3 Belgium 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 4 Brazil 0 0 0 1 0 4 14 9 57 106 74 29 China 0 2 12 3 0 11 19 2 30 170 52 3 Colombia 0 0 3 1 0 7 12 9 4 39 34 100 Denmark 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 1 1 8 Spain 0 4 15 39 1 20 87 114 35 164 409 586 USA 1 2 3 1 0 2 1 2 7 41 20 8 Slovakia 0 0 1 2 0 3 8 1 18 50 29 28 Finland 0 0 0 1 0 1 4 3 2 4 8 13 Netherlands 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 2 1 6 5 7 Hungary 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 4 1 Mexico 0 0 0 1 1 14 12 3 12 26 22 7 Norway 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 5 0 0 6 8 Poland 0 0 1 1 0 0 4 2 14 33 34 12 Portugal 0 0 0 1 0 0 5 8 7 20 19 18 UK 0 0 1 6 0 0 4 8 9 29 51 85 Czech Rep. 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 Romania 0 0 2 2 0 1 4 0 34 79 79 129 Russia 0 0 3 0 0 9 12 3 8 34 29 26 Sweden 0 0 2 6 0 2 3 4 4 17 28 45 Turkey 0 3 5 4 0 4 7 0 10 67 58 33 TOTAL 1 11 55 80 2 87 205 203 283 966 1,059 1,277 WOMEN MANAGER MIDDLE MANAGER PLANT PERSONNEL 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 18-25 26-35 36-45 46 Germany 0 0 2 0 0 0 1 2 12 19 11 16 Argentina 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 1 1 3 0 Belgium 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 Brazil 0 0 0 0 0 6 2 3 14 21 12 6 China 0 1 2 0 0 3 8 0 0 37 7 0 Colombia 0 1 0 1 0 1 6 4 0 12 7 3 Denmark 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 2 Spain 0 2 4 4 0 6 11 8 8 29 65 42 USA 0 0 0 1 0 2 1 0 1 2 2 0 Slovakia 0 0 1 1 0 0 3 1 0 6 19 3 Finland 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 7 Netherlands 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 2 3 Hungary 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 1 Mexico 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 1 0 8 0 0 Norway 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 Poland 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 2 19 6 4 Portugal 0 0 1 0 0 0 4 1 0 2 6 6 UK 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 6 16 15 Czech Rep. 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 Romania 0 0 0 1 0 1 2 1 4 27 18 15 Russia 0 0 0 0 0 7 7 3 1 8 3 3 Sweden 0 0 0 2 0 1 2 2 0 3 4 7 Turkey 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 0 1 7 1 0 TOTAL 0 4 10 11 0 30 62 30 47 209 185 135 Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 117 EXTERNAL PERSONNEL SUBCONTRACTORS TEA´s MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Germany 7 0 28 1 Brazil 1 0 0 1 China 2 0 18 3 Colombia 0 0 100 5 Spain 129 0 275 9 USA 0 2 1 4 Mexico 10 0 39 4 Portugal 2 0 10 1 UK 1 0 14 0 Russia 1 0 5 0 Sweden 1 0 0 0 Turkey 41 0 0 0 TOTAL 195 2 490 28 HIRES MEN WOMEN MIDDLE PLANT MIDDLE PLANT MANAGER MANAGER MANAGER PERSONNEL MANAGER PERSONNEL 18263618263618263618263618263618263646 46 46 46 46 46 25 35 45 25 35 45 25 35 45 25 35 45 25 35 45 25 35 45 Germany 0 0 2 1 0 1 2 1 6 6 17 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 8 2 4 1 Argentina 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 Belgium 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Brazil 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 26 28 14 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 8 2 4 1 China 0 0 1 1 0 3 4 0 5 17 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 8 2 0 Colombia 0 0 0 0 0 3 1 0 2 12 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 5 2 0 Denmark 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Spain 0 1 0 0 0 7 5 2 9 58 42 9 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 8 7 4 USA 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 Slovakia 0 0 0 1 0 1 3 0 7 20 10 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 0 Finland 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Netherlands 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Hungary 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Mexico 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 Norway 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Poland 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 6 5 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 2 1 3 Portugal 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 5 6 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 UK 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 10 9 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 0 2 Czech Rep. 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Romania 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 21 16 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 3 1 4 Russia 0 0 0 0 0 7 0 1 6 9 6 6 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 1 1 0 0 1 Sweden 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 3 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Turkey 0 0 0 1 0 0 2 1 5 24 14 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 2 0 TOTAL 0 3 4 4 0 24 21 8 99 225 150 73 0 1 0 1 0 3 4 2 24 41 26 17 Gonvarri Industries 118 Sustainability Report 2019 MEN’S LEAVES DISMISSAL LEAVING VOLUNTARY LEAVING MIDDLE PLANT MIDDLE PLANT MANAGER MANAGER MANAGER PERSONNEL MANAGER PERSONNEL 18263618263618263618263618263618263646 46 46 46 46 46 25 35 45 25 35 45 25 35 45 25 35 45 25 35 45 25 35 45 Germany 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 5 4 7 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 3 4 1 Argentina 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 3 0 0 Belgium 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Brazil 0 0 0 0 0 1 4 2 12 17 17 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 15 4 0 China 0 0 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 10 6 5 0 Colombia 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 2 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 3 2 6 Denmark 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Spain 0 0 1 1 0 1 2 0 0 2 6 6 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 14 34 19 25 USA 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Slovakia 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 1 2 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 3 4 3 1 Finland 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Netherlands 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Hungary 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Mexico 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 3 4 1 0 0 0 0 0 4 4 0 1 4 4 0 Norway 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 Poland 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 3 4 2 Portugal 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 2 UK 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 3 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 2 11 12 8 Czech Rep. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Romania 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 17 18 19 22 Russia 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 0 1 5 11 9 0 0 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 1 1 Sweden 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 0 1 Turkey 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 11 11 8 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 2 7 7 4 TOTAL 0 1 4 3 1 6 10 6 23 50 61 39 0 0 4 5 0 8 5 1 64 115 85 73 WOMEN’S LEAVES DISMISSAL LEAVING VOLUNTARY LEAVING MIDDLE PLANT MIDDLE PLANT MANAGER MANAGER MANAGER PERSONNEL MANAGER PERSONNEL 18263618263618263618263618263618263646 46 46 46 46 46 25 35 45 25 35 45 25 35 45 25 35 45 25 35 45 25 35 45 Germany 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 Argentina 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Belgium 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Brazil 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 6 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 China 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 0 Colombia 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 1 0 Denmark 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Spain 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 6 2 USA 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Slovakia 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Finland 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 Netherlands 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Hungary 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Mexico 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 3 2 0 Norway 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Poland 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 2 0 Portugal 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 UK 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 3 0 1 Czech Rep. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Romania 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 3 2 4 Russia 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 Sweden 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Turkey 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 TOTAL 0 0 2 0 0 3 1 2 3 11 8 6 0 0 0 0 3 2 1 2 9 26 15 8 Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 119 TRAINING BY GENDER AND CATEGORY MEN WOMEN MIDDLE PLANT MIDDLE PLANT MANAGER MANAGER MANAGER PERSONNEL MANAGER PERSONNEL Germany 365 2,036 5,367 311 4,077 2,158 Argentina 86 1,029 1,918 0 429 429 Belgium 0 0 0 0 0 76 Brazil 6 1,431 8,698 0 458 1,723 China 402 1,525 5,808 72 505 1,008 Colombia 589 720 16,780 2,700 68 3,020 Denmark 0 0 0 0 0 0 Spain 1,192 9,206 48,293 141 1,957 8,833 USA 0 0 16,445 0 0 0 Slovakia 245 637 1,774 60 240 1,480 Finland 16 16 32 0 22 8 Netherlands 0 0 52 0 12 20 Hungary 0 0 0 0 0 16 Mexico 49 835 5,797 0 195 590 Norway 3 33 65 0 0 0 Poland 90 901 6,118 0 90 4,032 Portugal 0 346 2,671 15 125 472 UK 144 360 7,012 0 10 592 Czech Rep. 32 32 0 0 0 0 Romania 8 521 15,679 0 86 1,496 Russia 183 1,042 1,784 0 195 441 Sweden 82 124 453 31 0 50 Turkey 10 1,370 6,900 0 502 810 TOTAL 3,500 22,162 151,645 3,329 8,970 27,254 PERSONNEL BY TYPE OF CONTRACT AND DURATION OF CONTRACT, GENDER AND COUNTRY TYPE OF CONTRACT CONTRACT DURATION PERMANENT TEMPORARY SCHOLARSHIP FULL-TIME PART TIME MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Germany 277 43 49 11 13 9 339 54 0 9 Argentina 43 9 0 0 0 0 43 9 0 0 Belgium 7 2 0 0 0 0 7 2 0 0 Brazil 288 58 1 1 5 5 218 49 76 15 China 258 49 46 9 0 0 291 57 13 1 Colombia 192 16 34 1 1 0 209 35 0 0 Denmark 13 4 0 0 0 0 13 4 0 0 Spain 1,396 164 76 12 2 3 1,425 167 49 12 USA 88 9 0 0 0 0 88 9 0 0 Slovakia 101 30 39 4 0 0 140 34 0 0 Finland 35 8 1 1 0 0 36 9 0 0 Netherlands 21 5 2 1 0 0 21 3 2 3 Hungary 6 3 1 0 0 0 7 3 0 0 Mexico 98 12 0 0 0 0 98 12 0 0 Norway 22 6 1 0 0 0 23 5 0 1 Poland 65 23 36 11 0 0 100 34 1 0 Portugal 54 16 24 4 0 0 78 20 0 0 UK 162 38 29 2 2 0 190 26 3 14 Czech Rep. 3 0 2 0 0 0 3 2 0 0 Romania 260 61 70 8 0 0 329 68 1 1 Russia 123 31 1 1 0 0 124 32 0 0 Sweden 105 19 6 2 0 0 107 18 4 3 Turkey 191 12 0 0 0 0 191 12 0 0 TOTAL 3,808 618 418 68 23 17 4,080 664 149 59 Gonvarri Industries 120 Sustainability Report 2019 ANNEX IV GRI Content Index 102-55 The contents of this index have been externally verified by the independent entity EY. The related independent review report for verification can be found in the Annex of this document. Information omissions are included as a note in italics on appropriate indicators. Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review GRI 101: Foundation GRI 102: General Content 102-1 Name of the organization 26 √ 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 16 y 17 √ 102-3 Location of headquarters 26 √ 102-4 Location of operations 12 √ 102-5 Ownership and legal form 26 √ 102-6 Markets served 12, 14 √ Organizational 102-7 Scale of the organization 11 √ profile 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 46, 47, Anx III √ 102-9 Supply chain 43 √ 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 43, 115 √ 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 36 √ 102-12 External initiatives 79 √ 102-13 Membership of associations 45 √ 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-7 √ Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 35-38 √ Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 112 √ integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 112 √ 102-18 Governance structure 26 √ 102-19 Delegating authority 26 √ 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics. 27 √ 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics. 27 √ 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 26 √ 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 26 √ 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 26 √ 102-25 Conflicts of interest 27 √ 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 27 √ 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 28 √ 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 26 √ Governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts. 28, 35-38 √ 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 28 √ 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 28 √ 102-32 FuncHighest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 28 √ 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 28 √ 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 29 √ 102-35 Remuneration policies 29 √ 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 29 √ 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 29 √ 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio NA. Confidential √ Information 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio NA. Confidential √ Information 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 23 √ 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 55 √ Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 23 √ engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 23 √ 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 24 √ Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 121 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 127 √ 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 24 √ 102-47 List of material topics 24-25 √ 102-48 Restatements of information 116 √ 102-49 Changes in reporting 24, 116 √ Prácticas para 102-50 Reporting period 116 √ la elaboración de informes 102-51 Date of most recent report 116 √ 102-52 Reporting cycle 116 √ 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 116 √ 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 116 √ 102-55 GRI content index 121-125 √ 102-56 External assurance 116 √ Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Temas materiales Economic Performance Materility topics GRI 103:Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 24 √ Approach. It is applicable to 103-2 The management approach and its components 24 √ all indicators reported in this section Economic Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24 √ Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 33 √ GRI 201: Economic 201-2 Financial implications and other risk and opportunities due to climate change 97-98 √ Performance 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 59 √ 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 34 √ Procurement Practices GRI 204: Procurement 204-1: Proportion of spending on local suppliers 43 √ Practices Anticorrupción 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 110 √ GRI 205: Anti corruption 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 49, 110 √ 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 113 √ Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 206: Anti-competitive 206-1: Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 113 √ Behavior practices Environmental performance Management Approach GRI 103:Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 24 √ Approach. It is applicable to all indicators 103-2 The management approach and its components 24 √ reported in this section Environmental Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24 √ Evaluation of the management approach GRI 301: Materials 301-1: Materials used by weight or volume. 73 √ Gonvarri Industries 122 Sustainability Report 2019 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Environmental performance Energy 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 94 √ 302-2: Energy consumption outside of the organization 95, Note A √ GRI 302: Energy 302-3: Energy intensity 95 √ 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 96 √ 302-5: Reduction in energy requirements of products and services Note B √ Emissions 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 99 √ 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 99 √ 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 99 √ GRI 305: Emissions 305-4: GHG emissions intensity 99 √ 305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions 100 √ 305-6: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ND √ 305-7: Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions. 100 √ Effluents and Waste 306-1: Water discharge by quality and destination. 71 √ 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method 72 √ GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 306-3: Significant spills 71 √ 306-4: Transport of hazardous waste Note C √ 306-5: Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 71, Note D √ Environmental Compliance GRI 307: Environmental 307-1: Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 113 √ Compliance Social Perfomance Management Approach GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 24 √ Approach. It is applicable to all indicators reported 103-2 The management approach and its components 24 √ in this section Social Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24 √ Employment 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover 48, Anex III √ 401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or GRI 401: Employment part-time employees 58 √ 401-3: Parental leave 59 √ Occupational Health and Safety 403-1: Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees 70 √ 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 67, 68 √ GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-3: Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 66 √ 403-4: Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 70 √ Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 123 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Social Perfomance Training and Education 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 48, 49, Anx III √ GRI 404: Training and 404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 49-51 √ Education 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 51 √ Diversity and Equal Opportunity (not material) GRI 405: Diversity 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 27, 54 √ and Equal Opportunity Non-discrimination GRI 406: Non406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 113 √ discrimination Child Labor GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 113 √ Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 409: Forced or 409-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 113 √ Compulsory Labor Human Rights Assessment (not material) GRI 412: Human rights 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 49 √ assessment 412-3: Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 35 √ Local Communities 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development GRI 413: Local programs 79 √ Communities 413-2: Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 80 √ Public Policy GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1: Political contributions 34 √ Customer Health and Safety GRI 416: Customer 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Nota E √ Health and Safety 416-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 113 √ Marketing and Labeling 417-1: Requirements for product and service information and labeling 77 √ GRI 417: Marketing 417-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling 113 √ and Labeling 417-3: Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 113 √ Customer Privacy GRI 418: Customer 418-1: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 113 √ Privacy Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 419: Socioeconomic 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 113 √ Compliance Note A: The calculation methodology will be implemented gradually and is expected to have all the energy information and the carbon footprint in 2022. NOTA B: Does not apply. The products follow the customers’ specifications, so the company has little influence. NOTE C: Due to our type of activity we do not transport of hazardous waste NOTE D: Do not affect water bodies Note E: Does not apply due to the type of product of our company. Gonvarri Industries 124 Sustainability Report 2019 ANNEX V The Global Compact Contents in relation to the Global Compact Principles The following table shows the chapters of this report that provide the most relevant information regarding the 10 principles of the Global Compact, in addition to the one included on the management approaches of every GRI aspect. Each stakeholder can evaluate Gonvarri Industries’ progress concerning these principles by the following this table: Progress included Aspect UN Global Compact Principles in chapter Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Drive: Sustainability protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Human Rights Drive: Sustainability Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit Drive: Efficiency in human rights abuses. Drive: Profitable growth Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Drive: People collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and Drive: Profitable compulsory labour. growth Labour Rights Drive: Profitable Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. growth Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect Drive: People of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Drive: Sustainability approach to environmental challenges. Drive: Eficiencia Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Drive: Sustainability Enviromental environmental responsibility. Drive: Efficiency Drive: Sustainability Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion Drive: Efficiency of environmentally friendly technologies. Drive: Innovation Our business Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in Anti-corruption all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Drive: Internal Auditing & Compliance Gonvarri Industries Sustainability Report 2019 125 ANNEX VI Scope consolidation of Gonvarri Industries S.L. and subsidiaries 102-45 Scope consolidation. The group was composed by the following companies at the end of 2019. Subsidiary / Associated company Country Subsidiary / Associated company Country Gonvauto Thüringen, GMBH Germany Laser Automotive Zaragoza, S.l. Spain Gonvarri Automotive GMBH Germany Flejes Industriales, S.A. Spain Gonvarri Aluminium, GMBH Germany Suports Desarrollo y Soluciones, S.L. Spain Laser Automotive Branderburgo, GMBH Germany Addimen Bizkaia, S.L. Spain Laser Automotive Thuringen, GMBH Germany Gonvarri Material Handling, S.L. Spain Dexion GMBH Germany Sogei S.A. Spain Gonvarri Argentina Germany Gonvarri Portfolio Brasil, S.L Spain Dexion Österreich GmbH Austria Gonvarri Portfolio Internacional, S.L. Spain Dexion Nv/Sa Belgium Belgium Hierros Villaverde, S.A. Spain AMG Brasil Prod. Siderúrgicos S.A. Brazil GMS Francia Sas France MAG Aliança Auto. Do Brasil Brasil Constructor Finland Oy Finland Gonvarri Chile Estructuras Metálicas, LTDA. Chile Hiasa Montajes Guatemala, S.L. Guatemala Dongguan Gonvarri Suhomitomo China Constructor Dexion Holland BV Netherlands Vama Gonvarri Aass Changshu China Hiasa Montajes Honduras, S.A. Honduras Vama Gonvarri Aass Shenyang China Dexion Kft Hungary Hungary Vama Gonvarri Aass Chongqing China Gestamp Automotive India Private Ltd India Vama Gonvarri Aass Loudi China Gonvarri Italia, S.P.A Italy Vama Gonvarri Automotive Solutions CO. LTD China Gonvarri Industrial Maroc, S.A. Morocco Gonvarri Ms Colombia Sas Colombia Gonvauto Puebla S.A. De C.V. Mexico Constructor Danmark A/S Denmark Denmark Gonvarri Baja California Mexico Arcerlomittal Gonvarri Nitra S.R.O Slovakia Suports Energia Sustentable México S.A.P.I. De C.V Mexico Arcerlomittal Gonvarri SSC Slovakia, S.R.O Slovakia Gonvarri Material Handling As (Constructor Group) Norway Dexion Spol Sro Slovakia Slovakia Constructor Norge As Norway Norway Gonvauto South Carolina USA Gonvarri Polonia Poland Gonvarri Steel Services Us, Inc USA Dexion Polska Sp. Z.O.O Poland Poland Gestamp Solar Steel Us, Inc USA Gonvarri Productos Siderurgicos, S.A. Portugal Gonvarri I.centro De Servicios SL Spain Steel & Alloy Procesing UK Gonvarri Valencia, S.A. Spain Steel & Alloy Holding LTD UK Gonvauto, S.A. Spain Constructor Group Uk LTD UK Gonvauto Navarra, S.A. Spain HiLo Storage Systems LTD UK Hierros Y Aplanaciones, S.A. Spain Gonvarri Czech, S.R.O. Czech Rep. Gonvarri Tarragona, SL. Spain Dexion SRO Czech Republic Czech Rep. Gonvauto Galicia, S.A. Spain Kredit SRO Czech Republic Czech Rep. Gonvarri Vizcaya, S.L. Spain Dexion Storage Solutions SRL, Romania Romania Severstal Gonvarri Holding, S.l. Spain Severstal Gonvarri Kaluga Russia Gonvarri Ms Corporate, S.l. Spain Constructor Rus Russia Gonvasolar S.L. Spain Constructor Sverige As Sweden Sweden Gonvauto Asturias, S.L. Spain Constructor Shared Services Ab Sweden Sweden Laser Automotive Barcelona, S.L. Spain Canrena System Aktiebolag Sweden Gonvarri Solar Steel,S.L. Spain Cepas Galvaniz, Sanayi Anomin Sirketi Turkey Road Steel Engineering Spain Bikostar International, S.A. Uruguay Laser Automotive Valencia, S.L. Spain Gonvarri Industries 126 Sustainability Report 2019 Download the online version of the Sustainability Report on Gonvarri 4.0 Drive App Download the online version of the Sustainability Report on Gonvarri 4.0 Drive App
