Communication on Progress. Gran Living ApS 2020 We believe in continuous progress. We continue our support The past 12 months have been really exciting Since joining the UN Global Compact here at Gran Living ApS. Celebrating our initiative in 2013 Gran Living continually 15th anniversary reminded us on the many supported the ten principles on human right, achievements we accomplished in the last labor right, environment and anti-corruption years and made us think about where we are and we continue doing so in the next year. heading in the future. One thing is certain, we want to continue our CSR journey. In this Communication of Progress report, we share our achievements from 2019 and Over the last years we have noticed that the outline what we strive to accomplish in the sustainability agenda in a global context has year to come. changed and is more and more shaped by the Sustainable Development Goals. These Finally, I also want to make a few comments goals not only steer sustainability efforts in regards to Covid-19 and the impact we all in the same direction, they also influence feel. This Coronavirus outbreak has forced us communication & recognition in the society. to work in new ways – business as usual is no The Sustainable Development Goals call for longer enough. For instance, we have all been action from governments, the private sector forced to find out new ways of meeting since and society alike and we at Gran Living want travelling and meetings with customer and to express our contribution to the Agenda suppliers are not possible right now thus, we 2030 in this report. have all taken virtual meetings to our hearts In order to achieve the goals, we have set which from an environmental point of view is ourselves we rely on help from our supplier, a positive thing. We have also started to look employees and third-party business partners. for partners and suppliers a little bit “closer to Therefore, supply chain management and home” maybe we don’t always need to cross collaboration with certification bodies are of the river for water. Point being that in the utmost importance for us and we spend a lot middle of this tragic Corona pandemic we of resources on selecting our suppliers and also need to remember the bright spots. developing a strong and close relationship with our partners to increase our influence for a sustainable development. Kind regards, Per Gran Hartvigsen PGH CEO GRAN LIVING ApS, Denmark, COP for 2020 Our story. Gran Living was founded in 2004 by Per and Kathrine Gran Hartvigsen, with the ambition to design, sell and import quality home accessories. To this day Gran Living delivers a broad range of private label design products to medium and high-end chain stores in Northern Europe. In 2015 we launched the AYTM brand. Today AYTM products can be found in more than 65 countries all over the world. Based on more than 15 years of experience and knowledge within trend spotting, design and marked trends we challenge our customers with unique designs. We focus on design and quality for both the private label brands as well as for AYTM. Read more about GRAN LIVING & AYTM at: granliving.dk aytm.dk 5 What we planned for in 2019. Human rights & labour rights Environment In 2019, plans changed and the following The main topic for 2019 was the launch of points were not fulfilled — for good reasons. new sustainable packaging for AYTM and we are proud to inform that we succeeded. You • Conduct five third party CSR audits can read more about our journey on page 23. • Make second assessment of supplier base Another target for 2019 was to find a textile • Conduct follow-up measurements with supplier who can provide certified fabrics. all suppliers Although we are not completely there yet, we initiated a development process with a We decided to terminate our collaboration new supplier who might be able to provide with Green Network in favor of BSCI. This Oekotex certified fabrics within 2020. we did for several reasons that we will share We can also announce that we increased the with you here. number of vegetarian days from one to two days. Read more on page 24. One of our valued private label customers required from 2019 that all suppliers used to Finally yet importantly, we completed the produce their products were BSCI audited. testing of our AYTM candles and oils in order We always strive to meet the requirements to confirm that these do not contain harmful from our customers, especially in cases that palm oil. The result showed no indication of makes so much sense – because BSCI is also palm oil in our products. a valuable tool for Gran Living. The idea of standardized and well-known requirements Anti-corruption for each supplier, shared by each customer In 2019, the goal was to make a guide to our is ideal for both customers and suppliers. employees, guiding in appropriate behavior Furthermore, we share the work and the in order to avoid corruption and bribery. To responsibility of supply chain management, this point, we have not finished the guide. reducing the workload for all of us. Read The main reason is reorganization, which more on page 16. has been resolved by hiring our new CSR coordinator who will dedicate her full time in the area of CSR and compliance. In the chapter “What we strive for in the year 2020”, you can read more on how we plan to implement these guidelines in 2020. 6 What we strive for in 2020. Even though Gran Living, as most companies, Speaking of Corona, the crisis has forced us are highly affected by the Corona crisis, we do to change our habits. By this we mean new not intend to lower our ambitions of what we ways of doing business; new ways, which can achieve in the year 2020. will benefit both our economy and the environment. Corona forced us to explore Human rights & labour rights new ways of having meetings with external At Gran Living, we hold a huge responsibility business partners without travelling and to secure decent working conditions for we have learned that we can be very much everyone involved in producing our products, efficient via online platforms like Skype, which is why we will continue to improve Zoom and Teams – without neglecting working conditions via BSCI auditing of our the value of face-to-face meetings, which suppliers. Read more on page 16. are still very important for building close relationships. Environment Within 2020, we plan to achieve the FSC Anti-corruption and bribery certificate, allowing us to produce and Having the main part of our production market FSC certified wooden products and in high-risk areas, requires a high effort in packaging materials to our customers. Read order to avoid corruption and bribery in our more on page 19. supply chain. That is why we have decided to finish the employee-guide, originally planned for 2019, this year. To ensure the optimum implementation of our anti-corruption initiative, we will arrange internal sessions to inform and instruct our employees in both Denmark and China. 9 Our responsibility. At Gran Living, we design, buy and distribute For us, working with corporate social all our products, and we are aware of the responsibility is an ongoing process impact this has, both on our planet and on of improvements, that requires close the people involved with our business. At collaboration and good communication with the same time, we feel a great sense of social all our business partners. Working with many responsibility towards our fellow human different producers from around the world, beings and we consider it as a primary it is important for us that all of them fulfill responsibility to minimize this impact the minimum standards laid out in our Code through actions that benefit the society. of Conduct. To better manage our supply We acknowledge our responsibility to chain, we decided to become members of the contribute to a better world within our scope amfori Business Social Compliance Initiative of influence. In order to show our respect (BSCI) and take advantage of the collective for the people and the planet, we voluntarily management system to ensure our suppliers take action to protect the workers and are audited on a regular basis. the environment in the areas in which we By committing to the UN Global Compact operate and we continuously seek to improve (UNGC) we are obligated to actively work the conditions for the employees and the towards complying with the Compact’s 10 surroundings. While we try to apply the principles on human rights, labor rights, same standards to both our business streams environmental rights, and anti-corruption. we have a more direct influence on our own Additionally, we also committed to the brand AYTM when it comes to acquiring new 2030 Agenda for sustainable development production methods or certificates. and actively strive to take action on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) on which we have an impact through our business operations. 10 ‘We wish to leave the planet in good condition for future generations & we want to ensure that all living beings are treated with respect and kindness’ Frederike Molt CSR coordinator The Sustainable Development Goals. At Gran Living we care for the people and our products we strive to source resources the planet and constantly strive to reduce our that are certified to be sustainably managed negative impact while increasing our positive by a trusted third party (e.g. FSC certified impact therefore it is important for us to wood and paper). Further we are trying to support the SDGs wherever we can. Though raise awareness for this topic among our we have an impact on several of the 17 goals, business partners and want to help them we decided for now to put our main focus on build capacity for sustainable consumption three of the SDGs, which are directly related and production in their own area. to how we work and the production of our In our offices we constantly try to improve products. on our own consumption by sourcing sustainable products (e.g. organic products, Decent work and economic growth recycled products). We also implemented We chose Goal 8 because it addresses a topic policies for printing and waste sorting and by that is close to our hearts. For us decent that try to manage our resource consumption work conditions, inducing a fair wage, a safe at the office. Last but not least we are a working environment, and complying with member of Upcycling Forum, a local network human and labor rights are a prerequisite for for circular economy to increase the resource any business relation. This means we do not efficiency of scrap and leftover materials. accept any kind of modern slavery through forced labor or child labor and through our Partnerships for the Goals work we actively want to support youth We chose Goal 17 because we think employment, education, and training. partnerships are essential to achieve In our own offices we want to lead by the global goals by 2030. We want to do good example and strive to give young everything we can to support the SDGs but as professionals a chance to develop their career. a small company our resources and influence We offer internships to help young people are limited. Thus, it is even more important develop their professional skills and several of for us to engage in partnerships with our our former interns are now working fulltime business partners and industry networks. at Gran Living. Being a member of the amfori BSCI and participating in industry associations gives Responsible consumption and production us the opportunity to collaborate with other We chose Goal 12 because we are concerned businesses and together we have a larger about the rapidly growing resource depletion power to mobilize sustainable development. and want to contribute to improve resource and energy efficiency in production and 13 consumption, which we believe is also a necessity for sustainable economic growth and thus goes hand in hand with Goal 8. For Our principles & policies. Human Rights Environment At Gran Living we care about the safety and At Gran Living we care about the well-being of our employees at all times and environment with concern for the future. We will not conduct business with any supplier focus on the long-term consequences of our engaging in or benefiting directly from activities and strive to prevent, minimize and human rights abuses. We expect all suppliers remedy adverse impacts our activities place to support and respect the protection of on our earth, and we expect the same from internationally declared human rights stated all parties throughout our supply chain to in the International Bill of Human Rights. secure the best possible conditions for future generations. Labor At Gran Living we support and act in Anti-corruption compliance with internationally declared At Gran Living we refrain from corruption labor rights and expect our business partners and bribery in any form. We believe in to do likewise. We strongly repudiate childethical and fair business practices, and expect and forced labor and acknowledge diversity from both our own employees and external and the rights of employees. Therefore, we business partners to avoid any kind of will not accept any kind of discrimination or unethical business practices. violations of rights. 14 Amfori BSCI. In 2019, Gran Living decided to join the Gran Living became a member in 2019 and amfori Business Social Compliance Initiative we are still in the process to transition to this as a step to ensure socially responsible new supply chain monitoring system. Over operations in our supply chain. By being the next year we want to identify our most a member of the BSCI we agreed to the significant suppliers and make sure that all BSCI Code of Conduct with 11 principles of them are managed through the amfori addressing labor rights, environmental rights, BSCI system, later to be followed by the rest and anti-corruption standards — a common of our suppliers. We also want to gradually Code of Conduct that is shared by more than increase the amount of companies we hold 2400 businesses worldwide. responsibility for, with the aim of acquiring the responsibility for all our significant producers. We look forward to share with you in the future how our producers perform in the audits. 17 Supported SDGs 8 / Decent work and economic growth 17 / Partnerships for the Goals FSC. In order to support sustainable production and consumption we strive to ensure that all our wooden products, gift boxes, and print materials of our AYTM brand should be FSCcertified in the future. We are currently in discussions about the process and scope of this activity but we want to get started this year to review our suppliers and if necessary search for new suppliers and acquire the FSC certificate. 18 Supported SDGs 12 / Responsible consumption and production 17 / Partnerships for the Goals Goodweave certificate. Gran Living decided in 2016 to join GoodWeave and support their mission to end child labor and since then all rugs have been GoodWeave certified. We are proud of this collaboration and want to continue supporting GoodWeave also in the year to come. 21 Supported SDGs 8 / Decent work and economic growth 17 / Partnerships for the Goals Being more sustainable one package at a time. In 2016 we initiated a project to update In 2019 we have finished this process and can our AYTM packaging and while doing so announce that our new collection in spring we wanted to make it more sustainable at 2020 already uses our new packaging. Over the same time. Over the last years we have the next coming years we gradually want to been working hard to define our packaging launch more and more of the new packaging requirements and find supplier that can fulfil as our current stocks with the old packaging those. We wanted our cardboard and paper get used up and new orders with the new to consist of sustainable produced fibers and packaging will come in. be FSC certified. With the new design we tried to create a Another change is the use of honey comb better brand recognition for AYTM and cardboard sheets and EPE foam for protection reduce the packaging waste generated by our and secure fixation in the packaging, products one package at a time. this was previously done with Styrofoam sheet, however neither did they match our requirements for design and experience nor are they easy to recycle, thus we decided to use a different material. All in all, we wanted to reduce the amount of plastics used in our packaging to a minimum and use as much as possible recycled and recyclable materials. 22 Supported SDGs 12 / Responsible consumption and production Responsibility & commitment in our everyday life. At Gran Living we respect, support and take and in our kitchen. We separate paper, glass, care for each other. Therefor every employee hard plastic, and metal, which is then picked has the responsibility to contribute to a safe up by company to be recycled. Additionally, work environment, creating a work place that our employees are encouraged to take home is motivating and rewarding for everyone. In leftovers from our daily lunch to reduce the the Gran Living offices, we strive to have a amount of food that has to be thrown out at healthy and sustainable lifestyle and achieve the end of the day. a high employee satisfaction. This is why we constantly search for new areas where we can Canteen commit to sustainable development. In 2018 we started to introduce vegetarian days in our main office in Aarhus. Through Paper this measure we wanted to lower the For several years now, Gran Living is focused environmental impact of our daily lunch and on reducing its paper consumption through provide our employees with a more balanced printing. Despite the continuously growth and healthy diet. At first this meant quite a and new staff coming in we managed to change for us and not everyone was happy reduce our printing by 30% in comparison to about this measure, but we got used to it 2015, when we started this initiative. Saving and through the last year we have further paper and resources has truly become a part increased our vegetarian days to on average of our mindset and each new employee is 2 days a week. informed upon his/her first day about this practice to help us keep our paper usage to Green Purchasing a minimum. In order to be healthier in our office and support environmental protection we Waste purchase organic and environmentally Over the last years we have initiated several friendly products whenever possible. This measures to reduce our waste production. means that we changed all our cleaning Along with reducing our prints we also products to some that are certified with the collect waste papers to use in our Design Nordic Swan ecolabel and that we buy as department for sketches and drawings and by many foods and drinks with the European that we avoid the use of new paper. or Danish ecolabel. Further we also go for In 2019 we have also introduced new sorting recycled materials when purchasing office standards to increase recycling at our desks supplies. 25 Supported SDGs 8 / Decent work and economic growth 12 / Responsible consumption and production Thank you. Thank you for reading our Communication on Progress 2019. For more info, please contact: Frederike Molt CSR & Compliance Coordinator fmo@granliving.dk +45 3122 2896
