Chapter of the Annual Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report The cover picture is the winning photo in a competition in Vontobel uses only recycled paper for printing. It takes about 1.5 times less energy and 2.5 which Vontobel employees were invited to submit images times less water to produce recycled paper for the front page of the Sustainability Report. A total of 45 than it does to produce paper from fresh fiber. entries were submitted. The jury commented: “Sustainable Recycled paper also cuts greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20 %. We offset the development is a journey, sometimes a long one. It requires remaining emissions with various CO2 projects patience and usually takes a lot of time. However, those around the world. who choose to follow this path also gain new perspectives. Further information: Over the years, it is not only ‘old trees’ that have grown on vontobel.com/sustainability this road – a new and unique ecosystem has also emerged that fascinates us with its beauty. Sustainable development therefore also means that with patience and tenacity, it is possible to create something new and unique. Among all the different entries, it is the image ‘The Dark Hedges’ that best embodies all these aspects”. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 3 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 90 Foreword 91 Sustainable Investing 98 Economic Sustainability 100 Environmental Sustainability 103 Social Sustainability 108 General Disclosures 113 GRI Content Index 116 UN Global Compact: Activities and Results * Page numbering is according to the Vontobel Annual Report 2019 90 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Foreword Vontobel is the third-largest provider of addition, we conducted internal training courses about sustainable investments in Switzerland corporate responsibility and sustainability at new Vontobel locations. According to the “Swiss Sustainable Investment Market Study 2019” published by Swiss Sustainable Finance Another milestone in 2019 was the launch of our cross-di(SSF), a total of CHF 716.6 billion of assets were invested visional “Sustainable Investment Policy”, thus formalizing according to sustainability criteria as of December 31, our long-standing sustainable investment approaches. 2018. Our clients have been benefiting from our broad Based on the recommendations issued by the Task Force range of sustainable investment solutions since the 1990s. on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), we also Vontobel thus ranks as one of the pioneers in this field, as started work on a scenario analysis for Vontobel. We anathe SSF market study 2019 confirms: with a market share lyzed various model portfolios during a pilot project. Our of 8.7 %, Vontobel is the third-largest provider of sustainaaim is to use the analysis to identify the initial opportunities ble investments in Switzerland. and risks of climate change for our business activities and to subsequently formulate recommended courses of The market for sustainable investments in Switzerland action that could be taken to address them. The findings grew by 83 % in 2018 compared to the previous year. In of this analysis will also help us to determine the next steps Europe, the average annual growth rate of sustainably for our company. managed assets was 6 % in the period from 2014 to 2018. Vontobel expects that the demand for sustainable investInformation about our latest projects and activities is availment solutions will continue to rise due in part to the EU able at: www.vontobel.com/responsibility. “Action Plan for Financing Sustainable Growth”. The Action Plan will drive an increased focus on sustainable investing among investors. Vontobel has set itself the goal of pursuing its growth path and assuming a leading role in the field of sustainable investing. In 2019, we also established a project team to ensure the implementation of the Action Plan at Vontobel. In 2019, Vontobel further improved on the already good Dr Zeno Staub, CEO Vontobel score for the “Principles for Responsible Investment” (PRI) for our sustainable investment strategies: in the 2019 reporting, Vontobel outperformed the benchmark for all seven of the modules that were assessed (2018: six out of seven modules were above benchmark). Vontobel has been a signatory to the PRI since 2010. The UN initiative has more than 2,800 signatories globally, primarily comprising companies from the financial world. On our “derinet” web portal, investors can now buy Vontobel certificates whose underlyings have undergone a sustainability analysis. In the case of certificates linked to equities, Vontobel first examines each underlying based on standard exclusion criteria. In a second step, sectors and companies are evaluated according to sustainability criteria and a final selection is made. If a product has sevAbove average PRI rating eral underlyings, they must all qualify as sustainable. These products are assigned an ESG logo and can be found easily using a new filter criterion. In 2019, we also organized various internal and external road shows. For our German clients, we held events on the topic of sustainability at Vontobel and presented the abovementioned certificate solution to participants. In Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 91 Sustainable Investing Product portfolio services providers. To increase the focus on sustainability and ESG topics among our relationship managers, 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Vontobel Wealth Management held an internal road show Vontobel has been committed to acting and investing in in the first half of 2019 and gave detailed presentations a value-oriented and farsighted manner for generations. about our sustainability approach and related investment As a pioneer in this field, we have been offering our clients solutions in the different locations. We also took this a wide range of sustainable investment solutions since the opportunity to inform relationship managers about corpo1990s. For a wealth and asset manager, the consideration rate responsibility. of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors in the investment business is a key part of a comprehensive —— Investment solutions sustainability strategy. This reflects the fact that the inteOur portfolio management and investment advisory offergration of sustainability criteria into the product and sering incorporates sustainable investment solutions that vices portfolio is a very effective lever when it comes to address the needs of our private clients. fostering sustainable development. Our product range in the area of portfolio management All three divisions (Wealth Management, Asset Manageincludes two dedicated sustainable portfolio management ment, Investment Banking) offer sustainable investment mandates. The first solution is a Multi-Asset mandate – solutions and advice in one form or another and cooperate a standard solution based on sustainable investment closely in this area. The aim is for clients to be able to genstrategies defined by Vontobel. This mandate solution erate a financial return while also contributing to sustainainvests according to sustainability criteria via collective ble development. Here, our clients can select investment investment vehicles (funds and certificates) in the asset themes that reflect their own values and investment objecclasses cash, fixed income, and equities and it is diversitives. fied across various sustainability approaches. Sound, long-term strategic asset allocation provides a robust 103-2 The management approach and its components basis for this mandate. We also cover “high conviction” No investments in controversial weapons themes (e.g. clean tech, water or healthy living). The secAll our investments have to fulfil certain minimum requireond solution is an individual mandate that is tailored to the ments. Cluster bombs and land mines are banned by interclient’s wishes regarding sustainability criteria, investment national conventions. In 2011, Vontobel therefore approved strategy, and the use of financial instruments. A specialGroup-wide guidelines that prohibit investments in comized portfolio management team is responsible for managpanies that manufacture these types of arms. Stringent ing the mandates. Our relationship managers – together processes ensure that no manufacturers of cluster bombs with sustainability experts – conduct personal consultaand land mines are included in our investment funds, distions with clients to regularly discuss the performance of cretionary mandates or investment recommendations. the portfolio in terms of its financial return and the generation of positive environmental and social impacts. Our guidelines on cluster bombs and land mines can be found here: www.vontobel.com/principles-policies. In the area of investment advisory, clients have the opportunity to invest in equities, fixed income or collective Wealth Management investments that are in line with Vontobel Wealth ManageWe published our latest ESG study “Drive positive change ment’s sustainability approach and are the subject of buy with ESG” in cooperation with Longitude (a Financial recommendations by primary or secondary research proTimes Group company) in September 2019. A survey viders as well as our in-house fund research team. In addiinvolving over 4,600 people from 14 countries across three tion, our relationship managers can filter the investment continents was conducted on the topic of sustainable universe according to fundamental analysis using a Webinvesting for the study. The findings revealed a significant based tool in combination with the list of recommendaknowledge gap among investors and showed that there is tions to identify sustainable stocks. This allows them to considerable untapped potential in the area of sustainable compile sustainable portfolios more efficiently and to proinvesting: 59 % of the respondents were not even aware vide our clients with appropriate advice about sustainable that it is possible to adopt an ESG approach to saving and stocks. investing. 65 % believe that ethical companies generate better returns. In addition, 49 % of the respondents In the area of pension provision, we give our clients the expressed the wish to have more support and advice opportunity to invest through our cooperation partners in about sustainable investment themes from their financial investment funds that combine the goals of capital preser92 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability vation and capital growth with ethical, environmental, and managers. In 2019, around 150 people completed the social aspects. Vontobel Curriculum for Relationship Managers. This training course, which was developed specifically for Vontobel In summer 2019, based on the “Sustainable value creaWealth Management, consists of four days of classroom tion” megatrend, Vontobel Wealth Management launched learning as well as around 25 hours of online training about two actively managed open-end certificates. The first one topics such as finance, regulation, and advisory capabilifocuses on the theme of water and invests in companies ties. A key component of the curriculum is the transfer of that offer sustainable products and services to mitigate or knowledge about sustainable investing and the expansion eliminate global problems such as water shortages or of our expertise in this field across the whole of Wealth water pollution, thus generating positive environmental Management. In addition to regular training courses about and social impacts. The second certificate is devoted to specialist themes and regulatory aspects, sustainability diversity as a driver of innovation and cohesion within was one of the topics that featured prominently in the companies and it invests in firms that strive for gender training we provided in 2019. In this context, we held diversity (especially in the composition of their Board of a special “Lunch & Learn” presentation that explained how Directors or Executive Board), as well as diversity across Vontobel is positioned in the area of sustainability based nationalities and generations. Stock selection for the two on the private banks report published by the University of products is based on fundamental analysis produced by Zurich. Vontobel Swiss Equity Research, the Vontobel Global Quality Achievers Model, and external research providers. Sustainable investing was also one of the topics covered in The analysis of ESG factors is based on ESG research prothe First Week Entry Training for new employees in 2019. duced by Vontobel Asset Management, as well as external This induction program, which lasts several days, allows research providers such as Sustainalytics. The ESG filter new employees in Vontobel Wealth Management to get to criteria focus on minimizing existing and potential ESG know the company and ensures they are ideally prepared risks and controversial factors, as well as on criteria that for their challenging new role. are designed to generate positive environmental and social impacts. —— Outlook In 2020, we will focus on expanding our advisory process Investment communications and on broadening our range of internal and external susIn 2019, we further strengthened our presence using comtainable investment solutions in the areas of portfolio munication channels such as the Internet, social media, management and investment advisory. We will also expand newspapers and magazines, to inform our clients about and deepen our training about the topic of sustainability the topic of sustainability. for relationship managers. As part of our series of “Insights & Trends” events in SwitFurther information on Vontobel Wealth Management can zerland and Germany, we selected sustainable investing at be found at: www.vontobel.com/wm. Vontobel as a key theme for 2019 alongside the current market outlook. This generated lively discussions and met Asset Management with a positive response from clients. Our goal is to help our clients to invest according to their ethical values while generating higher returns and reducIn 2019, we included members from our new locations in ing portfolio risk. As we are a global asset manager, our the “Wealth Management Expert Circle Sustainable clients can benefit from our long track record in sustainaInvesting” that provides a platform for regular dialogue ble investing dating back to the 1990s. about sustainability topics as part of the expansion of our range of client services. Through the discussion of new We focus on active asset management based on a multi-­ developments in the area of sustainability, the Expert Cirboutique model with independent centers of competence. cle aims to ensure the transfer of knowledge within our The multi-boutique setup allows us to cover the entire organization and to create the basis to embed this topic spectrum of potential client needs: our organizational within our client communications. structure gives our investment teams a high degree of independence, thus fostering innovation. Therefore, —— Training and education our sustainable portfolios reflect different investment We used the acquisition of Notenstein La Roche in 2018 as approaches and processes. an opportunity to make significant and targeted investments in the training and development of our relationship Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 93 We provide our clients with a choice of sustainability-orihelp us evaluate both the companies’ ESG risks and ented funds and individual mandates. The ESG Investment opportunities. All assets managed according to mtx stratGovernance Committee is responsible for the coordinaegies follow this approach and are therefore ESG complition of the different investment strategies regarding enviant. In 2019, we made new appointments to further ronmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues, overarchstrengthen the ESG analysts team. ing principles and policies, and generally advances ESG throughout the various investment teams in Vontobel —— Global Trends Strategies (equities) Asset Management. The Committee consists of repreOur thematic equity portfolios address global trends and sentatives of all Asset Management boutiques and meets challenges such as climate change, the scarcity of natural once each month. It reports to the Vontobel Asset Manresources, and urbanization based on a targeted approach. agement Executive Committee. The funds invest in companies whose products and processes either have a positive impact on the environment or The ESG Competence Center delivers sustainability have a less negative impact on the environment than their research to in-house investment teams and external clipeers. In this context, we take into account the entire life ents according to their specific needs. Moreover, it procycle of these products and processes, since the largest vides ESG company and country ratings using a proprieenvironmental impact often occurs while the product is in tary analytical approach, and a sustainable investment use. There are various ways to measure this. As an examuniverse. Portfolio managers and clients across all diviple, we assess reductions in the energy consumption of sions can select securities from this universe for their innovative products due to optimized processes or weight investments. Here, the goal of our sustainability analysis is reductions in the area of transportation. Moreover, we to determine which companies are ahead of their peers in have developed a method called “Potential Avoided Emisterms of an active sustainability approach. The most prosions” (PAE) together with the ISS-climate consultancy. gressive issuers are selected for the sustainable investThis solution-oriented approach records the contribution ment universe (equities and bonds). that energy-efficient, climate-friendly products and services are expected to contribute to the reduction of CO2 We offer a broad range of equity, fixed income and multiemissions in the portfolio. When a company emerges as asset funds incorporating different sustainability ap-­ a potential investment, we consider financial as well as proaches. Our investors receive comprehensive informaESG criteria. While social and governance criteria are tion about the funds’ investment processes and selection mainly relevant in the risk evaluation, a favorable impact on criteria based on the individual investment policy of the the environment should also make a positive contribution respective funds, e.g. in the form of methodology white to the company’s financial success. When assessing social papers. In addition, we provide investors with specific and governance criteria, we consult with external ESG ESG information on selected investment products. This research agencies. To ensure a holistic approach to enviinformation covers aspects such as the ESG profiles and ronmental aspects, an additional comprehensive analysis ESG ratings of certain investments, the ESG profiles of by our own experts is essential. our mandates and funds – including benchmark comparisons – and CO2 reporting or impact-related information —— Swiss Equities based on the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The Swiss Equities team provides an extensive offering for clients seeking sustainable investment solutions with —— mtx strategies (equities) a focus on Switzerland. The team has been addressing the The mtx strategies are based on the belief that there is topic of sustainable investing for more than 15 years and a strong positive correlation between improvements in now offers a broad range of strategies. When determining a company’s return on invested capital (ROIC) and its exclusion criteria and “best-in-class” approaches, anashare price. We focus on a limited number of stocks that lysts and portfolio managers work primarily with external pass our top quartile ROIC test and are top-ranked in their sustainability rating agencies such as Inrate or Ethos. In industry. Therefore, we seek to examine whether ESG data the integrated approach, ESG criteria are an important is material to the alpha source of the investment strategy in component of the investment process. The analysts such a highly selective group of top performing stocks and assess the company from both a financial and a sustainawhether ESG performance can support ROIC. Core to our bility perspective. Analysts define minimum standard ESG Integration approach is our in-house yardstick, the frameworks for all the portfolio investments – similar to the so-called minimum standard framework (MSF). Secmtx approach – with ESG criteria being assigned different tor-specific MSFs, which consider up to 25 material ESG weightings depending on the sector. The team has one of factors with a possible relevance on future cash flows, 94 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability the largest volumes of actively managed Swiss equities in experience of our own ESG analysts, which is also the sustainable investing space. acknowledged by external agencies. Our institutional investors can count on minimum ESG standards being —— Sustainable Fixed Income strategies explicitly taken into account in their portfolios: of course, Being invested in bonds issued by countries as well as the existing and proven best-in-class approach remains a companies, we follow a range of sustainability assessment vital pillar of our multi-asset offering for clients who are methods taking into account the characteristics of differkeen on a stronger sustainability focus. Here, companies ent fixed income market segments and client requirein critical sectors must meet requirements that are more ments. Typically, we exclude issuers whose activities are stringent. In addition, individual value-based exclusion crihighly controversial. For example, companies should not teria are applied in customized solutions. generate more than 10 % of their turnover from controversial products and services. Criteria such as human rights Further information on Vontobel Asset Management can violations (according to Freedom House) or threats to freebe found at: www.vontobel.com/am. dom and security (according to the Global Peace Index) are taken into account in the selection of countries. We Investment Banking can apply further exclusion criteria to direct investment Vontobel Investment Banking is one of the leading issuers mandates at the request of clients. We consider the ESG of structured products in Switzerland and the rest of analysis an integral part of our credit and country analysis Europe. revolving around the identification of material ESG issues. For this, we start with the assessment of recognized ESG We actively offer various structured products that focus on research agencies and then take an in-depth look at critisustainable themes. At the same time, our clients have the cal ESG issues using our in-house capabilities and methoption of structuring individual products based on susodologies. For example, all portfolios at our subsidiary tainable underlyings according to their wishes. When TwentyFour are managed on an ESG integration basis, defining and implementing environmental, social, and govwhere ESG factors are evaluated alongside traditional ernance (ESG) criteria, we draw on the expertise of the credit metrics in order to help maximize risk-adjusted specialists in our Asset Management division as well as returns over the long term. For their sustainable fund consulting ESG ratings and ESG data providers (e.g. Susrange, further negative and positive screening is applied tainalytics). In the case of theme-based (“thematic”), pubbeyond simply ESG integration. Negative screening licly distributed investment products, the specific ESG excludes sectors such as Tobacco, Alcohol, Controversial approach is indicated in the term sheet. These types of Weapons, Gambling, Adult Entertainment and Carbon thematic investment products that focus on sustainability intensive energy, whilst positive screening means they can are distributed via Vontobel’s “derinet” web portal (in addionly invest in companies that have ESG scores from their tion to other marketing measures). Products with underlyown in-house scoring model in the top two-thirds of ings that meet ESG criteria now appear with the ESG logo potential scores. We also offer “best-in-class” approaches in derinet and can easily be displayed using a new filter based on external sustainability rating agencies such as criterion in the product search function. This allows interInrate, for example. ested investors to find this type of product more rapidly within Vontobel’s investment universe. Further information —— Sustainable Balanced strategies (multi-asset) is available at: www.derinet.ch/thematicinvestments. The consideration of sustainability aspects in investment processes is spreading fast amongst investors for regulaWith the recently launched platform investerest, Investtory and importantly, for risk / return reasons. As we conment Banking enables internal and external investment sider ESG part of our fiduciary duty, we introduced binding managers to offer their products to a broad public via minimum ESG standards for individual securities for all a central marketplace. At the same time, this gives invesmandates managed by the Global Balanced Solutions tors the opportunity to create customized products and to team in 2018. In this context, we dismiss certain arms obtain a valuation and share them using various functions. manufacturers, thereby applying the exclusion lists of the We are thus making it possible to place sustainable prodSwiss Association for Responsible Investment (SVVKucts with a large community, to further develop those ASIR) and Vontobel. Moreover, companies must satisfy a products via different interactions, and to take account of minimum standard in their ESG assessment to be considuser influences and incorporate them in order to enhance ered for our portfolios. This approach rules out particularly the products. risky securities, improves risk management, and allows for more robust portfolios to be put together. We rely on the Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 95 Our product offering includes a product based on the “Solactive Global Sustainability Leaders Performance Index” launched in 2017. In addition to traditional investment criteria such as liquidity, this index incorporates ESG criteria in its analysis. The index includes companies that rank as best-in-class in their industry and excludes firms that engage in controversial business sectors and practices. Further structured products address sustainable themes in a broader sense or are dedicated to megatrends. One example is the “Solactive Demographic Opportunity Performance Index”. The “Solactive Smart Grid Performance Index” also focuses on a sustainable mega trend. The independent sustainability rating agency Inrate is responsible for the composition of the “Vontobel Climate Protection Index”. It considers companies from five different areas that combat the causes of climate change and it places an emphasis on innovation and efficiency when selecting stocks. An index is compiled using the companies and it is calculated, updated, and published daily. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size and by sector See pages 20, 26–31 and 211–213. FS8 Products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening Sustainable investments 2019 2018 Volume of sustainable investments (CHF mn) 30,672 23,285 Proportion of sustainable investments (in % of AuM) 15.4 13.6 At 31.12.2019, Vontobel had a total of CHF 30,627 mn of assets under management invested according to sustainability criteria, corresponding to an increase by more than 30 % versus the previous year. The pleasing increase is attributable to a strong overall performance and high inflows across all sustainable investment solutions. Measured as a proportion of total assets under management, sustainable investments thus increased from 13.6 % to 15.4 %. 96 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Active Ownership In addition to the formal engagement process through Hermes EOS, our analysts and portfolio managers engage 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary with the management of companies informally on relevant Material ESG issues can impact the success of a company topics as part of their fundamental research activities. Freand consequently its capacity for future investments and quently, ESG topics are not covered in company reports or growth. At Vontobel, we believe that voting and engageby our research providers. We therefore carry out informal ment can have a positive influence on a company’s values fact-finding engagements to better understand a compaand behavior and strengthen its longer-term contribution ny’s performance and standards (e.g. its governance politowards building more sustainable economies and sociecies or environmental performance). This includes assessties and protecting the environment. ing the impact of its products and services on the environment – looking in particular at whether they can 103-2 The management approach and its components help to reduce or eliminate carbon emissions. Vontobel exercises its voting rights for all investments in the mtx and Global Trends strategies. We have been workThrough these consultations, we encourage companies to ing with Hermes Equity Ownership Services (Hermes EOS) improve their risk management practices and ESG discloin this context since 2011. All other funds come under our sures in general and to also report on the impacts of their internal “Management Company Voting Policy”, which is in products over their entire life cycle. For example, we have line with the corporate governance recommendations of contacted all companies included in our Clean Technolothe European Fund and Asset Management Association. gies strategy to assess and measure potential avoided emissions. We asked these companies to report on their The guidelines followed by Hermes EOS have been products and services and how they can improve energy reviewed and approved by Vontobel. Hermes EOS uses efficiency and reduce emissions over their entire life cycle. the research of its proxy voting provider and adds its own research in order to issue recommendations to its clients The engagement activities of our mtx team, for example, on how they should exercise their voting rights. Our portincluded the dialogue with a Russian consumer staples folio managers and analysts receive alerts of forthcoming company over the past years. When the company was first shareholder meetings together with voting recommendaconsidered for investment, it did not fulfil our minimum tions that are based on standardized Hermes EOS policies ESG standards. While gathering information about the and approved by Vontobel. Portfolio managers and anacompany, our analysts were able to make specific suggeslysts review the voting recommendations and if they agree tions for improvement, including improved transparency with them, Vontobel will vote accordingly. If they disagree regarding ESG issues. We were pleased to see that the because the standard recommendation does not match company has since improved its ESG disclosures in its our in-depth knowledge of the company in question and annual report. its management, the analyst or portfolio manager can change the vote directly via the online proxy voting plat103-3 Evaluation of the management approach form. This process ensures that we execute all of our votFS10 Portfolio-based engagement on social or ing obligations and that our analyst and portfolio managenvironmental issues ers retain the authority to personally make decisions in the Each year, Vontobel publishes a Voting and Engagement interests of our investors. Report (www.vontobel.com/voting). The report for 2019 will be published in mid-2020. In 2018, we voted on a total We consider active ownership to be a key part of sustainof 5,817 resolutions at 463 general meetings worldwide able investing. At Vontobel, we have both indirect engagefor the abovementioned strategies. At 279 of the meetings ments, based on our partnership with Hermes EOS, as well (60 %), we rejected one or more motions. With certain as direct engagements, which are undertaken by our anaexceptions, we voted with the management at four meetlysts and portfolio managers. The Hermes EOS service ings, and at 180 general meetings (39 %) we supported all covers funds that take account of sustainability criteria the motions put forward by management. (mtx and Global Trends strategies). Our cooperation with Hermes EOS strengthens our position by enabling us to join forces with other investors. This allows us to exercise greater influence than the size of our holdings would otherwise permit. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 97 In 2018, Hermes EOS, engaged in a critical dialogue with 38 companies on a total of 134 issues on our behalf, of which 19 % related to environmental, 26 % to social and 25 % to strategy and risk matters. Corporate governance was once again the main topic discussed in 2018, accounting for 30 % of all issues. Further information on Sustainable Investing can be found at: www.vontobel.com/sustainable-investing. 98 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Economic Sustainability Economic Performance and Indirect Economic value distributed Economic Impacts CHF MN 2019 2018 Value creation 1 945.5 842.3 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Taxes 2 46.6 50.5 We assume our corporate responsibility by considering Dividend for the fiscal year 3 126.5 117.7 the needs of our clients and pursuing a risk-conscious approach while running our business successfully on 1 Income less general expense and depreciation of property, a long-term basis. By doing so while complying with ethiequipment (incl. software) and intangible assets 2 Includes income tax, tax on capital and other taxes and cal business standards, we can make a contribution to the contributions economy. 3 As per proposal submitted to the General Meeting At Vontobel, we have a long tradition of social responsibil201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other ity and of supporting the community. Our company is an retirement plans integral part of the global economic system and we beneInformation on pension and other employee benefit plans fit from the excellent operating environment in our Swiss and benefit pension liabilities is provided in the tables on home market, with its high standards of education, good pages 156 and 174. infrastructure, and political stability. We therefore have a responsibility to promote the welfare and stability of the 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services communities in which we work, and we invest in a variety supported of initiatives and projects in this context. In 2019, the Vontobel Charitable Foundation contributed around CHF 580,000 of donations and sponsorship fund103-2 The management approach and its components ing (2018: CHF 585,000). In the year under review, the As an employer and taxpayer and as an active participant Charitable Foundation supported initiatives including the in economic life – e.g. in our role as a purchaser and invesproject “Protection of species, biodiversity and habitat at tor – we contribute to the creation of value at a regional the Kulturhof Hinter Musegg” run by the “Stiftung Kulturlevel in the locations in which we operate. This includes the und Le­­bensraum Musegg” in Lucerne. Further information: corporate taxes that we pay annually, as well as the paywww.museggmauer.ch/stiftung-lebensraum-musegg. ment of salaries and the provision of innovative and sustainable financial services for private and institutional cliIn addition, Vontobel donated a total of CHF 276,091 in the ents. We also make a contribution through the efficient year under review (2018: CHF 302,714). Of this sum, almost use of energy and resources, by serving communities, and CHF 160,000 was donated to the Swiss Climate Foundaby engaging in an active dialogue with the general public tion, of which Vontobel has been a founding member since about the role of financial services providers. 2008, and CHF 95,900 was given to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). Our 2019 fundraising Since 2004, our clients have been able to lend their supcampaign supported the ICRC project “ALMANACH”. Furport to a variety of projects focusing on social issues, culther information is available at: www.klimastiftung.ch and ture, ecology, education or medicine through the Vontobel www.vontobel.com/almanach. Charitable Foundation. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Anti-corruption 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Value creation increased by 12 % compared to the previ103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary ous year, while tax payments decreased by around 8 %. We operate our business with a focus on maintaining the The Board of Directors’ confidence in Vontobel’s strategy satisfaction and trust of our clients, as well as on protectand its active capital management are demonstrated by ing and building the wealth they have entrusted to us. the proposed dividend of CHF 2.25 per share, correspondThese goals are to always be pursued in accordance with ing to an increase of 7 % versus the previous year. Further applicable laws, rules and regulations – especially when information on the operating result is provided on page taking steps to combat terrorism and corruption. 120. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 99 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Anti-corruption measures are an important part of our 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to compliance system. Effective compliance forms the basis corruption of our long-term success and is therefore a core aspect of Our Group-wide risk management framework also ad­ our business. Vontobel takes comprehensive, state-ofdresses the topic of anti-corruption and covered all of our the-art measures to ensure continuous compliance with locations worldwide in the reporting year. laws and regulatory requirements. As part of our Groupwide risk analysis, teams of specialists regularly assess all 205-2 Communication and training about antiour areas of business using appropriate compliance procorruption policies and procedures cesses to ensure they are legally compliant. In the year under review, 100 % of all employees received information about our anti-corruption strategies and One of the main areas of focus of our risk analysis is the measures or received anti-corruption training. identification of risks arising from money laundering or terrorist financing. The aim is to avoid business relationships 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions that are used for money laundering or terrorist financing. In taken addition, we have a special process in place to monitor our There were no incidents of corruption involving employees relationships with politically exposed persons (PEPs). at Vontobel in the year under review. Material cases are discussed by participants at the monthly Legal & Compliance meeting, which is also In the case of suspected breaches of legal or regulatory attended by two members of the Executive Board. In requirements, internal guidelines or ethical standards, urgent cases, the Committee meets on an ad hoc basis or a whistleblowing system is in place to allow employees to reaches decisions via circular letter. Legal and Compliance report these incidents anonymously. No such reports were produce half-yearly compliance reports for the Executive made in 2019. Board. Further information on economic sustainability at Vontobel A key area of focus in adhering to our compliance requirecan be found at: www.vontobel.com/economic-sustainments is the provision of employee training on relevant ability. topics in the area of anti-corruption. All new employees have to attend an introductory compliance course that also addresses the subject of corruption. In addition, classroom training is carried out each year on specific topics within the business divisions. At departmental level, further training courses are offered to also address the handling of specific risks. Our objective is to provide training for all employees on an annual basis. These measures prevent breaches of internal and external rules and regulations. New employees are also issued with the Employee Handbook, which contains specific regulations and instructions, as well as the Code of Conduct. The most recent version of the Employee Handbook is available on the Intranet. All employees can access current and comprehensive policies at any time. They include the “Group policy on anti-corruption and the handling of gifts”, as well as the “Group policy on conflict of interest”. 100 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Environmental Sustainability 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary for the expansion of global capacity for the production of Vontobel is committed to using processes that reduce the electricity from renewable sources. environmental impacts of our activities and help to protect the climate. For many years, we have engaged in various Vontobel strives to conduct its own operations according activities to protect the environment and are particularly to high environmental and social standards and we also committed to climate protection. Our stakeholders also expect our business partners to help protect the environexpect this of us. When conducting our operations, we ment and to offer good employment conditions. These therefore strive to use materials as sparingly as possible aspects are incorporated into our tendering process and and place an emphasis on energy efficiency and the serve as a guide when selecting suppliers. The relevant reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. As a result of the details are set out in Vontobel’s “Guidelines for sustainable more efficient use of resources, we are often able to genprocurement”. They address matters such as employment erate an additional economic benefit in different areas. conditions, child labor and forced labor, environmental protection, and the prevention of corruption. These guide103-2 The management approach and its components lines are available at www.vontobel.com/principles-poliBased on Vontobel’s Sustainability Principles, the Vontobel cies and form part of Vontobel’s general purchasing guideSustainability Committee defines the Sustainability Stratlines. egy and specific targets. This includes environmental and climate protection at Vontobel. The Committee, which is Vontobel purchases a large quantity of products and serchaired by the CEO, meets on a quarterly basis. Its meetvices from external providers, including facility manageings are attended by representatives of Human Resources, ment services, IT infrastructure, and the design and proOperations, Finance & Risk, Marketing & Communication, duction of printed materials, as well as catering and Corporate Responsibility, and Sustainability Management, cleaning services. Wherever possible, we work with local as well as representatives of the business divisions. suppliers to ensure that goods are transported over short distances. We are committed to building fair, long-term The business divisions and units have responsibility for the partnerships with our suppliers. We purchase fruit for our operational implementation of measures in the areas of employees from a Swiss family-owned company, for examenvironmental and climate protection. In particular, the ple, and all of our print orders in Switzerland are awarded Facility Management, Procurement, and Logistics units to Swiss printing companies. A major proportion of the have an important role to play in this area. advertising and Christmas gifts used throughout the company are also purchased from Swiss providers. In the Our Corporate Real Estate Strategy is linked to our Susreporting year, we continued the “One Two We” program tainability Strategy. When selecting and renovating office introduced in our employee restaurant in 2013 and the buildings, we systematically focus on environmentally related “One Climate Menu” launched in connection with friendly and energy-efficient measures to achieve energy the program. The aim is to offer more meals that mainly savings. High energy standards and the good insulation of use seasonal produce and include fewer products that are building envelopes are part of this approach. The use of transported by air and less meat, while making increased energy-saving LED lighting is a standard feature of all our use of different types of cereals as an alternative to rice – new and renovated office buildings. Wherever possible, thus reducing the carbon footprint in the food chain. we also install LED lighting in existing buildings in view of the massive reductions in electricity and maintenance Vontobel has been carbon-neutral since January 1, 2009 costs that can be achieved. This form of lighting results in (Scope 1, 2 and 3). We offset the greenhouse gas emisless waste that requires special disposal. Vontobel has sions we produce each year by purchasing CO2 emissions been purchasing electricity from renewable sources for all certificates to support projects that save the same volume of our locations globally since 2013 – either directly or othof emissions. The Vontobel Sustainability Committee once erwise indirectly through regional Guarantees of Origin. again selected a climate neutrality project with a focus on The indirect purchase of renewable energy in the form of rainforest conservation in 2019. Detailed information regional Guarantees of Origin is the approach taken if it is about the project is available at: www.vontobel.com/envinot possible to directly purchase electricity from renewaronmental-sustainability. As a founding member of the ble sources. This is the case if, for example, Vontobel Swiss Climate Foundation, we donate a significant proleases its offices in one location and cannot influence the portion of our refunded CO2 levy to the Foundation, which electricity mix used in those premises. When purchasing then uses these funds to finance projects to improve the Guarantees of Origin, we comply with the requirements of energy efficiency of smalland medium-sized companies. the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). It calls The projects supported by the Climate Foundation in 2019 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 101 included a project that uses artificial intelligence to Following an increase in paper consumption in the previincrease the efficiency of sewerage systems, as well as an ous year as a result of the integration of Notenstein La initiative focusing in the upcycling of e-bike batteries. Roche, a significant decrease in paper consumption was Further information is available at: www.vontobel.com/ recorded both on an absolute basis and per employee in responsibility-news and www.klimastiftung.ch. the year under review. We further increased the proportion of recycled paper to 93 %. Each year, we gather comprehensive environmental data in order to measure our progress. Due to Vontobel’s strong The renovation of our office building at Genferstrasse 27 growth, we refined various data collection processes durin Zurich was completed in 2019. We were able to impleing the year under review, and were able to measure data ment various environmentally relevant measures in coopfrom the previous year even more precisely. We have eration with the building owner. For example, the building therefore adjusted the figures for 2018 in the “Energy” and façade, which consists of cast plates, was completely dis“Emissions” overviews. mantled, reformed, and then reused for the same building, with only small sections being designated as waste. Materials Energy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 301-2 Recycled input materials used 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 302-3: Energy intensity 2019 1 2018 1, 3 2017 1, 2 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption Materials (absolute) Water (drinking water, m 3) 24,006 16,137 22,902 2019 1 2018 1, 3 2017 1, 2 Food (t) 103 96 91 Energy (absolute) Paper (t) 99 127 101 Heat consumption (MWh) 3,570 2,298 3,478 Proportion of recycled paper used 93 % 88 % 58 % Renewable energy consumption Materials (per full-time position) (MWh) 107 124 Water (drinking water, l / FTE) 11,826 8,906 13,714 Electricity consumption (MWh) 6,863 6,183 7,009 Food (kg / FTE) 51 53 55 District heating / cooling usage (MWh) 804 309 Paper (kg / FTE) 49 70 61 Total energy consumption (MWh) 11,343 8,914 10,487 1  igures are based on the period from October 1 in the previous year F Business travel (1,000 km) 18,387 20,103 17,952 to September 30 of which business flights 2 F igures are based on a broader scope and adapted emissions (1,000 km) 16,955 18,720 17,227 factors Commuting (1,000 km) 24,420 20,752 17,458 3 E xcluding Notenstein La Roche Energy (per full-time position) Total energy consumption Following extensive renovation work in one of our major (kWh / FTE) 5,588 4,919 6,279 office buildings in Zurich, we resumed operations in that Business travel (km / FTE) 9,058 11,093 10,750 building in April 2019. In addition, our buildings portfolio of which business flights (km / FTE) 8,352 10,330 10,316 has expanded significantly following the integration of Commuting (km / FTE) 12,030 11,453 10,454 Notenstein La Roche at the end of 2018. These factors led to an increase in water consumption. It also became 1  igures are based on the period from October 1 in the previous year F to September 30 apparent that it is not always possible to clearly determine 2 Figures are based on a broader scope and adapted emissions the amount of water supplied for each year of operations. factors We receive invoices at different times, depending on the 3 E xcluding Notenstein La Roche water supplier. Total energy consumption in 2019 clearly increased comWhile the total consumption of foodstuffs also rose pared to the previous year. This reflects the fact that one because our canteen catered for more employees at cerlarger property in Zurich was used again following the tain times during the year, a slight reduction was achieved completion of renovation work in April 2019. Due to the in the consumption of foodstuffs per full-time equivalent high temperatures in summer 2019, the use of air condi(FTE). tioning was relatively high. 102 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Following a significant increase in business travel in the While we achieved a reduction in relative CO2 emissions previous year, a reduction was recorded in 2019 due pricompared to the previous year, there was a slight increase marily to a decrease in business flights. in absolute CO2 emissions. The decrease in absolute and relative emissions resulting from commuting reflects an We are installing video-conferencing technology as increase in the number of employees in Switzerland, where a standard feature in all our meeting rooms globally. These our new locations have good public transport connecinvestments are being made specifically to allow our tions. employees to hold meetings around the globe at any time. It is essential to have a solid set of data in order to develop and implement environmental and climate protection Emissions measures in a targeted and effective manner. In the year under review, we achieved further improvements in data 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach quality for various environmental key figures at our interna305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions tional locations. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Further information on environmental sustainability at 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Vontobel can be found at: www.vontobel.com/environ305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions mental-sustainability. 2019 1 2018 1, 3 2017 1, 2 Emissions (absolute) Total greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2e) 7,953 7,915 7,720 Greenhouse gas emissions scope 1 (t CO2e) 939 543 856 Greenhouse gas emissions scope 2 (t CO2e) 293 112 1 Greenhouse gas emissions scope 3 (t CO2e) 6,720 7,260 6,863 of which business flights (t CO2e) 5,637 6,249 5,826 of which commuting (t CO2e) 408 418 448 Emissions (per full-time position) Total greenhouse gas emissions (kg CO2e / FTE) 3,918 4,367 4,623 of which business flights (kg CO2e / FTE) 2,777 3,448 3,489 of which commuting (kg CO2e / FTE) 201 231 268 1  igures are based on the period from October 1 in the previous year F to September 30 2 F igures are based on a broader scope and adapted emissions factors 3 E xcluding Notenstein La Roche Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 103 Social Sustainability We define social sustainability as our responsibility as an beyond the statutory minimum. Female employees employer and our comprehensive commitment to serving who have been with the company for up to six years communities. Further information about our support for are entitled to four months of maternity leave on full the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and pay. After completing six years of service, they benefit other social commitments is available here: www.vontobel. from six months of maternity leave on full pay. com/serving-communities. Vontobel grants new fathers five days of paternity leave. –– For a number of years, we have been a member of kcc Employment group (globegarden), an organization that offers families complete childcare solutions. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary –– In Zurich, we offer lunches to employees free of The skills and expertise of our employees are vital to charge in our staff restaurant. Vontobel’s long-term success. We are aware of the com–– Wherever possible from an operational perspective, petition that exists for skilled employees: as an internaVontobel endeavors to meet requests for part-time tionally active Swiss wealth and asset manager and prodworking arrangements from employees, including uct specialist, Vontobel has to compete with major players members of middle management. and increasingly also with small new players that have Part-time employees receive the same benefits as full-time entered the arena, both in our Swiss home market and employees. Different benefits apply in the case of tempointernationally. We therefore want to offer our employees rary employees or staff who are available on an “on call” attractive employment conditions. basis. 103-2 The management approach and its components Annual reports are submitted to the Executive Board for Corporate Human Resources, which reports to the Executhe purpose of reviewing the targets and measures impletive Board, is responsible for positioning Vontobel as an mented in this area. They also serve as a control instruattractive employer. Corporate Human Resources defines ment. our Human Resources Principles, which are also set out in the Vontobel Employee Handbook and determine the In addition to the regular Employee Surveys conducted in objectives of our human resources and leadership proprevious years, we carried out a Manager Survey (referred cesses and the measures taken to achieve them. to as “upward feedback”) for the first time in 2019. The results of this survey provide helpful input about the areas The Employee Handbook is available on the Intranet for all where managers have scope for further development. To members of staff and contains comprehensive informasupport the recruitment of talents and to strengthen our tion about employment conditions, social benefits, trainEmployer Branding, Vontobel has created a Talent Acquiing, compliance, and security guidelines. It is supplesition team. mented by internal policies that can always be accessed by employees via the Intranet. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Our measures to support employees include an extensive Compared to the previous year, the number of employees range of services: increased (see also 102-8 Information on employees and –– Holiday entitlement that exceeds the statutory other workers, page 108). requirement. Since 2016, employees in Switzerland have had the option of purchasing a maximum of Employee turnover 1 10 individual days of holiday in addition to their normal 2019 2018 holiday entitlement. Members of Senior Management Turnover rate (in %) 14.2 11.4 can take a sabbatical after a specific number of years of service. Employee departures by age category: up to 20: 3; 21–30: 42; –– Employees can join collective agreements offered by 31–40: 87; 41–50: 82; 51–60: 42; 61–64: 11; from 65: 7 health insurers at reduced rates together with their Hires by age category: up to 20: 0; 21–30: 70; 31–40: 94; 41–50: 57; 51–60: 17; 61–64: 0; from 65: 2 spouse or registered partner and their children. –– We offer an attractive share participation plan as well 1 2018: excluding Notenstein La Roche as mortgage products at preferential rates. –– In the case of both maternity and paternity leave, the In 2019, the employee turnover rate increased from 11.4 % benefits that Vontobel grants to working parents go to 14.2 % (see table). A total of 91 female employees and 104 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 183 male employees left Vontobel during the year. MeanVontobel supports employees who want to complete while, a total of 240 new employees were hired during the external training courses, where appropriate. These year under review (80 women and 160 men). courses mainly involve business-specific qualifications such as the Master in Banking and Finance, Bachelor or 401-2 Benefits provided to employees Master in Business Administration, CFA or CIIA. Almost 10 % (2018: 8 %) of employees have made use of the option of purchasing individual days of holiday in addiWe regularly run leadership courses in which members of tion to their normal holiday entitlement. the Executive Board play an active role as part of our executive dialogue. In this way, we ensure that managers can discuss leadership topics with Vontobel’s senior manageTraining and Education ment. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary To review the quality of the courses and programs that are Employees have high expectations regarding the provision completed, we provide participants with a questionnaire of training and development opportunities within their on aspects such as content, design and applicability, and company. Lifelong learning is growing increasingly imporwe evaluate their responses. In addition to qualitative tant. To remain attractive as an employer, we are commitreporting, we generate quantitative reports. This enables ted to promoting training and development. us to produce a comparison with training and development activities in previous years and also in comparison 103-2 The management approach and its components with the industry benchmark. Training and development are essential in order to keep pace with the competition. We recognize our responsibil103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ity as an employer and therefore offer a comprehensive 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee range of training and development courses. Training 1 The completion of various e-learning and classroom train2019 2018 ing modules is a mandatory requirement for new employTraining costs (1,000 CHF) 1,773 1,654 ees. The “First Working Day” induction events, at which Training costs (CHF / FTE) 895 829 new employees are informed about key topics, always Number of apprenticeships (incl. attract a very positive response. At “Welcome Day” events, trainees) 33 32 which are held several times a year, new employees can meet members of senior management, learn about the 1 2018: excluding Notenstein La Roche various services available to them within the company and obtain extensive information about Vontobel’s strategy, In 2019, overall training costs as well as training costs objectives and culture. Welcome Day is mandatory for all per employee rose compared to the previous year. The employees in Switzerland and for all employees from the number of apprenticeships increased slightly from 32 in rank of Director in international locations. The Intranet also 2018 to 33. features “getting started” pages to facilitate the employee onboarding process at an international level. This includes 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and a video welcome message from the CEO and useful infortransition assistance programs mation and tips to help employees settle into their new In 2019, the Vontobel Academy again offered a large numroles at Vontobel. ber of internal and external courses on specialist, personal development, and management topics. The Vontobel We consider it important for employees to take responsiAmbassador e-learning program is mandatory for all bility for their own professional development. As part of employees. Its aim is to inform all employees about our the annual definition of performance objectives as well as most important products and services. Vontobel has their evaluation, all employees are given the opportunity to entered into a cooperation agreement with the Associadraw up a personal development plan. A Web-based plattion for International Wealth Management (AIWM). As form – myPerformance Development – is used for the a result, the Vontobel Curriculum for Relationship Managassurance and evaluation of performance. The platform ers is now recognized internationally and opens the way also includes a development plan that employees define in for employees to complete further training at AZEK (Swiss consultation with their line manager. This forms the basis Training Centre for Investment Professionals). for personal career planning. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 105 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular ued by our clients. Finally, in the “Demography” focus area, performance and career development reviews we aim to achieve a balanced age mix. Long-term succesAt the end of 2019, 91 % of employees had begun or comsion planning that addresses the needs of the business pleted their annual performance review process. divisions is an essential part of Vontobel’s long-term human resources planning. This is another area in which we take our Diversity & Inclusion focus areas into account. Diversity, Equal Opportunity and The age structure shows that most employees are aged Non-Discrimination between 30 and 50. Targeted measures are needed to align the potential of this age group with the divisions’ 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary staffing needs. The creation of a pleasant working environment that is free from discrimination and promotes diversity and equal We actively address the topic of Diversity & Inclusion with opportunity represents a further component of our comVontobel’s management in order to bring about changes mitment to our employees. and achieve our goals in this area. Consequently, Diversity & Inclusion is one of the subjects discussed in our leader103-2 The management approach and its components ship seminars. To prevent discrimination in the workplace, the principle of non-discrimination is enshrined in our Employee Hand103-3 Evaluation of the management approach book. Both the Employee Handbook and the Vontobel 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Code of Conduct form an integral part of the employment There was little change in the proportion of employees who contract. worked on a part-time basis compared to 2018: The proportion of female employees working part-time remained Vontobel wants to strengthen employee awareness of the stable at 33 %, while the proportion of male employees in topic of Diversity & Inclusion. We have therefore defined part-time positions increased slightly to 9 % (2018: 8 %). three main areas that we will focus on going forward: “Gender”, “Nationality” and “Demography”. We have forHSG Diversity Benchmarking has confirmed that Vontobel mulated appropriate and realistic goals – referred to as our demonstrates an above-average commitment to the pro“Aspirations 2020” – for each area. We provide compremotion of women. In the area of recruitment, Vontobel’s hensive information about our various activities on the performance is rated as average in an industry compariIntranet on an ongoing basis. Since 2019, volunteers from son. The newly created Talent Acquisition team is thereall areas of the business have been actively working on the fore placing a targeted focus on ensuring a healthy mix of further development of this topic in close consultation female and male candidates in the area of recruitment. with the Executive Board and the Board of Directors. For these as well as further indicators see the tables on page 106. In the “Gender” focus area, we are striving to continuously increase the number of women at senior management 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions level or with leadership responsibilities. In addition to its taken cooperation with the women’s network “Fondsfrauen”, No cases of discrimination were reported in 2019. Vontobel became a member of “Advance” in 2019. In the “Nationality” focus area, we want to ensure that the composition of our workforce reflects our target markets while, at the same time, preserving our “Swissness” that is valBreakdown of full-time and part-time positions by gender as of 31.12.2019 NUMBER OF PROPORTION NUMBER PROPORTION TOTAL TOTAL WOMEN OF WOMEN OF MEN OF MEN NUMBER PROPORTION less than 20 % 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 20–49 % 20 3% 2 0% 22 1% 50–79 % 78 12 % 21 1% 99 5% 80–99 % 115 18 % 93 7% 208 10 % 100 % 427 67 % 1,293 92 % 1,720 84 % Total 640 100 % 1,409 100 % 2,049 100 % 106 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Number of employees by domicile NUMBER OF NUMBER OF 31.12.2019 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF 31.12.2018 WOMEN MEN TOTAL WOMEN MEN TOTAL Switzerland 520 1,179 1,699 521 1,216 1,737 Germany 36 67 103 43 67 110 USA 30 54 84 28 51 79 United Kingdom 23 51 74 22 44 66 Hong Kong 12 17 29 12 13 25 Italy 9 13 22 9 10 19 Luxembourg 6 11 17 8 9 17 Singapore 1 7 8 3 5 8 U.A.E 2 5 7 2 10 12 Spain 1 3 4 1 3 4 Australia 0 2 2 0 2 2 Total 640 1,409 2,049 649 1,430 2,079 Number of employees by nationality Age structure of the Board of Directors 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 NUMBER IN % NUMBER IN % NUMBER IN % NUMBER IN % Switzerland 1,379 67 1,402 67 31 to 40 years old 1 11 1 11 Germany 226 11 248 12 41 to 50 years old 3 33 4 44 United Kingdom 79 4 74 4 51 to 60 years old 3 33 2 22 Italy 78 4 75 4 More than 60 years USA 73 4 68 3 old 2 23 2 23 France 38 2 39 2 Total 9 100 9 100 China 16 1 19 1 Poland 12 1 9 0 Years of service Austria 11 1 14 1 Spain 11 1 16 1 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Other 126 6 115 6 NUMBER IN % NUMBER IN % Total 2,049 100 2,079 100 < 1 year 229 11 266 12 1 up to < 5 years 756 37 739 36 5 up to < 10 years 517 25 521 25 10 up to < 20 years 423 21 435 21 Age structure 20 up to < 30 years 84 4 80 4 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 from 30 years 40 2 38 2 NUMBER IN % NUMBER IN % Total 2,049 100 2,079 100 Up to 20 years old 7 0 13 1 21 to 30 years old 268 13 267 13 Breakdown of rank structure by gender as of 31.12.2019 31 to 40 years old 589 29 603 29 41 to 50 years old 678 33 705 34 NUMBER PROPORNUMBER PROPOR51 to 60 years old 450 22 445 21 OF TION OF OF TION OF WOMEN WOMEN MEN MEN More than 60 years old 57 3 46 2 Employee 129 47 % 143 53 % Total 2,049 100 2,079 100 Middle management 320 46 % 383 54 % Average age (in years) 43 43 1 Senior management 191 18 % 876 82 % Executive Board 0 0% 6 100 % 1 E xcluding Notenstein La Roche Total 640 31 % 1,408 69 % Board of Directors 3 33 % 6 67 % Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 107 Marketing and Labeling, Product Customer Privacy Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary The trust that clients place in us forms the basis for our Offering each of our clients the right solution or best possuccessful long-term collaboration and is an important sible service is the primary goal of our three business diviasset that is highly valued at Vontobel. We therefore assign sions – Wealth Management, Asset Management, and considerable importance to protecting client data and Investment Banking. Regulatory requirements apply in complying with all legal requirements in this context. particular to producers and distributors of products and services for retail and private clients. Depending on the 103-2 The management approach and its components jurisdiction and the product or service involved, these The parameters for compliance with legal requirements duties include the preparation and provision of Key Inforrelating to the protection of client data (e.g. banking confimation Documents describing the characteristics and dentiality and data protection law) are defined and monifunctions of the products or services and the associated tored by cross-divisional departments such as Legal, risks and opportunities and should ensure the comparabilCompliance & Tax, and IT Security. Information about data ity of products and services. protection in our different locations can be found on our webpage about the EU General Data Protection Regula103-2 The management approach and its components tion (GDPR) at: www.vontobel.com/gdpr. Further informaTo continue developing our business, each of our three tion on IT security can be found here: www.vontobel.com/ business divisions carries out product development, client it-security. communications and marketing activities. The applicable legal regulations, such as the Swiss Law on Collective 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Investments or the Markets in Financial Instruments Direc418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of tive (MiFID II) guide us in this area. We are an active memcustomer privacy and losses of customer data ber of various industry associations and help to shape In the reporting year, no authorities issued sanctions rules in the area of self-regulation that are designed to against Vontobel for breaches of privacy or losses of client increase the comparability of products and services and data. provide greater transparency for investors, as well as complying with the corresponding provisions. In addition, we Further information on social sustainability at Vontobel follow the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). can be found at: www.vontobel.com/social-sustainability. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Our products and services meet the applicable legal and regulatory requirements with regard to labeling and transparency. In the reporting year, there were no cases of misconduct or financial penalties for non-compliance with regulations governing the applicable requirements. 108 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability General Disclosures Organizational profile 102-9 Supply chain Vontobel purchases a large quantity of products and ser102-1 Name of the organization vices from external providers, including facility manageVontobel Holding AG ment services, IT infrastructure, and the design and production of printed materials, as well as catering and 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services cleaning services. Wherever possible, we work with local Information on our activities, brands, products, and sersuppliers. For example, we purchase fruit for our employvices is provided in the following sections of our Annual ees from a Swiss family-owned company. All of our print Report: “Our brand”, pages 10–11; “Wealth Management”, orders in Switzerland are awarded to Swiss printing compage 26; “Asset Management”, page 28, “Investment panies. A major proportion of the advertising and ChristBanking”, page 30. mas gifts used throughout the company are also purchased from Swiss providers. At the end of 2019, we had 102-3 Location of headquarters a total of around 1,600 suppliers, of which 80 % were Vontobel Holding AG, Gotthardstrasse 43, CH-8022 based in Switzerland. Zurich, telephone +41 58 283 59 00, www.vontobel.com. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its 102-4 Location of operations supply chain A current overview of all our locations can be found on the Information on the development of the business is proInternet at: www.vontobel.com/locations vided in the “Business Review”, page 12, and in “Changes in the scope of consolidation” page 215. There were no 102-5 Ownership and legal form significant changes to the supply chain. Further information about the nature of our ownership and our legal form are provided in the section “Major share102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach / holders and groups of shareholders with pooled voting Sustainability approach rights”, page 37. A systematic client focus, a long-term growth strategy, and a solid capital and risk policy are core elements of 102-6 Markets served economic sustainability at Vontobel. Information and Information on markets served is provided in Wealth Manexplanations on this topic can be found in the relevant agement”, page 26; “Asset Management”, page 28, chapters of Vontobel’s Annual Report. “Investment Banking”, page 30. Our growth strategy includes a focus on our competen102-7 Scale of the organization cies and on our offering in the area of sustainable investAs of 31.12.2019, Vontobel had a total of 2,049 employees. ing. In terms of environmental sustainability, we take targeted measures when conducting our operations to Further key figures concerning the scale of the organizaachieve a significant reduction in CO2 emissions and other tion are provided on pages 8 and 9. factors that are harmful to the environment. Based on our strong commitment to supporting communities, we invest 102-8 Information on employees and other workers in initiatives and projects to promote social sustainability. Of the total of 2,049 employees at Vontobel as of A dedicated team addresses these topics. In 2019, we 31.12.2019, 1,720 held full-time positions (see table on have started a scenario analysis using scientifically based page 105). criteria to determine climate change-related opportunities and risks to our business model. In addition to employees with permanent contracts, a total of 366 temporary employees worked for Vontobel at the 102-12 External initiatives end of 2019. These individuals either have fixed-term conVontobel has been a signatory to the PRI, a UN initiative to tracts or are available on an “on call” basis to assist the promote sustainable investing, since 2010. The Principles company when needed. were launched by the then UN Secretary General in 2006 and take account of the growing relevance of environmenFor further key figures concerning our employees see the tal, social, and governance (ESG) themes in investment section on “Diversity, Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimpractice. In June 2019, Vontobel hosted the “PRI Reporting ination” (page 105). Consultation Workshop” at its head office in Zurich. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 109 In 2017, our company joined the global network of the Two key documents form the basis of Vontobel’s sustaina“United Nations Global Compact” as well as the “Global bility commitments: Compact Network Switzerland”. We have thus pledged to –– The Code of Conduct defines basic principles that align our operations and strategies with ten universal prinemployees must observe to ensure that we perform ciples in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and our business activities in a fair and forward-looking anti-corruption. Within our sphere of influence as a commanner. pany, we thus help to promote key sustainability principles –– The Sustainability Guidelines define the areas in around the globe. which we take action to implement our sustainability strategy. 102-13 Membership of associations These as well as further principles and guidelines are Vontobel is a member of various organizations and available at: www.vontobel.com/principles-and-policies. a co-signatory of a number of investor initiatives. In this way, we promote sustainable development in an environmental and social context. Governance A current overview of all initiatives and memberships can 102-18 Governance structure be found on the Internet at: www.vontobel.com/ratings-­ We permanently strive for sustainability, since it goes hand memberships. in hand with business success and stability. Sustainability and an effective business strategy are closely interconnected. For this reason, Vontobel is committed to the conStrategy tinuous optimization of sustainable business management in all our divisions in the long term. 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker See the foreword of the Sustainability Report, page 90. Vontobel strives to continuously improve its own sustainability performance and has two committees that work 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities towards this goal: the Vontobel Sustainability Committee See the foreword of the Sustainability Report, page 90. consists of representatives from all divisions and reports to the CEO. Based on Vontobel’s Sustainability Principles, the Committee defines the Sustainability Strategy and Ethics and integrity specific targets. In the context of our “Strategy 2020”, the Committee defined strategic objectives and key perfor102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of mance indicators for the area “Corporate Responsibility behavior & Sustainability”. Corporate Sustainability Management As a financial services provider, Vontobel is closely concoordinates the implementation of the measures that have nected with the economy and society in all the locations in been decided in conjunction with the relevant specialist which we operate. Consequently, the nature and design of units (see chart). our products and services and the way we conduct our business operations have an impact on sustainable development in this integrated world. We believe that promoting sustainable development in our markets is both an economic necessity and an ethical duty. Vontobel Sustainability Committee (VSC) Chair: Dr Zeno Staub, CEO Sustainability ­Management Representatives Asset Management Wealth Management Investment Banking of Business Units Representatives Investor Relations Group Marketing & Communication Group Human Resources Operations of Support Units 110 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Corporate Sustainability Management tor Relations or Corporate Sustainability Management, potential stakeholders are systematically recorded based Chief Executive Officer on the queries we receive. Dr Zeno Staub 102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement Corporate Marketing & Communication An open dialogue is key in order to gain a better underP. Farinato standing of the needs of our clients, employees, suppliers, and cooperation partners, and to take account of the interCommunications ests of local communities and non-government organizaS. Aamara tions (NGOs). We want to engage with our stakeholders by providing clear and comprehensible information on differSpecial Interest ent challenges and opportunities relating to ESG matters. C. Schilz Regular employee and client surveys are key tools in this context, as are targeted discussions with our suppliers. Corporate Sustainability Management N. Ernst, S. Schärer 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised In 2018, we carried out an employee survey as well as various client surveys. Issues raised by employees included The ESG Investment Government Committee is responsicalls for targeted support in the area of career developble for the coordination of the different investment stratement and the topic of constructive feedback. In 2019 for gies regarding environmental, social, and governance the first time, we carried out a Manager Survey (referred to (ESG) issues, overarching principles and policies, and genas “upward feedback”). The results of this survey provide erally advances ESG throughout the various investment helpful input about the areas where managers have scope teams in Vontobel Asset Management. The Committee for further development. consists of representatives of all Asset Management boutiques and meets once each month. It reports to the The majority of clients indicated that they were very satisVontobel Asset Management Executive Committee. fied with Vontobel but we nonetheless want to achieve improvements in this area and to further strengthen client Information on Vontobel’s overall governance structure is satisfaction and trust in our company. We are making good provided in the “Corporate Governance” section, starting progress in these efforts: in the financial year 2019, on page 36. Vontobel once again received numerous awards, demonstrating our clients’ satisfaction with our services. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our sustainability commitments center on our main groups of stakeholders: clients, shareholders, employees, society, and the environment. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements In Switzerland, all employees up to and including middle management are covered by the Agreement on Conditions of Employment for Bank Employees (VAB) issued by the Employers Association of Banks in Switzerland (AVG). 102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders For Vontobel, interacting closely with our stakeholders is a central component of our day-to-day business. We focus on our dialogue with all stakeholder groups on whom Vontobel’s business activities have a significant influence or who have a substantial impact on the success of the company. At established points of contact, such as InvesCorporate Responsibility & Sustainability 111 Reporting practice 102-50 Reporting period Unless stated otherwise, the reporting period is from 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial January 1 to December 31, 2019. The environmental key statements figures relate to the period from October 1, 2018, to SepInformation on the scope of consolidation is provided on tember 30, 2019. pages 214–215. 102-51 Date of most recent report 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries February 2019 This report is based on the material topics that Vontobel has identified using the process defined under the GRI G4 102-52 Reporting cycle guidelines to determine material topics and disclosures in This report has been produced in accordance with the various workshops and interviews. During this process, we principles set out by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) discussed all the GRI topics and the Financial Sector Supfor the tenth time. plements that apply specifically to the financial sector and determined their materiality for Vontobel. The material top102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report ics have been transferred to the reporting based on the Natalie Ernst GRI Standards. Corporate Sustainability Manager Telephone +41 58 283 62 18 As a provider of financial products, we also incorporate sustainability aspects into our products and services and Simone Schärer into partnerships and relationships with suppliers. Further Sustainability Manager information is available in the preceding chapters. Unless Telephone +41 58 283 51 72 stated otherwise, the reporting boundary encompasses Vontobel Holding AG with the subsidiaries listed in the sustainability@vontobel.com consolidated annual financial statements as well as their locations. 102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 102-47 List of material topics This report was produced in accordance with the GRI Material topics for our reporting: Standards: ‘Core’ option. –– Economic performance –– Indirect economic impacts 102-55: GRI Content Index –– Materials See GRI Content Index from page 113. –– Energy –– Emissions 102-56: External assurance –– Employment The report has not been externally assured. –– Training and education –– Diversity and equal opportunity –– Non-discrimination –– Anti-corruption –– Product and service labeling –– Customer privacy –– Product compliance –– Product portfolio –– Active ownership 102-48 Restatements of information We have not made any restatements or corrections to the previous year’s disclosures. It is planned that the list of material topics will be updated in the coming year. 102-49 Changes in reporting We have not made any changes to our reporting. 112 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 113 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Title Page GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 108 Organizational profile 108 102-1 Name of the organization 108 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 108 102-3 Location of headquarters 108 102-4 Location of operations 108 102-5 Ownership and legal form 108 102-6 Markets served 108 102-7 Scale of the organization 108 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 108 102-9 Supply chain 108 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 108 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach / Sustainability approach 108 102-12 External initiatives 108 102-13 Membership of associations 109 Strategy 109 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 109 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 109 Ethics and integrity 109 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 109 Governance 109 102-18 Governance structure 109 Stakeholder engagement 110 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 110 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements  110 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 110 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 110 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 110 Reporting practice 111 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 111 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 111 102-47 List of material topics 111 102-48 Restatements of information 111 102-49 Changes in reporting 111 102-50 Reporting period 111 102-51 Date of most recent report 111 102-52 Reporting cycle 111 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 111 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 111 102-55 GRI Content Index 111 102-56 External assurance 111 For the Materiality Disclosures Service, the GRI Service Team verified whether the GRI Content Index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 correspond to the relevant sections of the Report. This GRI service was conducted on the German version of this report. 114 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Reason of GRI Standard Title Page omission Sustainable Investing 91 Product portfolio 91 GRI 103: 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 2016 91, 95 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size and by FS6 sector 95 FS8 Products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit 95 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social FS11 screening 95 Active Ownership 96 GRI 103: 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 2016 96 FS10 Portfolio-based engagement on social or environmental issues 96 Economic Sustainability 98 GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 98 GRI 103: 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 2016 98 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 98 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 98 GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016 98 GRI 103: 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 2016 98 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 98 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 98 GRI 103: 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 2016 98, 99 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 99 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 99 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 99 Environmental Sustainability 100 GRI 301: Materials 2016 101 GRI 103: 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 2016 100, 101 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 101 301-2 Recycled input materials used 101 GRI 302: Energy 2016 101 GRI 103: 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 2016 100, 101 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 101 302-3 Energy intensity 101 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 101 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 102 GRI 103: 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 2016 100, 102 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 102 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 102 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 102 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 102 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 102 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 115 Reason of GRI Standard Title Page omission Social Sustainability 103 GRI 401: Employment 2016 103 GRI 103: 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 2016 103 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 103 401-2 Benefits provided to employees 104 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 104 GRI 103: 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 2016 104 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 104 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 104 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career developGRI 404-3 ment reviews 105 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 105 GRI 103: 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 2016 105 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 105 GRI 406: Non-Discrimination 2016 105 GRI 103: 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 2016 105 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 105 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 107 GRI 103: 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 2016 107 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 107 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 107 GRI 103: 103-1 / 103-2 / 103-3 Management approach 2016 107 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses 418-1 of customer data 107 116 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability UN Global Compact: Activities and Results Implementing and supporting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact “Vontobel has been a member of the UN Global Compact and of the Global Compact Network Switzerland since 2017. We have thus pledged to align our operations and strategies with ten universally recognized principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption.” Dr Zeno Staub, CEO of Vontobel This Sustainability Report is our second Communication on Progress (COP) report about the implementation of the ten principles at Vontobel. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATION AT VONTOBEL: CONTENT-RELATED TOPICS PAGE IN ANNUAL AND COVERAGE ACCORDING TO GRI REPORTING REPORT Human Rights Principle 1: Topic Non-discrimination Businesses should support and GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 105 respect the protection of internaFinancial Sector specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership tionally proclaimed human rights FS10: Portfolio-based engagement on social or environmental issues 96 FS11: Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social 95 screening Principle 2: Topic Organizational Profile Make sure that they are not GRI 102-9 Supply chain 108 complicit in human rights abuses Financial Sector specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership FS10: Portfolio-based engagement on social or environmental issues 96 FS11: Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social 95 screening Labor Principle 3: Topic Organizational Profile Businesses should uphold the GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 110 freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Topic Organizational Profile Elimination of all forms of forced GRI 102-9 Supply Chain 108 and compulsory labor Topic Economic performance GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 98 Principle 5: Topic Organizational Profile Effective abolition of child labor GRI 102-9 Supply Chain 108 Principle 6: Topic Organizational Profile Elimination of discrimination in GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 108 respect of employment and Topic Employment occupation GRI 401-1 New employees hires and employee turnover 103 Topic Training and Education GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 104 transition assistance programs GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 105 career development reviews Topic Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 105 Topic Non-discrimination GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 105 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 117 PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATION AT VONTOBEL: CONTENT-RELATED TOPICS PAGE IN ANNUAL AND COVERAGE ACCORDING TO GRI REPORTING REPORT Environment Principle 7: Topic Materials Businesses should support GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 101 a precautionary approach to GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used 101 environmental challenges Topic Energy GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 101 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 101 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 101 Topic Emissions GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 102 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emission 102 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emission 102 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 102 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 102 Financial Sector specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership FS10: Portfolio-based engagement on social or environmental issues 96 FS11: Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social 95 screening Principle 8: Topic Materials Undertake initiatives to promote GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 101 greater environmental responsibility GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used 101 Topic Energy GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 101 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 101 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 101 Topic Emissions GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 102 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emission 102 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emission 102 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 102 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 102 Principle 9: Topic Energy Encourage the development and GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 101 diffusion of environmentally friendly Topic Emissions technologies GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 102 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Topic Ethics and Integrity Businesses should work against GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 109 corruption in all its forms, including GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 99 extortion and bribery GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 99 procedures GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 99 Legal information This Report is intended solely for information purposes. The information and views contained in it do not constitute a request, offer or recommendation to use a service, to buy or sell investment instruments or to conduct other transactions. By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, both general and specific, and risks exist that predictions, forecasts, projections and other outcomes described or implied in forward-looking statements will not be achieved. This report also appears in German. The German version is prevailing. Vontobel Gotthardstrasse 43 8022 Zurich vontobel.com
