COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT GROUPMED INSURANCE OCT 2019 OCT 2020 GMI GMI GROUPMED INSURANCE G R O U P M E D IN S U R AN C E To our Stakeholders, For the third year in a row, we are committed as GroupMed Insurance and Reinsurance Company S.A.L. (GMI) to support the Ten Principles set by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in our Human Rights, Labor, Environmental and Anti-Corruption practices. Our Communication on Progress for 2020 provides the multiple initiatives taken to maintain and enhance our policies & procedures covering all scopes related to the UNGC principles. Our focus as well this year was applying those principles while in crises management after the unfortunate events that stroke Lebanon in early August and while taking action to limit the spread of COVID-19. Our efforts and related updates are shared with our stakeholders through our website. Sincerely Yours, Omar Bilani Chairman General Manager GroupMed Insurance and Reinsurance Company S.A.L. 3rd Floor, 131 Marfaa Bulding, Foch Street P.O. Box: 11-7695 Riad El Solh, Beirut, Lebanon Tel.: +961 1 999 250, Fax: +961 1 999 251 Capital: 27,000,000,000 L.B.P. Fully Paid C.R. Beirut: 1020056 M.O.F.: 4696 M.O.E.T. License Number 204 by Decision Number 13/A.T. Dated 5-4-1984 Subject to Decree Number 9812 Issued on 4/5/1968 as Amended VISION To be a leading insurance network in the Middle East region and wherever our clients’ operate. MISSION To create, provide and deliver insurance expertise, experience and services to facilitate the realization of financial, insurance and strategic solutions that secure the success of our clients’ business. CORE VALUES Client Focus Team work Commitment Meet the requirements Nurture a culture where Perform all initiatives with and expectations with all team members collaborate determination and tenacity measurable deliverables to achieve group goals. to guarantee achievement and ensure quality in all of all objectives. our provided services. Innovation Credibility Integrity Invest is systems that are up Strive to ensure all measures Have no compromise to date and facilitate work for are taken to earn the trust and on our ethics as individuals, better performance at all times reliability of all our shareholders. as teams and as a group. United Nations Global Compact The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We are equal opportunity employers and all our pratices provide no 1 discrimination against any applicant be it because of race, color, religion, political vews, gender, age and physical/mental disability. 2 Our management believes in an open door policy where all employees are welcome to discuss their needs. 3 GMI promotes its Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct in all its practices and always ensuring full implementation of the set policies, rules and social norms. 4 We provide our employees with fair and compatible remuneration, benefits and rewards and are continuously looking to enhance our practices given the recent economical challenges we are witnessing. 5 We focus on our employee’s professional and career development through periodic assesement to determine the needs for enhancing technical and soft skills. 6 The health and safety of our employees remains our ultimate priority. Upon the beginning of the COVID-19 virus spread, we installed plexi barriers for our front liners, distributed hand gel and masks and enforced distancing and continuously sent awareness emails to all employees based on the World Health Organization information and guidelines. 7 Due to the traumatic experience that the Lebanese citizens went through post the Beirut Blast, our efforts were focused on ensuring the well-being of our employees and community in general. We provided emotional, financial, and psychologival support to all the GMI family as needed. This was a difficult time to through at both the employee personal level and the operational level on top the severe destruction at our Head Office. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 1 Our initial salary scale provided a good income for our employees based on seniority levels. We are currently facing a dire economy characterized by fluctuating exchange rates and unprecedented infaltion rates. We are hopeful to be able to take corrective measure to our salary scale following official regulatory directions. 2 Our employee handbook is in place displaying all the employees right and obligations. 3 Gender equality is applied at GMI as 40% are men and 60% are women. 4 Age Diversity: 5% are in the age range of 50 60 years old. 16% are in the age range of 40 49 years old. 44% are in the age range of 30 39 years old. 35% are in the age range of 20 29 years old. 5 We celebrate different occasions throughout the year at GMI to spread a positive and dynamic work atmosphere. We didn’t perform as per every year because of Lebanon economic crisis, the revolution, COVID-19 and the Port Explosion. However, we are always spreading motivation and positive messages throughout the year. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 1 We initiate ongoing efforts to stay green and reinforce our paper management program continuously. This is done through effective printing, shredding and recycling paper. In addition, awareness broadcasts of such methods are always shared with employees enforcing as well their wider benefit. 2 GMI is a promoter of Environmental Protection and contributes by taking related measures and using resources and energy economically and efficiently. All our activities have the smallest possible impact on the environment as we continuously encourage our employees to save water, turn off lights and ACs, shut down computers before leaving and apply the same in their personal practice as well. 3 We operate in a non-smoking environment. 4 After the Explosion on August 4 and several fires, the city was exposed to toxic materials and pollution rate increased, as well as our offices, but we managed to renovate and clean up everything and make it a safe place where the employees spend most of their time. We also donated to NGOs by providing them with all broken glass for recycling. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion & bribery 1 GMI has a fully developped Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct where Anti-Corruption policies are detailed. 2 We are very careful in taking all precautions required to guarantee that our operations are in compliance with related laws and our practices meet all regulatory requirements. We also take extreme measures in addressing any breach or attempt of extorsion/bribery or any action that directly opposes our Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct. 3 Our employees attend yearly training sessions related to Anti-Money Laundering and Combatting the Financing of Terrorism awareness. 4 We maintain clients confidentiality. THANK YOU GMI GROUPMED INSURANCE
