maEerialise innovators you can count on 201 9 Sustainability ReporU Communication on Progress (COP) Published: February 17, 2020 moteriolise.com ability Report Communication on Progress (COP), 201g 2 Our Statement of Continued Support To our stakeholders: Since it was founded in 1990, making the world a better and healthier place has been the mission of Materialise. ln 2017, when we first pledged our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, its Ten Principles, and seventeen SDGs, we were confident that we were taking both a natural and important next step. And now, 30 years after our company was started and 3 years after we became a participant of the UNGC, we are proud of how far we've come, but at the same time see, there's still much work to be done to create the world we envision. Once again, I am pleased to confirm that Materialise reaffirms its support of the United Nations Global Compact and its Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. And with this annual Sustainability ReporUCOP, we summarize the progress we have made against these principles to date, and pledge to continually improve their integration into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. Being a good corporate citizen, continually setting the bar higher, and improving the planet and the lives of those around us are aims that are enthusiastically embraced at all levels within our global organization. Together, we will continue to make the world a better and healthier place. Yours sincerely, Peter Leys Executive Chairman _-a materialise Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise.com I materialise.com innovatofs you can count on ability Report Communication on Progress (COP), 2019 3 Table of Contents pfl 4 1. Our Sustainable Development Strategy & SDG Priorities 5 2. About Materialise 5 2.1 The Materialise Mission 5 2.2 Materialise at a Glance b 2.3 Organizational Structure 7 3 Fair Business Practices & Governance 7 3.1 Leadership 7 3.2 Sustainability Management 7 3.3 Guidelines & Policies 7 3.3.1 Code of Conduct & Ethics 8 3.3.2 Quality Policy I 3.3.3 EnvironmentalPolicy 9 3.3.4 Supply Chain Policy l0 3.4 Compliance/GDPR 10 4 Description of Actions & Measurement of Outcomes 10 4.1 Workers 11 4.1.1 Safe & Healthy Offices/Production Facilities 11 4.1.2 Harassment-FreeWorkplaces 12 4.1.3 Formalized Fair Employment Policies 13 4.1.4 Wage Band & Performance Evaluation Systems 13 4.1.5 Wellness & Lifestyle Support 13 4.1.6 Top Employer Certification 14 4.1.7 Supply Chain Policy 14 4.2 Environment 14 4.2.1 EnvironmentalManagementSystem 15 4 2.2 Carbon Footprint Assessment 16 4.2.3 Supply Chain 16 4.3 Community 16 4 3.1 Anti-Corruption 17 4.3.2 Charitable Activities 17 4.4 Customers '18 5. 2019 Summary &2020 Objectives _-1 maEerialise Materialise nv I Technolog¡elaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@material¡secom I materialisecom innovatofs you can count on ability Report Communication on Progress (COP), 2019 4 1. Our Sustainable Development Strategy & SDG Priorities As a continuation of our mission to create a better and healthier world, in 2017, we first pledged our support of the UN Global Compact, and in 2018, we introduced an official CSR team, added CSR as a key enabler to our company's strategic framework, and created our first sustainable development strategy. ln 2019, we continued to build on this foundation, expanding our team, and further investing in programs to minimize our impact on the environment and to support our customers and employees. Today, our sustainable development strategy remains focused on creating shared value, so on integrating social and environmental concerns into our business operations and product and service offerings, as well as enabling new solutions and business models that balance these concerns with economic requirements. This is complimented by a philanthropic program which supports charitable initiatives around the world. ln 2019, we had four priority Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): Decent Work & Economic Growth (8), Reduced lnequalities (10), Responsible Consumption & Production (12), and Climate Action (1 3). For 2020, as the result of a materiality assessment, this selection was modified and expanded, resulting in six priority SDGs: Good Health & WellBeing (3), Decent Work & Economic Growth (8), lndustry, lnnovation & lnfrastructure (9), Responsible Consumption & Production (12) Climate Action (13), and Partnerships for the Goals (17). 2019 Priority SDGs I 0tcfirr ||loR[ Âfi! tc0lr0¡[c cR0tult 10 irtto'rt^',tr,* Y /= 1 \=/ + 2020 Prio¡ity SDGs 3 t000HrAIH ¡l/0 t[ttt Bflt¡[ I 0tItt¡ r t'l0Rr( Ärt0 tc0lt0fitc GR0llìH I ili0lJ$rfi.ilflovÁtruil å10tlmÀsnuflunr ,11 lrI CtlMAIt rclrol lt p¡Ril¡t RslilPS Illt GOATS *rt, '()R M & @ @ Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise.com I materialise.com materialise -.-1 innovatofs you can count on ability Report Communication on Progress (COP), 2019 5 2. About Materialise When Materialise was founded in 1990, our goal was to enable new uses for the extraordinary potential that 3D printing offers. Since then, we have leveraged our experience to create a range of software solutions and 3D printing services, which together form a backbone for the 3D printing industry. Our open and flexible platforms enable players in industries such as healthcare, automotive, aerospace, art and design, and consumer goods, to build innovative 3D printing applications that make the world a better and healthier place. Headquartered in Belgium with a public listing on the NASDAQ stock exchange and approximately 2100 people in 20 countries worldwide, Materialise combines one of the largest groups of software developers in the industry with one of the largest 3D printing facilities in the world. Ultimately, we empower our customers to transition towards a digital manufacturing process and to launch innovations that have the potential to forever change the faces of their industries. 2.1 The Materialise Mission The Materialise mission has remained unchanged since our company was founded by CEO Fried Vancraen almost 30 years ago. Our mission is to innovate product development that resu/fs in a better and healthier world, through our software and hardware infrastructLtre, and an in-depth knowledge of Additive Manufacturing. 2.2 Materialise at a Glance Revenue Emplovees Reportinq Structure Patents 185 +2100 3 +260 million EUR business units granted Active +1 g0 +50K 92% tn 20 countr¡es 3D printers patients helped yearly of largest AM System Manufaclurers use Materialise software all as of end of year 201 9, except revenue: as at Dec 20 materialise -/ Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialisecom I materialisecom innovðtofs you can count on ability Report Communication on Progress (COP), 2019 b 2.3 Orqanizational Structure Materialise NV is a publicly-held corporation which trades on the NASDAQ stock exchange. We operate 27 offices in 20 countries worldwide with headquarters located in Leuven, Belgium. Most of our otfices are subsidiaries and include the Materialise companies ACTech, Engimplan, OBL, and RapidFit. We also have strategic partnerships with RSPrint and BASF. Our main manufacturing facilities are located in Belgium, Czech Republic, Poland, USA, and Germany. 27 Offices in 20 Countries Asia/Oceania Europe Americas Australia Austria Italy Brazil China (2) Belgium (2) Poland Colombia lndia Czech Republic Spain usA (2) Japan France (2) Sweden Malaysia Germany (3) Ukraine Hungary United Kingdom (2) Materialise is divided into 3 business units: Manufacturing, Software, and Medical, and financial results from our worldwide operations are reported in consolidated form and according to these business units. Full details can be found in our annual report: 3 Business Units, Leading Brands Software Manufacturing Medical Data & Build Preparat¡on Certified Manufacturing Planning & 3D Modeling Printing Process Full-service Metals 3D printing of Patient-Specific Control Printing Medical Guides/Devices Research Rapid Prototyping Advanced Analytics Devices Machine Communication Digital Supply Chains Materialise Magics . 3-matic. Streamics . Build Processor Orthoview. SurgiCase . ProPlan . CMF . Mimics inPrint. HeartPrint. Mimics . 3-matic Materialise nv I I I Belgium I ---J maLerialise Technologielaan 15 3001 Leuven info@materialise.com I materialise.com ¡nnovðtors you Cên count on ability Report Communicat¡on on Progress (COP), 2019 7 3. Fair Business Practices & Governance Materialise has a ten-member Board of Directors, including our company founder Wilfried Vancraen, who also serves as CEO. The Executive Committee is comprised of twelve members including our CEO, Executive Chairman, CTO, CFO, ClO, Chief Legal Officer, two Executive Vice-Presidents, and four Vice-Presidents. Full details are publicly available on the governance page of our investor relations website. rs. materia ise. com/board-of I 3.2 Susta nabi itv Manaqement Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) team, which manages and executes our sustainability program, is primarily based in our headquarters in Leuven, Belgium. The team is headed by our Director of Quality, Risk, and Compliance, who reports directly to our CEO. ln 2019, our CSR team expanded from 7 part-time members to 15, and now also includes a new full-time CSR Coordinator, as well as local sustainability champions ( Ambassadors ), not only at HQ, but also spread across our international entities. 3.3 Guidelines & Policies 3.3.1 Code of Conduct & Ethics The Materialise Code of Conduct & Ethics was created to provide guidelines for conducting the business of Materialise to the highest standards of business ethics. This Code applies to all Materialise directors, officers, consultants and other employees, and the Code has been incorporated into the Materialise training program to ensure that all employees have read and understand what is expected. The Materialise Code supporls all of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and is available publicly on our website at: Connected to this Code, we operate an anonymous hotline, available 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, which employees can call should they have any concerns or questions. ln 2019, no complaints to this hotline were received. _-1 materialise Materialise nv I Technologielaan l5 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise com I materialise com ¡nnovatofs you can count on nability Reporl Communication on Progress (COP), 2019 8 3.3.2 Quality Policy At Materialise, we implement quality in everything we do. This means we are continuously improving ourselves, enabling every employee and manager at Materialise to make a commitment guaranteeing quality in compliance with regulatory requirements. We have dedicated ourselves to innovating product development that contributes to a better and healthier world as well as aiming to fully understand, anticipate and satisfy the needs of our customers, suppliers and partners. We provide the backbone for 3D printing technology, and by implementing the Materialise Quality Policy, we are able to deliver high-value service and products to our customers in our three main areas of expertise: manufacturing, software and medical. Materialise values quality management principles according to ISO 9001 :2015, with a strong focus on customer satisfaction and continuous improvement. On a regular basis, we perform customer surveys or ø customer journey workshops to receive customer input. This triggers and 2b, scq enables us to constantly improve the entire organization. Materialise touches individual lives with our medical devices and every resulting story is patient-specific. Each step in designing and -8 manufacturing patient-specific medical devices and medical device 4 , software follows the regulatory focused quality management system for scq medical devices compliant to ISO 13485.2016 to ensure safe and effective products. As providers of high-quality prototypes, production tools and cutting-edge software, we've already enjoyed a long collaboration with the aerospace industry. Since adopting specific aerospace industry standards, we have received EASA Par|21G and EN9100:2016 certification. This allows authorized delivery of ainruorthy additive manufactured end-use parts. By obtaining these certifications, we've proven to meet the industry demands in: Quality and safety Reliability and traceability Project management and administration _-materialise Mater¡alise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 300'1 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise com I materialise.com lnnovators you can count on ability ReportCommunication on Progress (COP),2019 9 3.3.3 Environmental Policy As a 3D printing company with industrial and medical production facilities, Materialise has a responsibility towards the environment around us and we're moving towards a sustainable future with our environmental management system (EMS). Our EMS allows us to understand, address and minimize out ecological footprint. With this policy in place at our headquarters in Belgium, and our ISO 14001:2015 certificate, we are making a commitment to protect the environment and to comply with European environmental legislation, regulations and customer-specific requirements in all of our operations, processes and services. rso 14001 The EMS focuses on . Reducing raw material usage by controlling spills and rejected parts . Minimizing waste through recycling and proper waste disposal . Efficient water and energy use . Minimizing the use of harmful solvents . Encouraging environmentally friendly commuting But we know we can keep doing better. We remain committed to continual improvement and each year, we set relevant targets, measure, review and report our performance. We also make sure everybody gets involved our employees all receive environmental awareness training and are actively encouraged to participate in Materialise's EMS. 3.3.4 Supply Chain Policy The Materialise Supply Chain Policy aims to foster sustainable procurement and support the driving elements that shape us as a company: innovation, co-creation, people, and quality. All employees have been encouraged to apply and share the policy. Our Supply Chain Policy supports all of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and has been actively communicated to our suppliers. lt requires that they share data regarding their own sustainability programs, and encourages them to be accountable, ethical, respectful of human rights, and innovative. Each year the policy is reviewed and updated as necessary. lt is publicly availab le on our website at: httos://www.m lise.com/en/aboutmaterialise Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@mater¡alise.com I materialise.com ¡nnovarofsyoucancounÈoñ ReportCommunicat¡on on Progress (COP),2019 10 3.4 Compliance/GDPR As per the Materialise Code of Conduct & Ethics, we strive to ensure that our company complies will all of the applicable laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. All employees are obligated to comply with all laws, rules and regulations that are relevant to the operation of Materialise. This includes the recent European Union General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which came into force on May 25,2018 and significantly expands the territorial reach of existing EU data protection and privacy rules. ln anticipation of this new legislation, in March 2018, we conducted a gap assessment of our relevant systems. We are currently implementing the findings and adapting where needed in order to ensure full compliance. 4. Description of Actions and Measurement of Outcomes Please find below descriptions of the progress Materialise has made against our 2019 priority SDGs and each of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. To the extent they are available, performance indicators and quantitative data are also provided. 4.1 Workers Principle I Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and I tiÉtÉilr IY0Rl{ âlt0 tc0ì0Ntt GR0IIïfi Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 7 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 1 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 10 l-',tot'^',tr'^ Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and /= occupation. \=/ Our ability to grow as an organization and provide innovative, meaningful solutions and applications to our customers is dependent on the contribution of our people. ln other words, at Materialise, we owe our success to our people, and one of our primary objectives is to provide a work environment where all employees feel not just safe and healthy, but where they can go beyond, where they can grow and thrive. To this end, our initiatives include, but are not limited to: materialise -¿ Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise.com I material¡se.com lnnovatots you can count on ability Report Communication on Progress (COP), 2019 11 4.1.1 Safe and Healthy Offices and Production Facilities All Materialise facilities are safe, suitable and sanitary and comply with government legislation. ln addition, all employees, consultants, and directors are required to comply with all applicable health and safety laws, regulations and policies relevant to their positions. We take this very seriously, and all relevant parties are aware that failure to comply can result in civil and criminal liability as well as possible termination of employment. Materialise headquarters has 20 employees who are trained in first aid and can be contacted in case of injury. We also have 14 fire prevention officers, responsible for ensuring that employees evacuate safely in case of emergency. These officers receive training on a regular basis. The remaining Materialise offices are organized in this regard according to national laws. ln 2019, no complaints were received and out of the approximately 650 employees at Materialise HQ where our primary production facilities are located, there were no accidents that resulted in death or permanent injury, and only 3 less serious accidents with a total of 56 days of sick leave. Primary Production Facilities: # employees #fire Total# of Total # of work Total # of days of sick trained in first prevention workplace accidents resulting leave due to work aid officers accidents in death or serious accidents rnJury 2018 17 15 5 0 18 2019 20 14 3 0 56 4. 1 .2 Ha rassment-Free Workplaces Materialise prohibits harassment based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, âgê, disability, veteran status or any other characteristic protected by law, in any form, whether physical or verbal and whether committed by supervisors, nonsupervisory personnel or non-employees. Harassment may include, but is not limited to, offensive sexual flirtations, unwanted sexual advances or propositions, verbal abuse, sexually or racially degrading words, or the display in the workplace of sexually suggestive or racially degrading objects or pictures. Where harassment or discrimination is uncovered, prompt corrective action is taken, which may include disciplinary action by Materialise, up to and including, termination of employment. ln addition to the anonymous hotline mentioned above which is connected to our Code of Conduct and Ethics, we also employ 4 ConfidentialAdvisors who can provide guidance and mediation in the case of complaints, and are bound by confidentiality and will behave consistent with the law. ln the last major survey, conducted at Materialise HQ in 2018,70o/o of employees participated anonymously, and the potential negative outcomes of sexual harassment, discrimination, bullying, and violence were all below the relevant benchmarks. --¿ materialise Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise.com I materialise.com innovatofs you can doun! on ility Report Communication on Progress (COP), 2019 12 4.1.3 Formalized Fair Employment Policies Materialise operates offices around the world including in emerging countries such as Colombia, Ukraine, and Malaysia, and is committed to providing equal opportunity and fair treatment to all individuals on the basis of merit, without discrimination because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, âgê, disability, veteran status or other characteristic protected by law. This commitment is outlined in our Code of Conduct and Ethics, and to reinforce it, in 2019, as per one of our COP objectives for the year, we introduced a new anti-discrimination hiring policy, which we will continue to roll out in2020. We do not participate in any form of forced or compulsory labor, including within our supply chain (Supply Chain Policy, Section 3.3.4). Employees have the right and are free to join trade unions. Employees must comply with all applicable labor and employment laws relevant to their jobs, and are aware that a failure to do so can result in civil and criminal liability, and termination of employment. ln 2019, no complaints to our anonymous hotline were received and at Materialise headquarters, which are our primary office and production facilities, 1o/o of our workforce had a disability,39o/o were women, and our approximately 650 employees represented over 43 different nationalities. Looking on a worldwide basis, our approximately 2100 employees represented over 53 different nationalities, and women represented 360/o of our workforce. For fudher details, please see the charts below. Gender Diversity, Materialise Worldwide: women tn women in people women on Director's women on Board workforce management positions Committee of Directors 2018 35o/o 31% 33% 22o/o 2019 36Yo 35o/o 33o/o 20Yo change +1o/o +4o/o 0o/o -2% 101oti; 90% 80u/o 46% 36% 70o1o 61% s2% 55% 58% 55% 63% 70% 63% 60o/o 76% 79% 50_e; 40o/o 30% 54% 64% 20n/o 48% 45% 42% 45% 39o/o 37% 30% 37% 10o/o 24% 21% )a/o 3 -rc$' ø ^ t . r.C*..t c,È r Female ¡ lvlale --¿ materialise Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise.com I materialise.com ¡nnovdtols you can count on ability Report Communication on Progress (COP), 2019 13 4.1.4 Wage Band & Performance Evaluation Systems Materialise has a formalized wage band system to ensure 'equal pay for equal work'. The system conforms to national legal standards and is regularly benchmarked against industry standards. This system is fully in place in our operations worldwide. Employees at Materialise HQ and some worldwide offices can also benefit from additional medical insurance and retirement provisions. Materialise also has a formal performance evaluation system, with evaluations occurring twice annually, to ensure that all employees have the opportunity to shape their career paths A comprehensive training program is available to all employees to further support career development and personal growth. |n2019, on a worldwide basis, approximately 70o/o of employees benefitted from additionaltraining. This is up 4% over 2018. 4.1.5 Wellness and Lifestyle Support At our offices around the world, Materialise offers a variety of programs to help employees live healthy lives. For example, at Materialise HQ, during 2019, the initiatives included, but were not limited to: a no-smoking policy, fresh fruit deliveries, flu shots, a variety of sports classes, and a bike leasing program. |n2019,29o/o received a flu shot, 12o/otook part in a sports class, and 47o/o received a bike allowance (up 7o/o over 2018). Materialise employees always have access to fresh drinking water, tea, and cotfee. And every Materialise office has at least one equipped kitchen. Flexible contracts are also available to help support work/life balance: Part-time contracts 2018 2019 Change Belgian employees 16% 14% -2% Worldwide employees 7o/o 9o/o +2o/o 4.1.6 Top Employer Certification ln 2Q19, as per one of our COP objectives for the year, we completed the program to achieve certification for excellence in employee conditions by the Top Employer lnstitute. The Top Employer designation was awarded to us in January 2020, and was attained by only 72 other companies in Belgium. 7-'¿ materialise Materialise nv I Technologielaan'15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise.com I materialise.com innovaÈofs you can count on ability Reporl Communication on Progress (COP), 2019 14 4.1.7 Supply Chain Policy At Materialise, we recognize that we owe our success not just to the workers who are direct employees, but also to those who are located all along our supply chain. As previously outlined in Section 3.3.4, our Supply Chain Policy requires that our suppliers respect internationally recognized human rights and that they strive to be aware of any violations throughout their own supply chains. lt also requires that suppliers comply with our conflict minerals policy. 4.2 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friend ly tech nologies. The world is currently facing pressing challenges connected to climate change, and Materialise is committed to supporting the environment and the communities in which we do business. As indicated in our Code of Conduct & Ethics, all employees, at all levels, must comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, and standards, and failure to do so can result not just in civil and criminal liability but also disciplinary action, including termination of employment. We recognize that tackling climate change is both our responsibility and also necessary both to the long{erm future of our business and to creating the world we envision. To this end, our initiatives include, but are not limited to: 4.2.1 Environmental Management System As previously mentioned in Section 3.3.3, Materialise runs a company-wide environmental management system (EMS) that seeks to understand and above all minimize our effect on the environment. With this policy in place at our headquarters in Belgium, and our ISO 14001:2015 certificate, we are making a commitment to protect the environment and to comply with European environmental legislation, regulations and customer-specific requirements in all of our operations, processes and services. Materialise nv I Technologielaan l5 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise.com I materialise.com ---J materialise innovators you cên count on lity Report Communication on Progress (COP), 2019 15 All Materialise employees receive environmental awareness training and are actively encouraged to participate in our EMS. To ensure engagement, compliance, and continuous improvement, every year, we set relevant targets, measure, review and report our performance. Forexample, at Materialise HQ, in 2019: o 46.80/o of employees used a bike for all or part of their commute. This was up 7% from 2018. o Water consumption per full-time employee was consistently below expectations at an average of 19.9 liters per day (stable compared to 2018). The expected consumption levelwas 25-35 liters/day/employee (based on an average Belgian company). o Our continued focus on quality further ensured waste production was minimized. o Our solar panels generated over 161,000 kWh of energy, stable to 2018, reducing our dependence on traditional energy sources. o Approximately 700 trees, plants, and shrubs were planted on our property to support birds and bees and promote biodiversity. This was done entirely by employee volunteers at the beginning of winter. As well, in 2019, our ISO 14001 certification was renewed and extended to include our RapidFit operations, and we further developed plans both to further extend it to our Polish facilities and to support prototype recycling. ln addition, we were awarded a silver medal in recognition of our EcoVadis CSR rating, and continued to actively push strategies to further reduce manufacturing waste through improved machine reliability. As of December 31, 2019, approximately 1.8 million Euros have been invested in research projects with another approximately 450 thousand Euros planned for 2020. EcoVadis ISO 14001 Silver 1.8M certification Medal invested to reduce mfg waste 4.2.2 Carbon Footprint Assessment ln 2019, as per one of our COP objectives for the year, we conducted the first Carbon Footprint assessment for Materialise operations worldwide. The assessment followed the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) protocol guidelines for clarifying the origin of emissions and for reporting purposes, and the Bilan Carbone protocolfor categorizing emission flows. Further to the conclusions of the assessment, which identified Scope 3 (travel), and Scope 2 (electricity) emissions as being the largest contributors to our footprint, we conducted further research and developed a new Air Travel Policy for Materialise HQ and our China facilities, and converted our electricity at HQ to 100% green energy. |n2020, we will continue to roll out these changes to the rest of our worldwide operations. Materialise nv I Technologielaan l5 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise.com I materialise.com --Z materialise ¡nnovðtofs you can count on ability Report Communication on Progress (COP), 2019 16 4.2.3 Supply Chain Policy As previously outlined in Section 3.3.4, our Supply Chain Policy requires that our suppliers also be accountable for both their own impact as well as the impact of their supply chains on not just society and the economy, but also on the environment. Our suppliers should be transparent in any decisions or activities that impact the environment and be able to demonstrate this transparency through their management systems. We encourage a focus on continual improvement. This includes seeking more sustainable alternatives for existing needs and integrating sustainability into all existing procurement practices to maximize sustainable outcomes. 4.3 Communitv Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its 10 RTf)UCTt) ü{t0uÂUTrts I 0tcÍ.lTtÍ0Rl( Âtt rc0il0lilr GR0llil /= M forms, including extortion and bribery. \=/ At Materialise, we recognize the important role we play, not just in relation to our workers and the environment, but also to the communities around us and those in which we operate. We are committed to helping create a more just and inclusive society. And we are also committed to sharing our know-how, technology and resources to empower meaningful, sustainable change. 4.3.1 Anti-Corruption Materialise has a zero tolerance policy with regards to any form of corruption, extortion, or bribery. Our Supply Chain Policy, as outlined in Section 3.3.4, requires that our suppliers behave ethically and promote ethical behavior throughout their supply chains. And as mentioned in Section 3.3.1 , our Code of Conduct & Ethics clearly outlines our guidelines for doing business consistent with the highest standards of business ethics. All employees, directors, officers, and consultants are expected to adhere to these standards. Failure to do so will result in appropriate discipline, which may include civil damages, criminalfines, and termination of employment or removal from our board. The specific areas that our Code covers include, but are not limited to: Conflicts of lnterest, lnsider Trading, Relationships with Suppliers, Relationships with Customers, Gifts and Entertainment, Financial Reporting, Compliance with Laws and Regulations including Laws Covering Bribery & Kickbacks, and Government lnteractions. Our Code is publicly available at: and employees can anonymously report any suspected incidences of corruption to the already mentioned hotline, which in 2019, received no calls. Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@material¡se.com I materialise.com materialise -'1 innovaÈorsyoucancounron ability Report Communication on Progress (COP), 2019 17 4.3.2 Cha ritable Activities Materialise supports numerous charitable initiatives around the world. Among these many initiatives are the Silk Road China and Benin Summer School projects. The Silk Road project aims to address educational inequalities in China by introducing elementary and middle school students to 3D printing via a dream classroom bus. To date, since the project's inception in 2015, the bus has visited 190 schools across China and 50,000 students have participated. The Benin Summer School project aims to improve the education levels and employment opportunities for less advantaged teenagers in West Africa by providing them with the opportunity to access higher education scholarships and potentially go on to positions that will enable them to contribute to their communities. Since the program's inception in 2012, 128 students have participated and in 2019, another 3 students received scholarships, taking the total number of scholarships awarded to date to 24. 4.4 Customers I 0tcilr r l{oRr( iI0 Êc0¡û¡!tc Gfi0ì!Tll Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. As it currently exists, the technology of 3D printing already enables companies to manufacture in a more sustainable way both socially and environmentally. lt empowers people locally through decentralized production, improves health and wellbeing through personalized care, and enables higher-quality jobs. At the same time, 3D printing also supports a manufacturing process with less waste, through customization and optimized distribution. But at Materialise, we know that this is still not enough. We know that as we develop new products and technologies to help our customers create innovative and meaningful applications, sustainability must consistently be top of mind. As previously outlined in Section 4.2, we have a number of initiatives to address climate change and support the environment, including investing in research projects to reduce manufacturing waste through improved machine reliability. ln addition, as per the goals we set out in our 2018 COP , in 2019, we also invested in new projects that will enable us to develop a technologies ranking system and help guide our customers to even more sustainable solutions. The results of these research projects will be unveiled in May 2020 at our biannual World Summit which brings together the leaders of the 3D printing industry, and for 2020 will focus on the theme of sustainability. Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@material¡se.com I materialise.com --1 materialise innovalors you can count On t ability Report Communication on Progress (COP), 2019 18 5. 2019 Summary & 2020 Objectives ln 2019, we continued to build on the foundation we created in preceding years, further strengthening our support of the UN Global Compact and its SDGs. As a result, meeting the objectives we laid out in our last COP, we: o Completed a Carbon Footprint Assessment for Materialise operations worldwide, and implemented first actions, including the creation of new Air Travel Policies and switching our electricity at HQ to 100% green energy. o Continued incorporating sustainability considerations into strategic decision making processes. o Began development of a technologies ranking system to help guide our customers to more sustainable solutions. o Further invested in both machine and materials-related environmental research. o Continued plans to extend ISO 14001 certification and introduce prototype recycling. o Developed programs to promote gender and ethnic diversity within our employee base, and introduced a new anti-discrimination hiring policy. o Evolved our non-financial reporting, and moved further towards uniform measurements and benchmarking. o Continued support of charitable initiatives worldwide which are focused on sustainable solutions. For 2020, we aim to further solidify our support of the UNGC and to put even greater focus on the UN's SDGs. ln keeping with our sustainable development strategy of creating shared value, and our six priority SDGs, as outlined in Section 1, our objectives include but are not limited to: o Completion of an update of our Carbon Footprint Assessment, and the continuation of first actions, including the development and roll out of Air Travel Policies and green energy contracts for our operations worldwide. o Continued incorporation of sustainability considerations into strategic decision making processes. o Development of a technologies ranking system to help guide our customers to more sustainable solutions. o Further investment in both machine and materials-related environmental research, moving closer to commercialization. o Continuation of plans to extend ISO 14001 certification and introduce prototype recycling. o An evolution of our non-financial reporting and a move towards B-Corp certification. o Completion of programs to support gender and ethnic diversity and roll out of new anti-discrimination hiring policy. o Continued support of charitable initiatives worldwide which are focused on sustainable solutions. o Creation of a forum to discuss and advance sustainability within the 3D printing industry and beyond, beginning with our biannual conference, the Materialise World Summit which will be held in May 2020. _-1 maÈerialise Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialisecom I materialise.com innovatots you çan count on t ability Report Communication on Progress (COP), 2019 19 2019 Sustainability Rep ortl Communication on Progress (COP) For more information, please contact us at info@materialise.com @ Copyright Materialise 2020. Materialise, the Materialise logo, Magics, Mimics, Streamics, and many other names for our services and software solutions mentioned in this report are trademarks of Materialise NV. Materialise nv I Technologielaan l5 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise com I materialise.com --J materialise innovarorsyoucancounron
