#ThisFutureRocks Sustainability Report 2019 The ROCKWOOL® trademark Photo credits The ROCKWOOL trademark was initially Page 1 and 6: Sail GP registered in Denmark as a logo mark back Page 5: Carsten Andersen in 1936. In 1937, it was accompanied with a word mark registration; a registration which Page 10: Jesper Schwartz is now extended to more than 60 countries Page 11: Mediaspjuth around the world. Page 13: Michael Bo Rasmussen The ROCKWOOL trademark is one of the Page 14: Geelmuyden Kiese Group’s largest assets, and thus, is well protected and defended by us throughout Page 15: ZERO the world. Page 16: Befimmo ROCKWOOL Group’s primary trademarks: Page 19 on the right: MagiCamp ROCKWOOL® Page 22 on the right: Ekkist Rockfon® Page 29: Michael Best Rockpanel® Page 31: Maiken Kestner/Innovationsfonden Grodan® Page 32: Goldbeck Lapinus® Additionally, ROCKWOOL Group owns a large number of other trademarks. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 02 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Contents Introduction 04 Building a better future 05 Progress in 2019, optimism for the future A message from CEO Jens Birgersson 06 SailGP: combining exhilarating sport and sustainability 07 Making the Global Goals happen Creating impact 09 Action for a new climate era 12 ROCKWOOL aims to cut Danish CO2 emissions by more than 70 percent 14 Decarbonising our operations 16 Providing circular solutions for complex challenges 18 Creating local jobs and growth 20 Building safer cities and communities everywhere 22 A sound future 24 Sustainable food for the future Factbook and data 27 Measuring our progress against the Global Goals 28 Product impacts and other indirect impacts 29 Governing sustainability 30 Business ethics 31 Safety and social issues 32 Climate and energy 33 Environmental management 35 Waste and recycling 36 Accounting principles and materiality Tychy, Poland ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 03 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Building a better future At ROCKWOOL, we transform volcanic rock Whether creating safe spaces and lowering climate change, building more circularity into ROCKWOOL in 2019 into stone wool, creating safe and sustainable emissions or enabling modern horticulture to our value chain and enhancing the wellbeing of at a glance products that help people and the communities feed thousands using fewer resources, every people around the world. You’ll also see how where they live, learn, work and play to thrive. Stone wool is a versatile natural material day, we learn and share new ways to help societies be better for everyone. our work is creating measurable progress on the United Nations Sustainable Development 11 700 employees across Europe, with multiple benefits that make it ideal for Goals (UN SDGs). In this report, you’ll find out how we’re North America, Russia applications in buildings, industry, transportation, developing innovative new solutions to tackle This is our sustainability story. and Asia horticulture and water management. 46 Five brands – one common purpose manufacturing facilities 39 To release the natural power of stone to enrich modern living. We are the world’s leading manufacturer of engineered stone wool products, delivering specialist options for the building, horticultural, marine, transport and offshore sectors through our five key brands. countries with a ROCKWOOL Group Storm water management, presence vibration and sound 2 757 EURm dampening net sales Fire-safe stone wool insulation 10 Fire-safe façade cladding, roof detailing, Stone wool growing media soffits and fascia SDGs committed to and technology 6 Group-wide 2030 Fire-safe acoustic ceiling tiles and sustainability goals systems ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 04 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Progress Looking back, 2019 was a year of progress on energy-intensive manufacturer, we can live up jobs and economic value ROCKWOOL Group many fronts in the battle against climate change, to Denmark’s 70 percent absolute greenhouse creates directly or indirectly as well as the socioin 2019, but there’s still much work yet to be done. gas reduction commitment before 2030, while economic value of the energy our products save. After reaching the highest annual emissions on keeping the production in Denmark. You can Many of these jobs and the economic value they record, countries and cities around the world read more about our target and how we’ll get generate will be created outside major cities, in optimism are revising their climate ambitions upwards, there on pages 12–13 of this report. the smaller communities where we tend to have sending important signals to business and our operations, bringing much needed revenue At ROCKWOOL, we made good progress in citizens alike that they too must push ahead with and growth to areas that can be overlooked. for the 2019 toward reaching several of our sustainability more ambitious targets. Our #iRockGlobalGoals Idea Challenge in 2019 goals, helped along by the inherent recyclability focused on engaging all employees in innovation The release of the EU Commission’s Green of our stone wool, which we leverage by offering to create even bigger impacts on the SDGs. future Deal framework in December sets a positive comprehensive recycling services around the tone in Europe, with the overarching goal world. Last year, we increased this to 11 countries In 2019, we became the first company in being to achieve a climate-neutral EU by 2050. by adding Switzerland. We have also cut Denmark to host quarterly calls with investment Recognising the critical role buildings play in production waste going to landfill by 17 percent analysts focused solely on our Environmental, the climate equation, EU member states are since 2015, by investing in internal recycling. Social and Governance (ESG) management and expected to announce more detailed energy performance. The calls create an opportunity Of course, our commitment to recycling isn’t efficiency plans, which over time could help for a constructive dialogue on the planet and just about our own products – it’s about creating accelerate the renovation of building stocks people issues that our investors care about systemic change across our industry. To that end, and increase the demand for insulation. and we have been pleased with the level of we joined the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s engagement they have generated. In our home country of Denmark, the CE100 in 2019 so that we could share our government’s climate ambitions are setting the insights to drive circular thinking in the building You’ll find more details on our performance standard globally with a binding commitment sector and to learn and be inspired by others. throughout this report. Though the challenges to reduce the country’s greenhouse gas are great, we believe the solutions are at Regrettably, we experienced a fatal accident emissions by 70 percent relative to 1990 – hand to turn the tide on climate change. We during construction of the new factory and to do so by 2030. This is an ambitious and are as committed as ever to maximising the in Romania. An employee from a local necessary step by Denmark to lead the way in positive impact of our products while reducing subcontractor succumbed to injuries following mitigating the serious consequences of climate the negative impacts of our production. The a fall from height. As a result, we increased change that we all are witnessing. Our products potential for progress is enormous. supervision of subcontractors by direct play a significant role in saving energy and personnel from ROCKWOOL as we continue to thereby carbon emissions. At the same time, we are eager to demonstrate that, even as an work towards zero fatalities across our facilities. Jens Birgersson, CEO On the positive side, we reduced our Lost Time Incident rate last year by 17 percent, which is an important indicator of increased focus on safety We are eager to demonstrate in the workplace. that, even as an energy-intensive Regarding the UN SDGs, we built on our manufacturer, we can live up to Denmark’s commitment to make progress against them 70 percent absolute greenhouse gas by adding a new metric that will help track reduction commitment”. our contribution to SDG 8 – Decent work and economic growth. We can now estimate the ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 05 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data SailGP: combining exhilarating sport and sustainability SailGP races take place in the heart of some of the most iconic cities around the world. These events provide the perfect backdrop for ROCKWOOL to showcase our purpose: to release the natural power of stone to enrich modern living. Our aim is to help alleviate the concerns of growing urban areas and focus on tackling issues such as high energy consumption, CO2 emissions, noise pollution and excess urban rainwater. With its own focus on sustainability, SailGP provides a global platform to raise awareness around the possibilities that already exist to solve today’s sustainability challenges. Together with the Denmark SailGP Team, we will visit some of the most recognisable cities around the world to showcase the connection between outdoor sports, urban living and the important role stone wool plays in enriching modern life. We aim to bring an optimistic look at the future of urban living. Working together, we can achieve shared goals to make the world a better place to live, both for ourselves and future generations. Through SailGP, we want to share this vision of urban living to inspire everyone to think bigger and choose better. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 06 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Making the Global Goals happen We use the UN SDGs – also called the Global Goals – to guide our approach to improving future outcomes for both people and the planet. Through our products, we have the greatest impact, which we systematically measure to maximise the benefit. ROCKWOOL Group has six sustainability goals, which have been developed to drive progress on the Global Goals by minimising our operational footprint. Throughout this report you will find indicators highlighting how our approach or our progress has contributed to this impact. SDGs: inspiring innovation For ROCKWOOL, the SDGs don’t just guide Fighting fires with our impact – they’re part of our culture. employee-led innovations Building on our employee SDG campaign In early 2019, we held an in 2018, we ran the iRockGlobalGoals Idea Idea Challenge as part of our Challenge in 2019. Employees were asked iRockGlobalGoals SDG employee to submit ideas on new ways stone wool or awareness campaign. In June, our CEO ROCKWOOL operations could help meet Jens Birgersson personally presented a Global Goal. The competition produced the Greatest Impact Award trophy many innovative ideas, and seven awards were to Group Operational Excellence handed out for the ideas with the highest Specialist Victor Aguasca Lloberes. impact, best pitch and other categories. The winning submission for the Greatest Impact Inspired by the wildfires in his home Award was a stone wool fire safety fence with country of Spain, Victor’s idea is to a high potential impact on SDG 9. We look create a firebreak fence to safeguard forward to continuing employee engagement houses in wildfire-prone residential on the Global Goals as we are dependent areas. The system leverages stone on the creativity and entrepreneurship of our wool’s inherent fire-safe properties employees to maximise impact. to address UN SDG 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure. The idea is now being explored in our Innovation Incubator. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 07 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Creating impact From taking action on climate change, to creating jobs, helping communities be safe and healthy, and ensuring a sustainable food chain, we are building the communities of the future. In this section Taking action on climate change 09 Action for a new climate era 12 ROCKWOOL aims to cut Danish CO2 emissions by more than 70 percent 14 Decarbonising our operations 16 Providing circular solutions for complex challenges 18 Creating local jobs and growth 20 Building safer cities and communities everywhere 22 A sound future 24 Sustainable food for the future Job creation Sustainable We are building the food chains communities of the future ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 08 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Action for a new climate era By the end of 2018, global carbon emissions Beginning with buildings reached a record annual high1. Then, in 2019, In 2019, the European Commission announced we learned that even if all the current Paris plans to initiate a ‘renovation wave’ as part Agreement commitments were implemented, of the European Commission’s new Green temperatures are still expected to rise by more Deal3. This is a positive step, since buildings than 3°C2. That same year, we saw school offer the most cost-effective climate children and young people everywhere taking mitigation potential4. Simply by using known to the streets and demanding climate action. technologies, policies and designs, we can In 2019, a new era of climate action kicked achieve immediate cost savings alongside off. A spate of ambitious new targets and significant environmental and social gains. legislation came into force to drive real Proper insulation alone can reduce heating progress on the Paris Agreement. We already and cooling energy needs by up to 70 percent5. have the solutions to avoid many of the As a long-standing advocate for building more severe impacts of climate change. Now renovation as a powerful climate solution, citizens around the world are demanding we ROCKWOOL actively supports the aims of use them – and governments, municipalities the Green Deal. We are a partner for cities and industry are increasingly responding with and building-owners ready to take rapid the will to turn things around. and meaningful action for future efficiency. New climate ambitions Most recently, ROCKWOOL joined the Corporate Leaders Group Europe (CLG Europe), which represents leading businesses ROCKWOOL technical insulation sold in The EU has commited to 2019 will save climate neutrality 1 billion tonnes driving the climate agenda and working together to support a more ambitious climate by 2050. policy in Europe6. of CO2 over the lifetime of its use – more than Germany’s annual carbon emissions7. California is aiming for carbon by 2045. neutrality See www.rockwoolgroup.com/carbon-impact. 1 https://www.globalcarbonproject.org/carbonbudget/19/highlights.htm New York City climate law requires buildings to https://www.unenvironment.org/resources/emissions-gap-report-2018 2 reduce emissions 3 https://ec.europa.eu/info/sites/info/files/european-green-deal-communication_en.pdf 4 IPCC, ‘Climate change 2007 – Mitigation of climate change’. by 40% by 2030. 5 http://lowup-h2020.eu/2017/02/21/eu-heating-and-cooling-infographic/ 6 https://www.corporateleadersgroup.com/ 7 Publications Office of the European Union, 2019, Fossil CO2 emissions of all world countries – 2018 Report, retrieved March 2019. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 09 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Securing cities from flooding It doesn’t look like a critical piece of Copenhagen’s flood defences – and that’s by design. The square Climate change-related fires dominated headlines is one of 300 ‘dual use’ projects Copenhagen has in 2019, but urban flooding caused by more planned for the next 20 years to protect against frequent and severe storms is also a serious flooding caused by extreme rainfall. consequence of rising emissions. In 2019, we commercially launched the Rockflow product The plan is focused on creating spaces that delay ROCKWOOL building line at the C40 Summit in Copenhagen for urban storm water from reaching sewers while also insulation sold in 2019 storm water management in Denmark and improving quality of life for current and future will save 888 000 the Netherlands. residents. In the long term, the aim is also to bolster property values and city tax revenues. All in all, the One of these projects is the newly renovated TWh future is looking bright at Langelands Square. Langelands Square. heating energy over the lifetime of its use – more than the total energy produced by all PV panels globally in 20198. See www.rockwoolgroup.com/carbon-impact. Langelands Square, Copenhagen, Denmark 8 2019 projected PV solar energy production from IEA. https://www.iea.org/fuels-and-technologies/solar ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 10 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Ideals in action: renovating to the Passive House standard The cooperative tenant association Stacken had long wanted to reach the Passive House standard for a grey, 1960s-era apartment building in Gothenburg. Now the building has been transformed into a stylish, comfortable and sustainable residence. The tenants chose to insulate the entire structure with ROCKWOOL products for maximum energy efficiency. What’s more, the renovation was done without increasing the rent for the tenants and will, after 15 Jack Norwood, Project leader years, generate a positive income for the at the tenant cooperative Cooperative. For the members of Stacken, Stacken, Gothenburg, Sweden there is plenty to smile about. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 11 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data ROCKWOOL aims to cut Danish CO2 emissions by 70 percent Investing in deep decarbonisation Denmark leads the way globally and local jobs With a binding commitment made in 2019 Melting rock to produce thermally efficient, to reduce the country’s greenhouse gas fire-safe products is an energy-intensive emissions by 70 percent by 2030 relative process requiring high and consistent to 1990, Denmark is positioning itself as a temperatures of approximately 1500oC. world leader in the green transition showing Since our founding more than 80 years that economic growth can go hand-in-hand ago, we have continuously invested in our with deep decarbonisation. To meet this production facilities in Denmark, resulting in ambitious commitment, the government an ongoing decarbonisation while providing initiated public-private climate partnerships 4001 local manufacturing-related jobs. We covering all business sectors that are tasked have achieved this through a combination with developing and committing to measures of increased energy efficiency, using less to meet the national target, including on fuel carbon-intensive fuels and investing in sources and energy efficiency in buildings. state-of-the-art technology. And we are pleased to actively participate in several of these partnerships. In the last decade, ROCKWOOL invested more than EUR 100 million in the two Danish We are eager to demonstrate that even as factories alone, including introducing innovative an energy-intensive manufacturer, we can new fuel-flexible melting technologies. And live up to Denmark’s 70 percent absolute we’re proud to say that we have maintained greenhouse gas reduction commitment. production in Denmark, in line with our Furthermore, by reducing the carbon intensity ‘Made in Denmark for Denmark’ principle. of our production we are safeguarding Danish manufacturing jobs. But we also need to do more. That’s why we will now further intensify our efforts to reducing both the absolute CO2 emissions and the carbon intensity – that is, the emissions 70% reduction per produced unit – of our manufacturing in in CO2 from our production Denmark with the aim of reducing our CO2 in Denmark before 2030. emissions by 70 percent compared to 1990, and thus living up to Denmark’s 2030 national goal. Average number of FTE employed at the two Danish 1  manufacturing facilities in 2019. Copenhagen, Denmark ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 12 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Going the distance in our own Decarbonising Denmark’s decarbonisation efforts will require building stock accelerating technology innovations to Buildings today represent approximately convert to fossil-free fuel sources, as well as 20 percent of Danish carbon emissions, while continuing to increase the energy efficiency 30 percent of total energy consumption in of our own operations. A key element in the Denmark comes from heating buildings. If we equation is the ability to convert more of reduce the heating demand of buildings by our production in Denmark to biogas. We one percent annually until 2030, we will reduce are encouraged by the debate in Denmark energy consumption equivalent to three times regarding the role that biogas can – and must the annual power capacity of Horns Rev 3, – play to reach the country’s climate goal. Denmark’s largest offshore windfarm. This In addition to our own emissions reductions, saved energy will thereby reduce CO2 emissions, ROCKWOOL’s two Danish factories already speed up the greening of the grid and save contribute substantial surplus heat to nearby the Danish economy EUR 800 million by 20302. district heating networks, thereby further reducing national CO2 emissions. With the right policy framework, we could double the 3 times number of homes our surplus heat reaches. the annual power capacity of Horns Rev 3 can be saved by reducing the heating demand of Danish buildings by 1% annually until 20303. CO2 emission reduction in Denmark Investing in innovation and jobs “Through continuous investments since same time generating jobs and economic its inception in 1977, our factory in Øster activity in the local community”. Doense today utilises best-in-class stone 70% reduction wool production technology, using Herluf Nielsen, Production circular business principles while at the and Operations Manager Denmark’s CO2e emissions ROCKWOOL’s CO2 emissions EA Energianalyse, 2019, Samfundsøkonomisk optimum mellem energieffektivitet, vedvarende energi, elektrificering og 2  sektorkobling. (Socio-economic optimum between energy efficiency, renewable energy, electrification and sector links). 3 An annual one percent reduction in the heating demand of Danish buildings is considered to be socio-economically  optimal. Source: EA Energianalyse, 2018, Samfundsøkonomisk værdi af varmebesparelser: Optimum mellem 1990 2020 2030 forsyningsomkostninger og varmebesparelser i eksisterende bygninger. (Socio-economic value of heating savings: Optimum between supply cost and heating savings in existing buildings). ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 13 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Decarbonising our operations ROCKWOOL Group has a net positive carbon compared to 1990 before 2030. After In 2015, we set a goal to reduce carbon intensity Beyond production, we also have a goal impact. Over the lifetime of its use, the building completing the transition to electric melting by 20 percent by 2030 compared to 2015, with to improve energy efficiency in our insulation we sold in 2019 will save 100 times technology at our factory in Moss, Norway, we an intermediate target of 10 percent by 2022. non-renovated office buildings by 75 percent the carbon emitted in its production. But we are will achieve an 80 percent CO2 emission By the end of 2019, we had reduced carbon by 2030, compared to 2015. This is an committed to doing even more by always reduction compared to the current technology. intensity by four percent. As climate science ambitious but necessary goal that we are on seeking to further reduce the carbon footprint As an example of product innovation, we have and global experience continue to evolve, we our way to achieving. Since 2015, we have of our production while improving our product introduced a cavity wall insulation slab this year are actively reviewing our own decarbonisation improved the energy efficiency of our nonperformance. We are making progress in both that is 20 percent lighter but offers exactly the ambitions with an eye on further accelerating renovated offices by six percent. We expect areas. In our operations in Denmark, we aim to same thermal efficiency thanks to new, cuttingthem. For further details on our operational this to increase substantially over the next reduce absolute CO2 emissions and the carbon edge manufacturing technology. decarbonisation, see Factbook section. few years, as a number of projects have been intensity of our production by 70 percent approved and many more are in the pipeline. Over its lifetime ROCKWOOL building insulation sold in 2019 will save 100 times the carbon emitted in its production*. * including upstream emissions from the extraction and transportation of raw materials and fuels. See www.rockwoolgroup.com/carbon-impact. Moss, Norway ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 14 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Innovative new melting technology helps reduce ROCKWOOL’s carbon footprint In the second half of 2020, we plan to begin operations of our innovative, large-scale electric melting technology at our Moss, Norway facility south of Oslo. This will be the largest electric melter producing stone wool globally and will reduce CO2 emissions by 80 percent compared to the conventional coke-burning furnace it will replace. It has also been designed to use an even greater amount of waste material, reducing the production waste going to landfill by up to 95 percent at this production facility. The pilot project is being built with a EUR 34 million investment, EUR 10 million of which came from Norwegian Ministry of Climate and Energy-owned Enova. At the 2019 ZERO Conference in Norway, the Moss project was awarded the prestigious Business Climate Prize in recognition of ROCKWOOL’s development of technologies and solutions to combat climate challenges. The Moss pilot project will provide valuable insight and experience as we continue to decarbonise our operations, reduce our environmental footprint and pave the way CEO Jens Birgersson and Senior Advisor Hans Joachim Motzfeldt, Norway for circular waste flows. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 15 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Providing circular solutions for complex challenges A more resource-efficient, circular economy is essential to minimise resource consumption and waste generation as well as for achieving the Paris Agreement’s goals. Circularity’s potential to reduce emissions was extensively documented in several reports in 20191. The coming years will see a wave of new regulation and market demands to fulfil circularity’s potential. For example, the EU’s new Circular Economy Action Plan is one of the key deliverables of the European Commission’s Green Deal. We fully support more proactive regulation on this issue, as we know that the inherent recyclability of stone wool can make a powerful contribution to decarbonisation and resource efficiency. Renovating buildings can be much more resource efficient than building new and can reduce the CO2 footprint of Circularity and decarbonisation materials by up to closely linked Our reports from 2019 found that 45 percent Brussels, Belgium. 70% . 2 of emissions come from how we make and use products, and how we produce food. Circular business models are therefore a fundamental step towards achieving climate targets. A symbol of circularity in Brussels building, around 0.5 percent of the materials will be reused in the project or other projects and about 30 percent will be recycled. The circular economy can also help create In 2018, the Belgian government awarded the renovation of the nearly 50-year-old New World Trade Centre buildings in Brussels to ROCKWOOL has a key role in this recycling effort. Through its own more liveable cities, distribute value more Befimmo’s ZIN project. The renovation, which will be completed in recycling service, ROCKWOOL removed 23,000 m2 of Rockfon widely in the economy and spur innovation. 2023, has the dual aims of circularity and sustainability. acoustic ceiling tiles from the existing buildings. These were taken to All in all, a potent contributor to achieving a our factory in Roermond, the Netherlands, where they will be used zero-carbon, prosperous future”. The results will be impressive: nearly 65 percent of the two existing to make new stone wool products. towers will be maintained as part of the structure of the new Per-Anders Enkvist, Founder and CEO, Material Economics For instance: Ellen MacArthur Foundation and Material Economics, 2019, 1  Wiedenhofer, D. et al., 2015, ‘Maintenance and expansion: Modeling material 2  ‘Completing the picture: How the circular economy tackles climate change’. stocks and flows for residential buildings and transportation networks in the EU25’, Journal of Industrial Ecology, 19 (4), pp.538–551. Interview with Kasper ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 Guldager Jensen, GXN. 16 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Leveraging stone wool’s We have clear goals to strengthen our Another of our goals is to offer reclaimed circularity circular business model and have made good waste schemes, which bring stone wool Driving change at scale progress this year. For instance, we reduced waste back to our factories from customers, In addition to making products that are waste to landfill by 18 percent in 2019 alone in 30 countries by 2030. We now offer The Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s recyclable, durable and made from abundant through internal recycling in our production comprehensive recycling services to building Circular Economy 100 (CE100) Network natural resources3, we help homeowners and and reduced the water footprint of our sector customers in 11 countries, having is an organisation that brings together building professionals become more circular operations by seven percent5 compared to the added Switzerland in 2019. business, innovators, cities and by offering take-back services for previously baseline year 2015. Circularity enables a more governments, universities and thought used stone wool. Our products do not We have a clear ambition to further exploit decarbonised production. By recycling stone leaders, to lead the transition to a contain any greenhouseor ozone-depleting the inherent recyclability of stone wool. This is wool we reduce carbon emissions by close to circular economy. gases that dissipate over time and reduce one of the reasons ROCKWOOL Group joined 10 percent. We are investigating how we can thermal performance. In fact, tests from old forces with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation – increase this impact in the coming years. “Collaboration is key to building construction sites show that our products among the world’s strongest advocates and circular economies and we are have retained their insulation characteristics See Factbook section. changemakers for circularity – in 2019. delighted to welcome ROCKWOOL and properties for more than 55 years4. to contribute its unique perspective from the built environment sector”. Our products can contain up to Joe Murphy, 75% CE100 Lead recycled material. More than 20% increase in 11 countries where we offer a comprehensive collected and recycling service to building recycled stone sector customers. wool from Recycling stone wool at ROCKWOOL’s production facility in Flums, Switzerland customers. Stone is naturally resilient and essentially inexhaustible as the earth makes 38,000 times more stone every 3  year (through volcanic and oceanic activity) than we use to make stone wool. Source: TW Dahl, et al. 2011, International Geology Review (Volume 53 Numbers 7–8, June–July 2011) ‘The human impact on natural rock reserves using basalt, anorthosite, and carbonates as raw materials in insulation products’. 4 FIW, 2016, Durability Project Mineral Wool. 5 See more information in the Factbook. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 17 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Creating local jobs and growth 3% Nearly half a billion people worldwide lack communities they serve. We’ve contributed decent jobs, according to a new ILO report1. to creating around 40,000 jobs globally at It doesn’t have to be that way. our facilities and with suppliers. And our insulation products sold in 2019 will save deep renovation rate in A better bottom line customers approximately EUR 77 billion in the EU would create up to 2 million for communities energy costs, making more resources Our business is local, meaning we produce available for investments and other purposes. close to our customers and hire from In 2019, we worked with Copenhagen local jobs4. the communities where we operate2. For Economics to develop a new SDG impact ROCKWOOL Group, building and operating metric and methodology to measure a production facility is a long-term investment ROCKWOOL Group’s global and local impact – in our business, in our employees and in the on SDG 8: Decent jobs and economic growth3. Around 40 000 jobs created locally at our facilities and with suppliers. 2 757 ROCKWOOL’s insulation products sold in 2019 EURm will save our customers energy costs of around 77 EURb economic value created globally – 86 EURm over their lifetime. more than in 2018. 1 ILO, 2020, World Employment and Social Outlook – Trends 2020. 2 For instance, around 90 percent of our sales do not cross a customs border. 3 The calculation model is an Input-Output model using EUROSTAT data. The methodology, assumptions and information about the study are available here: www.rockwoolgroup.com/ socioeconomic-impact. 4  https://www.renovate-europe.eu/2019/12/02/reducing-the-energy-demand-of-the-euSee www.rockwoolgroup.com/socioeconomic-impact. building-stock-by-80-by-2050/ ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 18 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Corporate citizenship, being The NGO MagiCamp organises free camps and a good neighbour support for safe recovery spaces for children who have suffered serious illness. ROCKWOOL At its heart, ROCKWOOL is a family business, is one of many local and national businesses and corporate citizenship and being a good and citizens that support these activities. neighbour have always been an integral part of 23% our culture. As an example, near our factory in Ariceștii of our dividend goes to the ROCKWOOL Rahtivani, Romania, the community needs Foundation to contribute to society’s body support to help underprivileged children thrive. of shared knowledge. Helping communities thrive “Thanks to the technology knowledge needed and training provided, ROCKWOOL Currently, 16 out of ROCKWOOL’s has created a pool of qualified employment 19 stone wool producing factories in options in our region. Since ROCKWOOL Europe are in non-urban areas5. arrived, the city has even modernised For example, our production facility in its infrastructure with new roads and Saint-Éloy-les-Mines in France provides improvements to local schools. around 600 local jobs in a municipality with Working for ROCKWOOL, you are working only about 4,000 inhabitants. Our presence for an international company. You really creates employment equivalent to more learn about climate change and the positive than 30 percent of the active workforce in environmental impact of our work, but also the local area. workplace safety and how to really care for “Years ago, mines around here closed and your team and colleagues”. the town of Saint-Éloy-les-Mines lost a lot economically – but ROCKWOOL revitalised ROCKWOOL employee Diamantino the region”, says Diamantino Pereira, a Pereira, Saint-Éloy-les-Mines, France MagiCamp, Romania production specialist and team leader. S  ee more about how we work to protect and enable our employees in the Factbook. 5 Copenhagen Economics, 2019, ‘Contribution to jobs and growth from ROCKWOOL’s global activities’. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 19 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Building safer cities and communities everywhere Much of the older building stock in cities Safety from stone In 2019, we were encouraged to see fire rating, just like high-rise buildings. This year everywhere simply does not meet required safety receiving greater attention among also saw continued engagement with the We know that lives depend on thoughtful fire safety standards. In 2019, there were regulators and architects. For example, France Fire Information Exchange Platform, where building design, so we advocate and actively devastating wildfires in South Europe, modified its regulation so that medium-rise stakeholders and member countries exchange engage with stakeholders to raise awareness California, Asia and Australia, many of which buildings will now need external insulation experience on fire safety education, data, fire and drive stronger fire safety regulations as came quite close to suburban and urban areas. materials with a limited combustibility fire investigation, new products and tall buildings. well as sponsoring academic fire research. This highlighted the importance of fire-safe homes in limiting the damage caused by wildfires. The good news is that fire resilience can be built-in with solutions that create safer spaces and provide peace of mind. Façade fires in large buildings worldwide have increased 7 times over the last three decades1. California, USA Matthew Bonner, Guillermo Rein, 2018, ‘Flammability and Multi-objective Performance of Building Façades: 1  Towards Optimum Design’, International Journal of High-Rise Buildings December 2018, Vol 7, No 4, 363-374. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 20 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Enabling a safe and cool factory in Vietnam In 2019, Tetra Pak opened its first carton factory in Vietnam with a facility in Binh Duong. During construction, fire safety was a paramount concern. Since 50 percent of fire fatalities and injuries are due to toxic smoke2, ROCKWOOL stone wool insulation and Rockfon products were chosen for their unique fire-safe properties. Stone wool does not feed or spread fire nor contribute significant amounts of toxic smoke. Our products also keep the intense ambient heat out of the buildings and reduce the energy demand from air conditioning, keeping employees both safe and cool. Training the next generation of fire “ROCKWOOL’s support as a member of safety engineers the IMFSE consortium is indispensable. Every year, the International Master of That ROCKWOOL values our programme Science in Fire Safety Engineering (IMFSE) is a positive reflection of their commitment programme trains 20 fire engineering to the industry and something the students to take on the vital work of students pick up on. They truly appreciate assessing the performance and compliance such support by industry players”. Vietnam of building fire safety solutions. Professor Bart Merci, Programme By the end of the programme, the 20 Manager, IMFSE, Ghent University ROCKWOOL stone wool is a natural students have acquired robust knowledge fire barrier withstanding temperatures and understanding of fire safety engineering exceeding 1000°C to perform assessments or participate in research and development work. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 2 A. Stec and T. Hull, 2011, Assessment of the fire toxicity of building insulation materials, Energy and Buildings, 43 (2-3), pp. 498-506 21 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data A sound future Noise poses one of the most serious health halls, libraries, schools and universities – all hazards for children and can impact learning places where human comfort truly matters. and behaviour1. The U.S. Environmental The attributes of Rockfon products also Protection Agency states that repeated contribute positively to various sustainability exposure to noise during critical development building rating schemes, including WELL periods can affect how children develop and Green Globes, which focus specifically speech and can impair the acquisition of on health and wellbeing. Through our language-related skills2. SDG 3 ‘health and wellbeing’ metric, we improved the learning conditions of Making places that matter 445,000 students globally. 445 000 Our acoustic Rockfon products are used in homes, offices, hospitals, restaurants, concert students with improved learning conditions due to acoustics solutions delivered to schools in 2019. “People often underestimate how much buildings truly affect our wellbeing. They influence the quality of the air we breathe indoors, our access to light and the way we hear and process sounds. This is arguably one of the single greatest determinants of our overall health and wellbeing, and it is paramount that we begin to analyse and quantify this to develop better strategies for improving the places in which we live, work and spend our leisure time”. Olga Turner Baker, Director and Thakur, N., Batra, P. & Gupta, P. Indian Pediatr, 2016, 53: 111. Co-Founder, Ekkist 1 2 United States Environmental Protection Agency, 2009, Noise and Its Effects  on Children – Information for parents, teachers, and childcare providers. See www.rockwoolgroup.com/acoustic-impact. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 22 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data G  iving teachers a voice Originally constructed in 1952, by 2019, the 55,000 m² Salina Central High School in Kansas, USA needed modernisation to better serve its 1,000 students. Part of the redesign included better sound reduction so that students could clearly hear and understand their teachers. The ceiling contributed significantly to realising this goal. The contractors chose Rockfon acoustic stone wool ceiling panels for a durable, low-maintenance ceiling system. The panels and baffles can also withstand 100 percent humidity, inhibiting the growth of mould. Students at the school can now concentrate on their studies thanks to the excellent Kansas, USA acoustic and air quality and the peace of mind they foster. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 23 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Sustainable food for the future Advances in agricultural technology mean that today we produce more food than we ever have 6 times before1. Despite this, we still cannot secure lower environmental burden in crop protection our food supply using purely conventional achieved when using high-tech greenhouses agriculture. In addition, these methods include instead of conventional agriculture3. the use of pesticides and produce waste, all of which, if not managed correctly, can exacerbate Stone wool is the most widely used air pollution, contaminate soils and leach chemicals into water supplies. Every year, 39 million hectares of soil are degraded due to poor agricultural practices2. medium for hydroponic tomato growing. However, there are some surprisingly simple, but intelligent solutions to some of our most pressing food challenges. Insects instead of chemicals High-tech greenhouses offer an easy way to create small, closed ecosystems where bumble bees pollinate and selected insects are used as a natural check and balance on harmful insect populations. For instance, 99 Pollination by bumble bees percent of tomato greenhouse growers in the Netherlands use biological crop protection instead of relying solely on chemicals. When it comes to conventional agriculture, the figures are much lower. Through our Grodan brand, ROCKWOOL Group supports sustainable hydroponic 2 million tonne increase in the Holt-Giménez, E., Shattuck, A., Altieri, M., Herren, H. and Gliessman, S., 1  horticulture, which allows plants to be grown 2012, ‘We already grow enough food for 10 billion people … and still yield of tomatoes and can’t end hunger’, Journal of Sustainable Agriculture, 36 (6), pp.595–598. without soil while using less water, fertiliser and cucumbers enabled Cities and Circular Economy for Food, 2018, Ellen MacArthur Foundation. 2  land. In 2019, this positive impact increased by Grodan products significantly. See Factbook section. Montero, J.I., Heuvelink, E. and Marcelis, L., 2019, ‘Relative sustainability 3  See www.rockwoolgroup.com/ sold in 2019. of fresh vegetable production in greenhouses, comparing production in precision-growing-impact. northern Europe versus southern Europe’. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 24 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Our support for greenhouse growing is Not only are we enabling more sustainable holistic, and we also offer e-Gro, a datagrowing through Grodan, we are also driven software platform for greenhouse committed to making the product itself as Success without soil the management of a professional local team and the extensive integration of management that provides growers with sustainable as possible across its lifecycle. Eletskie Vegetables, Grodan’s biggest innovative digital tools, including Grodan’s client in Russia, hit an impressive landmark GroSens. Eletskie has found that biological actionable and real-time insights into their We provide access to recycling solutions to in 2019 when it achieved 200 kilograms crop protection and using bumble bees cultivation. In 2019, we continued development more than 90 percent of Grodan customers in of cucumbers per m2 – its highest crop for tomato pollination are superior work to extend the range of crops that can be Europe. We offer recycling solutions in certain yield recorded. grown in stone wool growing media. geographies outside Europe and are working management methods, for example. to extend this service. At ROCKWOOL, we weren’t surprised. We By embedding these sustainable solutions, know that Eletskie runs one of Russia’s most Eletskie is breaking productivity records In June 2019, e-Gro received modern greenhouses. Behind its incredible yields are the use of high-quality equipment, using nature’s simplest yet most cutting-edge the prestigious GreenTech solutions: stone, bugs and bumble bees. Innovation Concept Award in the Netherlands. 100 million litres of water saved by Grodan products sold in 2019. See www.rockwoolgroup.com/precision-growing-impact. Elets, Russia ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 25 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Factbook and data This Factbook offers investors and other interested stakeholders a deeper look at ROCKWOOL Group’s sustainability priorities, including our material issues, how we operate as a responsible business and maintain compliance, and respect human rights as well as our progress on our sustainability goals and the SDGs. Progress on our In this section sustainability goals and the SDGs 27 Measuring our progress against the Global Goals 28 Product impacts and other indirect impacts 29 Governing sustainability 30 Business ethics 31 Safety and social issues 32 Climate and energy 33 Environmental management Governance 35 Waste and recycling and social issues 36  Accounting principles and materiality Carbon emissions and energy efficiency Environmental and waste management ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 26 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Our six sustainability goals are directly aligned and economic growth, and will now monitor jobs Measuring our progress against 100% with SDGs 6, 7, 8, 12 and 13, and we have and economic value created by ROCKWOOL the Global Goals assessed that the performance and benefits of Group directly or indirectly as well as the our products positively impact SDGs 2, 3, 6, 7, economic value of the energy our products save. of ROCKWOOL’s Enriching modern living is fundamental 8, 12 and 13. products are This Factbook contains facts on our to everything we do. We extensively and We evaluate our SDG performance based management of the material issues as well classified as SDG comprehensively measure how our products on the effects of our products as well as our as key performance indicators showing the positive by Trucost, and processes contribute to improving society. part of S&P Global. operational impacts. We track our performance progress on both our product impact metrics ROCKWOOL has made a commitment to drive through a combination of sustainability goals and operational performance metrics related an increased positive contribution to 10 UN and product impact metrics where possible. to the SDGs. SDGs – also called the Global Goals. During 2019, we added a new metric that specifically contributes to SDG 8: Decent work Increasing our positive impact We are increasing our positive impact on people and society by maximising our positive product impact and minimising our operational footprint. # Product impact metric Our sustainability goals Maximising product impacts # # # # # NEW # # Enabling more Reducing noise Enhancing water Creating more Providing Enabling Supporting Expanding Enabling more Engaging effective food and creating efficiency in energy-efficient local jobs and more durable more affordable product recycling carbon-efficient in effective production. acoustically sound horticulture. buildings and economic growth. and fire-safe housing and services. buildings and collaboration. buildings. industry. infrastructure. energy. industry. Improving Improving Zero fatalities and Reducing landfill Reducing CO2 water efficiency energy efficiency in reducing Lost waste from emission intensity in factories. own office buildings. Time Incidents. production. in factories. Minimising operational impacts ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 27 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data are the most significant measure of our Product impacts and other contribution. We track multiple metrics indirect impacts that give a comprehensive outline of how ROCKWOOL products help society and, more We believe that true sustainability goes specifically, drive progress on the UN SDGs. beyond reducing our operational footprint and that the lifecycle impacts of our products SDG performance: Product and other indirect impacts metrics Indicator Value 2017 2018 2019 Note SDG Indicator Value 2017 2018 2019 Note SDG Carbon emissions avoided Mt CO2 193 206 201 1 13 Significantly improved learning Number of 423,000 445,000 5 3 in the lifetime of building environments from acoustic students insulation sold solutions sold Carbon emissions avoided Mt CO2 1,133 1,176 1,000 1 13 NEW Significantly improved Number of 21,000 21,800 5 3 in the lifetime of industrial learning environments from teachers insulation sold acoustic solutions sold Energy saved in the lifetime of TWh 853 908 888 1 7 NEW Jobs due to ROCKWOOL FTE 40,000 6 8 building insulation sold Group’s global operations (direct & indirect with suppliers) Energy saved in the lifetime of TWh 5,220 5,372 4,554 1 7 technical insulation sold NEW Economic value created due EUR m 2,757 6 8 to ROCKWOOL Group’s global PM air emissions avoided kt 84 79 2 7 operations (direct & indirect) in the lifetime of building insulation sold NEW Economic value of EUR m 77,000 6 8 energy saved by ROCKWOOL SO2 air emissions avoided kt 256 246 2 7 insulation products in the lifetime of building insulation sold NOx air emissions avoided kt 302 295 2 7 in the lifetime of building insulation sold 1  Energy and carbon emission savings in the lifetime of our sold building insulation and technical insulation products is calculated following methodology developed by Navigant, who also validate the annual results. See www. Water saved by precision kl 90,469 93,817 101,228 3 6 rockwoolgroup.com/carbon-impact growing products sold 2 Annual  avoided air emissions from heating energy production as a result of our sold building insulation calculated using methodology developed by Navigant, who also validate the annual results. The methodology for avoided air emissions Fertiliser saved by precision t 15,246 15,810 17,059 3 2 was first developed and applied for the 2018 results. See www.rockwoolgroup.com/carbon-impact growing products sold 3 Quantitative  comparison between soil based cultivation systems and stone wool systems using methodology developed by Wageningen University & Research, who also validate annual results. Methodology available at www.rockwoolgroup. Land use reduction by precision ha 26,489 27,469 29,639 3 2 com/precision-growing-impact growing products sold 4 Stone  wool building insulation received at our factories for recycling and estimated dry weight of stone wool growth media recycled by external partners. Yield gain of vegetables by kt 1,870 1,941 2,092 3 2 precision growing products sold 5 The impact on learning conditions from acoustic products sold is calculated using a methodology developed by  Ramboll, who also validate the annual result. In 2019, the methodology was updated and applied for 2018 and 2019. Stone wool collected and t 120,000 129,000 159,000 4 12 See www.rockwoolgroup.com/acoustic-impact recycled through ROCKWOOL Contribution to jobs and growth from ROCKWOOL Group’s global activities is calculated following a methodology 6  recycling services developed by Copenhagen Economics and was first developed and applied for the 2019 results. Methodology available at www.rockwoolgroup.com/socioeconomic-impact ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 28 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data as coordinating and tracking progress towards Code of Conduct We strive to ensure that both managers and Governing sustainability the Group’s sustainability goals. employees have read and understood the We maintain a Code of Conduct (the Code) Code and that they act according to its values. Tax matters are governed by the Board of as our key communication on and guidance The Director of Group Sustainability reports to We support this with additional e-learning for Directors and discussed on a regular basis with for ROCKWOOL Group’s way of working with the Senior Vice President for Group Marketing, the Code. In addition, we maintain a robust the Audit Committee. integrity. The Code includes Group policies Communications and Public Affairs – a member whistleblower system, whereby all internal related to anti-corruption, gifts and hospitality, of Group Management. The Director of Group and external stakeholders can safely report conflict of interest, competition law, data Sustainability is responsible for driving the misconduct or suspicion of misconduct. privacy, human rights and labour rights, health sustainability agenda across the Group as well and safety, and the environment. Board of Directors Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three Board members who monitor progress on ROCKWOOL Group’s sustainability projects and targets as well as the non-financial reporting process. The Committee also oversees the Group’s whistleblower policy and related integrity cases. Group Management Sustainability Committee Integrity Committee Role Role • Senior Vice President, Group Marketing, • Chief Executive Officer Communications and Public Affairs • Chief Financial Officer • Senior Vice President, Group Operations • Senior Vice President, Insulation North and Technology East Europe • Senior Vice President, Head of • Group General Counsel Systems Division Responsibility • Managing Director, ROCKWOOL Southern Europe The Integrity Committee oversees the Group’s compliance within areas such as • Director Group Sustainability business ethics, competition law, anti• Director of Group Safety, Health, bribery, data privacy and export control. ROCKWOOL Group Management team Environment and Quality It is also charged with responding to and remediating all issues raised through our Responsibility anonymous whistleblower system. The Sustainability Committee formulates and enacts key decisions related to strategic sustainability initiatives. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 29 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data The reported cases involved fraud, bribery, Responsible tax seek to comply with all relevant tax laws as Operational performance: unethical behaviour or were related to safety, well as recognised international regulations ROCKWOOL Group is committed to being a Business ethics health and the environment. Of the 13 cases, responsible tax payer and avoids aggressive and practices including OECD guidelines. nine resulted in corrective actions ranging tax planning. We aim to have a clear and There are many transactions among from dismissal of employees to changes in Ensuring ethical awareness internal procedures. transparent corporate structure with no ROCKWOOL Group companies, and the contrived entities or structures. We believe transfer pricing policy for these transactions Beginning in 2019, approximately 6,000 that a responsible tax practice is an important In relation to bribery, the two reported is driven by the activities undertaken and the targeted employees concluded the new part of responsible corporate citizenship. cases were attempts to bribe ROCKWOOL value created in each part of our business. Code of Conduct e-learning. The focus of the employees and were reported by the targeted The key component in our internal price e-learning was on ethical behaviour in the In all tax matters, we apply the same values employees themselves. setting is our transfer pricing setup and workplace, anti-corruption (including our new and integrity by making sure that our primary methods in which we are committed to the gift and hospitality policy), conflict of interest focus is the ordinary operation of the Group. and how to report concerns. The e-learning Supply chain due diligence In the countries where we do business, we principle of paying tax where value is created. programme will be repeated in 2021. ROCKWOOL’s Supplier Code of Conduct is designed to mitigate ESG risk by explaining Category Indicator GRI Value 2017 2018 2019 Also in 2019, as part of the Code of Conduct our expectations to suppliers. ROCKWOOL awareness programme, face-to-face disclosure Group expects our suppliers to enforce the training in competition law was organised number same guidelines within their supply chain. by ROCKWOOL International and by local ROCKWOOL companies in local languages. Before being approved as a supplier to the Anti-corruption Confirmed incidents of 205-3 Number 3 2 2 ROCKWOOL Group, new potential suppliers corruption and actions taken Working with agents must register in our online supplier portal Management Monetary value of significant 419-1 EUR k and either accept the ROCKWOOL Supplier ROCKWOOL Group has zero tolerance approach fines and total number of Code of Conduct or upload their own code of towards any kind of fraud, corruption, bribery disclosures non-monetary sanctions for conduct for our review and approval. non-compliance with laws and or facilitation payments, as defined by our anticorruption policy. The policy also applies During 2019, we evaluated the sustainability regulations to suppliers, agents and other third parties. risk related to three overall areas: human rights Legal actions for anti206-1 EUR k In 2019, a new policy on the use of agents was and labour rights; the environment; and anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust approved and is now under implementation. corruption and bribery across the countries and monopoly practices The focus is on compliance in relation to the in which we currently operate and the type U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK of materials and services we procure. This Bribery Act. Use of agents and compliance with has resulted in a risk matrix that we will use the policy will form part of the internal audits. for assessing new suppliers and to re-assess existing suppliers. We expect to implement a Enabling safe reporting risk-based screening for existing suppliers in the identified high-risk categories in 2020. All employees are encouraged and required to report knowledge or suspicion of nonWe did not conduct any third-party audits in compliance with the ROCKWOOL Code 2019. We continue to re-assess the legacy of Conduct to management, the Group portfolio of existing suppliers, and during Integrity Officer or through the whistleblower 2019, we increased from 43 to 65 percent of procedure. We do not accept any form of contracted suppliers having been assessed for negative employment consequences for acceptance of the ROCKWOOL Supplier Code employees reporting in good faith. of Conduct. In 2019, a total of 13 cases were reported, compared to 15 in 2018. All reported integrity and whistleblower cases were investigated. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 30 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data In 2018, Group Management set a target for Operational performance: 2020 of 25 to 35 percent female leaders in Supporting industry diversity and amount of support from the ROCKWOOL Safety and social issues executive and middle management positions. innovation management and the dedicated resources In 2019, 27 percent of leaders in executive and middle management positions were women, to carry out the operational tasks in Bringing diversity to our industry the same as in 2018. In addition, 29 percent In 2020, ROCKWOOL’s Group Operational relation to my research”, she says. Excellence Specialist Alexandria Trattner At ROCKWOOL, we aim to offer strong of newly hired middle managers were women, received Innovation Fund Denmark’s learning and development opportunities to our on par with the level in 2017 after a peak of 39 percent in 2018. prestigious Industrial Researcher prize for her employees. We are actively trying to change analysis tool within complexity management. our traditionally male-dominated industry To meet our 2020 targets, we will continue by promoting diversity and inclusiveness to strengthen general diversity growth The prize honours the most talented for our global workforce and working to through our talent development processes industrial PhD or business-post doctorate eliminate discrimination while providing equal and hiring decisions. candidates from the Innovation Fund’s opportunities for all. We also have a target to have at least one talent program. The talent program We have focused on increasing the number shareholder-elected female member of the combines a high academic research level of women in different levels of management. Board of Directors by the end of 2020. At with a strong understanding of business The gender split across the Group has been the 2020 General Assembly on 1 April a and has created positive commercial relatively stable over the past few years with female candidate for the Board is a nominee impact for companies. an 18/82 ratio of women to men. However, the for election. If elected, she will be the first proportion of women is higher at executive shareholder-elected woman on our Board. Honoured to have received the award, and middle management levels. Alexandria greatly appreciates the backing she has been given during the entire process. “This would not have been possible without the enormous Category Indicator GRI Value 2017 2018 2019 disclosure number Workplace diversity Percentage of female n.a. % 27 27 27 leaders in executive and middle management positions Share of women in n.a. % 29 39 29 new hires for middle manager positions ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 31 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Safe and healthy workplaces An employee from a local subcontractor it brings, such as creating healthier and safer succumbed to injuries following a fall from Operational performance: work environments or achieving broader ROCKWOOL Group employs around 11,700 height. Following this, we increased supervision Climate and energy sustainability goals. people. As an industrial company, there of subcontractors by direct personnel from is potentially a high level of safety risk for ROCKWOOL, focusing daily on the contractor Since 2015, we have improved the energy our employees. We take managing this risk management process and sharing the findings Our products help save energy and combat efficiency of our non-renovated offices by seriously and continuously work to create safe with all production facilities. climate change on a large scale but we also six percent. We expect this to increase and healthy workplaces and conditions for all continuously work to increase positive climate substantially over the next few years, as a employees and people working with us around In 2019, our Cigacice factory in Poland was impact through new products and process number of projects have been approved and the world. awarded first prize for employee safety by innovations in our operations. many more are in the pipeline. the National Labour Inspectorate. One of Our approach is guided by our Safety, ROCKWOOL’s largest factories, Cigacice, We are committed to reducing the carbon Health and Environment Policy. To further beat 16 other companies to the top spot with intensity of our production and, in 2016, As part of our support for the Task raise awareness among employees, we host judges noting impressive safety standards set a goal to reduce carbon intensity by 20 annual Safety Day activities across our global and the outstanding behaviour of colleagues percent by 2030, with a baseline of 2015. Since operations. towards their health and wellbeing. 2015, we have reduced the CO2 intensity of our production by four percent. In 2019, the Force on ClimateWe have a goal of zero fatalities for people working with and for us and have an ambition Progress against our sustainability goals development in intensity was flat while absolute related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) carbon emissions declined by eight percent. to incrementally reduce the Lost Time Incident As climate science and global experience Safety, health and wellbeing recommendations, (LTI) rate by 10 percent every year. In 2019, continue to evolve, we are reviewing our own our global activities to safeguard employees Our goal: Reduce LTI frequency rate by decarbonisation ambitions with an eye on meant that we reduced our LTI rate by 17 10% and ensure zero fatalities annually further accelerating them. ROCKWOOL comprehensively reports percent, bringing the level down to 2.9 per million hours worked for all employees and 10% 17% Beyond production, we also have a goal on both business opportunities and risks contractors. This is the lowest level ever to improve energy efficiency in our nonrelated to climate change through the achieved by ROCKWOOL Group. 2018 2019 renovated office buildings. Renovation is our Climate Disclosure Project (CDP). 2019 goal preferred approach for reaching our energy Regrettably, in January 2019, we experienced baseline efficiency targets. In some instances, the a fatal accident at the construction site economic payback of a deep renovation for a new production facility in Romania. One fatality in 2019 may not be attractive, but we may pursue it anyway because of the many other benefits Category Indicator GRI Value 2017 2018 2019 Note disclosure number Workplace Fatalities 403-9 Number 1 1 Leading by example at Gladbeck safety Frequency of LTI 403-9 No./mill 3.5 3.5 2.9 1 The deep renovation of our office in – employees & hours Gladbeck, designed to improve energy contractors (per million hours worked) efficiency by more than 80 percent, is one of our major investments to support Annual improvement 403-9 % 10 12 17 2 in LTI frequency our goal to improve energy efficiency in our non-renovated office buildings by 75 percent by 2030, compared to 2015. 1  One acquired factory is included in 2019. The 2018 LTI number was adjusted to include this factory. 2017 results remain unchanged. 2 The LTI improvement in 2018 is calculated using the same scope for both 2018 and 2017 and excludes the acquired  factory in both years. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 32 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Category Indicator GRI Value 2017 2018 2019 Note Water management disclosure Operational performance: Our production process is designed for zero number Environmental management wastewater discharge to the environment. No Greenhouse Total direct and indirect 305-1, Mt CO2 e 2.06 2.22 2.05 1 production process wastewater is discharged gas emissions greenhouse gas 305-2 Our Safety, Health and Environment policy into waterways or the ground at any of emissions states our commitment to continuously strive ROCKWOOL’s manufacturing facilities. The to protect people and the environment water we use at most of our sites is recycled from the impacts of our processes. We are and evaporates, so water effluent is therefore Total direct and indirect 305-2 Mt CO2 1.75 1.89 1.74 1 committed to reducing the environmental not a material issue for us. CO2 emissions and climate footprint of our operations and We have a goal by 2030 to reduce water CO2 direct (Scope 1) 305-1 Mt CO2 1.44 1.54 1.41 1 have set goals to achieve that. consumption per tonne of product. We CO2 indirect (Scope 2) 305-2 Mt CO2 0.31 0.34 0.34 1 The way we work is to apply risk assessments are implementing more systematic water to prioritise our activities and to protect management at all factories, and in 2019, we CO2 intensity direct 305-4 Index 98 99 96 1 and manage risks in the development and continued mapping water use and installing (Scope 1) per tonne implementation of new processes and additional water meters. In 2019, five percent stone wool (Scope 1) machinery. We also continuously conduct of our water use came from rainwater CO2 intensity indirect 305-4 Index 90 91 96 1 internal audits to improve the safety, health harvesting. There are plans in place to (Scope 2) per tonne and environmental performance and increase this percentage in the coming years. stone wool awareness across the Group and have, for Overall, we improved our water efficiency CO2 intensity direct and 305-4 Index 97 96 96 1 many years, disclosed a substantial number by five percent during the year, leading to a indirect (Scope 1+2) per of performance indicators to customers and seven percent accumulated saving compared tonne stone wool other stakeholders. with the 2015 baseline. Energy Energy consumption 302-1 GWh 4,935 5,428 5,053 1 Our production facilities are subject to strict We continue to closely monitor and drive air quality regulations that are in place to improvements in the four factories in the Energy per tonne 302-3 Index 97 98 99 1 protect sensitive groups of the population, Group that are deemed to be located in stone wool animals and the local environment. Many of potentially highly or extremely highly waterEnergy efficiency in own n.a Index 100 100 94 our factories are located close to residential stressed areas in Russia, India and Malaysia. buildings neighbourhoods, schools, businesses, parks and protected greenspaces, and Progress against our sustainability goals Scope extended to include one acquired factory. All years have been updated. 1  we have successfully operated in these neighbourhoods for decades. We develop and apply our own standards to protect Water consumption Progress against our sustainability goals people and the environment. In cases Our goal: Reduce water intensity (m3/t stone where our own standards exceed legal wool) within our manufacturing facilities by CO2 emissions Energy efficiency requirements, our standards prevail. 20% by 2030 (10% by 2022) Our goal: Reduce CO2 emission Our goal: Our goal: Reduce Around 80% intensity (CO2/t stone wool) from energy consumption (kWh/m2) 7% 10% our stone wool production facilities within own (non-renovated) offices by 20% by 2030 (10% by 2022) by 75% by 2030 (35% by 2022) 2015 baseline 2019 2022 of our stone wool production facilities goal 4% 10% 6% 35% have at least one external certification within safety, health, environment or 2015 2019 2022 2015 2019 2022 energy management and several were baseline goal baseline goal certified across all areas. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 33 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Category Indicator GRI Value 2017 2018 2019 Note Category Indicator GRI Value 2017 2018 2019 Note disclosure disclosure number number Environmental Factories certified n.a Number 22 22 23 1 laws and to ISO 14001 and/ Air emissions NOx intensity 305-7 Index 119 130 103 1 regulations – or ISO 45001 and/or SO2 intensity 305-7 Index 72 68 66 1 non-compliance ISO 50001 Share of factories n.a % 79 78 79 CO intensity 305-7 Index 33 3 4 1 certified to ISO 14001 Ammonia intensity 305-7 Index 96 93 90 1 and/or ISO 45001and/ or ISO 50001 Phenol intensity 305-7 Index 99 98 81 1 Audits for environment, n.a Number 91 186 201 Formaldehyde 305-7 Index 109 79 90 1 health, safety intensity Fines – monetary value 307-1 EUR k 3 2 8 Particulate matter 305-7 Index 147 122 110 1 (PM10) intensity Non-monetary sanctions n.a Number 0 5 Water Water consumption 303-5 million m³ 3.73 3.94 3.48 2 23 factories are ISO 14001 certified (Environmental Management), nine factories are ISO 45001 certified 1  consumption total (Occupational Safety & Health Management) and nine factories are ISO 50001 certified (Energy Management). Water intensity 303-5 Index 100 97 93 2 (m3/t stone wool) Water consumption 303-5 million m³ 3.54 3.78 3.32 2 excl. rainwater Total water 303-5 million m³ 0.27 0.28 0.23 2 consumption from all areas with water stress Water Groundwater own 303-3 million m³ 1.23 1.29 1.04 2 withdrawal abstraction Municipal water a.o. 303-3 million m³ 2.00 2.21 1.97 2 utilities Rainwater own 303-3 million m³ 0.19 0.16 0.16 2 abstraction Surface water own 303-3 million m³ 0.32 0.29 0.31 2 abstraction 2015 Baseline recalculated with the same methodology used in 2016 and onwards. The air emissions data has some 1  uncertainty and are dependent on nationally prescribed methods, sampling frequency, sampling methods and laboratories. Emission measurements can vary a great deal based on the representativeness of the samples taken, flow measurements and sampling techniques, as well as the method of analysis. 2 Scope extended to include one acquired factory. All years have been updated.  ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 34 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data integration of the company into the scope of Category Indicator GRI Value 2017 2018 2019 Note Operational performance: our financial and sustainability reporting from disclosure Waste and recycling 2019, we have included Switzerland into the number baseline for our recycling services goal. This Waste Total waste generated 306-2 t 222,152 218,501 208,536 1 brings the total number of countries to 11 Utilising proprietary ROCKWOOL technology, Total hazardous waste 306-2 t 26,551 18,236 21,148 and we are on track to reach the intermediate we have developed ways to increase the generated goal of 15 countries by 2022. circularity of our factories. The fact that stone Waste landfilled 306-2 t 90,401 95,830 78,387 2, 3 wool is recyclable presents us with a unique Landfill waste from production opportunity to have fully closed loop stone Landfill waste from 306-2 Index 96 101 83 2 wool systems at all our factories. This means We also have a goal to reduce waste from factories we can recycle waste wool generated during operations going to landfill by 85 percent by 2030 compared to 2015, with an intermediate Waste for external 306-2 t 96,243 87,123 103,784 production and take back our products from recycling construction and demolition sites. We have 2022 goal of a 40 percent reduction. also developed ways to use waste from Investments in new recycling plants at our Waste for external 306-2 t 2,547 2,997 2,652 other industries. Asian and Russian production facilities have recovery (energy) already significantly reduced waste sent to Other external waste n.a t 33,824 33,141 23,713 Reclaimed waste schemes landfill. So far we have reduced production disposal waste sent to landfill by 17 percent overall Building from the inherent recyclability Excluding internally recycled production waste. 1  and we are confident we will fulfil our of stone wool, ROCKWOOL has a goal to Scope extended to include one acquired factory. All years have been updated. 2  ambitious goal. 2018 value corrected for two factories. 3  offer comprehensive recycling services for our products in 30 countries by 2030. In Category Indicator GRI Value 2017 2018 2019 Note 2018, we took a significant step forward by disclosure initiating product recycling programmes in number five additional countries, which brought us to Recycling Recycling of waste n.a t 596,400 622,559 628,277 10 in total. In 2017, we fully acquired a Swiss from other industries company that has been operating a recycling Average % recycled 301-2 % 25 24 26 service for nearly 30 years. Following the full content Progress against our sustainability goals Post-consumer stone 306-2 t 120,000 129,000 159,000 1 wool reclaimed and recycled Reclaimed waste Landfill waste Number of countries n.a Countries 6 11 11 Our goal: Increase the number of countries Our goal: Reduce landfill waste (tonnes) from with comprehensive where we offer recycling services for our our manufacturing facilities by 85% by 2030 insulation reclaimed products to 30 by 2030 (15 by 2022) (40% by 2022) waste schemes Stone wool building insulation received at our factories for recycling and estimated dry weight of stone wool growth 1  media recycled by external partners. 6 11 15 17% 40% 2015 2019 2022 2015 2019 2022 Exploring packaging efficiency baseline goal baseline goal For ROCKWOOL Group, plastic packaging for products offers important advantages, allowing us to protect and compress our products and preserve their integrity. We have reduced the intensity of our plastics use over several years and, in close collaboration with our packaging and logistic suppliers, are currently investigating ways to use less plastics with a greater level of recycled content. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 35 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Accounting principles Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission conversions CO2 and GHG emissions Air emissions GHG emissions are calculated indirectly via CO2 emissions are calculated as the total CO2 All air emissions other than GHGs are Reporting period conversion factors for energy consumption emitted by the 29 stone wool production calculated as the total emissions for each Our reporting covers the period from 1 January and GHGs. The energy and CO2 conversion factories in the form of fuel, process emissions component and are based on analytical 2019 to 31 December 2019. factors are regularly updated based on results and electricity. All our stone wool production measurements performed in accordance from fuel analysis, provided by the suppliers, facilities in the EU, UK and Norway are part of with the facility’s permit requirements and Controls emission factors published by national or the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. Seventy-five operational conditions. In addition to the The processes for data collection, calculation regional authorities, or by the International percent of our Scope 2 emissions is externally permit requirements, ROCKWOOL has set and consolidation of results are described in Energy Agency. For N2O, the global warming verified to the limited assurance level. minimum mandatory requirements relating to manuals and guidelines and go through an potential value used is the one published in air emission measurements that prevail in cases internal data validation process. All factories Other GHG emissions are estimates based the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). where legal requirements are less stringent. are required to provide explanations to any on analyses made in some of the production significant developments. Changes to historical facilities in representative operational The air emissions data has some uncertainty data are only made if considered material. Definitions conditions. Scope 1 and 2 are defined and are dependent on nationally prescribed according to The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: methods, sampling frequency, sampling The data collection, calculations and Workplace diversity Scope 1 includes all direct emissions, Scope 2 methods and laboratories. Emission consolidation of results for LTI are supported Women in management includes managers includes indirect emissions from consumption measurements can vary a great deal based on by an IT tool validated by an IT audit. on levels 1–5 in our organisational hierarchy. of purchased electricity, heat or steam. the representativeness of the samples taken, The data is provided according to the Women in new hires includes managers on flow measurements and sampling techniques, management’s best knowledge. levels 3–5 in our organisational hierarchy. Water consumption as well as the method of analysis. Water withdrawal by source is calculated as Scope Anti-corruption the total water withdrawn by ROCKWOOL’s 29 Reclaimed waste The scope for the safety indicators is all The disclosure of incidents is aligned with the stone wool production factories. Reported data A country-specific reclaimed waste scheme employees and contractor employees GRI standard on anti-corruption point is based on meter readings and invoices. is considered eligible when it meets the performing duties for ROCKWOOL Group. It 205-3, where confirmed incidents of following criteria: covers all ROCKWOOL locations, including corruption are reported. Total water consumption from all areas with factories, offices, construction sites, water stress, refers to the water consumption • the scheme facilitates the take back laboratories, warehouses, etc. Lost Time Incident (LTI) at four factories in Malaysia, India and Russia of construction and/or demolition The LTI rate/frequency is calculated as that have been identified as being located in ROCKWOOL stone wool products to For the environmental indicators, unless the total lost time incidents per 1,000,000 either highly or extremely highly water stressed a ROCKWOOL factory and/or a waste/ otherwise mentioned, the scope of the 2019 working hours. areas. This was the result of a water scarcity industry partner that ensures the waste is data is 29 stone wool producing factories Energy consumption assessment carried out by a third party in 2017. reused/recycled; including any offices, warehouses and other facilities on the factory premises. For 2019 data, Energy consumption is calculated as the Waste disposal • the scheme is either offered to a substantial one factory acquired in 2017 has been added. total energy consumed by the 29 stone wool Waste to landfill is calculated as the total market segment or the scheme is offered to One factory acquired in 2018 and a new factory production facilities in the form of fuel and quantity of waste sent to landfill by the selected, large customers in a country; that started operating in September 2019 are electricity. Reported energy is based on 29 ROCKWOOL stone wool production meter readings, invoices and net calorific • the scheme covers, as a minimum, insulation not included in the 2019 data. The Systems factories. Reported data are based on meter values from laboratorial analysis results or products but must also cover other segment production facilities, office buildings readings and documentation provided by reported by the suppliers. ROCKWOOL products when appropriate; and warehouses are also not included. external suppliers. and The 2015 baselines for the sustainability goals Waste sent to other types of disposal are • the offering is accessible, for example, relating to CO2 emissions, water consumption calculated as the total quantity of waste on the ROCKWOOL country website, and waste to landfill were adjusted to take sent to each individual type of disposal. in marketing brochures, through direct account of one acquired factory. Reported data are based on meter readings promotion, and is communicated to and documentation provided by external relevant customers. customers/suppliers. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 36 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Energy efficiency in our own buildings Materiality Energy efficiency in own, unrenovated GRI Standard Reference Index offices is calculated in terms of kWh/m2/year. Many expectations faced by corporations are Buildings that are rented, have no dedicated well established and have been formalised by Our reporting is informed by the use as an office building, are deemed as law, including emission limits, tax schemes, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) having a high energy performance or were safety requirements and minimum wages. Standards. The Standards highlight renovated relatively recently, compared to the However, as a corporation we also need to multiple topics across three categories: 2015 baseline year, are not included in understand and meet informal, evolving and economic, environmental and social, the scope. location-specific expectations to maintain our which are material to our business. social licence to operate. Recycled content We publish a separate GRI Standard To do this, we engage with stakeholders across Recycled content is calculated in accordance Reference Index along with our annual our value chain to understand the stakeholder to EN 15844:2012 and ISO 14021:1999. Sustainability Report that can be concerns and expectations of us as a business. Recycled content is an average of the downloaded at www.rockwoolgroup. This forms part of how we annually determine recycled content across the 29 factories. com/sustainability. ROCKWOOL Group’s material issues. Recycling of waste from other industries Our stakeholders are diverse, and their is waste or secondary materials purchased concerns vary. For example, we work closely with the purpose of melting to produce with communities when we engage in building new products. on greenfield land or when we significantly Environmental laws and expand our manufacturing facilities. regulations – compliance We also engage with our investors quarterly A fine is a monetary sanction for nonon ESG issues and use leading indices and compliance with environmental and health frameworks – the UN SDGs in particular – to and safety laws and regulations (including guide our assessment of our material issues. international, national, and voluntary agreements with authorities). Our material issues A sanction is a non-monetary administrative • Energy efficiency and carbon management sanction for non-compliance with • Circular economy environmental and health and safety laws and • Fire resilience regulations (including international, national, • Safety, health and wellbeing and voluntary agreements with authorities). • Water efficiency and management Fines and sanctions are reported as the total • Public and private sector collaboration of fines and sanctions in the 29 ROCKWOOL stone wool production factories. • Decent work and job creation • Anti-corruption and bribery The number of safety, health and environment audits includes external audits related to • Environmental management safety, health and environment carried out by • Human rights authorities, certified bodies, etc., together • Supply chain management with Group internal audits at the 29 stone • Responsible tax wool producing factories. ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 37 Introduction Creating impact Factbook and data Growing focus on ESG performance COP Statement to UNGC In response to growing interest, ROCKWOOL Group, in 2019, became the first company in ROCKWOOL Group is a participant in the Denmark to host quarterly calls with investment analysts focusing solely on our ESG approach UN Global Compact and we would like to and performance. This is a fast-moving area of engagement, but we welcome the chance to express our continued support for the Global have a consistent dialogue with analysts on these issues. Recordings of the ESG analyst calls Compact by hereby renewing our ongoing can be found at our website. commitment to the initiative and its principles. Ratings Selected awards and recognition • CDP Climate B • 50 Sustainability • MSCI ESG A and Climate • MSCI BISR Environmental Impact 90.93% leaders, Bloomberg • SustainAnalytics Risk Rating 19.9 (Low) • ISS-Oekom B(Prime) • Business Climate Prize, ZERO Indexes Conference, Norway • TRUCOST (S&P company) classifies 100 percent of the Group’s products as SDG positive. • SDG Invest includes ROCKWOOL Group in a portfolio of the 60 best performing companies globally. Selected partnerships within climate and sustainability UNGC Action Platforms: Ellen MacArthur • Business Ambition for Climate and Health Foundation – CE100 • Reporting on the SDGs Corporate Leaders Group Renovate Europe ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 38 M  aking a splash The multi-award-winning building in Tychy, Poland, attracts a lot of attention. Not least thanks to the spectacular effect of blue Rockpanel Chameleon façade panels that almost completely cover the elliptical building that houses this water park. Apart from aesthetics, adequate insulation is also very important as the building consists of warm and cold areas. The water park is highly energy efficient with ROCKWOOL products throughout the building and a renewable energy source of biogas from the local wastewater treatment plant supplied through a six-kilometre pipeline. The surplus heat generated is transmitted to the municipal network and covers about one-seventh of the city’s total energy needs. Tychy, Poland ROCKWOOL Sustainability Report 2019 39 ROCKWOOL International A/S Hovedgaden 584 DK-2640 Hedehusene Denmark CVR No. 54879415 Tel: +45 46 56 03 00 www.rockwoolgroup.com twitter.com/ROCKWOOLInt linkedin.com/company/ROCKWOOL-Group facebook.com/ROCKWOOLGroup instagram.com/rockwool_group Released 19 March 2020 © ROCKWOOL International A/S 2020 All rights reserved
