Annual Report 2019 19 Table of Contents 1 The Year in Brief CEO Letter 3 Hoist Finance in Brief 5 CEO Letter 7 The Value We Create 10 Our Strategy 11 Centres of Excellence 13 Customers 5 21 Sustainability 37 GRI Index 43 Our People 50 Investment Proposition 52 The Share Customers 55 Our Oﬀering 59 Competitive Position 62 Adapting to Market Changes 69 Asset Classes 74 Banking Platform 75 Risk Management Financial Review 80 85 86 Administration Report Five-year Overview Corporate Governance Report Sustainability 13 93 Board of Directors 95 Executive Management Team 97 Financial Statements 106 Accounting Principles 114 Notes 160 Certification of the Board of Directors 21 161 Auditor’s Report 164 Definitions 165 Shareholder Information, Financial Calendar and IR Contact Reference to statutory annual report and sustainability report: The statutory annual report comprises pages 7-9, 21-36, 40-49 and 80-160. The statutory sustainability report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (ÅRL) is included in the statutory annual report and comprises pages 7–9, 21-36 and 40–49. Hoist Finance AB (publ) is a regulated credit market company and parent company of the Group, and prepares its financial statements in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies (ÅRKL). The consolidated accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Year in brief The year in brief Highlights Digital highlights Strategic initiatives Launch of customer interaction via RCS and the chatbot Outsourcing of IT infrastructure. Kai in the UK. Continued site consolidation by closing of contact centre Launch of customer interaction via WhatsApp in Italy. in Bayonne, France. The upgraded customer portal 2.0 implemented in France, Continued expansion of Shared Service Centre in Germany, Poland and Spain. Wroclaw, Poland. Initial establishment of a Nearshoring Centre in Bucharest, Mitigating actions as an adaptation to regulatory Romania. changes Establishment of a new business area: Retail Banking and Successful completion of the irst-ever Italian investment Business Development. grade rated securitisation. Successful unrated securitisation of Italian NPLs. Changes in Senior Management and the Board of Directors Acqusitions Robert Kraal and Lars Wollung elected as new members of Hoist Finance became the second largest debt purchaser the Board of Directors at the AGM. in Poland through the acquisition of assets from GetBack. Fabien Klecha, Country Manager for France, assumed the Acquisition of Italian company Maran Group, adding to responsibility for the Centre of Excellence for Secured Hoist Finance servicing capabilities NPLs. The acquisition of a French non-performing mortgage Emanuele Reale appointed new Chief Sales O icer. portfolio, with an outstanding balance of EUR ~375 million, is the largest investment in company history. The transaction also makes us market leading within this segment. Key igures of 2019 5,952 748 PORTFOLIO 76% 13% PROFIT BEFORE TAX ACQUISITIONS C/I RATIO RETURN ON EQUITY (SEK m) (SEK m) 1 Year in brief Key igures of 2019 C/I Ratio Carrying value % SEK m Pro it before tax Total operating income SEK m SEK m SEK million 2019 2018 2017 Total operating income 3,038 2,829 2,365 Pro it before tax 748 755 581 Net pro it 605 590 453 Basic and diluted earnings per share, SEK 6.07 6.29 5.10 Net interest income margin, % 13 14 N/A C/I ratio, % 76 74 76 Return on equity, % 13 16 15 Portfolio acquisitions 5,952 8,048 4,253 2 Hoist Finance in Brief Hoist Finance mission, purpose and position Helping People Keep Their Commitments is our mission and purpose, it is what we do and why we go to work every day. By Your Side is how we see ourselves ful illing our mission, to always be by our customers' side, how we support them to be part of and included in the inancial ecosystem. Uncomplicated, Helpful and Humane is our personality. Financial targets 3 Hoist Finance in Brief Our Presence Carrying amount of Hoist Finance Hoist Finance has operations in 11 European countries, a presence that provides us with an ability to invest on a PanEuropean basis. In 2019, the presence in our six largest acquired loan portfolios markets enabled us to capture 70 per cent of the European NPL stock, primarily managed through our own servicing France 12% platform, which is the core business for Hoist Finance. Germany 9% Since we are already present in the main European NPL Italy 25% markets, our strategy is not to expand our operations into Poland 16% smaller jurisdictions but instead to grow and develop our Spain 4% presence in existing markets. A key element of this strategy UK 26% is our expansion into new asset classes, which allows for Other countries incl. central functions 8% additional pro itable acquisition opportunities whilst leveraging upon the extensive knowledge and expertise in our local operations, and strengthening the core relationships with banks and inancial institutions, which we have successfully established over our many years. Share of Hoist Finance’s total operating income 4 CEO Letter CEO Letter A Year of Execution In 2019, we improved operational e iciency and completed several signi icant acquisitions, while maintaining our focus of helping people keep their commitments. Customers irst Hoist Finance’s mission is to help people keep their commitments. Being in inancial di iculty can happen to anyone, and during 2019, we have continued to support our customers with setting repayment plans that it their unique situation and inancial capability. Our new vision “By your side” is how we see ourselves ful illing our mission, by always being by our customers’ side, in how we support them to be included in the inancial ecosystem. I frequently listen in on calls with our customers, and I am very proud to say that we have skilled, passionate and professional colleagues, who always ind ways to be helpful, understanding and humane. By deploying our core competence, we help people back to inancial inclusion. This is a key component of our new sustainability strategy that we have developed as underwriters of UN’s Sustainability Development Goals. Focus areas in 2019 Setting a digital agenda was truly a focus area in 2019. We want to oﬀer our customers lexibility to go online, to chat and the ability to be selfBy deploying our core su icient. We have developed an industrialised approach, in order to competence, we help people operate in the same way and deliver the same digital services in all our markets. We took some important irst steps in 2019 and at the end of the back to inancial inclusion year about 15 per cent of our customer contacts were digital only, which will continue to increase signi icantly going forward. To our help we have the chatbot Kai, our new virtual co-worker who is always friendly, a fast learner and works around the clock. Another important focus area in 2019 was managing the consequences of new regulations. Our industry is well served with regulation to protect customers and investors, as well as society at large. Regulation is important to protect consumers in general, and in many ways helps the industry to become more professional. This also bene its the banks that are divesting nonperforming or non-core loans to the debt resolution industry. Our total operating income was SEK 3,038 million (2,829 in 2018) and pro it before tax SEK 748 million (755). The underlying cost control is good, several important actions have been taken and bene its from these initiatives will materialise in 2020 and onwards. I remain con ident that we will reach our inancial targets. To be successful in our industry, you need to have e icient operations and the lowest funding costs. Thanks to our deposit business, we have enjoyed being in pole position on the latter for many years. In order to keep this bene it, we completed the irst-ever Italian investment grade rated securitisation, backed by a portfolio of unsecured non-performing loans. Our banking model has been pro itable for many years and we continue seeing it as one of our most important competitive advantages. 5 CEO Letter CEO Letter Major acquisitions We acquired portfolios for a total of SEK 5,952 million. The acquisitions included the largest portfolio investment ever by Hoist Finance and the irst non-performing mortgage portfolio of its size to be sold in France. The portfolio included over 3,500 claims with an outstanding balance of some SEK 3.9 billion. The transaction positions Hoist Finance as the market leader in the French secured NPL segment. Another major acquisition included the SEK 990 million in assets from Polish debt management and collection company GetBack. Over 95 per cent of the assets were non-performing unsecured consumer loans. As a result, we welcomed and onboarded about 560,000 new customers in Poland and Hoist Finance is now the second largest debt resolution company in that market. Our acquisitions, especially in France, demonstrate that the European market has opened up. Driven by regulatory changes, we now see banks divesting loan stocks to a greater extent than previously. These developments go hand in hand with Hoist Finance’s strategy to grow in selected European markets. Operational excellence will continue to be a priority in 2020, underpinning our capacity to deliver attractive returns going forward, while maintaining our focus of helping people keep their commitments. Outlook for 2020 Our proven ability to execute on our strategy despite a rather turbulent environment tells me that we are on the right track. We have a strong foundation and organisation, a recovered capital position including a signi icant extension on the duration of our inancing, the industry’s lowest funding costs and the only company in our ield with an investment grade rating. The outlook is more uncertain as a result of the rapid coronavirus development. In the near term we are seeing a temporary pause in the supply of debt portfolios, but in the long run we irmly believe that the market outlook remains positive. We anticipate that banks will continue to divest portfolios and will do so at an earlier stage than historically. The European estimated loan stock has decreased from EUR 1.2 trillion in 2014, to approximately EUR 635 billion in 2019. This is good for the inancial eco-system, and I am con ident in the market for non-performing loans as all market participants have become more diligent and structured, which has resulted in favourable margin developments over the last year. There is also an increased amount of transactions in the secondary market, both for non-performing loans as well as for performing loans. Change continues to be the only constant. The best way to deal with change is to make sure that everything we do is irmly grounded in our values and with a clear purpose. I am very proud of having deeply committed employees, working together with a relentless drive towards creating long-term value for our customers and shareholders. In our Great Place to Work® survey in 2019, the feedback from the organisation was the best ever with improvements in all markets and dimensions. In 2019, we launched our leadership programme, Hoist Finance Academy, which fosters a learning environment where our managers can become strong leaders. By investing in our people, we are investing in our future. If we can oﬀer customers and employees the best experience possible, both in the current challenging times as well as in the long run, I am convinced inancial performance will bene it. This is why operational excellence will continue to be a priority in 2020, underpinning our capacity to deliver attractive returns going forward, while maintaining our focus of helping people keep their commitments. Klaus-Anders Nysteen, CEO 6 The Value we Create The Value we Create How we create value Our business model and strategies are focused on delivering value to all stakeholders Business model for value creation Competitive factors Hoist Finance Unique Operating Model Amicable settlements Centers of Exellence Credit market license Banking platform Solid governance and compliance Our People One Hoist Finance 1,725 skilled and committed employees Hoist Finance Academy TRUST (our values) Business Mix More than 25 years of experience in debt restructuring solutions Full-service and lexible supplier capable to service various stages of the credit risk cycle 7 The Value we Create The Value we Create Business Model Individual with loan Hoist Finance Recovery Amicable Hoist Finance settlement Customer repays acquires loan loan Healthy Financial Ecosystem Successfully paying oﬀ Improved credit Greater self rating esteem Stable rate of economic growth Aﬀordable credit Greater inancial security 8 The Value we Create The Value we Create Value for our stakeholders Stakeholders Value ...in numbers 2019 Customers Sustainable payment plans so that customers can 170,000 monthly customer regain control over their inances. dialougues 200,000 new payment plans set up EUR 54 average aﬀordable, monthly customer payments Shareholders A long-term investment with a healthy dividend and a 7,429 Shareholders good value growth. 16% return on share Deposit Online deposit savings platform in Sweden 75,791 Deposit customers customers (HoistSpar) and Germany with competitive interest Up to 1.75% interest rate rates. Our People Opportunity to work in a stimulating environment 90% response rate in Great Place with engaging company culture. to Work survey Opportunities for personal development. 12% increase in the number of employees saying Hoist Finance is a Great Place to Work, compared to 2018. 216 Managers completed educations in Hoist Finance Academy. Banks and Reduced risk exposure. SEK 5,952 million in portfolio inancial Increased cash low, strengthening liquidity. acquisitions. institutions Higher return on equity. 35% of acquisitions within the Increased focus on core business. Secured NPL asset class. Society Contribute to a healthy inancial eco-system. 5 SDGs and targets selected Meet customer needs and societal expectations through our digital developments. 15% digital collections Preventative actions to support people not to end up in bad debt. 9 Our Business Strategy Our Strategy In 2019 we really started to execute on our strategy, which was presented during our Capital Markets Day in November 2018. Despite the regulatory changes that greatly aﬀected Hoist Finance later that year, we feel that the strategy holds ground and we have now started to implement many of the actions set out in the strategy. Although the strategy remains the same, we have this year updated the presentation of the strategic pillars, from six pillars to substantially four pillars. The customer perspective still permeates our whole strategy. Market leadership Eﬀective & E icient Digital Leader Banking Platform We strive to be in markets Our culture is performance We want to be the digital Thanks to our credit market where we are, or can and knowledge driven. We frontrunner and inventor in license, we can oﬀer a become, one of the top strive for continuous our industry. Digital By deposit service, which in three players. This ensures improvement and embrace Default is how we execute turn provides cheaper economies of scale and change, and we always on this strategic pillar, and funding for our portfolio allows for in-depth trusted want to be agile and lean, means that our digital investments than that of our relationships with our proactive and innovative. channels are the preferred peers. partners. choices for us and customers. The Four Pillars of our Strategy We limit ourselves to a few prioritised markets where we are, or have the potential to become, one of the most important actors. This ensures the greatest market insight and means we can build and maintain strong relationships with our stakeholders. We have a diverse product and service oﬀering in our prioritised markets, including unsecured and secured nonperforming loans to individuals and SME's as well as performing loans. Through standardisation and harmonisation of our organisation, we work with best practices rather than local practices. This means that we continuously improve our e iciency and eﬀectiveness. Our Centres of Excellence for the various asset classes are instrumental in this process. We also acknowledge the untapped potential that digital technology has for our industry, and we are constantly improving our digital and analytics capabilities, in order to serve the customer in the way they want to be served. Finally, our banking platform oﬀers a unique funding model, and the opportunity to engage more broadly with our customers. Our way of working in order to carry out our strategy is characterised by harmonised practices, where we collaborate rather than duplicate, working as one team towards a clear goal and with a united purpose. We call it working as One Hoist Finance. In this way we believe we are best equipped to deliver on our mission to help people keep their commitments and on our promise to be by our customers’ side on their way towards inancial inclusion. 10 Our Business Centres of Excellence Centres of Excellence To strengthen our strategy of operational e iciency, Hoist Finance has created three Centres of Excellence (CoE). One for unsecured assets, one for secured assets and one for performing assets (descriptions of the diﬀerent asset classes can be found here). The purpose of these three CoE's is to ensure that the company harmonises and standardises processes across markets and share best practices in an e icient way. Unsecured Centre of Excellence The unsecured CoE was formed in early 2019 and includes a team that focuses on implementing transformational change within the unsecured asset class, as well a Business Insights team that supports all asset classes. The unsecured CoE is divided into four key areas: Business Insights focuses on providing analytics and insight, delivering automated and aligned reporting and the use of data science to drive collections. Transformational Change are a group of Operations experts who assist the local country teams in implementing some of our larger initiatives such as nearshoring, digital implementations and work low optimisation. They also act as a liaison point between CoE and local teams when implementing items such as propensity models from the Data Science team. Collections Strategy is driving the implementation of standard and harmonised collections strategies, which is somewhat regulation dependent. These will all eventually be delivered through the same centralised system, and so this area works very closely not only with local strategy teams but also with our central IT function who are tasked with delivery of the required technology. Operations Eﬀectiveness is focusing on areas such as Quality Assurance, Complaints Handling, Operations Training and Colleague Development. Hence, they work closely with Hoist Finance Academy and People teams. During 2019, we have focused on building strong foundations for future change and improvements, as well as delivering on short term initiatives with already proven cost-savings. Some of these include customer predictive models, extensive digital analytical support and creating a community for the Heads of Operation accross all markets. 11 Our Business Centres of Excellence Secured Centre of Excellence The secured CoE consists of a multi-jurisdictional team of professionals, who are focusing on optimising our secured operations across markets and the value chain. The Secured CoE is structured into three key areas: The Investment Strategy area has a dual responsibility. Firstly, to set the direction in terms of capital allocation across markets and sub-asset classes, based on market opportunities, macro trends, and concentration risk management. Secondly, to establish best in class practices for the underwriting of secured portfolio (common asset underwriting framework, implementation of a due diligence software, and secured portfolio modelling). The Operations & Portfolio Management area focuses on developing a scalable and integrated operating model, delivering economies of scale and providing a blueprint for swift new market entries. A particular attention is given to People Capabilities (attraction, retention and training of top performers), Information Systems Upgrades, Customer Journeys and Reporting & Analytics. The Real Estate Management area is designed to inform the decision making during defensive auctions as well as manage the pool of Real Estate Owned units that have been on-boarded. During 2019, the teams have focused on building strong foundations for future change and improvements, as well as delivering on short term initiatives which deliver more immediate revenue and cost savings. Performing Centre of Excellence The Performing CoE was created in 2019, building upon the foundations of the Polish mortgage platform acquired by Hoist Finance in 2018. The background is that we seek to increase our investments in performing loans and also maximise the value of our credit market license. The Performing CoE is structured into three key areas: The Operational Excellence area is wide-ranging and covers the entire performing loan lifecycle, from day-to-day customer interactions and correspondence to performance monitoring, credit approvals and an arrears management process that bene its from Hoist Finance existing expertise in non-performing loans. In line with One Hoist Finance, processes are aligned as much as possible between countries to drive e iciencies and avoid duplication. The Data & IFRS9 Reporting Infrastructure workstream ensures that we are able to manage our portfolios’ performance actively and in a manner which is compliant with all relevant inancial regulations, including making provisions for expected credit losses. Financial reporting and capital requirements are monitored together with our inancial experts across all markets. As Performing loans remain a relatively new asset class for Hoist Finance, the Investment Strategy workstream ensures that we are making the right investments to support the growth of our business, including our move towards fully-internalised servicing capabilities. As the Performing CoE drives improvement in our operations, complemented by our competitive cost of funds, we expect performing loans to remain a key target asset class for our business in the future. By developing an infrastructure for performing loans management that is lexible and scalable, we create a holistic solution for the group that may be rolled out across all of our jurisdictions as acquisition opportunities become available. 12 The Value we Create Customers Customers Hoist Finance's mission is helping people keep their commitments. This requires building trust and relationships with a sensitivity to what can often be a challenging situation for the customer. In all customer interactions, we focus on amicable solutions wherever possible. This has proven to result in better outcomes for all parties. We have many years of experience in helping individuals get back on track, as well as helping all of our customers to regain control of their inancial situation and be a part of a stable inancial eco-system. How we de ine our customers Our customers are individuals and SME’s with a nonperforming or performing loan with Hoist Finance. We also have deposit customers through our online savings platforms in Sweden and Germany. He was an honest and compassionate person who managed my claim with such professionalism and always treated me as a person, and not just a number. Our promise Whenever a customer is in contact with Hoist Finance, they can rely on being treated in a consistent, responsible, humane and ethical way. This is how we work as one company, One Hoist Finance. To further strengthen our ways of working with our customers, building on best practices and experiences as well as scaling across our company, Centres of Excellence have been set up. Helping people get back on track and be a part of the inancial ecosystem is at the core of what we do. At the same time, we are contributing to upholding fair and stable credit markets. This is important not only to our customers and the banking sector, but also to society as a whole. At times we deal with customers who ind themselves in distressed circumstances. In these situations we always ensure that we act with respect and empathy, to earn the trust of the customer. We do this through our values TRUST, which are the cornerstones of how we behave. In addition to this we also oﬀer a deposit service for customers in Sweden and Germany. 13 The Value we Create Customers Customers within the unsecured NPL segment At Hoist Finance we are always doing the utmost to come to amicable arrangements with our customers. This means that we always strive to maximise the agreements based on voluntary repayment solutions. We ind that a great majority of customers want to reduce their debt burden, and we take pride in standing by their side, supporting them in inding a solution for their speci ic situation. A responsive and respectful customer dialogue is, and has therefore always been, of major importance to Hoist Finance. It lays the ideal foundation for jointly reaching a solution satisfactory to all parties. A sustainable repayment plan is often a decisive factor in this solution. If a repayment plan is to be successful over time, it needs to be based on the customer's speci ic situation. In practice, this quite often means small monthly payments during a longer period of time. For the cases when customers choose not to engage with us at all, we can take legal action. Continuous dialogue The customer's personal inancial situation is monitored regularly to enable an assessment of any changes to repayment conditions. Customer dialogue has been mainly conducted by phone, but is increasingly moving towards e-mail, sms and digital channels. Through our digital communication channels we can make things easier for our customers, giving them direct access to their personal pro ile and data, at any time of the day. This serves the customers who prefer to manage their own accounts, without needing to go through our customer contact center. Work methods can vary across markets due to legal and regulatory diﬀerences between countries. The regulatory landscape tends to be more extensive in more mature markets. Among Hoist Finance's markets, the UK has the most comprehensive customer contact regulations. Selected local partner organisations are sometimes used for customer contacts for reasons that include these regulatory diﬀerences. Our program for vulnerable customers An important part of achieving tailored outcomes and solutions for our customers is ensuring that we have eﬀective processes and controls in place to identify those displaying signs of potential vulnerability and to understand the impact that their vulnerability has on their ability to deal with us and repay their debt. We de ine vulnerable customers are those individuals who, due to their personal circumstances, are more susceptible to detriment. We understand that vulnerability can look diﬀerently and that the same condition or situation can impact individuals in diﬀerent ways, therefore varying levels of support or services adaptations will be applied accordingly. This includes signposting to specialist organisations and the application of appropriate breathing space and tailored communication methods and strategies. 14 The Value we Create Customers To support the identi ication and treatment of vulnerable customers we provide training to our employees on an ongoing basis to equip them with the skills and techniques needed to understand the nature and impact of vulnerable conditions. This includes the application of industry recognised tools and models that provide structure and guidance to conversations with vulnerable customers to ensure that we provide appropriate and tailored solutions for them. Customers within the secured NPL segment Hoist Finance is now placing greater focus on acquiring portfolios with secured assets, encompassing both performing and non-performing customers. We are implementing amicable solutions wherever possible, ensuring that better outcomes are achieved for all parties. We have received consistent positive feedback from our customers regarding our approach, which we consider to be a strong endorsement given these customers are invariably experiencing tough personal circumstances. This experience of working with customers facing inancial di iculties has also proven to be bene icial in respect of our performing portfolios, since we are very well-placed to assist customers in managing their inancial obligations prudently and eﬀectively. Deposit Customers In Germany and Sweden we oﬀer savings accounts at competitive interest rates. In 2019, we had approximately 53,000 accounts in Sweden (HoistSpar) and 32,000 accounts in Germany. Customer Data Privacy As stated in Hoist Finance’s Privacy Policy, access and use of personal customer data is treated according to legal requirements including those of con identiality and security. This is to protect the individuals, our customers, to whom the personal data relates. In brief, we only make personal customer data available and accessible on a need-to-know job role basis, and we keep personal customer data from unauthorised access and use, including any accidental destruction, loss, or alteration. 15 The Value we Create Customer satisfaction Continuously improving the understanding of customer needs Our customers are the core of our business, which is re lected in our mission Helping people keep their commitments . To help our customers keep their commitments, we know that we need to be equally committed. We promise to stand by our customers’ side all the way, supporting them to deliver on their commitments. How we make sure to do this is described in our CORE commitments. In brief CORE stands for Listening to and understanding the customers’ needs Communicating openly and transparently and ensuring that customers understand their options Identifying the right solutions depending on the situation Helping employees develop so they are able to give customers the best experience Customer Satisfaction surveys Whilst we have a range of internal measures that focus on customer experience and treatment, we added customer satisfaction surveys in 2018 to gather feedback directly from our customers. With this we have been able to measure the quality of our customer interactions, mainly in our customer contact centres, for both quality assurance and improvements. Going forward, with this as a base and input, a standard framework for customer satisfaction management across all our interaction points with customers is under development. The main objective will be to in a consistent way measure customer satisfaction and ensure that our customers are in focus across all of Hoist Finance workstreams. Through the customer satisfaction surveys we conducted in 2019 we got qualitative feedback from our customers and below are some gathered quotes. Very satis ied with Excellent service, Made a di icult everything and the everything I asked about experience quite a outcome thank you was excellent I cannot ask painless and very for any more thank you happy one UK customer Polish customer German customer 16 The Value we Create Customer satisfaction Internal Focus groups Our employees should not only believe in our mission “Helping people keep their commitments”, they need to live it. To achieve this we have embedded a structure of internal focus groups, forums and committees throughout the organisation concentrating on the outcomes we achieve for our customers. This gives our employees the chance to review our practices and share feedback, ideas and suggestions, therefore empowering them to contribute to our culture and drive improvement in how we achieve our mission. In 2019, 36 focus groups took place in the UK – with 93 improvements actioned! Julian Win ield, Country Manager UK Customer complaints process Hoist Finance has a group policy outlining our principles for how to handle customer complaints. We have a Customer Complaints O icer on Group level, and each market has appointed local Customer Complaints O icers. The Hoist Finance policy for customer complaints is protecting the customer interests and many of the principles are above the local legal requirements in some countries. The local customer complaints o icers are responsible for reporting regularly to the local management team and the Hoist Finance Chief Operating O icer. To monitor and manage customer complaints, there is a quarterly process that reports the complaints country-wise: the number of complaints, the type of complaint and how they were resolved. The reports are sent to and consolidated by the Group's Customer Complaints O icer, who prepares a quarterly report for the Executive Management Team and the Board's Risk and Audit Committee. Debt resolution process overview 17 The Value we Create Digital channels Meeting customers in the channel of their choice Our aim is to oﬀer our customers the ability to self–serve and interact with Hoist Finance through a choice of digital channels at any time and via any device. This empowers them to decide for themselves how and when to go through their inancial commitments and subsequently also create their own repayment plans. This allows customers to more easily take control of their personal inancial situation and engage with us through the digital channel of their choice. Increasing collections through our digital channels 2019 has seen the successful deployment of the Hoist Finance self-service portal in all countries. This means that all customers can now manage their debt online. The new Hoist Finance customer portal, launched in France, Germany, Poland and Spain in 2019, additionally enables customers to access all of their accounts through a secure registration process, get detailed account information, set up repayment plans and keep track of their progress. Hoist Finance UK has continued to be our lead market for innovation and new functionality releases through 2019. This has enabled the UK to reach 24 per cent of NPL collections through digital self-serve. These features are planned to be rolled out rapidly across all markets throughout 2020. Hoist Finance overall is now successfully converting 15 per cent NPL collection through digital self-serve channels, with the ambition to reach 30 per cent by end of 2020. This will be supported by conversion rate optimisation, natural tra ic improvement and omni-channel communication strategies. Being digital improves the understanding of our customers Our digital solutions also facilitate the capture and analysis of customer data that helps us understand customer behaviour and customer needs. With continuous improvements to Hoist Finance's data analytics, our digital solutions will become more customer-oriented and personalised to optimise our customer engagement. All data is secured through limited access, automatic monitoring and sensitive data encryption in accordance with applicable data protection regulations. Digital by Default We live and breathe digital in our everyday work across all touchpoints. We want to be perceived as the Digital frontrunner and inventor in our line of business. Digital by Default means that we use digital channels as the irst choice across our business, internally and in contact with our customers, banks and other stakeholders, wherever possible and e icient. 18 The Value we Create Digital channels New digital solutions launched and more in the pipeline A key to achieve our goal of being Digital by Default is our continued development of omni-channel strategies. Here, we are learning from the retail industry which has applied omni so well that it has become an intrinsic part of the shopping experience, in store and online. It’s so common in everyday transactions that our customers take it for granted and they expect us to oﬀer the same type of solutions. In order to not disengage customers, we need to oﬀer them the ability to complete their transaction in their channel of choice. Omni will therefore join our strategy seamlessly with our communication channels. We closely monitor the emergence of new technologies. SMS is still an essential part of our operational strategy to ensure we can deliver a low cost, high quality channel experience for our customers, replacing parts of our normal customer contact centre interaction. However, we see that SMS will start to be aged out and replaced by Rich Communication Services (RCS), Apple Business Chat, WhatsApp, etc. In-line messaging will change how call-to-actions for websites are achieved. To meet this demand for new communication channels we have developed and launched new messaging solutions through WhatsApp for business and RCS during the fourth quarter of 2019 and will follow the adaption of the solutions closely. Online automation via chat-bots is a useful tool to decrease costs, but they need to serve customers meaningfully for information requests or customer service. We are aiming at providing automated Arti icial Intelligence (AI) driven chat-bots behind webchat, SMS and e-mail. Beyond an ability to answer numerous questions from our customers, we are pursuing AI usage in a virtual agent strategy where our chatbots can identify a customer, give them information on their case and status, and propose individual payment solutions. As a start we have launched our chat-bot in the UK during the fourth quarter 2019, and we will continue to evolve and roll out this technology in our other markets in 2020 and onwards. Investments now and onwards During 2019, Hoist Finance invested in and built a team that provides the resource capacity and skills to both deliver the technology and embed this operationally to achieve our operational and inancial goals. We recruited new competence and talents with expertise in the digital area including digital marketing, digital customer experience and omni-channel. Furthermore, we have been able to oﬀer new opportunities to our existing employees, such as the irst internal recruitment of Arti icial Intelligence trainers. This provides us with the organisational platform to drive and deliver on our strategy to become digital leader in our industry. 19 The Value we Create A customer case Giuseppe's story Can you describe your situation when we irst contacted you? I had been paying a monthly amount to the former debt owner. When Hoist Finance irst contacted me my Customer Contact Representative oﬀered me the chance to close my claim for a discounted amount. Unfortunately, I could not aﬀord to pay that amount right then, which was why we agreed to postpone the proposal and I continued to pay a small monthly amount. A couple of months later, once I had saved enough money, I paid oﬀ my debt. How did you end up in that inancial situation? My father became very sick. At the time when I applied for a loan to cover his healthcare costs, I already had another debt. I was nevertheless able to manage both of my debts, even though one of them was a bigger amount. After three years, an unexpected event happened and I was no longer able to keep my monthly commitments. Furthermore, I had to pay rent for my house in Rome because I was there for work, and I also had to support my father's health travels. So due to these circumstances I had to turn to a legal consulting irm for support. I had a great experience, and I am inde initely thankful to my Customer Contact Representative for his work and friendliness together with all the other people at Hoist Finance who helped me solve my situation What was your reaction when we contacted you? I felt relieved because I was oﬀered the possibility to renegotiate and my Customer Contact Representative presented the opportunity to pay oﬀ all my debt at once. I felt relieved also because I really felt seen and cared for. He understood my inancial di iculties and helped me solve them. I had a great experience, and I am inde initely thankful to him for his work and friendliness together with all the other people at Hoist Finance who helped me solve my situation. How were you treated by our Customer Contact Representative? All people have been very kind to me. Of course most of the dialogue I had with my Contact Representative, he was always friendly and kind from the beginning to end, and always kept me informed about all the procedures in an exhaustive way. Did you get the support you needed? De initely yes! Do you have any advice you would like to give to other people in a similar situation? If I would give advice to other people in a similar situation, I would advise them to try to take control over their inances in order to avoid ending up in an even more di icult situation. If an unexpected event happens, as it happened to me, I would recommend them to contact Hoist Finance, or whomever manages their debt, for support, or to do some basic research and budgeting where you check your expenses and the current interest rates of your loans. Giuseppe, customer in Italy 20 Sustainability Sustainability integrated into our core During 2019, we made the active decision to put sustainability at the heart of our business strategy and operations. To deliver on this, we ensured and appointed ownership throughout the organisation, including members of the executive management team. This was made through a process designed to achieve close interaction and input from a large number of internal stakeholders across markets and functions. The process allowed us to align our views and priorities around sustainability and to visualize why it is an essential part of our purpose. The result is an improved, more robust sustainability strategy, with goals and measurable indicators as well as a strengthened governance model of the sustainability area. I’m proud to say that we at Hoist Finance put our customers and employees irst and have made them the key drivers of our sustainability strategy. It is in the social aspects where Hoist Finance can make the most signi icant impact on people’s lives and society at large. Camilla Backström, Head of Sustainability A few highlights from the identi ied aspects Our major negative Our customers and employees Our work within governance is environmental footprint is the are the main drivers of our closely linked to human rights large number of letters we send sustainability strategy. We are and the right to privacy and out to our customers each year: deeply committed to integrity. Here, we work approximately 10 million letters* understanding our customers' diligently with protecting both per year and growing. A new needs and we will develop new customer and employee target in the strategy is to services that will support them integrity and have a network of reduce our total paper in re-entering the inancial Data Protection O icers, consumption, by making the ecosystem, as well as take throughout the company to shift over to digital preventative measures and work ensure we comply with GDPR communication whenever with inancial education in and similar regulations. possible. diﬀerent ways. * Excluding BeNe, Italy and Spain. 21 Sustainability Sustainability strategy Hoist Finance sustainability strategy is aligned around four pillars and clearly connected to our business and value creation model. The strategy's vision is to contribute to sustainable development where we create long-term shared value for all stakeholders. The strategy's objective is to ensure customer satisfaction and oﬀer new services, treat customers and employees ethically and fairly, while complying with applicable laws and regulations. To ensure that the sustainability strategy is integrated into our core business and part of our DNA, we have since the beginning of 2020 started to track our progress through the existing business review process on a quarterly basis. This will allow us to have full transparency moving forward and ensure a continuous focus on our activities in this area. Within these four pillars, we have established a dual focus, where we do our best to mitigate negative aspects as well as identifying what actions have a positive impact and how we can proactively implement them throughout the company. We believe that what gets measured is what gets done, and we have therefore developed measurable indicators for each pillar. Last but not least, we have created incentives to increase collaboration across all markets, and an environment which allows good initiatives to be ampli ied. By your side VISION Helping People Keep Their Commitments MISSION OUR 4 PILLARS Environmental We combat climate change Social We contribute to an inclusive inancial ecosystem Social We create a great place to work Governance We uphold the highest ethical standards 22 Sustainability We combat climate change We are strongly committed to protecting the environment and will continuously work to mitigate our environmental footprint. We strive to minimize our negative impact by paying attention to the details that we can control in our day-to-day operations and the individual behavior of our fellow colleagues. One of our largest negative environmental footprints is the large amount of letters we send out to our customers each year. As part of our Digital by Default strategy we are now taking important steps in decreasing our communication through physical letters. Our Goals SDGs Reduce indirect and direct CO2 emissions. Reduce paper consumption. Reduce business risks connected to climate change. Our Indicators UN Global Compact Image Reduce CO2 Emissions by 10% (direct and indirect) per Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary employee. approach to environmental challenges. Reduce amount of letters sent by 10% per customer. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake intitiatives to Pilot and learn climate change risk assessment on promote greater environmental responsibility. portfolios within the Secured segment. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the develpment and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 23 Sustainability We combat climate change Supported Sustainability Development Goals (SDG) and Targets Target 13:1 – We are disclosing GHG emission data and material climate risk information through adequate disclosure initiatives. We also identify risks and opportunities caused by climate change. Target 13:2 – We have set clear GHG reduction targets, that are communicated within all operations. We are working with our suppliers to improve supplier sustainability management, as well as building the tools to ensure that we can conduct climate change risk assessment on our secured portfolio investments. 24 Sustainability We contribute to an inclusive inancial ecosystem Financial inclusion is a growing pan-European challenge with increasing attention from governments and the inancial sector. Unfortunately, it is not always enough to pay oﬀ a debt in order to be included in the inancial ecosystem. Most of our customers are still categorized as so-called high risk individuals and consequently often don’t get access to aﬀordable inancial products and services. This truly concerns us. We are therefore forming external partnerships with organisations focusing on mitigating this challenge. We have the data, knowledge and experience, to create positive change in this area. Our mission to “help people keep their commitments” clearly communicates our intention to support our customers in their journey to re-enter the inancial ecosystem. This requires us to build trust and relationships with a sensitivity to what can often be a challenging situation for the customer. In all customer interactions we therefore focus on meeting them on their terms through amicable solutions. In our Digital by Default strategy, we are making great eﬀorts to understand our customers’ needs and developing processes that support customer driven development. An equally important stakeholder are the banks and inancial institutions who entrust us with their portfolios. We always strive to do our best to keep our commitment in delivering solutions that suits their needs. Therefore we have a strong focus on continuous dialogue to ensure business partner satisfaction. Our Goals SDGs Excellence in customer satisfaction. Digital channel development for improved servicing. Forming external partnerships with organisations that have new innovative ideas for increased inancial inclusion. Business partner satisfaction. Our Indicators UN Global Compact To design a One Hoist Finance customer Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of satisfaction management process. internationally proclaimed human rights, within the scope of their To implement a systematic continuous partner in luence satisfaction survey. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 25 Sustainability We contribute to an inclusive inancial ecosystem Supported Sustainability Development Goals (SDG) and Targets Target 9:3 – By focusing our business and service development on our current customers, that have ended up in inancial distress and giving them a second chance, we provide increased access to inancial markets. Target 10:2 – By helping people pay oﬀ their debts, our core business contributes to increased inclusion to the inancial ecosystem and in the long-term we in luence social norms. Target 10:5 – We contribute to upholding a healthy inancial eco system in all our markets, by supporting our business partners in o loading non-performing debt. We have robust processes to comply with international and national regulations of inancial institutions and adhere to international standards, including those preventing money laundering and terrorist inancing. We report the business’ own inancial information each year, having it independently audited, to ensure transparency, completeness and accuracy. Target 17:6 – We are a Global Compact signatory. Target 17:17 – We are looking to engage with external parties, to partner up around inancial inclusion in diﬀerent ways. 26 PDF Assets PDF Assets We create a great place to work Our success is dependent on our employees. As part of running a sustainable business operation, we ensure we recruit and retain the best professionals, with the right passion and drive to make sure we deliver on our mission and goals. To create a great place to work, our ambition is to focus on employee health and well-being, diversity and gender equality to ensure our employees feel empowered, supported and proud to work at Hoist Finance. Our Goals SDGs Employee health and well-being. Diversity and equal opportunity. Gender equality. Our Indicators UN Global Compact Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and 70% score in employee well-being in annual the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Great Place to Work survey. 85 – 90% score in diversity category in the Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of annual Great Place to Work survey. forced and compulsory labour. 68% score in TRUST index in the annual Great Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the abolition of child labour. Place to Work survey. Create groupwide initiatives to improve gender Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination equality in management. in respect of employment and occupation. 27 Sustainability We create a great place to work Supported Sustainability Development Goals (SDG) and Targets Target 3:4 – To ensure employee health, we support access to preventative health care program for health and well-being. The call center profession can at times be very stressful and therefore we oﬀer access to mental health care and coaching, when needed. Whenever possible we also oﬀer opportunity for lexible work hours and working from home. Target 10:1 – In all our markets we work for promoting equal remuneration for men and women, for work of equal value. We respect human rights ensuring non-discrimination. Target 10:2 – We have embedded policies promoting diversity and inclusion throughout our operations and we encourage suppliers and other business partners to do the same. Target 10:3 – We respect and support human rights, communicating our expectations in this area to business partners across the supply chain. We have implemented group wide policies ensuring that hiring, placement, remuneration, job assignments and prospects, training and mentorships, performance assessment and advancement, discipline, maternity protection, security of tenure and termination decisions are based on objective factors and are not connected to gender, gender reassignment, age, nationality, ethnicity, sexual orientation, marital / civil partnership status, race, religion and beliefs, and disability. We ensure all employees have access to parental leave and can return to work, whilst at the same time oﬀering lexible working options to promote a good work life balance. We also encourage an inclusive culture and will not tolerate behaviours that breach our policies. We have established a group wide whistle blowing system, oﬀering anonymous grievance mechanisms for all employees which maintains a positive, safe and supportive working environment. Target 17:17 – To achieve targets around employee health and well-being, we actively develop diﬀerent external partnerships to create programmes and diﬀerent initaitives that will engage our employees. Employee pride is also established by forming external partnerships in the local communities and to support our customers, to achieve our goal of giving people a second chance and ensuring that employees can make a positive diﬀerence to our customers lives as they stand by their side during di icult times. 28 Sustainability We uphold the highest ethical standards Human rights and strong ethical standards are hygien factors for us. To ensure clarity around how we manage and make decisions related to these areas, we have implemented a new governance model for sustainability and ethics. A Business Ethics and Sustainability Committee has been established to provide recommendations to the Executive Management Team on sustainability and ethical related matters. The Committee sets precedent decisions and gives guidance and supervision to the organisation on matters relating to sustainability issues in the areas of ethical dilemmas, environment, social and human rights, human resources and customer matters. Our Goals SDGs Strong customer integrity processes. Robust framework on anti-corruption practices. Sustainable and local sourcing practices. Our Indicators UN Global Compact 100% of staﬀ trained in data protection and how to Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the treat personal data. protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, within At least one Data Protection O icer (DPO) per the scope of their in luence. jurisdiction where we have customers. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not Transparent reporting on number of con irmed complicit in human rights abuses. incidents of corruption. 100% of employees to undergo anti-corruption Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all training. forms of forced and compulsory labour. 100% of new suppliers above a certain size to be Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the abolition of child screened according to sustainable procurement labour. practices (ESG). Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 29 Sustainability We uphold highest ethical standards Supported Sustainability Development Goals (SDG) and Targets Target 16:2 – We are taking active measures to abolish risks of forced labour and child exploitation through robust procurement-processes. Target 16:4 – We contribute to combatting inancial crime by developing and implementing eﬀective measures against money laundering and terrorist inancing. We frequently evaluate the strength and relevance of our existing policies, procedures and employee training. Target 16:5 – Corruption is unacceptable for us whatever the circumstances and we are working to prevent and detect acts of corruption and bribery through controls, training and escalation procedures. 30 The Value we Create Sustainability Milestones 2019 Sustainability Milestones 2019 Being a geographically widespread company, with many languages and cultures to adhere to, requires extra eﬀort to ensure that everyone is aligned with Group wide initiatives. In being responsive to our stakeholders, we decided to take a deep dive into the area of sustainability during 2019. We have focused our resources to build a more robust sustainability framework, broadly anchored in the whole organisation. The focus has been to listen to our colleagues in all countries and all parts of our operations, to understand their views of what they see as the most material aspects. The work can be summarized in a few milestones accomplished during the year. One Hoist Finance Sustainability Strategy We have chosen to align our sustainability eﬀorts around four pillars and integrate them into our core business, to ensure they are part Selected Global Sustainable of our DNA. In addition, we will Development Goals (SDG) starting 2020 integrate the follow-up Ambassadors selected of our goals and targets into our Hoist Finance General Management existing business review process, on a To ensure local anchoring and Team worked through the SDG's, quarterly basis. This will allow us to integration of sustainability into our applied them to our value creation ensure full transparency moving operations, local sustainability model and chose to prioritize ive of forward. ambassadors were appointed in 2019. them: number 3, 9, 10, 13 and 17. A They represent all diﬀerent functions of process to integrate those targets the company. into the new sustainability strategy has also been initiated this year. Societal engagement – Customer needs Financial Inclusion An important part of the aspects Financial exclusion is a growing pancollected from our employees was to European challenge, receiving Signatory Global Compact build and develop our understanding increasing attention from governments of our customers' needs. It was The UN Global Compact provides a and the inancial sector. Hoist Finance decided to leverage on the processes universal language for corporate strives to enable a society with a already in place, such as the responsibility and provides a inancial ecosystem where everyone is customer complaints process and the framework to guide all businesses included, based upon sustainable and customer satisfaction monitoring regardless of size, complexity or healthy credit markets that are open for process. location. To further strengthen the everyone. We also contribute to and sustainability eﬀorts, Hoist Finance deliver a positive impact on our local became a signatory of Global communities by supporting new Compact in October 2019. This will innovation and development of inancial support our work going forward when inclusion. Our work within this area will it comes to implementing and focus on supporting our customers and communicating our sustainability their reintroduction into the inancial strategy. ecosystem. Concrete measurable targets will be developed within the context of concrete initiatives together with partners. 31 PDF Assets Sustainability milestones NASDAQ ESG Transparency Signatory CSR Europe Call to Partner Action Education and workshop Hoist Finance is part of Nasdaq's ESG During 2019, Hoist Finance signed the portal and regarded as a NASDAQ CSR Europe Call to Action for a New sessions in all management Transparency Partner. The portal Deal for Europe. This Call to Action was teams – both country and captures a wide range of actionable presented to the European group functions environmental, social and corporate Commission, the Council of the governance data. European Union and the European With the objective to align our views Parliament on December 5, 2019. This is around sustainability and why it is the largest group of CEO's ever important for us, a group-wide Stakeholder engagement mobilized in Europe. The message to educational eﬀort around sustainability process and strategy the politicians and policymakers is was conducted during the spring 2019. clear: European business is mobilised The educational part was combined During the past two years, we have for sustainability and ready for with collaborative work sessions to conducted a wide stakeholder collaboration. collect the most important aspects for dialogue process to serve as a basis for Hoist Finance to focus on, according to our materiality analysis. This has been presented in previous annual reports. Updated sustainability policy our employees. The result from this process is a robust sustainability We have identi ied several areas for Our new policy has taken a more improvement in this process and step framework with goals and measurable principle-based and stakeholder one was to develop a more detailed indicators, including a strengthened perspective. stakeholder interaction strategy, to governance model of the sustainability area. better allow us to target our dialogues at diﬀerent stakeholder groups. Starting 2020, we will conduct our stakeholder dialogues, with the new strategy and engagement process as a base and have more of a continuous dialogue using existing channels whenever possible. 32 The Value we Create Stakeholders Stakeholder matrix and interaction strategies Hoist Finance initiated a formal stakeholder dialogue process already in 2017. In our aim to always improve ourselves, we conducted an analysis during 2019 to identify learnings from prior stakeholder dialogues and identi ied areas where we can enhance our process. Based on the indings, we have developed a more detailed stakeholder matrix and connected it to how we would like to engage with diﬀerent stakeholder groups. This will allow us to be more relevant and target our dialogues in a more eﬀective way. Starting 2020, we will conduct our stakeholder dialogues, with the new matrix and engagement strategy as a base, allowing a more continuous dialogue using existing channels whenever possible. Interaction How we de ine our stakeholders Suppliers Regulators Hoist Finance’s stakeholders are groups and individuals who, Close interaction directly or indirectly, are aﬀected by the company’s Customers operations: employees, shareholders, business partners, NGOs E m p l oye e s customers and society at large. Society I nve s t o r s & a n a l y t i c s The Executive Management Team and the Board of Directors Clients have overall responsibility for balancing these interests, while Media Competitors securing the company’s survival. Industry associations Materiality analysis and stakeholder engagement process The new stakeholder matrix and engagement strategy will serve as the foundation in gaining a deeper understanding of what sustainability aspects our diﬀerent stakeholders think we should focus on. This, combined with our new stakeholder engagement process, will allow us to conduct more relevant materiality assessments and help us make sense of our sustainability landscape. These new tools will build our mandate for focusing and acting on those issues that are of the highest priority for the business. During 2019, our focus has been to create a close dialogue with our employees throughout the company, to understand what sustainability aspects they ind most important for us to address. When creating the new sustainability strategy, we combined the input from this dialogue with the results from the main areas identi ied from previous stakeholder dialogues, which were the following: respect for customers’ privacy, compliance with laws and regulations, ethical and fair treatment of customers and ensuring customer satisfaction. 33 The Value we Create Stakeholders Our ive step stakeholder engagement process: 1. Analysis of external and internal perspectives Identify mega, industry and sustainability trends relevant to Hoist Finance and our stakeholders. The trends may include climate change, societal change (e.g. inancial/social exclusion), digitalisation, emerging regulations (e.g. sustainable inance) and other trends aﬀecting Hoist Finance as well as benchmarking with industry peers. We also identify Hoist Finance’s current priorities and future initiatives based on existing sustainability strategy, previous stakeholder dialogues and business strategy. 2. Stakeholder mapping and prioritization Hoist Finance has many diﬀerent stakeholders that are important to 1. A n a l ys i s of ex te r n a l and internal 2 . Sta ke h o l d e r our business. In order to ensure eﬀective and e icient engagement perspectives mapping and ioritization we take stance from our stakeholder matrix and prioritize select stakeholder groups for the coming year. Based on the prioritized stakeholder groups strategies are created for interaction and engagement. 5. R e v i e w , Report and Act 3. Design process 3. D e s i g n process De ine the level of ambition for the engagement to align expectations for all parties and identify issues relevant for chosen stakeholder 4. E n g a g e m e n t groups. Identify and choose format for how to approach selected stakeholder groups for most eﬀective engagement. 4. Engagement Stakeholder dialogues are performed with selected stakeholder groups through surveys, interviews or workshops to create an understanding of the stakeholders’ perspective. 5. Review, Report and Act After reviewing and analyzing the results from the stakeholder dialogues, an action plan is developed with the aim to translate the indings, insights, and agreements from the engagement into action and to communicate these actions to our stakeholders. 34 The Value we Create Sustainability Reporting Our Reporting Logic This is Hoist Finance’s third integrated sustainability report, presented annually each accounting year, in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Standard Core option. Our sustainability reporting covers all of our operations, unless otherwise stated. The scope of the sustainability report is presented in the GRI-index below. The most recent sustainability report was presented in April 2019. The table of contents found in the GRI-index contains all standard disclosures and the speci ic disclosures that have been identi ied as the most relevant to our long-term sustainability targets. Please contact Group Head of IR, Andreas Lindblom with questions concerning sustainability. Our statutory sustainability report for 2019, pursuant to the Annual Accounts Act, is included in this statutory annual report. GRI Index Our business model A description of our people Sustainability section Hoist Finance’s sustainability strategy including organisation of sustainability eﬀorts, goals and key metrics Table of applicable policies and governance Identi ied risks within and outside the company 2019 2018 2017 We contribute to an inclusive inancial ecosystem Customer satisfaction, % 74 1) 79 N/A We uphold the highest ethical standards Number of con irmed incidents We create a great place to work (scores in GPTW-survey) TRUST-index, % 68 61 61 Diversity, % 89 85 85 Well-beeing, % 68 62 58 We combat climate change Energy consumption within the organisation, kWh 1,873,049 2) 2,688,076 3) 2,258,212 3) Direct CO2 emissions, Metric tonnes 109 3 70 4) Indirect CO2 emissions, Metric tonnes 1,107 2) 1,607 3) 1,346 3) Indirect emissions per sq. m. o ice space, Metric tonnes 0.08 2) 0.10 3) 0.10 3) Other indirect GHG emissions, Metric tonnes 1,406 1,309 5) 832 6) Other indirect emissions per employee, Metric tonnes 0.9 0.9 5) 0.7 6) Amount of letters sent per customer Baseline N/A N/A N/A 1) The quality of the customer satisfaction reporting has improved during 2019. 2) Excluding BeNe, Greece and Poland. 3) Excluding BeNE, Greece, London and Spain. 4) Excluding Poland, which is the only market where we have company cars. 5) Excluding Greece and Spain. 6) Excluding Greece, London and Spain. 35 The Value we Create Sustainability Reporting Energy consumption (GRI 302-1) refers to all electricity purchased for internal o ice spaces and server halls. Direct GHG emissions (GRI 305-1) includes all emissions by owned sources, in our case it refers to company cars. Indirect GHG emissions (GRI 305-2) includes all emission generated from purchased electricity and heating, including data centres in Germany. Other indirect GHG emissions (GRI 305-3, 305-4) includes all other indirect emissions, which in our case refers to business travel by plane, car or train. Overview of activities during 2019 Pillar Our Goals Activities 2019 We combat Reduce indirect and direct Co2 Procurement process in place for a groupwide travel agency. climate change emmissions. Conversion to green energy supplier in most of our markets. Reduce paper consumption. Digital customer portals launched. Reduce business risks connected to Pilot in progress with the aim to report back in 2020. climate change. We contribute to Excellence in customer satisfaction. Establishment of groupwide customer communication forum to an inclusive simplify customer communications. Development of employees inancial ecowithin amicable settlements and meeting customer at their system need. Digital channel development for Digital customer portals launched, new local customeroriented improved servicing. web pages in progress, and other launched digital channels such as Chatbot in the UK and WhatsApp in Italy. Forming external partnerships with Established partnership in the Netherlands with the ONS bank organisations that have new to help young people that are outside the inancial ecosystem innovative ideas for increased with education about inancials and how to ind a job. inancial inclusion. Business Partner satisfaction. Development of a groupwide automatic survey, to be sent out after every transaction/participated tender, to be launched early 2020. We create a Employee health and well-being. Access to preventative health care programs in all markets. great place to work Diversity and equal opportunity. We have embedded group-wide policies promoting diversity and inclusion throughout our operations and we encourage suppliers and other business partners to do the same. We ensure all employees have access to parental leave and can return to work, in all markets. Gender equality. In all our markets we work to promote equal remuneration for men and women, for work of equal value. We uphold the Strong customer integrity Decision taken to have at least one DPO per market. There were highest ethical processes. nine DPOs in total 2019. standards GDPR e-learning launched and completed by 86 % during 2019. Robust framework on antiNo con irmed incidents reported in 2019. corruption practises. E-learnings launched and completed by 91 % (Germany not included). During 2019 a Corruption risk assesment survey was sent to all markets, with a response rate of 46 %. Sustainable and local sourcing. During 2019 a Group Procurement O icer was recruited and sustainability criteria established in the procurement process. 36 The Value we Create GRI Index GRI Index Standard disclosures Disclosure Reference and Comment 102-1 Name of the organisation Startpage, page 80 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Our business 102-3 Location of headquarters Page 86 102-4 Location of operations Our presence 102-5 Ownership and legal form The share, page 80 and 86. 102-6 Markets served Our presence, Competitive positions, Asset classes 102-7 Scale of the organisation Startpage, The value we create 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Our People, People in igures, page 117. 102-9 Supply chain The value we create, Stakeholders, Sustainability strategy 102-10 Signi icant changes to the organisation and its supply chain Highlights 2019, CEO letter, Our strategy, Our presence, Our asset classes, Digital channels, Our people 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Sustainability 102-12 External initiatives Investors, CEO letter, Adapting to market changes, Sustainability reporting 102-13 Membership of associations Sustainability milestones UN Global Compact 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO letter 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Our business, Our strategy, Our People, Sustainability, Our customers, Risk management 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Sustainability Reporting 102-18 Governance structure Page 86 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholders, The value we create 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Our People, People in igures 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholders, The value we create 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholders 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated inancial statements Page 121. 102-46 De ining report content and topic boundaries Sustainability reporting 102-47 List of material topics Stakeholders 102-50 Reporting period Page 106. 102-51 Date of Most recent report Sustainability reporting 102-52 Reporting cycle Sustainability reporting 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Sustainability reporting 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Sustainability reporting 102-55 GRI content index GRI index 102-56 External assurance Page 163. The Sustainability Report is not audited. 37 The Value we Create GRI Index Management approach Disclosure Reference and Comment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary CEO Letter, Our Strategy, Our customers, Our People, Sustainability, page 86. 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Customers, Our People, Sustainability strategy, Sustainability management, page 86. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability reporting, Sustainability strategy, page 86. 38 The Value we Create GRI Index Speci ic disclosures Disclosure Reference and comments 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Startpage, The value we create, The share 201-3 De ined bene it plan obligations and other Page 117 retirement plans 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Risk management 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Sustainability report policies and procedures 205-3 Con irmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Sustainability report 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Sustainability report 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Sustainability report 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Sustainability report 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Sustainability report 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Sustainability report 308-1 New suppliers that were screened A process is initiated with the goal of using environmental criteria systematic reporting in all markets during 2020. 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover People in igures 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Our People, diseases, lost days and absenteeism, People in igures and number of work-related fatalities 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Our people 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees People in igures, page 93 and 95. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men During 2020 a groupwide Human Resource Management System will be implemented. 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken None reported. 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria A process is initiated with the goal of systematic reporting in all markets during 2020. 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy Sustainability strategy, Sustainability reporting and losses of customer data 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations Sustainability management in the social and economic area 39 The Value we Create Sustainability Management Sustainability Management We continuously work to assess risks within our business. Management of identi ied risks is based on the implementation of strict procedures throughout the organisation. Hoist Finance’s capacity to in luence and control these risks varies, depending on whether the risks are located within or outside the organisation. A summary of Hoist Finance's risks is presented in the risk section. Sustainability policy Hoist Finance’s sustainability policy de ines our approach to, and governance of, sustainability. With a new sustainability strategy, including new governance, the sustainability policy needed to be renewed. The new policy has taken more of a principle based and stakeholder perspective. The purpose of the policy is to serve as a governing policy for all business decisions in all Hoist Finance markets and constitute the foundation to build trust and commitment with all our stakeholders: That we always do our best to show respect for the integrity of our customers and partners. That our colleagues are supported via a healthy and safe working environment. That we respect the environment through initiatives to minimize our environmental footprint. That our culture is focused on good ethics and doing the right things, with support from a robust internal governance and policy framework, as well as adherence to external laws and regulations. The ethical guidelines expressed in the sustainability policy provides the foundation for how human rights are to be observed. New governance model The policy also introduces a new governance model for our sustainability eﬀorts. The highest governing body of the sustainability work is the Hoist Finance Board of Directors, which will be updated with our sustainability work and progress at least annually. The Executive Management Team is the appointed owner and responsible for managing and ensuring the execution and delivery of the sustainability targets and strategy. The Business Ethics and Sustainability Committee provides recommendations to the Executive Management Team on sustainability and ethical related matters. The Committee makes precedential decisions and gives guidance and supervision to the organisation on matters relating to ethical dilemmas, environmental, social and human rights, human resource and customer matters. Hoist Finance Head of Sustainability is responsible for developing and supporting the implementation of the sustainability strategy in collaboration with operational and functional units. Country management and Group functional units are responsible for developing strategies and activity plans that correspond to the sustainability goals and targets ensuring integration and execution into daily management. Contribution to sustainability targets are followed up on a quarterly basis and integrated in the business review process. Human rights We are committed to the respect and promotion of human rights with regards to our colleagues, customers, shareholders, suppliers and communities. This includes robust processes to ensure customer integrity is respected at all times, continuous activities to prevent discrimination and practices that infringe on the individual's dignity, taking measures to abolish risks of forced labour and child exploitation, to respect the freedom of association and help eradicate all forms of corruption. 40 The Value we Create Sustainability Management Hoist Finance’s work on human rights is integrated into all policies that govern sustainability eﬀorts. The diversity policy, personal data policy and the anti-corruption policy provide details in more speci ic areas. By emphasizing Hoist Finance’s views on human rights, the company can reduce the risk that violations occur. Anti-corruption and Compliance We have an extensive anti-corruption programme where we have adopted guidelines specifying how the company and our employees are to conduct business in a responsible and ethical manner. Policies and regular training on the ethical guidelines are examples of measures taken to combat all forms of corruption. Other measures include recurring internal surveys, in respect of compliance and internal control. The company’s anti-corruption work is instrumental in keeping corruption risk at an absolute minimum. Since 2017, the Compliance function has been conducting a more extensive survey, regarding the risk of corruption in all business units. The survey’s primary goal is to identify strengths and weaknesses in the area. Survey results for the past two years show that managers have a healthy understanding of what corruption comprises and the majority are very familiar with the internal rules and are well-trained on the subject. The survey also shows that work should continue with the anti-corruption framework, in order to constantly lower the risk for corruption. During 2019, Hoist Finance was not subject to any inancial or noninancial sanctions for compliance breach, by any supervisory authority in any operating country. Whistleblowing We have empowered our employees to report observations of behaviour considered to be unethical or illegal. Hoist Finance has developed a whistleblowing procedure through which employees can openly or anonymously notify the company of wrongdoings in the business. Data Privacy Comprehensive and strict data protection laws are essential for protecting human rights; most obviously, the right to privacy, but also many related freedoms that depend on our ability to make our own choices about how and with whom we share information about ourselves. In Hoist Finance, we take protection of personal data seriously and we are committed to processing personal information in a lawful, fair, and transparent manner. By implementing robust technical and organizational measures to protect customer and employee data, by regularly educating our employees about relevant data privacy laws and by appointing Data Protection O icers in each jurisdiction where we operate, we ensure that our customer’s personal data is handled in accordance with applicable regulations and laws. Employee protection We continuously secure policies and processes to respect individual human rights as well as complying with labour laws in all our jurisdictions. This includes group wide policies around renumeration and equal pay for equal work, freedom of association, anti-discrimination and reasonable working conditions. Policies governing Hoist Finance sustainability work in various ways Hoist Finance Corporate Policies embrace our commitment to employees, customers, society and is the foundation of our corporate behavioural directions and framework. The policy framework is a fundamental part of our strategy, and the basis for how we drive sustainability within the company. All Corporate Policies and Instructions are in nature group wide and adhere to all Hoist Finance employees. Only Corporate Policies relating to our sustainability strategy and of external relevance are listed below. 41 The Value we Create Sustainability Management Anti-money laundering policy Code of Conduct policy Communication policy Complaint management policy Diversity policy Insider policy Instructions for incident reporting Internal governance and control policy Investment policy IT policy Operational risk policy Outsourcing policy Privacy policy Procurement instruction Policy for conflicts of interest Policy for management NPL portfolios Policy for management of performing portfolios Policy for new products Remuneration policy Risk management policy Security policy Sustainability policy Tax Policy Whistleblowing policy 42 The Value we Create Our People Our People Hoist Finance strives to create a great place to work by placing our employees at the heart of the company. We want to give our employees the best work environment and equal opportunities to develop and progress. One Hoist Finance Hoist Finance implemented a strategy during 2018 and 2019 aimed at, among other things, organisational optimization, productivity improvements, and equipping the organisation with a lexible platform for growth. A scalable organisational structure is a prerequisite for our achievement of our overall strategies of market leadership, being e icient and eﬀective, as well as becoming the digital leader in our industry. We are implementing digitalised interfaces with our customers in all markets and setting the foundation for the next generation of customer journeys. In order to make development and innovation advancements, employees need to collaborate and share skills and experiences across the organisation. Harmonised and more e icient work methods have been introduced throughout the organisation as well as a matrix structure between functions and countries. The new organisational structure, clearly-de ined processes, and clear roles and responsibilities are focused on one thing: working eﬀectively together as a uni ied company, One Hoist Finance, that always puts the customer irst. With this wellde ined purpose, a clear structure and a strong, healthy corporate culture, our ambition is to work together to create a great workplace. 43 The Value we Create Our People Corporate culture and values The foundation comprises our shared values, beliefs and behaviour. Building trust is what inspires and guides us every day. Great Place to Work® A collaboration with the company Great Place to Work was initiated in 2016 to measure the development of corporate culture and work environment over time. Great Place to Work conducts one of the world’s largest employee surveys and ranking programmes, as well as provides tools to support and prioritise development areas. An employee survey that measures TRUST is a key tool, providing information about employee perceptions and experiences of the company. The survey also measures how far Hoist Finance has come in implementing company values. The result for 2019 was an index of 68 per cent (61), an impressive 7 per cent increase from 2018. There was also a 12 per cent increase in number of employees saying that Hoist Finance is a great place to work. Sweden and Italy both received Great Place to Work certi ication in 2019. This gives Hoist Finance a high rank in comparison with companies of similar size in each market. Our three key objectives for 2019 were to improve Internal Communications, to Develop our People and Improve Management Skills. Harmonised follow-up plans will be implemented in 2020 to further improve the results. 44 The Value we Create Our People Ethical guidelines The company’s ethical guidelines are designed to be applied by both employees and partners and speci ies fundamental values and principles that shapes how we work. All employees receive regular training on ethical issues such as When does a gift become bribery? , Con lict of Interests and Code of Conduct . Training statistics are monitored on a monthly basis to ensure that all employees receive regular training on ethical issues. Training topics delivered include IT security, methods used to discover and prevent money laundering and corruption, and coaching in guiding customers through di icult situations. The ethical guidelines not only require compliance with laws and regulations, but also provide guidance on ethical employee behaviour in line with Hoist Finance's values. Hoist Finance closely monitors the company's compliance with applicable legal requirements in operating countries. Employee health and well being Hoist Finance works continuously to ensure that all employees have a good physical and psychosocial work environment. Continuous operational improvements are made to guarantee employee well-being and ensure that employees reach their full potential. Hoist Finance works systematically with work environment and health issues, with a focus on creating a workplace that can accommodate at an early stage any employees needing extra support. This focus creates an inspiring environment for employees and customers—a workplace where employees feel comfortable and are happy to continue working. Career and skills development Continuous skills development is a key element in our ability to adapt to the new digitalised landscape and collaborative ways of working. Employees working directly with inancially vulnerable individuals require empathy and understanding of complicated inancial and social situations. Hoist Finance employees working in collection centres are trained in conducting dialogue with customers with the aim of reaching an agreement that is satisfactory to both parties. Essential to our business is our employees' ability to handle potential problems in drawing boundaries between regulatory compliance and having good and humane personal contact with customers. During 2019, training hours per employee amounted to 28. We have a revised Personal Development Dialogue (PDD) to ensure a constructive and sustainable commitment between employee and manager. This aims to clarify objectives and ensure continuous feedback. 45 The Value we Create Our People When it comes to leadership development, it is essential to our business that our managers are inspiring and able to develop the company in accordance with our strategy. This requires oﬀering managers the opportunity to grow. Leaders are developed by identifying key positions in the business and recognising and developing colleagues who are appropriate for these positions. Hoist Finance applies the same principle when replacing people in senior positions. We also arrange an annual leadership conference, Leaders in Hoist Finance, as part of developing the company's corporate culture. Topics addressed at this year's conference included performance management, sustainability and digitalisation — three important focus areas for Hoist Finance. Hoist Finance Academy With the purpose of building a strong foundation for developing our employees, we have created the Hoist Finance Academy. The goal is to create a learning environment where our leaders are focused on engaging and motivating our employees to increase good performance. Based on the Great Place to Work survey, we have focused on internal training of both managers and employees. External training has been provided as a complement in relevant areas. Launched in 2019, the two programs within the Academy has seen many successes: 120 Managers from across eight markets attended the Management Development Programme, which included workshops delivering tools and techniques to create strong teams. 97 Managers from nine markets attended the Leadership Development Programme, which included workshops, webinars, and one-to-one coaching covering emotionally intelligent leaders, matrix management, in order to support the One Hoist Finance organisation. The programmes were complimented by the roll out of a new Performance Management Framework concentrating on the performance dialogue and creating continuous conversations consistently. Employee feedback has con irmed career development is important. These programmes, along with additional localised initiatives and the development of e-learning experiences, are now providing the framework for clear and consistent career planning. 46 The Value we Create Our People Diversity and equal opportunity The company's continued success is based on Hoist Finance creating a diverse work environment with equal opportunities for all employees. Hoist Finance aims to be a place where people respect each other and understand the individual needs of others. It is self-evident that everyone should have the same rights and obligations. Hoist Finance's approach to diversity is clearly formulated in the company’s diversity policy, adopted and implemented in 2017. The organisation has worked continuously since then to achieve these goals. Diversity is the area with the highest rating in the Great Place to Work survey, with 89 per cent of employees responding that they are treated respectfully. Equality and fairness form the basis for employees' salaries, and the diversity policy is applied when setting salaries. Employee salaries are determined based on local salary levels, market practices and collective agreements where these are in place. The remuneration policy is reviewed and updated as required at least once a year. Whistleblowing We have empowered our employees to report observations of behaviour considered to be unethical or illegal. Hoist Finance has implemented a whistleblowing procedure through which employees can openly or anonymously notify the company of wrongdoings in the business. Cases of discrimination or other misconduct are encouraged to be reported through our whistleblowing system, which is an anonymous, web-based solution. All concerns raised will be treated with strict con idence and the identity of the employee raising the concern is never disclosed without his or her prior consent. Anyone raising a concern will be treated fairly and Hoist Finance will do everything it can to ensure that he or she is not penalised or victimised in any way. To continuously raise awareness of employees' responsibility in this area, E-learning courses on the whistleblowing procedures are in place. Less than ive cases were reported through the whistleblower procedure in 2019. Shared Service Center A Shared Service Center was established in 2018, in Wroclaw, Poland as a central support function to the organisation. Types of services include accounting, IT, people, legal, tax, risk, internal audit and business control. The purpose of this centre is to gain e iciency through economies of scale and harmonisation. 47 The Value we Create Our People Nearshoring A nearshoring center was initially established in Bucharest, Romania, during 2019. The o icial establishment date was January 2020. The purpose is to increase bene its of scale and skills and help implement standardised and harmonised processes across markets. Our People in igures At 31 December 2019, Hoist Finance had 1,725 employees (1,703), including temporary employees, in 11 (11) countries. 26 per cent (36) of the employees are covered by collective agreements. Of these, 84 per cent (93) were permanent employees and 16 per cent (7) were temporary employees. Recalculated as full-time employees (FTEs), there were 1,575 employees (1,556) at year-end, of which 911 (888) were women and 664 (668) were men. The average number of employees in 2019 was 1,545 (1,531), of which 894 (872) were women and 651 (659) were men. Calculated based on average number of employees, 58 per cent (57) of employees were women. At year-end, 13 per cent (13) of the members of the Executive Management Team were women. At 31 December 2019, 17 per cent (21) of the members of the Group Boards of Directors were women, and 50 per cent (63) of the members of the Parent Company’s board were women. Within the Group, 45 per cent (39) of managers were women during the same period. Our people in igures Number of employees Women 2019 Women 2018 Men 2019 Men 2018 Total 2019 Total 2018 Total number of employees, 31 1,026 1,001 699 702 1,725 1,703 December Full-time employees (FTEs), 31 911 888 664 668 1,575 1,556 December Average number of employees 894 872 651 659 1,545 1,531 Percentage women 2019 2018 Senior executives 32% 32% Parent Company Board of Directors 50% 63% Full-time employees (FTEs) 58% 57% 48 The Value we Create Our People in igures People turnover and sick leave In 2019, 514 (556) new employees were recruited and staﬀ turnover was 29.9 per cent (31.3). Short-term absence due to illness was 3.31 per cent (3.46), which we believe corresponds to that of other businesses with a high percentage of customer centre jobs. During the year, operations in Bayonne were relocated to Lille. All employees were oﬀered the opportunity to relocate with their jobs. Great Place to Work results, Group People have been treated fairly… 2019 2018 irrespective of age 83% 80% irrespective of ethnic origin 95% 92% irrespective of gender 90% 86% irrespective of sexual orientation 95% 93% irrespective of disability 93% 87% 49 The Value we Create Investors The Investment Proposition Good risk-adjusted returns on portfolio The transaction market for non-performing investments made possible through a loans is growing. disciplined, well-supported acquisition process. Underlying reasons Hoist Finance considers there to be a number of long-term Underlying reasons factors that will continue to increase sales volumes in coming Hoist Finance has strict inancial requirements for investments years. and carries out standardised and disciplined acquisition Regulatory pressure continue to act to incentivise banks to processes. This means that the company’s portfolios generate sell NPLs. healthy cash low and deliver signi icant returns. Analysis and Growing outsourcing trend among European banks data processing are fundamental requirements and are fully integrated in pricing and collection. Progress in 2019 Progress in 2019 Despite regulatory challenges limiting capacity in the irst part of the year, Hoist Finance was able to grow in existing Continuous investment strategy improvements to achieve the markets, both in unsecured as well as secured NPLs. company’s return on equity target to exceed 15 per cent. 2019 return on equity, excluding items aﬀecting comparability was 15 per cent. Focus on operational e iciency and eﬀectiveness in strategic markets. In-house collection platforms focus on constructive solutions based on sensitivity Underlying reasons towards customers. Over many years, Hoist Finance has built a strong position in selected European NPL markets. Pro itability will be improved by leveraging operational economies of scale. Underlying reasons Progress in 2019 The overall goal of Hoist Finance’s working method is to Improved operational e iciency and continued digitalization. achieve long-term, sustainable repayment plans that generate good results for customers as well as the shareholders. Expanding shared services in Wroclaw, Poland as well as the initial launch of nearshoring in Bucharest, Romania to Progress in 2019 leverage scale and maximize skills. Hoist Finance moved closer to the customers and improved Outsourcing of IT infrastructure for improved customer service. This was done primarily through launching functionalities as well as scalability in market growth and self-service platforms in all markets, as well as live-testing new digital agenda. functionalities better suited for customer needs. Continued market consolidation through closing of the Bayonne site in France, enabling specialization in Lille and Paris. 50 PDF Assets Investors Hoist Finance is one of Europe’s preferred Hoist Finance’s business is underpinned by an partners to international banks in the e icient funding model. restructuring of loans, with the know-how and expertise to carry out complex transactions. Underlying reasons Hoist Finance’s operations are funded through deposits from Underlying reasons the public and through capital and money market Hoist Finance has a strong market position and long-term borrowing. In combination with a bilateral loan facility, this relationships with leading international banks. As a generates well-diversi ied, cost-e icient funding. regulated credit market company, Hoist Finance has Progress in 2019 profound understanding of banking operations, and its licensed operations are a stamp of approval that Maintained and developed the strong funding base with a distinguishes the company from other industry operators. shift from SEK to EUR denominated deposits as well as Hoist Finance has partnered with all of Europe’s ten largest shifting to longer duration, in order to maximize capital banks by total assets within the past ten years. e iciency. Progress in 2019 Leveraged the company’s status as a regulated entity Acquired assets from Getback as part of its restructuring process Sustainable business practices. Acquired assets from one of the leading banks in France in largest-ever portfolio investment of non-performing mortgage portfolio Underlying reasons Expanded relationships with new partners as a result of Hoist Finance acts responsibly. Social responsibility is an continued growth in the the secured asset class integral part of our business model and our collaborations with all our stakeholders. Progress in 2019 Implementation of a new sustainability strategy, stakeholder matrix as well as a clear governance structure Global Compact signatory NASDAQ ESG Transparency Partner 51 The Value we Create The Share The Share Hoist Finance’s market capitalisation was SEK 4,460 million based on the last price paid on 30 December 2019, which was SEK 49.94 per share. Share performance in 2019 Hoist Finance’s share price increased 15.7 per cent in 2019, while the total OMX Stockholm PI index increased 29.6 per cent. The highest closing price quoted during the year was SEK 61.40, on 13 September 2019, and the lowest closing price was SEK 36.60, on 27 March 2019. Trading volume A total of 148.9 million Hoist Finance shares1) were traded on all trading platforms during 2019, while the average daily trading volume was 595,701 shares. Trading on Nasdaq Stockholm accounted for 83.5 per cent (77.9) of total trading volume in the Hoist Finance share. Beta value and volatility The beta value of the Hoist Finance share was 0.85 in 2019 (1.09). The beta value shows the way in which a share price luctuates in relation to the market as a whole – in this case, as compared with OMX Stockholm Pi. A beta value of 1.00 indicates that the share price has developed in line with the rest of the market. Share price volatility was 52.2 per cent (43.5) in 2019. This igure shows the daily share price movements in relation to its average value. Share capital At year-end, Hoist Finance’s share capital amounted to SEK 29,767,666.66 divided among 89,303,000 shares. All shares carry equal entitlement to the company’s earnings and equity, and equal voting rights. Ownership structure The number of shareholders was 7,429 at year-end 2019, an increase of 73 per cent compared to prior year. Of Hoist Finance’s share capital, 84.6 per cent (79.7) is owned by Swedish investors 1). The US, Norway and Denmark account for the largest share of foreign ownership. The Hoist Finance share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Mid Cap list since 25 March 2015. Dividend The Board of Directors is proposing that an exception be made for inancial year 2019 to the current dividend policy, and that no dividend be distributed for 2019. The non-payment of dividends has a positive impact of 0.40 percentage points on the CET1 capital ratio as at 31 December 2019 (assuming a 25 per cent dividend payout). Credit rating Hoist Finance has a long-term senior unsecured debt rating of Baa3, with a stable outlook. The short-term credit score is P-3. The credit rating is completed by the rating agency Moody’s Investors and was con irmed in February 2020. This is important as a high rating indicates a stronger credit pro ile and will typically result in lower funding costs. 1. Source: Modular Finance AB and Bloomberg. 52 The Value we Create The Share Hoist Finance share data 2019 Closing low, SEK 36.60 Closing high, SEK 61.40 VWAP 47.55 Share turnover 148,925,278 Daily turnover, shares 595,701 Number of trades 290,133 Average per day, trades 1,160.5 Average value per trade, SEK 24,408 Average daily turnover, SEK M 28.3 On Nasdaq (ordinary trading), % 83.5 Transactions on other trading platforms, % 15.8 Dark pools (Nasdaq), % 0.7 1) Source: Modular Finance AB. Size Number of shares Capital, % Votes, % No. of shareholders Shareholders, % 1–500 764,366 0.9 0.9 4,630 62.3 501–1,000 857,670 1.0 1.0 1,014 13.7 1,001–2,000 987,204 1.1 1.1 593 8.0 2,001–5,000 2,052,042 2.3 2.3 589 7.9 5,001–10,000 2,172,446 2.4 2.4 278 3.7 10,001–20,000 1,820,287 2.0 2.0 120 1.6 20,001–50,000 3,208,968 3.6 3.6 98 1.3 50,001–100,000 2,992,897 3.4 3.4 41 0.6 100,001 72,921,600 81.6 81.6 66 0.9 Owned anonymously 1,525,520 1.7 1.7 N/A N/A Total 89,303,000 100.0 100.0 7,429 100.0 Source: Modular Finance AB 53 The Value we Create The Share Share of capital and votes, % Erik Selin Fastigheter AB 12.8 Swedbank Robur Funds 9.0 Avanza Pension 7.4 Carve Capital AB 5.0 Dimensional Fund Advisors 3.4 BlackRock 2.9 Per Arwidsson through closely related persons' holding 2.9 Jörgen Olsson privately and through companies 2.9 Confederation of Swedish Enterprise 2.8 Catella Fonder 2.4 Total 10 largest shareholders 51.5 Other shareholders 48.5 Total 100.0 Source: Modular Finance AB 54 The Value we Create Banks and Financial Institutions Banks and Financial Institutions Solid experience, knowledge of the regulatory environment and presence in eleven European markets enable Hoist Finance to oﬀer banks and inancial institutions extensive support with debt restructuring solutions. Hoist Finance focuses on Europe’s major banks and inancial institutions. In the past ten years, we have done business with all of the ten largest European banks and often in several countries. Oﬀering lexible solutions and capacity to manage complex acquisitions that include multiple asset classes has been a key to success. A bank’s customers must be handled smoothly and with great care following the transfer of a portfolio to Hoist Finance. With strict procedures and processes, we can ensure fair treatment of customers in compliance with the selling bank’s compliance criteria. The best results are always achieved when the transfer of customers is planned well in advance. Some of the key components of Hoist Finance’s oﬀering are: Good understanding of the regulated banking environment. Flexible and customised service oﬀering on the ground in major European markets. In-house customer relations, which safeguards superior understanding of the customers’ situation as well as good operational control, including risk management and compliance. More than 25 years of experience in debt restructuring solutions. Regulated as a bank Hoist Finance has been a regulated credit market company since 1996; for almost 25 years. The regulated status has given us advantages such as access to low-cost funding through deposit savings. Being regulated by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, Hoist Finance is subject to most of Sweden’s banking regulations. Operating in a regulatory environment has built trust in Hoist Finance and our ability to understand the challenges that banks are faced with. Read about our Risk management Read about Banking platform Our oﬀering Hoist Finance is a full-service supplier, capable of servicing various stages of the credit risk cycle. During 2019, the Secured NPL asset class became increasingly important for Hoist Finance. By expanding in this asset class, we have become more of a full service provider for a variety of debt resolution to banks and inancial institutions. Most portfolios acquired by Hoist Finance have historically been tertiary loans, which have been in default for 2-5 years. In more recent years, fresher debt has been acquired as debt markets have matured. Acquired loans are generally categorised according to credit risk and impact on the loss allowance: Stage 1: No signi icant increase in credit risk Stage 2: Signi icant increase in credit risk, but no objective evidence of loss Stage 3: Objective evidence of loss Read about our Asset classes 55 The Value we Create Banks and Financial Institutions Our loan acquisition strategy Our experience, knowledge and presence in the inancial sector has resulted in our acqusisition strategy; to focus on bankoriginated loans, to customize our business model to enable lexibility and to be geographically diversi ied. Bank-originated loans High quality origination with less risky repayment pro ile. Larger ticket size. Long-tail stable cash lows. Asset-class lexibility Flexibility to buy all types of inancial institution-originated debt. Increased proportion of performing loans and secured NPL:s in recent years. Diversi ied geographic pro ile Reduction of single-market exposure from a risk and origination perspective. A more even low of investment opportunities. Strengthened value proposition to banks and inancial institutions. Carrying value distribution per country (31 December 2019) France 12% Germany 9% UK 26% Italy 25% Poland 16% Spain 4% Other Countries 8% 56 The Value we Create Banks and Financial Institutions Diﬀerent models for acquiring portfolios Present Solution De inition Constrains and speci ications market status Spot Direct sale of a precisely identi ied portfolio. High capital use, could limit future Mature. transaction/Direct Most of Hoist Finance’s portfolios have been transactions. sale acquired through spot transactions Forward low A pre-determined volume ( ixed or range) of Implementation of a durable and Relatively loans is acquired at a pre-determined price. engaging relation and engaging mature for relation for both parties. several institutions. Servicing Operational management on behalf of an Implementation of durable and Mature. institution. engaging relation for both parties. Potential No deconsolidation for the seller. additional With or without engagement on the services may recovery performance. be added. Structural sale Direct sale of a precisely identi ied portfolio. High capital use, could limit future Mature, but This option does however include a potential transactions. less common. takeover personnel and/or systems. Ensure preserved know-how and infrastructure to secure transaction. SPV and Sale of portfolio to an SPV with potential Dedicated to a seller or not Average securitisation securitisation structure: (mutualisation of debts from multiple maturity. SPV detained by potentially multiple sources), possible share ownership of Signi icant investors the SPV. potential. Mutualisation of diﬀerent portfolios Possible securitisation of the SPV originating from diﬀerent institutions debt with oﬀering to multiple Sale of securitisation notes to diﬀerent investors. potential investors including the sellers Fair pricing Hoist Finance can evaluate a portfolio and give a fair oﬀer based on our data warehouse that includes detailed data on collection performance and cash low from acquisitions dating from the year 2000 and onwards. A guiding principle has always been, and still is, to be prudent when bidding for debt portfolios. With Hoist Finance’s tools for examining and analysing potential acquisitions, predictions can be made on a 15-year horizon of future cash lows and debt recovery costs. 57 The Value we Create A bank case Case story: Crédit Agricole What were the advantages for you, as a selling bank, to divest your portfolio to Hoist Finance? Setting aside the price, Hoist Finance appeared to be a partner who’s aim is to get to know our customers and oﬀer them tailored solutions, while being respectful and having the same values as us. What actions were taken to transfer the customers to Hoist Finance and how has it worked out? We have worked jointly with Hoist Finance’s teams in order to build a claims transfer process that has been validated by both parties. Hoist Finance shows a best in class professional approach by setting up a trustful relationship and trying to understand the situation that the customer is facing. What measures are Hoist Finance taking to treat your customers in a proper and compliant way? When it comes to customer care, Hoist Finance has shown a best in class professional approach, setting up a trustful relationship and trying to understand the situation that the customer is facing. By taking into consideration the customer’s capacity to pay, they have been able to oﬀer the most suitable solution for each customer. Why did you choose to cooperate with Hoist Finance? Trust, transparency, professionalism and a sense of ethics. The fact that Hoist Finance is a credit institution, and hence regulated as any other European inancial institution, has also been a diﬀerentiating element. Finally, the competitiveness of their inancial oﬀer helped us in the decision to choose Hoist Finance. Vincent Mouriaux, Head of Credit at Crédit Agricole France 58 Our Business Competitive Position Competitive Position European NPL Market European loan portfolio market volumes in 2019 have decreased from the all-time peak in 2018, but remain healthy. Italy continues to represent over a third of the market in terms of number of transactions, and together with Spain made up over half of the deal volume during the year. The composition of these portfolios is evolving, with Unlikely-to-Pay loans becoming increasingly prevalent in Italy, making up over a third of the 2019 transactions and pipeline. In Spain, Real Estate Owned portfolios make up over half of the market, with investors having taken assets onto their own balance sheets in the wake of the Spanish real estate crisis and now looking to liquidate their investments. Elsewhere in Europe, our other markets continue to present interesting opportunities. The French secured NPL market has been a key development during the course of 2019, as the domestic banks inally take steps to reduce their non-performing and non-core stocks. We have seen three signi icant transactions during the course of the year and Hoist Finance views this market as a key growth opportunity. This is truly demonstrated by the acquisition of a portfolio of nonperforming mortgages in France, which was our largest portfolio investment ever. Poland remains encouraging, with healthy numbers of small to medium-sized transactions. The demise of GetBack has served to push the market back towards more sustainable return levels. We also continue to see opportunities in the non-core performing loan portfolio space, an area of the market which we are well-placed to serve after we established our performing loans platform in Warsaw last year. The UK and Germany, as our most mature unsecured NPL markets, continue to demonstrate relatively stable and predictable pipelines. The more interesting developments in these countries are likely to come in the secured space – real estate and shipping loans respectively. Looking more deeply at the asset class mix, real-estate backed transactions continue to dominate the market. This includes portfolios with a mix of secured and unsecured assets, with banks seeking to drive down their NPL ratios quickly via bloc sales rather than granular disposals. 59 Our Business Competitive Position Expanding into secured acquisitions within our existing markets is a key element of Hoist’s strategy since it will allow us to access much deeper pipelines whilst leveraging upon the people, infrastructure and relationships that we already have in these countries. Mixed portfolios are a particularly important part of this strategy, since they will often include unsecured assets for which Hoist Finance is highly competitive, but that historically we have not been able to acquire due to the barriers presented by the secured segments of the portfolios. By expanding our ability to acquire these new asset classes, we will also increase our ability to buy assets within Hoist Finance historic area of strength and expertise. Our Competitive Position Hoist Finance has historically been focused on the consumer unsecured NPL market, with minimal investments in other asset classes prior to 2018. We have been an asset specialist, concentrating on one asset class in which we have extensive knowledge and expertise. Our strategy since 2018 has been to expand into new asset classes, ensuring we are able to support banks and inancial institutions in various stages of the credit risk cycle. This allows us to better compete with peers in our industry who operate integrated servicing platforms in multiple countries. However, we remain focused on our existing, prioritised markets, expanding the platforms we have already established rather than engaging in extensive, high-value M&A activity. To learn more about our expansion into new asset classes, click here. Hoist Finance also operates under a banking model, having been a licensed credit institution since 1994. This provides us with a unique funding advantage, with our acquisitions funded primarily through the use of customer deposits from our HoistSpar platform in Sweden and Germany. However, beyond this funding advantage, we are yet to fully exploit the potential of our banking platform. We have in the year taken new initiatives to ensure we are able to derive full value for our banking platform. 60 Our Business Competitive Position Debt Purchase Market Landscape Full-service Large industry players with integrated servicing platforms in multiple countries Have tended to grow expertise through M&A transactions Competing at the larger end, but not seeking to compete directly with PE Asset Specialists Smaller, more specialist companies targeting a speci ic asset class Typically tend to operate in one or a small number of jurisdictions Candidates for M&A, being absorbed by the “One Stop Shops” Banking Model Players who use banking model to fund their acquisitions Well placed to manage more complex assets (performing, corporate, UtP) May be a platform to develop into a true challenger bank Capital-light Focus on servicing relationships, with fewer assets on balance sheet May complement servicing revenues with some portfolio acquisitions Look for strategic partnerships: selling banks, investors, securitisation etc. Private Equity (Very large) investors who typically target a smaller number of high value deals May acquire servicing platforms, but treat these more as parallel investments Typically more visible in SME, corporate and secured NPL markets 61 Our Business Adapting to market changes Adapting to market changes The end of 2018 introduced a number of regulatory changes, which aﬀected us as a regulated entity. In order to adapt, and protect the business model, a plan was laid out. This plan included the below four areas, and has been very successfully delivered upon. Securitisation IRB Co-Investments Change in Asset Mix De-risking our prudential Using our comprehensive Working with coContinuing to pursue our balance sheet by database of NPL LGD investment partners in strategy of expanding into transferring portfolios to (recovery) observations to order to create synergies new asset classes, which new vehicles inanced develop our own, more and diversify our continue to bene it from through a combination of accurate risk assessment acquisitions, accessing more favourable risk Hoist Finance and third models. larger and more diverse weights and less party investors. portfolios. aggressive scheduling for the NPL Prudential Backstop. Securitisation The recent regulatory changes has required us to adjust our business model to ensure future growth. Securitisation is a key pillar of this process, permitting both the reduction of our risk weighted assets, and mitigation against the NPL Prudential Backstop through holding rated notes on our balance sheet instead of NPL assets. 62 Our Business Adapting to market changes Unrated securitisation We successfully completed the inaugural EUR 225 million securitisation transaction backed by Italian NPLs. The transaction involved the issuance of two classes of unrated notes by an Italian securitisation vehicle to purchase the NPLs from Hoist Finance. The senior notes, representing 95 per cent of the issued amount, were fully subscribed by an external investor, and the junior tranche, representing 5 per cent of total issuance, were retained in full by Hoist Finance. Rated securitisation The fourth quarter saw the successful completion of the irst-ever Italian investment grade rated transaction backed by unsecured NPLs. The transaction involved the issuance of EUR 337m notes across three tranches issued by the Italian securitisation vehicle Marathon SPV S.r.l. to inance the purchase of the NPL portfolio. The senior notes (Class A) were retained by Hoist Finance. The mezzanine (Class B) and junior notes (Class J) were to 95 per cent subscribed by an external investor, and the remaining 5 per cent were retained by Hoist Finance in order to comply with the risk retention requirements of the Securitisation Regulation. 1) DBRS / Moody's / Scope 2) Gross Book Value (GBV) of the securitised assets at closing was 5,027 MEUR 3) Up to the target IRR of 15% Notes Ratings 1) Amount (MEUR) % of notes % of GBV 2) Coupon % Legal Final Maturity Class A BBB/Baa2/BBB+ 286.5 85 5.7 1.8 Oct. 2034 Class B B (high)/B1/BB 33.7 10 0.7 8.0 Oct. 2034 Class J NR 16.9 5 0.3 15.0 + Oct. 2034 variable return 3) All the notes were placed at par. Excess collections from the assets will serve as credit support to all outstanding notes and thereafter be paid to Hoist Finance as deferred purchase price. In connection with the closing of this transaction, the notes of the unrated securitisation were redeemed in full and its assets re inanced through the rated securitisation. The transaction is structured with a view to achieve signi icant risk transfer in accordance with Article 244 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (as amended) on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment irms. Securitisation as a Sustainable Business Model With the completion of a rated and unrated securitisations in 2019, we remain on track to ensure the sustainability of our business model. We strongly believe that our securitisation programme will allow us to better serve our key inancial stakeholders – Banks, Investors and Regulators – as well as providing Hoist Finance with a competitive advantage in the market. 63 Our Business Adapting to market changes Creating stakeholder value through securitisation of NPL assets Banks: Regulators: Investors: Best prices Liquid market Access to NPL market without Scope for large transactions Standardised transactions requiring servicing capability Ability to sell all asset classes Strong oversight of process Familiar (rated) risk pro iles Outsourcing of structuring No backlog of NPLs Flexible investment amounts Reliable servicers Reliable servicers Reliable servicers IRB A bank’s regulatory capital requirement can be calculated based on Standardised Approach or Internal Ratings-Based (IRB) approach. Hoist Finance currently applies the Standardised Approach, whereby the risk weights are set externally by regulators. It is for this reason that the EBA’s new interpretation of the CRR required us to increase our risk weight for unsecured NPLs. In order to calculate internally calculated risk weights, Hoist Finance needs to apply for an IRB permission. Banks with IRB permission are responsible for developing and maintaining their own models to estimate Probability of Default (“PD”), Percentage Loss Given Default (“LGD”) and Exposure at Default (“EAD”), which in turn allow the calculation of a bank’s total Risk Weighted Assets (“RWA”). The total capital which must be held is then calculated as a ixed percentage of the RWA. Typically, it would be expected that a bank that is awarded an IRB permission would lower its capital requirement compared to the Standardised Approach. In 2019, Hoist Finance recruited an IRB specialist to conduct a pre-study to assess the viability of Hoist Finance applying for an IRB permission. The pre-study covered the regulatory aspects for a inancial institution like Hoist Finance and a quantitative assessment of the impact of Hoist Finance capital requirement based on our extensive pool of NPL LGD data. In 2020, further IRB specialists are to be recruited in order to produce an IRB application that will be assessed by regulators upon submission to regulators. 64 Our Business Adapting to market changes Co-Investments Without any mitigating actions, the change to our unsecured NPL risk weights compels us to allocate more capital both to the portfolios that we have already acquired, and those that we will acquire in future. This had the short term impact of reducing our available capital base and also means that we are less able to diversify our capital allocation. We are addressing both of these issues through an increased emphasis on Co-Investments, working collaboratively with a select pool of Investors around opportunities to acquire portfolios on a shared basis. Even before the risk weight change, CoInvestments were already a part of our strategic agenda as we look to access larger and more complex transactions. Hoist Finance targets investor partnerships with clear mutual synergies, with Hoist Finance retaining the servicing of portfolios but bene itting from Co-Investors’ market reach and knowledge. Future Co-Investments will focus on front-book opportunities, allowing us to ensure we maintain a diversi ied asset base despite the change to our risk weights. This workstream also has clear synergies with our Securitisation workstream as we adjust our business model to incorporate new external Investors. Co-Investment Pillars The Case for Co-Investments Capital considerations: Allows for participation in higher investment tickets, through diﬀerent capital setups Additional Income: Oﬀers fee-based income from servicing and/or underwriting. Business Development: Strengthens relationships, presents new opportunities and continues to gather data. 65 Our Business Adapting to market changes Change in Asset Mix Expanding our acquisition and servicing capabilities into new asset classes remains a key strategic focus for Hoist Finance. Our desire to pursue these assets is primarily driven by the needs of our client banks and inancial institutions, for whom we aim to be a holistic restructuring partner, as well as being a cornerstone of our growth strategy. Our newer asset classes (Performing and Secured NPLs) provide a further bene it to our business since they are unaﬀected by the risk weight change, which applies only to Unsecured NPLs. This means that, through 2019 and beyond, we remain able to invest in these asset classes based on the same capital requirement as in 2018. This in turn provides scope for improved returns and increases the relative attractiveness of Performing and Secured NPL portfolios when compared with Unsecured NPLs (prior to mitigating actions). Annual total acquisition composition by asset class % 66 Our Business Regulatory changes Regulatory Changes in 2019 Hoist Finance has been regulated by the SFSA since 1996. We welcome regulations as these bene it our customers, banks and inancial institutions as well as the credit management services industry as a whole. The new EU regulations aim to reduce the risks on European banks’ balance sheets and increase the supply for sale of NPLs, which is a positive trend. During 2019, regulators have continued to place signi icant emphasis upon tackling NPLs in the banking sector. With the main focus having previously been to reduce NPL stocks, we are increasingly seeing a shift towards low management and safeguarding. The NPL Prudential Backstop is an example of an initiative which is designed to prevent future build-up of banking NPL volumes. The NPL Prudential Backstop incentivises banks to sell their non-performing assets earlier and in a more structured manner. Simultaneously, it is therefore necessary to ensure that a competitive and responsive market exists for these assets. Several initiatives are ongoing which serve to improve transparency and e iciency for debt purchasers, including the development by the EBA of standard data structures for loan sale purposes. Developments such as these are highly bene icial for both buyers and sellers, since the consistency and reliability of data is a fundamental aspect of any transaction. With NPL stocks reducing, we are also now seeing regulators’ attentions turn towards assets which are not yet designated as non-performing, but show signs of credit impairment and are likely to become NPLs in future. In Italy, we are seeing an increasing number of portfolios of “Unlikely-to-Pay” (UtP) loans being marketed. These loans show varying degrees of distress, but are not terminated at the point of sale and at least retain some prospect of returning to a better performance status. Such assets are well-suited to Hoist Finance’s business model given our focus on amicable customer interaction. Regulatory changes in 2019 impacting Hoist Finance Since Hoist Finance is a regulated inancial institution, the changes to the regulatory landscape for banks do not only increase the size of our potential market, but also have a direct impact on our own business model. We bene it from our banking platform, enjoying access to a unique source of funding from our deposit customers in Sweden and Germany. We are also in a strong position to understand the banks and inancial institutions that we make business with, since we face many of the same challenges as they do. Through tackling some of the recent regulatory challenges (as described below), we believe that we will make our business stronger and more resilient to future market developments, supporting us in our strategic goal to develop a leading position in our key markets. Risk Weight Changes In December 2018, Hoist Finance was required by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (SFSA) to adjust risk weights for the unsecured NPLs on our balance sheet from 100 per cent to 150 per cent. This had an impact both on our purchasing capacity in 2019 and our level of competitiveness in the unsecured NPL portfolio market. Article 127 of the EU’s Capital Requirement Regulation (CRR) stipulates a risk weight of 100 per cent for non-performing exposures where so called “credit risk adjustments” of more than 20 per cent have been made, and a risk weight of 150 per cent in other cases. Hoist Finance had historically interpreted the regulations to mean that, if an acquired asset’s purchase price re lects a write-down of more than 20 per cent, a 100 per cent risk weight is to be applied. This had also been the general interpretation of the inancial industry as a whole and had been accepted by the SFSA. On 21 September 2018, the European Banking Authority (EBA) published its inal response concerning consideration of “speci ic credit adjustments” for non-performing loans from a capital perspective, referencing Article 127 of the regulation. The EBA’s response indicated an alternative strict prescriptive interpretation of “credit risk adjustments” which only takes into account write-downs of the institution itself that have impacted equity, i.e. not historic write-downs undertaken by previous creditors (i.e. the selling banks). Since write-downs for most non-performing loans have impacted the seller’s, not the purchaser’s, balance sheet, the EBA’s new interpretation requires Hoist Finance to apply a risk weight of 150 per cent for unsecured NPLs. 67 Our Business Regulatory changes On 18 December 2018, the SFSA announced its endorsement of the EBA’s response, thereby modifying its previous interpretation. As a result, Hoist Finance adjusted the necessary risk weights as of this date, and continues to operate with these revised risk weights. We did not and continue not to agree with the EBA’s interpretation, which fails to take into account the fact that the acquired loans are purchased at fair value and therefore inherently demonstrate a substantial reduction in risk which should in turn be re lected by lower risk weights, a key principle of Article 127 of CRR. According to EBA’s interpretation, a NPL portfolio which is written down by more than 20% by the originating banks and subsequently acquired by us at an even lower purchase price would have a risk weight of 100 per cent for the originating bank and 150 per cent for us. This is in our view contradictory and inconsistent with the fundamental principle that an exposure risk weight should depend only on its risk and not its owner. Our hope is of course that this inconsistency will be remedied in future, however Hoist Finance is in any case taking proactive actions to mitigate the impacts of the change to our risk weights. NPL Prudential Backstop In April 2019 the European Council adopted a new framework (Regulation (EU) 2019/630, which amends the Capital Requirements Regulation), known as the NPL Prudential Backstop, to deal with build-up of banks’ non-performing loans. This new framework establishes common minimum loss coverage levels for all banks (including Hoist Finance), ensuring that they set aside enough money to cover future losses from non-performing exposures. The framework sets out a phased approach to deductions to own funds for non-performing exposures, with the pro ile of this phasing being dependent upon whether NPLs are secured or unsecured, and whether any collateral is movable or immovable. The diﬀerent pro iles are shown in the table above. This new framework came into eﬀect on 25th April 2019 and applies only to exposures that were originated after this date, in order to facilitate a smoother transition for banks. For Hoist Finance, the transition period is eﬀectively longer since we are an acquirer, as opposed to an originator, of loans, meaning that we will not be impacted by these provisions until we have acquired a portfolio which contains loans that were originated, and have become non-performing, since 25th April 2019. During 2019, we have not acquired any portfolios which include a meaningful volume of such loans. Nevertheless, this will have a longer-term impact upon us and therefore we have already adapted our business model and processes in light of this new framework. Monitoring tools have been established in order to evaluate our levels of backstop-impacted assets, and pricing models have been updated to ensure that these assets are valued in a manner which appropriately re lects the updated loss coverage requirements. During 2019, we have worked on a number of mitigating actions which are intended to reduce the impact of the Prudential Backstop requirements. 68 Our Business Asset Classes Asset Classes De initions of Asset Classes Non-performing loan ( NPL ): A loan that is deemed to cause probable credit losses including individually assessed impaired loans, portfolio assessed loans past due more than 60 days and restructured portfolio assessed loans. Hoist Finance primarily purchases loans that are credit-impaired on initial recognition. Performing loan: A loan in which payments of interest and principal are less than 90 days due. Secured loan: A loan in which the borrower pledges some asset as collateral for the loan, which then becomes a secured debt owed to the creditor who gives the loan. Unsecured loan: A loan that is issued and supported only by the borrower's creditworthiness, rather than by any type of collateral. Consumer loan: A loan given to a person to inance speci ic types of expenditures. SME loan: A business loan extended only to smallor medium-sized enterprises. Hoist Finance main investments have been and still are within non-performing loans. However our strategy is focused upon expanding our purchasing capabilities within our existing markets, ensuring we are able to serve as a true restructuring partner to banks and inancial institutions, allowing us to grow our book in a sustainable and diversi ied manner. Hoist Finance’s core competency has been as an acquirer and servicer of unsecured consumer NPLs and our journey towards developing the capacity to purchase our newer asset classes; SME, Secured and Performing, has been a careful and considered one. The year 2019 has seen a continuation of our growth in new asset classes, with focus on Secured NPLs, representing 35 per cent of our total acquisitions for the year. These investments have the additional bene it of being subject to lower risk weights than our consumer unsecured portfolios, providing added mitigation against this regulatory change. Whilst consumer unsecured NPL portfolios will continue to represent our core business, we are now far better placed to pursue our growth strategy. 69 Our Business Asset Classes New Asset Classes Performing (Servicing) SME NPL Secured NPL Performing SME NPL Secured NPL Mortages Secured NPL Performing Performing Car Loans Secured NPL Mortages Typical Characteristics Unsecured SME Secured Performing* Average portfolio Size (€) 300m 500m 40m 70m 20m 70m Purchase Price by Claim (% of GBV) 1% 5.5% 30% 50% 75% 95% Average Claim Size (€) 10k 2m 100k 7m 50k 200k Average no. of Claims in Portfolio 2k 5k 200 400 500 2k Age at Acquisition (years since default / origination) 2 8 years 0 4 years 7 14 years (since origination) Average Time to Collect 65 73 months 30 45 months 10 15 years (depending on legal status) 70 Our Business Our Presence 71 Our Business Transaction Case: Secured Transaction Case: Portfolio of non-performing mortgages in France In December 2019, Hoist Finance closed the acquisition of a portfolio of non-performing mortgages sold by one of the major banks in France. The portfolio has a principal balance of approximately EUR 375 million, distributed over 3,500 loans, and represents not only the largest investment ever made by Hoist Finance (in both secured and unsecured) but also the largest Residential NPL transaction of the decade in France. The acquisition process started in July 2019 with a Non-Binding Phase, with the binding phase starting in early September. The due diligence/underwriting phase then lasted for two months and included three weeks of on-site due diligence, where over 2,000 physical iles have been reviewed by our due diligence team, enabling us to capture valuation critical information. The binding bid took place mid-November and was followed by a month long SPA negotiation. The acquisition is underpinned by sophisticated underwriting process, combining data driven forecasting on timings, discounts and costs, as well as a thorough analytical work the on legal statuses and underlying assets. Additionally, we leveraged insights acquired as part of a Secured transaction in July 2018, which consisted of similar loans. Indeed, the short timeframes in France, combined with the seasoning of the portfolio allowed for a substantial underwriting feedback loop on that investment. Looking at the broader picture, this investment is the concretisation of an organic growth strategic plan devised in late 2017, designed to create a leading acquisition-servicing platform in the French secured market, in anticipation of a then likely market opening which eventually materialised in 2019. This success is therefore a testament to the strategic direction as well as our operational implementation, which has been facilitated by the One Hoist Finance culture and cross-jurisdictional best-practice sharing, notably with the Italian Secured unit. The increased operational scale achieved with this transaction puts us at the forefront to capture a signi icant portion of the secured pipeline expected to come to market in 2020 and beyond. 72 Our Business Transaction Case: Unsecured Transaction Case: Acquisition of NPL's in Poland In April 2019, Hoist Finance closed the acquisition of a portfolio of Unsecured NPLs from the Polish debt management and collection company GetBack, for a purchase price of approximately PLN 400 million (SEK 888 million). GetBack’s assets were being marketed for sale after the company had fallen into insolvency, following funding issues and a default on its bonds. This was a highly signi icant transaction, requiring strong collaboration across diﬀerent areas of our business, and was completed under particularly challenging circumstances. The sale process began in September 2018, with Hoist Finance selected as the preferred bidder in December 2018, immediately prior to the change to our risk weights. This change and the resulting reduction in our capital availability led to the requirement to reduce the transaction perimeter from the initial higher purchase volume. We were successful in maintaining our preferred bidder position despite this setback, and were able to conclude the purchase of the reduced perimeter. This acquisition has increased our share of the Polish market from third position to second, supporting our strategy of increased operational e iciency and growth in a prioritised market. Furthermore, Hoist Finance Poland was leader on the market in terms of new investments in 2019. 73 Our Business Banking Platform Banking Platform Hoist Finance bene its from a well-diversi ied and cost e icient funding. The Group’s funding is comprised of retail deposits from the public and market funding through issued money market instruments, bonds and subordinated debt. Deposits from the public amounted to SEK 21,4 billion (17,1), of which SEK 12,2 billion (11,3) relates to deposits in Sweden and SEK 9,2 billion (5,8) to German household deposits denominated in Euro. Total short-term and long-term market funding amounted EUR 610 million at year-end, of which EUR 30 million is attributable to money market instruments. Deposits Hoist Finance oﬀers accounts with ixed and lexible interest rates at competitive terms to customers; in Sweden under the brand name “HoistSpar”, and in Germany “Hoist Finance”. The savings accounts products are oﬀered to retail customers and corporates. Customers can save up to SEK 950,000 (in Germany EUR 100,000). During the year, Hoist Finance has actively focused on increasing the share of savings accounts with 12-month or longer maturities, and in 2019 Hoist Finance added to its German oﬀering 4-year and 5-year savings accounts. As per 31 December 2019, Swedish deposits increased by 8 per cent to SEK 12,2 billion (11,3), distributed over 44,370 customers (36,120). The deposits in Germany increased to EUR 881 million (565), distributed over 31,421 customers (17,368). Market funding Hoist Finance continued to be active in the money market during 2019. At year-end we had two senior unsecured bonds and one subordinated bond outstanding under our Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme. Outstanding issues under the commercial paper programme amounted to EUR 30 million (83) at year-end. Furthermore, in 2019 Hoist Finance successfully completed two securitisation transactions backed by Italian non-performing unsecured loans for risk transfer purposes. Why invest with us? European deposit guarantee Deposits in Hoist Finance are covered by the deposit guarantee scheme, which in Sweden corresponds to SEK 950,000. Regulated credit market company Hoist Finance is a regulated credit market company under the supervision of the Swedish FSA. Investment grade rating Hoist Finance holds a long-term issuer rating of Baa3 with a stable outlook from Moody’s. The short-term issuer rating is P-3. Retail banking and Business Development A key cornerstone of the Hoist Finance strategy is to maximize the value of our banking license and platform by oﬀer a wider range of products and services. Therefore we have taken the next step in this development in establish a new business area: Retail banking and Business Development. This area is to explore new business development opportunities, further strengthen the sustainability area and develop the asset class performing loans. Our approach to debt resolution is very much built on a strong foundation of compliance, sustainability and company values. In our ambition to be the digital leader in our industry, we see that our new organisation will improve our value proposition and help diversify our business even further. 74 Our Business Risk Management Risk management Hoist Finance's core business is to acquire and manage loan portfolios, which is why we are actively exposed to credit risk. Being a regulated company under supervision from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (SFSA) puts further emphasis on a solid understanding and management of all the risks facing the company. The risk management framework Risk management at Hoist Finance aims to: Increase certainty regarding the achievement of the company’s objectives through identi ication, analysis, measurement, governance, control and reporting of associated risks. Secure the company’s survival by maintaining adequate capital and liquidity levels. This creates and maintains con idence in Hoist Finance among our stakeholders, thereby enabling sustainable shareholder value. To ful il these goals, the Board of Directors has adopted policies and strategies for the management, analysis, control and reporting of risks in day-to-day operations, which together comprises a risk management framework. Hoist Finance’s core business and risk strategy is to generate returns through controlled exposure to credit risk in the form of acquired loan portfolios. Therefore, we actively pursue this type of credit risk. Other types of risk, such as operational risk and market risk, are undesirable but sometimes unavoidable. However, these risks are minimised as far as is economically justi iable. Risk capacity, which consists of the capital and liquidity buﬀers in place, is set in order to ensure the survival of the company. Capital risk capacity is the diﬀerence between actual capital levels and regulatory minimum levels and demonstrates the capacity to absorb losses before critical levels are reached. Liquidity risk capacity is the scale of the liquidity out low Hoist Finance can accommodate without breaching regulatory minimum requirements. The Board of Directors determines our risk appetite within the available risk capacity. By weighing potential returns against potential risks, the Board decides on an appropriate risk and return level for Hoist Finance. Our risk appetite then provides the basis for business decisions and risk limits, which are applied in day-to-day business activities and in risk monitoring. Continuous monitoring performed by the Group’s Risk Control function ensures we do not assume any risks that exceed the established risk appetite, risk capacity or limits. 75 Our Business Risk Management Three lines of defence Hoist Finance’s risk management is built around a sound risk culture; an e icient operating structure governed by policies and guidelines and transparent reporting and monitoring. The Board of Directors’ risk management policy stipulates the framework, roles and responsibilities for risk management and the guidelines for ensuring that there is adequate capital and liquidity to withstand economic adversity. Hoist Finance’s risk management allocates roles and responsibilities in accordance with three lines of defence, described in the Corporate Governance Report. Risk culture We have a deep insight and understanding of how a sound risk culture is essential for e icient risk management. Therefore, structured eﬀorts are taken to support and promote a sound risk culture within the company. We de ine a sound risk culture as: Transparency, where information is shared as far as possible and all communication and feedback is clear, concise and constructive. Teamwork, where the atmosphere is open and it is easy to share and learn from experience, both from successes and from failures. Balance between risk/reward, where all decisions and considerations take into account both the risk and the reward that the decision entails. We believe that constructive discussions on risk and reward are essential for sophisticated decisionmaking on business opportunities. Sound incident management, where incidents are reported, analysed and actions taken to mitigate risks as far as economically justi iable; and where a sound and formative risk culture promotes learning from mistakes to continuously improve. Promoting a balanced risk culture is a long-term and continuous endeavour that permeates everything that we do. Internal rules, remuneration systems, incentives, ethical guidelines, formal educational initiatives and other governing mechanisms within the company are designed to ensure that the risk culture develops in a positive direction. We have ambitious targets to improve the risk culture further and have initiated work to broaden the risk management to ensure inclusion of emerging risks outside the traditional risk types for a bank. These risks include climate change, social inclusion, and more. The work is carried out in close collaboration with our Sustainability team. These eﬀorts include initiating measurement of additional risk types and active participation in the Business Ethics and Sustainability Committee. Security Management The main focus in security management at Hoist Finance is to protect our customer data and business sensitive information. This is not only because we are regulated by the SFSA and need to adhere to GDPR, but given our business model we hold a lot of sensitive data that needs to be protected from external cyber-attacks. This means that we need agile processes and tools in place that can protect, detect and react on new upcoming cyber threats. Both regulatory and client based requirements have increased signi icantly in the past 5 years. Our Executive Management Team and the Board of Directors are highly involved in the security management work. The CEO decides on the Security Strategy and the Board of Directors decides on the Security Policy. These policies and strategies are based on the business strategy and outlines the objectives and demands on the security function and other managers. Information Security is managed by the Head of Security. The security work is carried out in all three lines of defence. We want to take an active role in safeguarding our business and customers and to contribute to stable and secured inancial markets. 76 Our Business Risk Management We have started and implemented several security initiatives. Among others, we have created an Information Security Management System (ISMS) which is now fully implemented in our business. An ISMS is an internal set of documentation of security requirements such as; how we classify information, how we technically must protect our data within each classi ication level, requirements in physical security, encryption rules and more. We have also implemented a Security Operations Center that can monitor and react on deviations and incidents in our network. This is an important step towards a better security level in the company and enhances the work around protecting customer data. This team monitors our systems and takes care of any security related reports around the clock. Even in these times not everything can be protected by technical means, therefore we have documented and implemented a training & awareness plan in the company. This regulates what a new employee needs to know about security at Hoist Finance as well as what needs to be done on a continuous basis. For certain key functions we have also introduced demands on security related certi ications. Regulatory changes The European Parliament has introduced new capital regulations for non-performing exposures (NPE's). The new regulation is applicable for exposures originating after 26th April 2019, and meet the criteria’s for NPE. The regulation will change how European credit institutions manage NPEs and will increase the capital requirements and monitoring of NPE's. The NPL prudential backstop requires a deduction from own funds where NPE's are not su iciently covered by provisions or other adjustments. The applicable amount of own funds deductions depends mainly on the size of the exposure, the numbers of years the exposure has been classi ied as NPE, the type and value of collateral and the amount of provisions. This aﬀects Hoist Finance as a large part of our claims are unsecured NPL's. We set up a plan to mitigate these changes in the beginning of 2019, and have during the year executed this plan in several areas, inclusing securitisation where portfolios of unsecured claims are moved oﬀ the balance sheet. During the year we inalized two such transactions with external counterparties. 77 Our Business Risk Management Brexit The conditions for cross-border trade in inancial services to and from the UK as a consequence of Brexit are still uncertain. During the year Hoist Finance has investigated and evaluated the eﬀects this will have on the Group and the direct and indirect impact of these eﬀects on our operations. The areas that were analysed include legal structure, operational consequences, risk exposure, personal data management, funding, existing third-party agreements, and IT systems. The Brexit issue has been taken into account in the Group’s strategy work and our preparation of business plans and decisions. The UK is an important part of Hoist Finance’s operations. A sharp economic downturn as a result of Brexit would most likely impact the Group’s collections on current portfolios. Climate change risk assessment As our level of investments in portfolios secured by real estate increases, Hoist Finance is placing greater focus on monitoring our collateral, including respect to environmental/climate change risks. An updated real estate database is currently under construction and pilot reports have been produced, which will permit us to monitor looding and earthquake risk, across our secured book on an ongoing basis. This serves both to protect Hoist Finance against unforeseen deterioration in collateral asset quality and to ensure we are able to assess whether environmental factors pose any risk to our customers. Risk exposure The risks to which Hoist Finance is exposed can be divided into two groups: strategic risks relating to Hoist Finance in the context of its macro environment, and business-related risks which are more linked to Hoist Finance’s inancial and operational activities. Strategic Risks Risk type Risk pro ile Risk management Competition As regards Hoist Finance strives to be competitive through The risk of increased the purchasing of loan cost-e icient borrowing and credit operations. competition in purchasing loan portfolios portfolios, Hoist Finance or in oﬀering savings accounts to the public operates in ten countries could result in lower earnings for Hoist within Europe and oﬀers Finance. savings accounts in Sweden and Germany. Regulatory framework As a credit market Hoist Finance has a compliance function that The risk of new regulations negatively company, Hoist Finance is works internationally across the jurisdictions in impacting Hoist Finance’s business model regulated by the Swedish which the company operates. Forthcoming or otherwise adversely aﬀecting earnings. FSA and, accordingly, is regulations are continuously monitored and subject to the majority subjected to risk analysis. Hoist Finance actively of Sweden and where participates in dialogue with the regulator and applicable European makes statements on proposed regulatory banking regulations. frameworks. Tax Given that Hoist Finance There is ongoing work to ensure a sustainable The risk that new or substantially altered operates in a large structure includes analysing new tax rules products have not been properly assessed number of jurisdictions in and their i mpact on Hoist Finance's from a VAT or income tax perspective. The Europe, tax issues are corporate structure. Hoist Finance also works risk that appropriate processes are not in relatively complex. A continuously to ensure that the Group has the place, resulting in improper management of high degree of complexity necessary processes in place and the expertise income tax and VAT. The risk that Hoist entails a risk that required to identify tax risks and clarify roles Finance will take over unknown tax liabilities misinterpretations may and responsibilities regarding income tax and in acquired companies. have arisen. VAT. 78 Our Business Risk Management Business-related inancial risks Risk type Risk pro ile Risk management Credit risk Credit risk refers mainly to acquired NPL portfolios Credit risk in acquired loan portfolios is The risk of loss arising and the risk that collection on these will be lower monitored, analysed and managed by the from a customer’s failure than forecasted. Credit risk also includes the risk of management in each country, and by the to repay principal or credit losses on acquired performing loans. Other Group’s Business Control unit. Other credit interest or otherwise credit risk exposures are: (i) cash deposits with risks are analysed and managed by the meet a contractual banks; (ii) investments in interest bearing Group’s Treasury function. The Risk obligation. instruments; and (iii) counterparty risk related to Control function analyses and monitors all hedging FX and interest-rate risk. credit risk exposures. Market risk The main FX risks arise from the fact t hat the loan Market risks are hedged continuously by The risk arising from portfolios (the assets) are denominated in EUR, PLN the Group’s Treasury function and are i adverse movements in and GBP, while the reporting currency is SEK and the ndependently analysed by the Group’s Risk foreign exchange rates majority of liabilities are denominated in SEK. Control function. and interest rates. Interest-rate movements have an eﬀect on net interest income. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is linked primarily to deposits from the The Group has a signi icant liquidity The risk of di iculties in public and the risk of large withdrawals occurring at reserve to cover potential out lows of l obtaining funding, and short notice. Furthermore, i ncreased requirements iquidity. Hoist Finance also works prothus being unable to for funds pledged as collateral for derivative actively to diversify the number of funding meet payment positions, and re inancing risk associated with sources. obligations when they fall existing market funding, could potentially impact due, without a signi icant liquidity in a negative way. increase in the cost of obtaining means of payment. Operational risk Operational risk is present across our operations Operational risks are identi ied, assessed The risk of loss resulting and come in many forms. Common examples are to and reported on a regular basis through from inadequate or failed failure in our processes due to issues with our ITdiﬀerent tools, such as Risk & Control Self internal processes, systems or lack of or erroneous data to perform Assessment and New Product Approval people, IT-systems or tasks. Process from external events including legal and compliance risk. Additional and more detailed information about Hoist Finance’s risk management is presented in the Administration Report, Note 31 and in Hoist Finance’s Pillar 3 report. This also includes quantitative risk measurements. 79 Financial Information 2019 Content Notes 80 Administration report 1 Segment reporting 2 Net interest income 85 Five-year overview 3 Impairment gains and losses 86 Corporate Governance Report 4 Fee and commission income 93 Board of Directors Net result from financial transactions and 5 Derecognition gains and losses 95 Executive Management Team 6 Other operating income 97 Financial statements 7 Personnel expenses 97 Consolidated income statement 8 Other operating expenses 9 Shares and participations in joint ventures 98 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 10 Appropriations 99 Consolidated balance sheet 11 Tax 100 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 12 Earnings per share 101 Consolidated cash flow statement 13 Financial instruments 14 Derivatives 102 Parent Company income statement 15 Maturity analysis 102 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income 16 Acquired loan portfolios 103 Parent Company balance sheet 17 Shares and participations in subsidiaries 18 Intangible assets 104 Parent Company statement of changes in equity 19 Tangible assets 105 Parent Company cash flow statement 20 Leasing 106 Accounting principles 21 Other assets 22 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 114 Notes 23 Other liabilities 160 Certification of the Board of Directors 24 Accrued expenses and deferred income 161 Auditor’s Report 25 Provisions 26 Funding 164 Definitions 27 Equity 165 Shareholder information, Financial calendar and IR Contact 28 Pledged assets 29 Contingent liabilities 30 Specifications to the cash flow statement 31 Risk management 32 Capital adequacy 33 Related-party transactions Reconciliation of alternative 34 performance measures 35 Critical estimates and assumptions 36 Subsequent events 37 Appropriation of profits Administration report Administration Report Business overview are mostly run by local branch offices and subsidiaries. Some of these Hoist Finance AB (publ), corporate identity number 556012-8489, is companies also provide commission-based administration services to the Parent Company within the Hoist Finance Group. Hoist Finance third parties. is a registered credit market company under the supervision of the Note 17 ”Shares and participations in subsidiaries” sets out the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Hoist Finance Group and its key subsidiaries and branch offices as of Hoist Finance is a leading debt restructuring partner to inter31 December 2019. national banks and financial institutions, with loan acquisition and management operations in eleven countries across Europe. The Proposed dividend Group specialises in the acquisition of non-performing loans (NPLs) The Board of Directors proposes that the 2020 Annual General Meetoriginated by large international banks and other financial institutions ing resolve not to distribute a dividend to the shareholders of Hoist with whom Hoist Finance has strong and long-term relationships. After Finance AB (publ) for financial year 1 January – 31 December 2019. purchasing a portfolio, Hoist Finance’s primary method of collecting The Board deems that this exception to the current dividend policy from its customers is through sustainable payment plan agreements. will be instrumental in strengthening the Company’s CET1 capital Most of Hoist Finance’s recovery activities for its acquired portfolios ratio and will facilitate the Company’s growth in 2020. are managed through its own call centres across Europe, supplemented in some cases by carefully selected external debt recovery Proposed appropriation of profits partners. For over 20 years, the Group has focused exclusively on the acquisition of NPL portfolios. This distinguishes Hoist Finance According to the Parent Company’s balance sheet, the following unappropriated earnings are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting: SEK from many of its competitors, which have evolved from being solely collection companies (i.e., collecting on behalf of a third party) and, Other contributed capital 2,964,067,323 therefore, have significantly shorter histories in acquiring claims. This Retained earnings 844,366,574 long-term focus and the Group’s flexible and tailored product offering Other non-restricted reserves 2,786,003 have allowed Hoist Finance to develop the expertise to structure and execute complex transactions. Net profit for the year 193,716,097 The Group has operated a traditional internet-based retail deposit Total 4,004,935,997 product in Sweden since 2009 under the HoistSpar brand. In 2017, Hoist Finance also launched savings accounts in Germany, in partnership with one of the largest deposit savings platforms in Europe. As a The Board of Directors proposes that unappropriated earnings be distributed as follows: SEK regulated credit market company, Hoist Finance can offer the public a deposit service which is fully covered by the Swedish state deposit Carried forward to: guarantee up to an amount of SEK 950,000 for each account. This gives the Group a cost-effective, flexible and reliable source of fundOther contributed capital 2,964,067,323 ing, which is primarily used for the acquisition of NPLs. Retained earnings 1,040,868,674 The market Total 4,004,935,997 Hoist Finance’s geographic focus is Europe. The Group has acquired loan portfolios in Belgium, France, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Key events during the year Poland, Spain, the UK, Germany and Austria. In accordance with the Group’s strategy, the prioritised markets are France, Italy, Poland, » During the year Hoist Finance continued to actively acquire loan portfolios, primarily in two of its prioritised markets: France and Spain, Germany and the UK. By selling their NPLs, banks and other Poland. A major portion of this growth was through continued originators can focus on their core business, free up capital, improve expansion within secured NPLs. liquidity, limit the risk of doubtful payment profiles and improve key performance indicators. The European NPL market has grown in » Hoist Finance conducted two securitisation transactions during the year. The transaction conducted during the fourth quarter, the first recent years, mainly as a result of the underlying market expansion of its kind comprised solely of Italian unsecured NPLs, received an of the consumer credit market and the new capital adequacy (Basel ”Investment Grade” credit rating. III) regulations, as well as the regulation for minimum loss coverage for non-performing exposures (”NPL prudential backstop”) that took » One of Hoist Finance’s strategic pillars is to be the digital leader in the industry. Several payment platforms were launched during the effect during the year. For further information on NPL prudential year, including a self-management platform, chat bot and options backstop, see section “NPL Prudential Backstop” on page 68, “Develfor paying via WhatsApp or RCS. opment of risks” in Administration report and note 31 “Risk management”. Hoist Finance’s main competitors include debt acquisition » Under an agreement signed during the third quarter and implemented during the fourth quarter, Larsen & Toubro Infotech Ltd and collection companies, integrated players offering a wide range of took over Hoist Finance’s IT infrastructure. financial services, and specialised investors. » The operational streamlining and centralisation initiated in 2017 continued in 2019, with the closure of the office in Bayonne, Group structure and ownership France. Hoist Finance was listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm Mid Cap list on 25 March 2015. At 30 December 2019, the number of shares totalled » Hoist Finance continued its consolidation of internal functions to the Share service center in Poland and established a ”nearshoring” 89,303,000 and the share price closed at SEK 49.94, correspondoffice in Romania, both of which are focused on further streamlining to a market capitalisation of SEK 4,460m. See Hoist Finance’s ing the Company and reduce personnel expenses. website, www.hoistfinance.com, for additional information on the share and shareholders. The Articles of Association do not include any restrictions on the negotiability of the shares and there are no other circumstances that require disclosure under Chapter 6, 2a § 3–11 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Hoist Finance together with a number of subsidiaries acquire and hold loan portfolios for the Group. Day-to-day collection operations Hoist Finance  80 Annual Report 2019 Administration report Developments during the 2019 financial year Earnings before tax and total comprehensive income Profit from shares and participations in joint ventures decreased yearUnless otherwise indicated, all comparative market, financial and on-year and totalled SEK 62m (72). operational information refers to full-year 2018. The year’s tax expense was SEK –143m (–165). Net profit for the year totalled SEK 605m (590). Total operating income Interest income from acquired loan portfolios increased 20 per cent Balance sheet during the year to SEK 3,359m (2,799), driven by portfolio growth in Total assets increased SEK 5,132m year-on-year and totalled Poland, Italy and the UK and the first acquired NPL portfolio in the SEK 34,387m (29,255). The change mainly comprised acquired loan Greek market. The Greek acquisition was conducted late last year and, portfolios, which increased SEK 3,698m and were primarily attributaccordingly, the portfolio did not make a full contribution in 2018. able to acquisitions in France, Poland, the UK and Italy, and a net inOther interest income totalled SEK –2m (–13). crease in cash and interest-bearing securities of SEK 1,098m. Tangible Interest expense increased to –494m (–351). The raising of new assets increased SEK 210m, of which SEK 207m is attributable to the funding via securitisation of Italian loan portfolios contributed to transition to IFRS 16. the increase in interest expense during the year. The increase is also largely attributable to greater deposits from the public volumes in the Funding and capital structure German market, driven entirely by deposits with longer maturities. Deposits in the Swedish market also increased somewhat in volume Change, and saw a shift towards longer maturities. SEK m 2019 2018 % Portfolio revaluations totalled SEK –145m during the year and are Cash and interest-bearing secumainly attributable to the UK and Spain. Cash flow forecasts in Spain rities 8,573 7,476 15 were adjusted due to lower-than-expected collections during the year. Acquired loan portfolios 24,303 20,605 18 In the UK, a price adjustment to a number of portfolios was conducted Other assets1) 1,511 1,174 29 due to a guarantee commitment. Adjusted for the price adjustment, portfolio revaluations totalled SEK –75m. Collections exceeding foreTotal assets 34,387 29,255 18 cast during the year totalled SEK 267m, corresponding to 103 per cent of the projected level. Loss allowances for performing loans totalled Deposits from the public 21,435 17,093 25 SEK –2m (–3) during the year. In total, impairment gains and losses Debt securities issued 5,900 5,950 –1 amounted to SEK 120m (261) during the year. Fee and commission income totalled SEK 121m (80) during the Subordinated debt 852 839 2 year. Net financial income totalled SEK –79m (43), of which changes in Total interest-bearing liabilities 28,187 23,882 18 value for hedging instruments accounted for SEK –69m and restructuring costs for interest rate swaps accounted for SEK –15m. Total operating income increased to SEK 3,038m (2,829), due Other liabilities1) 1,302 960 35 primarily to increased interest income. Equity 4,898 4,413 11 Total liabilities and equity 34,387 29,255 18 Total operating expenses 1)Item does not correspond to an item of the same designation in the balance sheet; it Personnel expenses increased 6 per cent during the year to includes additional items. SEK –875m (–826), mainly as a consequence of business acquisitions in Italy and restructuring costs in the French operations. Previous restructuring in the UK and Germany has resulted in operational cost Total interest-bearing debt amounted to SEK 28,187m (23,882). The efficiency improvements. change is mainly attributable to deposits from the public, which Collection costs increased 5 per cent to SEK –787m (–750), mainly increased SEK 4,342m. Hoist Finance funds its operations through in the Spanish, Italian and Greek markets. The increase in Spain is deposits in Sweden and in Germany as well as through the interdue to increased legal costs, while the increase in Italy is related to national bond market and the Swedish money market. In Sweden, business acquisitions. Collection costs in Greece are attributable to deposits from the public under the HoistSpar brand amounted to the first Greek portfolio, acquired in late 2018. SEK 12,243m (11,292), of which SEK 6,400m (4,324) is attributable to Administrative expenses increased to SEK –568m (–509). The infixed term deposits of one-, twoand three-year duration. In Germany, crease is mainly attributable to costs related to securitisation of Italian deposits of oneand two-year duration for retail customers have been portfolios (SEK –36m) and start-up expenses related to IT outsourcing offered since 2017 under the Hoist Finance name. Savings products (SEK –11m). This is somewhat mitigated by the new accounting standof three-, fourand five-year duration were added during the year. At ard for leases, IFRS 16, under which lease-related expenses formerly 31 December 2019, deposits from the public in Germany were SEK reported as administrative expenses are now reported as interest 9,192m (5,801), of which SEK 6,163m (1,728) is attributable to fixed expense and depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible term deposits. assets. Lease expenses totalled SEK –51m during the year, of which At 31 December 2019, the outstanding bond debt totalled SEK SEK –45m is attributable to depreciation and amortisation with the 6,752m (6,789), of which SEK 5,900m (5,950) was issued securities. remaining amount attributable to interest expense. The change in issued securities is attributable to bonds issued by Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets special purpose vehicle Marathon SPV S.r.l, which was offset by increased during the year to SEK –122m (–61). The increase is mainly reduced borrowing under Hoist Finance’s Swedish commercial paper due to the transition to IFRS 16, with the rest of the increase due to a programme. new collection system in Germany and Spain. Other liabilities increased SEK 342m, of which SEK 211m is attributTotal operating expenses increased 10 per cent to SEK –2,352m able to an increase in lease liability following the transition to IFRS 16. (–2,146). Equity totalled SEK 4,898m (4,413). The increase is mainly attributable to net profit for the year. Hoist Finance  81 Annual Report 2019 Administration report Acquired loans Segment overview Change, SEK m 2019 2018 % Hoist Finance works under an organisational structure with a focus on building a stronger, more integrated company to improve the ComAcquired loan portfolios 5,952 8,048 –26 pany’s operational efficiency and better capture market growth. The Carrying amount, acquired division of segments into countries forms the basis for the Executive loans1) 24,513 20,834 17 Management Team’s monitoring of operations. See Note 1 ”Segment 1) Including run-off consumer loan portfolio and portfolios held in the Polish joint Reporting” for additional details. venture. Hoist Finance continued to actively acquire loan portfolios during 2019 through expansion in existing markets. The total acquisition Sustainability report volume amounted to SEK 5,952m (8,048) in 2019. The carrying value Hoist Finance has prepared a Sustainability Report in accordance with of acquired loans totalled SEK 24,513m (20,834) at 31 December 2019, the Annual Accounts Act. The Sustainability Report is included in the a year-on-year increase of SEK 3,679m. Annual Report on pages 7–9, 21–36 and 40–49. The auditor’s assur-ance Significant portfolio acquisitions were conducted mainly during on the Sustainability Report can be found on page 163. the second and fourth quarters and entailed the acquisition of unsecured as well as secured NPLs, with major acquisitions conducted in France, Poland and the UK. To ensure opportunities for continued Other disclosures growth, Hoist Finance conducted a securitisation of Italian unsecured Parent Company disclosures NPLs during the fourth quarter. Subsidiary Hoist Finance SAS was merged with Parent Company Hoist Finance AB (publ) on 2 January 2019. Accordingly, as from that date Cash flow the Parent Company’s financial position includes operations that were Change, previously part of Hoist Finance SAS. SEK m 2019 2018 % The Parent Company’s net interest income totalled SEK 1,355m Cash flow from operating (983) during 2019. The increase is mainly attributable to the acquisiactivities 3,117 2,828 10 tion of secured loan portfolios in France and a Greek loan portfolio Cash flow from investing acquired in late 2018. Net interest income also includes interest activities –5,098 –8,055 –37 income from intra-group loans and interest expense from deposits and issued securities. Interest expense increased SEK –103m, mainly Cash flow from financing activities 3,923 5,861 –33 due to greater volumes related to deposits from the public of longer durations in the German market. Deposits in the Swedish market also Cash flow for the year 1,942 634 >100 increased in volume during the year and contributed to the increase in interest expense. Cash flow from operating activities totalled SEK 3,117m (2,828). AmorTotal operating income amounted to SEK 1,447m (3,048). The tisation of acquired loan portfolios totalled SEK 3,040m (2,881), with comparative period was positively affected by SEK 1,947m in divithe increase attributable to portfolio growth during the year. Cash flow dends received from subsidiaries. Net financial income totalled SEK from other assets and liabilities amounted to SEK –629m (–513), most –147m (–196) and is mainly attributable to exchange rate fluctuations of which pertains to realised cash flows from FX hedging. in other assets and liabilities in foreign currencies. Other income Cash flow from investing activities totalled SEK –5,098m (–8,055). totalled SEK 232m (310) and is mainly attributable to management fees Portfolio acquisitions decreased year-on-year to SEK –5,952m invoiced to subsidiaries. (–8,048). Net cash flow from bonds and other securities totalled Operating expenses totalled SEK –1,209m (–989). The increase is SEK 866m (64). Cash flows from matured covered bonds were mainly primarily attributable to advisory costs regarding operational improveinvested in treasury bills and treasury bonds. ment initiatives and expansion into new asset classes and to start-up Cash flow from financing activities totalled SEK 3,923m (5,861). expenses related to IT outsourcing. Net cash flow from deposits from the public amounted to SEK 4,204m Operating profit totalled SEK 365m (770). (3,832). Savings products with three-, fourand five-year durations Impairment gains of SEK 56m (83) are attributable to the differencwere added in Germany in 2019, which collectively accounted for es between actual and projected collections, to portfolio revaluations a cash flow of SEK 3,698m. Outflows from accounts with variable and to loss allowances for performing loans. Shares in participating interest rates were offset by inflows to other fixed interest accounts interests totalled SEK 71m (82). in Sweden and Germany. Issued securities totalled SEK 3,450m Net profit for the year totalled SEK 197m (647) and the tax expense (3,991) and repurchases and repayments of issued securities totalled totalled SEK –121m (–66). During the year SEK –69m was provisioned SEK –3,629m (–2,631). Secured bonds totalling SEK 2,103m were isfor uncertainties about the tax treatment for previous years. sued in conjunction with Hoist Finance’s first securitisation in August. The carrying amount of acquired loan portfolios totalled These bonds were repurchased in their entirety in conjunction with SEK 7,394m at 31 December 2019, a year-on-year increase of Hoist Finance’s second securitisation in December, when Italian speSEK 1,801m primarily due to the acquisition of secured NPLs in France. cial purpose vehicle Marathon SPV S.r.l issued bonds of SEK –3,572m, Loans to subsidiaries totalled SEK 17,432m (15,182), an increase of of which SEK –508m was subscribed by external parties. Net cash flow SEK 2,250m attributable to the financing of subsidiaries’ acquisitions from Hoist Finance’s Swedish commercial paper programme totalled of loan portfolios. Deposits from the public increased SEK 4,342m durSEK –554m. A senior bond of SEK –133m matured and was paid during ing the year to SEK 21,435m (17,093). The increase is primarily related the year. Other cash flows from financing activities are attributable to to deposits in fixed interest savings accounts in Germany. interest paid on Tier 1 capital contributions and amortisation of lease liability. Significant risks and uncertainties Total cash flow amounted to SEK 1,942m (634). Hoist Finance is exposed to a number of uncertainties through its business operations and due to its broad geographic presence. New and amended bank and credit market company regulations may affect Hoist Finance directly (e.g. via Basel IV capital and liquidity regulations) and indirectly through the impact of similar regulations on the market’s supply of loan portfolios. Hoist Finance’s cross-border operations entail consolidated tax issues relating to subsidiaries in several jurisdictions. The Group is, therefore, exposed to potential tax risks arising from varying interpretations and applications of existing laws, treaties, regulations, and guidance. Details on Hoist Finance’s risk management and its most significant risks are presented in the Risk Management section on pages 75–79 and in Note 31 ”Risk Management”. Hoist Finance  82 Annual Report 2019 Administration report Development of risks Remuneration to senior executives Credit risk for Hoist Finance’s loan portfolios is considered to have Information on the most recently approved guidelines for remuneraremained virtually unchanged during the year. Credit risk in the liquidtion for senior executives is presented in Note 7 “Personnel expenses”. ity portfolio remains low, as investments are made in government, A new remuneration policy was adopted by the Board at the AGM in municipal and covered bonds of high credit quality. May 2019. The Board will present the following proposed guidelines to In order to diversify the existing stock of assets in a positive way the May 2020 AGM for approval. The guidelines have been updated in from a risk perspective, Hoist Finance will continue to assess upcomaccordance with new regulations of the Swedish Companies Act. ing opportunities to acquire portfolios of non-performing secured loans as well as portfolios of performing loans. The complete proposed guidelines for senior executive Hoist Finance has an internal framework in place for reviewing and remuneration of the Board of Directors of Hoist Finance AB (publ), monitoring operational risks in the Group. The Group works continureg. no. 556012-8489 ously to improve the quality of its internal processes in order to limit These guidelines cover senior executives in Hoist Finance AB (publ) operational risk. The operational risk level is deemed to be unchanged (“Hoist Finance” or the “Company”). The term senior executives shall as compared with last year. in this context mean the CEO and the other members of the executive Market risks remain low, as Hoist Finance continuously hedges management team, and board members to the extent they receive reboth interest rate risk and FX risk in the short and medium term. muneration for services performed outside of their Board duties. The Liquidity risk was low during the year. Hoist Finance’s liquidity guidelines are applicable to remuneration agreed, and amendments to reserve exceeds Group targets by a healthy margin. Due to its strong remuneration already agreed, after the adoption of the guidelines by liquidity position, Hoist Finance is well equipped for future acquisithe Annual General Meeting 2020. The guidelines do not apply to any tions and growth. remuneration decided by the General Meeting. Changes to the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) regarding minimum loss coverage for non-performing exposures (NPL prudential The guidelines’ promotion of the Company’s business strategy, backstop) came into effect during second quarter 2019. The proposal long-term interests and sustainability will affect Hoist Finance and will involve making a deduction from own The remuneration in Hoist Finance shall encourage senior executives funds for exposures classified as non-performing. The deduction is to promote the Company’s business strategy, long-term interests and gradually increased based on the amount of time elapsed since the sustainability and a behaviour in line with the Company’s ethical code exposure entered default, with full deduction required to be made of conduct and values. The remuneration shall also be structured to after three years for unsecured exposures. The new regulations apply enable Hoist Finance to attract, retain and motivate employees who to loans issued after the regulations’ effective date. Hoist Finance have the requisite skills. The remuneration shall encourage good perexpects the regulations to have a material effect on Hoist Finance’s formance, prudent behaviour and risk-taking aligned with customer capitalisation within a few years, assuming that acquisition of non-perand shareholder expectations. Hoist Finance’s business strategy, longforming loans continues at its historic rate. Hoist Finance has worked term interests and sustainability work are described on the Company’s with and identified a number of measures to mitigate the consequencwebpage, www.hoistfinance.com. es of the regulatory change and ensure sustainable growth. Hoist Finance conducted the first securitisation of Italian loan Types of remuneration portfolios during the third quarter, and the second securitisation of a significant part of the Italian loan portfolios during the fourth quarter. The remuneration shall be on market terms and may consist of the The previous structure was dissolved and the assets held in it, along following components: fixed cash salary, variable cash remuneration, with additional portions of the Italian loan portfolio, were transferred pension benefits and other benefits. Additionally, the General Meeting to the new structure. Hoist Finance owns the entire senior note portion may, irrespective of these guidelines, resolve on, among other things, of the new securitisation, corresponding to 85 per cent of the total share-related or share price-related remuneration. amount issued. Hoist Finance also owns 5 per cent of the mezzanine note portion, corresponding to 10 per cent of the total amount Fixed cash salary issued, and 5 per cent of the junior note portion, corresponding to the Salaries shall be genderand age-neutral and cannot be discrimremaining 5 per cent of the total amount issued. The remaining 95 per inatory. Hoist Finance views remuneration from a comprehensive cent of the mezzanine and junior notes have been subscribed in their perspective and, accordingly, takes all remuneration components into entirety by an external investor. The transaction, aimed at achieving a account. Remuneration is weighted in favour of fixed salary, which is “significant credit risk transfer” pursuant to the CRR, strengthens Hoist based on the position’s complexity and level of responsibility, prevailFinance’s Common Equity Tier 1 ratio. The transaction can be regarded ing market conditions and individual performance. as involving an increased regulatory risk, given that Hoist Finance is obliged to continuously monitor and ensure that the requirements for Variable cash remuneration “significant credit risk transfer” are fulfilled at all times. Variable remuneration for senior executives shall not exceed 100 per In parallel with its work to develop capital market instruments cent of the fixed annual cash salary. The variable remuneration consists for risk transfer to external counterparties, Hoist Finance continto 40 per cent of cash remuneration and to 60 per cent of a long-term ues to evaluate the option of seeking a permit to apply an internal share-based incentive programme, a so-called LTIP. Since LTIP is resolved ratings-based (IRB) approach to calculate risk-weighted assets with by the General Meeting it is excluded from the scope of these guidelines. regards to credit risk. As a first step, the regulatory aspects of the IRB Variable remuneration is based on various financial and non-financial criapproach for an institution like Hoist Finance are being evaluated. teria, and is linked to the performance of the Hoist Finance group and the Hoist Finance conducted a dialogue with the Swedish Financial relevant business unit respectively, and to individual targets. It is hence Supervisory Authority during the year and reviewed the Company’s distinctly linked to the business strategy and thereby to the Company’s methods of measuring and capital covering interest rate risk in the long-term value creation, including its sustainability. banking book. Relevant methods were adjusted following the review, Variable remuneration takes into account the risks involved in resulting in a marginal increase to the capital adequacy requirement. the Company’s operations and is proportional to the group’s earning capacity, capital requirements, profit/loss and financial position. The payment of variable remuneration must not undermine the group’s long-term interests and is contingent upon the recipient’s compliance with internal rules and procedures. Variable remuneration is not paid to a senior executive who has participated in or been responsible for any action resulting in significant financial loss for the group or the relevant business unit. For senior executives, payment of 60 per cent of the variable remuneration is deferred for a period of at least three years. Variable remuneration, including deferred remuneration, is only paid to the extent warranted by the group’s financial situation and the performance of the group and the relevant business unit, and the senior executive’s achievements. The fulfilment of the criteria for payment of variable cash remuneration shall be measured during a period of one year. When the Hoist Finance  83 Annual Report 2019 Administration report measurement period for the fulfilment of the criteria for the payment Derogation from the guidelines of variable cash remuneration has ended it shall be evaluated/deterThe Board of Directors may temporarily resolve to derogate from the mined to which extent the criteria have been fulfilled. The Remuneraguidelines, in whole or in part, if in a specific case there is special tion Committee, and the Board of Directors with respect to remuneracause for the derogation and a derogation is necessary to serve the tion to the CEO, are responsible for the assessment. Company’s long-term interest, including its sustainability, or to ensure the Company’s financial viability. Since the Remuneration CommitPension benefits and other benefits tee’s tasks include the preparation of the Board of Directors’ resolution Pension and insurance are offered pursuant to national laws, in remuneration-related matters, any resolutions to derogate from the regulations and market practices and are structured as collective guidelines shall also be prepared by the Remuneration Committee. agreements, company-specific plans or a combination of the two. Hoist Finance has defined-contribution pension plans. A few senior Information on remuneration resolved but not yet due executives receive gross salary; in these instances, the Company does In the annual report 2019, note 7 “Personnel expenses”, the total not make pension contributions. Variable cash remuneration shall remuneration expensed to senior executives per 31 December 2019 not qualify for pension benefits. The pension premiums for premium is presented, including previous payment undertakings which are not defined pension shall amount to no more than 30 per cent of the fixed yet due. annual cash salary. Other benefits may include, for example, life insurance, medicial Information on derogations from the remuneration guidelines insurance (Sw. sjukvårdsförsäkring) and company cars. Other benefits resolved by the previous Annual General Meeting are designed to be competitive in relation to similar operations in each The Remuneration Committee has confirmed that Hoist Finance has respective country. Such benefits may amount to no more than 10 per complied with the guidelines adopted by the previous Annual General cent of the fixed annual cash salary. Meeting with one exception. The exception relates to the payment of For employments governed by other rules than Swedish rules, penseverance pay amounting to SEK 3,588,000 to a former member of sion benefits and other benefits may be duly adjusted for compliance the executive management team. The reason for the exception is that with mandatory rules or established local practice, taking into acthe Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors deems that count, to the extent possible, the overall purpose of these guidelines. the severance pay was necessary in order to avoid further claims for remuneration from the person. Sign-on bonus Remuneration for new hires, so-called “sign-on bonus”, is only offered in Report on the most important elements of the system for internal exceptional cases and then only to compensate for the lack of variable control and risk management for financial reporting remuneration in the senior executive’s previous employment contract. The Board’s report on the most important elements of the system for Sign-on bonuses are paid during the year in which the senior executive internal control and risk management for financial reporting for the begins to work. Decisions on exceptional cases are made in accordance 2019 financial year is presented as a separate section in the Corporate with the decision-making process for variable remuneration. Governance Report. Loans Subsequent events Issuing loans to senior executives is not permitted. Hoist Finance is closely monitoring the development of COVID-19. Business continuity has been ensured, which includes that personnel Salary and employment conditions for employees can work remotely. This enables new ways of working all while conIn the preparation of the Board of Directors’ proposal for these remutinuing our focus to support our customers in the best possible way. In neration guidelines, salary and employment conditions for employees the first quarter of 2020, the previously seen unsatisfactory collection of the Company have been taken into account by including informaperformance in Spain has accelerated as a result of COVID-19, which tion on the employees’ total income, the components of the remunercombined with a negative revision on future collections is expected ation and the increase and growth rate over time, in the Remuneration to have an impact of approximately SEK 120m. Additionally, the turbuCommittee’s and the Board of Directors’ basis of decision when lence in the financial markets have caused interest rates to drop, and evaluating whether the guidelines and the limitations set out herein bond spreads to widen, which in the first quarter of 2020 translates are reasonable. into estimated effects of SEK 50m. For further information, see www.hoistfinance.com. The decision-making process to determine, review and No other significant events affecting operations took place. implement the guidelines The Board of Directors has established a Remuneration Committee. The Outlook committee’s tasks include the preparation of the Board of Director’s The outlook is more uncertain as a result of the rapid COVID-19 dedecision on the proposal of guidelines for executive remuneration. The velopment. In the near-term we are seeing a temporary pause in the Board of Directors shall prepare a proposal for new guidelines at least supply of debt portfolios, but in the long-run we firmly believe that every fourth year and submit it to the General Meeting. The guidelines the market outlook remains positive. More than ten years after the fishall remain in force until new guidelines are adopted by the General nancial crisis, European banks still have significant exposures towards Meeting. The Remuneration Committee shall also monitor and evaluate non-performing loans. Driven by regulatory changes implemented programs for variable remuneration for the executive management, the in 2018 and 2019, the supply of non-performing loans is expected to application of the guidelines for executive remuneration as well as the increase in the next few years. current remuneration structures and compensation levels in the ComMeanwhile, we see that the market is more consolidated than it has pany. The members of the Remuneration Committee are independent been and that the cost of funding through the bond market remains relof the Company and its executive management.team. The CEO and atively high. Many companies in the CMS industry are aiming to reduce other members of the executive management team do not participate their leverage, which also impacts market demand. Margins improved in in the Board of Directors’ processing of and resolutions regarding remu2019, and going into 2020, the trend seems to be continuing. neration-related matters in so far as they are affected by such matters. Over the years, banks have become increasingly comfortable selling non-performing loans across various asset classes. As the CMS Termination of employment industry has proven to be a relevant restructuring partner, the outlook Upon the Group’s termination of an employment contract, the maxiis positive for several NPL segments. We also believe that forward flow mum notice period is 12 months and no redundancy payment is made. arrangements will continue to be a key factor in certain markets. Due to the regulatory changes implemented in 2019, banks will be driven Remuneration to board members for services performed to sell their NPLs at an early stage. outside of their Board duties Hoist Finance continued to take important steps in 2019 to deliver Directors, elected at General Meetings, may in certain cases receive on the strategy of acquiring NPLs in a number of assets classes in remuneration for services performed within their respective areas various markets. Hoist Finance is therefore excellently positioned to of expertise, outside of their Board duties. Compensation for these continue this expansion going forward. The new regulations address services shall be paid at market terms and be approved by the Board the need to reduce NPLs on banks’ balance sheets. Accordingly, we of Directors. Remuneration may be payable up to SEK 50,000 for a expect the supply to increase which is undoubtedly positive for the Director’s work in the board of a subsidiary. CMS industry. Hoist Finance  84 Annual Report 2019 Administration report Five-year overview Consolidated income statement SEK m 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total operating income 3,038 2,829 2,365 2,139 1,808 of which net interest income 2,863 2,435 2,329 2,107 1,681 Total operating expenses –2,352 –2,146 –1,860 –1,692 –1,572 Profit before tax 748 755 581 533 285 Net profit for the year 605 590 453 417 231 Consolidated balance sheet SEK m 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Cash and lending to credit institutions 3,075 1,187 1,681 1,064 859 Treasury bills and treasury bonds 2,729 2,653 1,490 2,274 3,078 Lending to the public 10 14 37 36 78 Acquired loan portfolios 24,303 20,605 14,766 12,386 11,015 Bonds and other securities 2,769 3,635 3,689 2,539 1,303 Shares and participations in joint ventures 201 215 238 241 206 Fixed assets 651 446 329 284 278 Other assets 649 500 307 326 634 Total assets 34,387 29,255 22,537 19,150 17,451 Deposits from the public 21,435 17,093 13,227 11,849 12,791 Other liabilities and provisions 8,054 7,749 6,082 4,376 2,371 Equity 4,898 4,413 3,228 2,925 2,289 Total liabilities and equity 34,387 29,255 22,537 19,150 17,451 Key ratios, Group 1) SEK m 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net interest income margin, % 13 14 C/I ratio, % 76 74 76 76 85 Return on equity, % 13 16 15 17 11 Return on assets, % 1,9 2,3 2,2 2,3 1,4 Portfolio acquisitions 5,952 8,048 4,253 3,329 4,370 Carrying value on acquired loans 24,513 20,834 15,024 12,658 11,279 Gross 180-month ERC 38,874 33,602 Gross 120-month ERC 35,460 30,733 23,991 21,375 19,367 Total capital ratio, % 14,01 14,14 17,71 16,76 15,21 CET1 ratio, % 9,94 9,66 11,70 12,46 12,32 Liquidity reserve 8,024 7,399 6,800 5,789 5,156 Number of employees (FTEs) 1,575 1,556 1,335 1,285 1,349 1) See definitions. Hoist Finance  85 Annual Report 2019 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Good corporate governance aims to create favourable conditions for active shareholder engagement. This is achieved through a well-defined and well-balanced assignment of responsibilities between the company’s executive and shareholder functions, which ensures that accurate information is being presented to the market. The aim of corporate governance is to ensure that the company is run as The following are of particular importance in this context: efficiently and effectively as possible in the interest of its shareholders, »» Rules of procedure for the Board and that Hoist Finance AB (publ) (the ”Company” or ”Hoist Finance”) »» Instruction for the CEO complies with corporate governance and other rules prescribed by reg»» Policy for internal governance and control ulatory and supervisory authorities. Corporate governance also aims to »» Instructions for the Risk and Audit Committee create order and a systematic approach for the Board and for manage»» Instructions for the Remuneration Committee ment. With a clear structure and well-defined rules and procedures, the »» Instructions for the Investment Committee and Board can ensure that management and employees are focused on de»» Order of Authorisation veloping the business and, accordingly, on creating shareholder value. Hoist Finance is a Swedish public limited liability company with corpoArticles of Association rate identification number 556012-8489. The Company has its registered The Articles of Association are adopted by the Annual General Meeting office and headquarters in Stockholm, Sweden. and contain basic compulsory information about the Company. The Articles of Association specify the type of business activities the Application of the Swedish Corporate Governance Code Company will carry out, limits on share capital and the number of shares All companies with shares listed on Nasdaq Stockholm or NGM Equity, and the number of Board members allowed. The Articles of Association regardless of market capitalisation, have been required since 1 July 2008 include no special provisions for amendments thereto or for the appointto apply the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. The Code is based ment or dismissal of Board members. The Articles of Association are on the “comply or explain” principle, meaning that a company’s deviavailable in their entirety at www.hoistfinance.com. ation from the Code’s provisions is not deemed a breach thereof if the company explains its reason for the deviation. Hoist Finance complies SHAREHOLDERS with and in 2019 complied with all provisions of the Code. This Corporate Governance Report is part of the Company’s Administration Report As of 31 December 2019, the total number of shares was 89,303,000 and is reviewed by the Company’s auditors. and the share capital was SEK 29,767,666.66. Each share carries one vote. The Company had 7,429 shareholders at year-end. The 15 largest Corporate governance within the Company shareholders held an aggregate of 59.7 per cent of total share capital at Hoist Finance is subject to external and internal control systems. the end of 2019. Read more about the Company’s largest shareholders The external control systems, which serve as the framework for at www.hoistfinance.com. Hoist Finance’s corporate governance, are the Swedish Companies Act, Annual Accounts Act, Banking and Financing Business Act, the Swedish Annual General Meeting Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations and general guidelines, The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is the Hoist Finance Group’s highest Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers, other relevant laws and decision-making body. All shareholders have an opportunity at the AGM regulations, and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. Governance, to influence the Company by exercising their voting rights. The Commanagement and control are, pursuant to Swedish corporate law, the panies Act and Hoist Finance’s Articles of Association include rules that Swedish Corporate Governance Code and the Articles of Association, algovern general meetings and their agenda. located between the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM), Hoist Finance’s financial year runs from 1 January to 31 December. the Board and the CEO. Pursuant to the Companies Act, notice must be given no earlier than six The internal control systems include the Hoist Finance Articles of Asweeks prior to, and no later than four weeks prior to, the AGM. The AGM sociation adopted by the AGM. The Board has also adopted policies and resolves on adoption of the year’s balance sheet and income statement, instructions that clarify the division of responsibilities within the Group. appropriation of profits, election of Board members and auditors, fees to Governance structure Appointment Decisions External Shareholders Nomination auditors Information (General meeting) Proposals Committee Appointment Information Board of Directors Risk and Audit Remuneration Internal Audit Committee Investment Committee Committee Appointment Compliance Business Sustainability CEO and Ethics Committee Risk function Evaluation Executive Management Recommendations Team Hoist Finance  86 Annual Report 2019 Corporate Governance Report Board members and auditors and other business matters as prescribed The Nomination Committee’s proposals, its report on Committee by the Companies Act and the Articles of Association. All shareholders work performed in preparation for the 2020 AGM, and information on listed in the shareholders’ register on the day prior to the AGM who have the new proposed Board member and auditors are published in connecprovided notification of their participation during the prescribed timetion with the AGM notice. frame are entitled to participate in the AGM, either in person or by proxy, and to vote in relation to their holdings. Board of Directors Every shareholder is entitled to request that a matter be addressed by the AGM. A shareholder who wishes to do so must submit a written Pursuant to the Articles of Association, Hoist Finance’s Board shall be request to the Board no later than one week before the earliest date on composed of at least three and no more than nine members. Members which notice of the meeting may be published (i.e. the request must of the Board are appointed by the AGM for a one-year term. In accordbe received no later than seven weeks prior to the AGM). Pursuant to ance with the resolution of the 2019 AGM, the Board is composed of Chapter 7, Section 32 of the Companies Act, all shareholders are entitled Ingrid Bonde (Chair of the Board), Cecilia Daun Wennborg, Malin Eriksto ask the Board and CEO questions about matters addressed during the son, Liselotte Hjorth, Marcial Portela, Joakim Rubin, Robert Kraal and AGM and about the financial situation of the Company and the Group. Lars Wollung. Former Board members Jörgen Olsson and Gunilla Öhman resigned from the Board at the AGM. 2019 Annual General Meeting At the end of the financial year, the Board had four female and four The most recent AGM was held on 16 May 2019 in Stockholm. 60 male members. All Board members were independent in relation to the shareholders, representing 31.5 per cent of the shares and votes in the Company’s major shareholders (as defined in item 4.4 of the Swedish Company, were present at the AGM. The CEO, the majority of Board Corporate Governance Code), the Company and the Executive Managemembers, the Company’s auditor, the Chairman of the Nomination Comment Team in 2019. For further information on the Board members, see mittee and the CFO also participated in the AGM. the section on the Company’s Board of Directors and Executive Management Team on the Company’s website, www.hoistfinance.com. In accordance with recommendations from the Board and the See Note 7 “Personnel expenses” for details on the remuneration to Nomination Committee, the AGM resolved, among other things: the Board of Directors. »» To adopt the balance sheet and income statements »» To not distribute a dividend and Diversity policy »» To discharge Board members and the CEO from liability. The Company’s Board as a whole shall have the appropriate collective »» To re-elect Board members Ingrid Bonde, Cecilia Daun Wennborg, expertise, experience and background in the Company’s business Malin Eriksson, Liselotte Hjorth, Marcial Portela and Joakim Rubin as operations to enable identification and understanding of the risks Board members and to elect Robert Kraal and Lars Wollung as new such operations entail. The objective is to have a Board composed of Board members. The AGM re-elected Ingrid Bonde as Chairman of members with complementary experience and expertise and of varying the Board. Former Board members Jörgen Olsson and Gunilla Öhman ages, genders, geographic origins, and educational and professional resigned from the Board at the AGM. backgrounds that, taken together, contribute to independent and critical »» On fees for the Chairman of the Board and other Board members. reflection. The Company’s Board has adopted a Diversity Policy appli»» To re-elect KPMG, represented by Anders Bäckström, as auditor for cable to the Board. To achieve a diverse Board, in preparing its proposal the period until the close of the next AGM and to pay auditor’s fees to the AGM, the Nomination Committee takes into consideration item based on an approved invoice. 4.1 of the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, the Board’s Diversity »» To adopt guidelines for remuneration of senior executives. Policy and the European Banking Authority’s guidelines on eligibility »» To approve the deferred bonus plan for 2019. assessments for Board members. The Company continuously evaluates »» To authorise the Board to issue shares. the composition of the Board and believes that its composition was »» To authorise the Board to acquire own shares. satisfactory in 2019. The complete minutes of the 2019 AGM are available at Work of the Board www.hoistfinance.com. The primary task of the Board is to serve the interests of the shareholders and the Company. The Board is responsible for the Company’s 2020 Annual General Meeting organisation and the management of the Company’s business, and for The 2020 AGM will be held in Stockholm, on Thursday, 14 May 2020. ensuring that the Group is suitably structured to enable the Company to optimally exercise its ownership responsibilities with respect to Nomination Committee the Group subsidiaries. The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Company complies with applicable laws and regulations, the Articles of The Nomination Committee is composed of representatives of the three Association and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. The Board largest shareholders, based on shareholder statistics from Euroclear is obliged to regularly assess the Company and the Group’s financial Sweden AB, as per the last banking day in August the year before the situation and ensure that the Company’s organisation is structured to Annual General Meeting and on all other reliable ownership information enable satisfactory monitoring of its accounting, management of assets, that has been provided to the Company at this point of time, together and general financial situation. with the Chairman of the Board. The Chairman is also responsible for The Board adopts financial targets for the Company, decides on convening the Committee’s first meeting. If a shareholder who is offered the Company’s strategy and business plans and ensures good internal to become a member of the Nomination Committee declines, the offer control and risk management. shall instead be made to next shareholder in order of size of holding. The Board’s duties and working methods are regulated by the ComThe Committee’s composition may be changed to reflect changes to the panies Act, the Articles of Association and the Swedish Corporate Govshareholder structure. ernance Code. The Banking and Financing Business Act also regulates The Nomination Committee submits proposals for the election of the duties and work of the Board. the AGM Chairman; the Board members and Chairman of the Board; The Board has adopted written rules of procedure and instructions remuneration to Board members; and proposals for the election of and on internal reporting for the Board that deal with: remuneration to auditors. The Committee conducts its work in the inter1. The Board’s duties and responsibilities est of all shareholders. Instructions for the Nomination Committee and 2. Members of the Board information on the options for submitting proposals to the Committee 3. Chairman of the Board are available on the Company’s website, www.hoistfinance.com. 4. Board meetings and The Nomination Committee is composed of the following members: 5. Board Committees Jan Andersson (representing Swedbank Robur Fonder AB) Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Erik Selin (representing Erik Selin FasBoard meetings in 2019 tigheter AB), Peter Thelin (representing Carve Capital AB) and Ingrid A total of 14 minuted Board meetings were held in 2019: seven ordinary Bonde (Chair of the Board of Hoist Finance). The Committee has held meetings, one statutory meeting and six extraordinary meetings. All one minuted meeting ahead of the 2020 AGM and maintained regular Board members attended these meetings, with the exception of the contact between meetings. The Committee also held individual interBoard meetings held on 16 May when Malin Eriksson and Marcial Portela views with Cecilia Daun Wennborg (Chair of the Risk and Audit Commitdid not participate; 14 June when Marcial Portela did not participate, tee), the CEO and the new proposed Board member. 14 November when Joakim Rubin did not participate and 12 December Hoist Finance  87 Annual Report 2019 Corporate Governance Report when Marcial Portela did not participate. The CFO and the Board’s The Committee is required to meet at least four times per financial year. secretary participated in the Board meetings. A number of Company The Risk and Audit Committee has at least three members appointed employees also participated in some of the Board meetings to report on by the Board on an annual basis. Committee members may not be emspecific issues. ployed by the Company. One member is elected Committee Chairman. The Board’s work is carried out in accordance with an annual plan. The Chairman may not be the Chairman of the Board of Hoist Finance. This may be adjusted, however, depending on the year’s events and Since the 2019 AGM, the Risk and Audit Committee members have been projects. The majority of ordinary Board meetings are held in conjuncCecilia Daun Wennborg (Chair), Ingrid Bonde and Liselotte Hjorth. Guniltion with the Company’s reporting; the annual accounts were addressed la Öhman was a member of the Risk and Audit Committee until the 2019 in February, the Annual Report and issues related to the AGM in March, AGM. The CEO,CFO and the Company’s external auditors also attend the the interim accounts in May, July and October, strategy in June and the Committee’s meetings. The Company’s employees may be summoned budget and business plan for the coming year in December. As a rule, to Committee meetings to provide details on specific reports or issues. governance documentation and instructions are adopted at the statCommittee meeting minutes are kept and made available to all Board utory Board meeting. At ordinary meetings the Board receives regular members. The Committee Chairman reports to the Board at all Board reports from its Committees and control functions. meetings concerning the issues discussed and proposed at Committee The matters addressed by the Board in 2019 included organisation, meetings. The Committee held six meetings in 2019, with all members strategy, digitalisation, security and remuneration matters, The Board in attendance at these meetings, except for the meeting on 7 May which also held a meeting with the external auditors without the Executive Gunilla Öhman did not attend. Management Team in attendance. Remuneration Committee Training for the Board The Remuneration Committee’s primary task is to prepare the Board to The Board received training in various subjects during 2019, including make decisions on remuneration policies, remuneration and other terms risk management, data protection, return on equity, ICAAP/ILAAP,and of employment for Executive Management Team members and employanti-money laundering. ees responsible for control functions. The Committee is to monitor and evaluate variable remuneration programmes for the Executive ManageBoard Committees ment Team (both ongoing and those completed during the year), as well Risk and Audit Committee as the application of the remuneration guidelines for senior executives The Risk and Audit Committee serves in an advisory capacity and resolved by the AGM and the Group’s remuneration structure and remuprepares issues for consideration and decision by Hoist Finance’s Board. neration levels. The Risk and Audit Committee also has a mandate to make decisions in The Remuneration Committee is to have at least two members matters regarding the procurement of non-audit-related services from appointed by the Board on an annual basis. All members must be the Company’s external auditors. The Committee is responsible for independent in relation to the Company, the Company’s management monitoring and ensuring the quality of financial reporting, the effectiveand the Company’s major shareholders. The Remuneration Committee ness of the Company’s internal control and the tasks performed by the meets at least twice per financial year. Since the 2019 AGM, the Board’s Internal Audit, Risk Control and Compliance functions. The Committee Remuneration Committee members have been Ingrid Bonde (Chairman), also discusses valuation issues and other assessments pertaining to the Joakim Rubin and Lars Wollung. Gunilla Öhman was a member of the Reannual accounts. In matters relating to external audit, the Risk and Audit muneration Committee until the 2019 AGM. The CEO and Chief People Committee is, notwithstanding the Board’s responsibilities and duties, Officer also attend the Committee’s meetings. Company employees may to regularly meet with and review reports from the Company’s external be summoned to Committee meetings to provide details on specific reauditors in order to remain informed about the focus and scope of the ports or issues. Remuneration Committee meeting minutes are recorded audit and to discuss the coordination of the external and internal audit and are available to Board members. The Committee Chairman reports with the external auditor. The Risk and Audit Committee is to inform the to the Board at all Board meetings concerning the issues discussed and Board about audit results, the manner in which the audit contributed to proposed at Committee meetings. The Committee held four meetings in the reliability of financial reporting, and the role played by the Com2019, with all members in attendance at these meetings. mittee in the process. The Committee is also to remain informed about the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors’ quality control of the Company’s Investment Committee external auditors and is responsible for the auditors’ independence and The Investment Committee is both a preparatory and a decision-makimpartiality and the selection procedure ahead of the choice of auditor. ing committee. Its responsibilities include evaluating and approving Work of the Board in 2019 »»»»BCudget/business plan, update »»RInternal ommittees, update eport from external audit, »»»»Interim report Audit, Risk, Compliance, complaints »»»»ICAAP ILAAP »»manager Annual plan for Internal Audit, »»Committees, update Report from Internal »»»»Risk, Compliance B oard training plan »»Eevaluation Audit, Risk and ComRegulatory issues »»pliance xecutive Management Team »»»» YCear-end »»Revaluation Annual plan for external report »»»»audit »»»»Interim report esults from annual Board »»RInternal »»»»ODates ommittees, update Security work, update eport from external audit, »»»»BASusiness-related issues »»CRAudit, ommittees, update eport from Internal rganisation, update »»»»MNominationAudit and Risk GM for upcoming ordinary eeting with external auditor tatutory meeting »»Aprogramme Compliance nnual update of EMTN Board meetings, AGM and »»Business-related issues Committee, (Committee-led meetreporting dates and issue of »»»»update ings and appointment Organisation, update »»ofAcies company signatory) »»debt instruments Business-related issues, »»BFinancial usiness-related issues nnual review of politargets and instructions including securitisation January February March April May June July August September October November December »»Mregulatory anagement of »»»»2N019 Annual Report »»»»Strategy »»»»ITBusiness-related issues »»»»ICnterim report »»Pdecision changes ortfolio acquisition, »»»»CReport otice and proposals for AGM ommittees, update Business-related issues outsourcing »»RInternalommittees, update eport from external audit, »»»»RPillar from Compliance emuneration issues »»»»complaints Audit, Risk, Compliance, manager »»»»BBudget 3 report usiness-related issues Nomination Committee, update »»»»IBToard Business-related issues work, update »»Brand platform evaluation Hoist Finance  88 Annual Report 2019 Corporate Governance Report standard portfolio acquisitions valued at MEUR 75 or more, portfolio Board adopts instructions for the CEO each year and evaluates the CEO’s acquisitions not considered to be standard and valued at MEUR 25 or duties on a regular basis. more and investments that require the approval of the Swedish Financial Klaus-Anders Nysteen is the Company’s CEO and was appointed 15 Supervisory Authority. The Investment Committee is also involved in the March 2018. For additional information on the CEO and the CEO’s shareprocess of potential revaluations of credit portfolios. The Investment holdings, see the section on the Company’s Board and Executive ManageCommittee is to have at least three members appointed by the Board on ment Team on the Company’s website, www.hoistfinance.com. an annual basis. The Chairman must be independent in relation to the The Company’s CEO is head of the Executive Management Team, Company and the Company’s management and may not be the Board which meets regularly and under the structure set by the CEO. In addition Chairman of Hoist Finance. The Committee meets at least four times per to the CEO, the Executive Management Team is composed of members financial year and whenever a Committee decision or recommendation appointed by the CEO. The Executive Management Team’s role is to is required as per the Company’s Investment Policy. Since the 2019 prepare and implement strategies, manage corporate governance and AGM, the Board’s Investment Committee has been composed of Malin organisational issues and monitor the Company’s financial performance. Eriksson (Chairman), Liselotte Hjorth, Joakim Rubin and Lars Wollung. The CEO is responsible for ensuring that Board members receive inforJörgen Olsson was a member of the Committee until 16 May 2019. mation and essential decision-making material, and for presenting reports Company employees may be summoned to Committee meetings to and proposals at Board meetings on issues dealt with by the Company. provide details on investment data. Committee meeting minutes are The CEO keeps the Board and Chairman updated on the Company and the recorded and are available to all Board members. The Committee Group’s financial position and performance. The CEO’s work is evaluated Chairman reports to the Board at all Board meetings concerning the by the Board on a continuous basis. issues discussed, proposed and decided on at Committee meetings. The Committee held seven meetings in 2019, with all members in attendance The CEO’s main duties include: at these meetings. »» assuming responsibility for the financial reporting by ensuring that it With regard to standard investments valued at less than MEUR 75 and it is carried out in accordance with applicable law and that assets are non-standard investments valued at less than MEUR 25, and provided managed prudently such investments do not require the Swedish Financial Supervisory Au»» managing and coordinating Group companies in accordance with thority’s approval, the Investment Committee may delegate decision-makthe Board’s guidelines and instructions; and ing authority to the Company’s Management Investment Committee »» ensuring that Board resolutions are executed and keeping the Board which is composed of employed executives. updated on the performance of the Company and the Group’s operations, earnings and financial position. Chairman of the Board Ingrid Bonde was re-elected Chairman of the Board of Hoist Finance by Executive Management Team the AGM held on 16 May 2019. Ingrid Bonde has served in this capacity Christer Johansson has been the CFO (Chief Financial Officer) of Hoist since 16 November 2014. Finance since 8 May 2018. For information on the CEO, CFO and other The Chairman of the Board leads the Board’s work and oversees the members of the Executive Management Team, see the section on the fulfilment of its duties, and has a specific responsibility for ensuring Ccompany’s Board and Executive Management Team and the that the Board’s work is well-organised, efficiently run and aligned with Ccompany’s website, www.hoistfinance.com. operational developments. The Chairman of the Board verifies that Board decisions are effectively executed, ensures that the Board’s work See Note 7 “Personnel expenses” for details on the remuneration of the is evaluated annually and that the Nomination Committee is informed of CEO and Executive Management Team. the evaluation results. The purpose of the evaluation is to gain an understanding of the Board members’ views on the Board’s performance and Important guidelines the measures that can be taken to make the Board’s work more efficient. During 2019 the Company has set up a Business Sustainability and Ethics The Chairman’s particular duties are to: Committee composed of i.a. the CEO, the Head of Sustainability, the »» in consultation with the CEO, decide the matters to be considered by Head of Compliance and certain other Company managers that the CEO the Board, prepare meeting agendas and issue meeting notices when nominates. The Company’s CSR policy is applied throughout the Group, needed and in the day-to-day operations measures are taken to achieve both »» organise and lead the Board’s work, while overseeing that the Board Group wide and local goals. The CSR governance structure is composed addresses those matters that rest with the Board pursuant to law, the of a framework for internal governance and control that includes a funcArticles of Association and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code tional organisational structure with a clear division of responsibilities »» serve as the Board’s spokesperson towards Hoist Finance’s sharebetween management, operations and control functions, as well as prinholders; and ciples, policies and processes. To further support policy application and »» ensure that the CEO provides sufficient information for Board relevance, each policy is assigned to a “document owner” – often the decisions and oversee that Board decisions are executed. person responsible for the policy’s specific area.The Executive Management Team is responsible for the CSR strategy, while the Chief Business Board evaluation Development Officer (CBDO) has had overall responsibility for impleIn accordance with the Board’s rules of procedure, the Chairman of the mentation of the strategy during 2019. Day-to-day responsibility for the Board initiates an evaluation of the Board’s performance once per year. achievement of individual targets rests with each relevant manager. For the 2019 evaluation all Board members were able to give their views The Company’s ethical guidelines, composed of an umbrella docduring individual meetings between the Chairman of the Board and the ument and several ancillary documents, are designed to be applied Board members, on issues including working methods, Board meetings, by both employees and partners. The umbrella document specifies work performed by the Board and management during the year, and fundamental values and principles and provides information on some of Board and management structure. The purpose of the evaluation is to gain the ancillary documents. All employees receive continuous training on an understanding of the Board members’ views on the Board’s perforethical issues, and training statistics are monitored on a monthly basis to mance and the measures that can be taken to make the Board’s work ensure that all employees receive regular training on these issues. more efficient. The purpose is also to gain an understanding of the type The Company’s measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist of issues the Board believes should be given more attention and the areas financing are integrated into core operational processes, and include that may require additional Board expertise. The results of the evaluation risk analyses, policies, customer due diligence procedures, monitoring were discussed in connection with the Board meeting held on 12 Novemprocedures, employee training and transaction monitoring. The Compaber 2019 and the Nomination Committee has taken part of the evaluation. ny also has well-established procedures for reporting suspected money laundering to the competent authorities. CEO and Executive Management Team Auditors The CEO is appointed by the Board and runs the business in accordance with instructions adopted by the Board. The CEO is responsible for the The 2019 AGM re-elected registered public accounting firm KPMG AB Company and the Group’s day-to-day administration pursuant to the as the Company’s auditor for the period until the close of the next AGM. Companies Act. The CEO also works with the Chairman of the Board to Authorised Public Accountant Anders Bäckström is Auditor in Charge. decide on matters that will be addressed at each Board meeting. The Hoist Finance  89 Annual Report 2019 Corporate Governance Report Financial reporting Internal control over financial reporting The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Company’s organisation is structured in a way that enables its financial situation to be satisfactorily Internal governance and control monitored, and that financial statements, such as interim reports and The internal governance and control process is governed by law and annual accounts, are prepared in accordance with applicable law, acregulations and is supervised by the Board. In Sweden, where the counting standards and other requirements. Interim reports are initially Company has its registered office, internal governance and control handled by the Risk and Audit Committee and are then approved by the are regulated primarily by the Companies Act, Banking and Financing Board as a whole. The Board of Directors ensures the quality of financial Business Act, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations reporting through its Risk and Audit Committee. The Board and the Risk and guidelines, the Corporate Governance Code, and stock exchange and Audit Committee address not only the Group’s financial statements regulations. and material accounting issues, but also issues concerning internal conHoist Finance has an internal governance and control framework trol, compliance, significant uncertainty in carrying amounts, events afaimed at creating the environment necessary to enable the entire ter the balance-sheet date, changes in estimates and assessments, and organisation to promote effective, high quality corporate governance by other conditions affecting the quality of the financial statements. The providing clear definitions, assignments of roles and responsibilities and CEO is responsible for ensuring that the Company’s accounting is preGroup-wide tools and procedures. pared in compliance with applicable law and that assets are managed Hoist Finance applies the COSO model for internal control over prudently. The Company and the Group prepare accounts each month. financial reporting. The Board and the Executive Management Team continuously receive COSO focuses on developing a framework that can be used directly information on the Company’s and the Group’s financial situation. by a Company’s management team to evaluate and improve risk manTo safeguard financial reporting within the Group, monthly reports agement in three inter-related areas; enterprise risk management (ERM), are issued directly to a joint inter-Group accounting system that includes internal control and fraud deterrence. quality controls. Detailed analyses and reconciliations are performed in connection with the periodic reporting. The consolidation process Roles and responsibilities also includes a number of specific reconciliation controls. Hoist Finance The Board is ultimately responsible for limiting and overseeing Hoist Fihas developed internal accounting and reporting guidelines, the “Hoist nance’s risk exposure. The Board and the Risk and Audit Committee are Finance Financial Framework”. responsible for establishing the main rules and guidelines for internal control. Internal reports The Risk and Audit Committee assists the Board by continuously The Board monitors the Group’s financial performance, ensures the monitoring the risks that may affect financial reporting and by adopting quality of financial reporting and internal control, and follows up and manuals, policies and accounting policies. The Risk and Audit Commitevaluates the operations on a regular basis. Internal reports, such as tee interacts directly with the external auditors. consolidated financial statements, are regularly prepared and submitThe CEO is responsible for the effective design and implementation ted to the Board. An income statement, balance sheet and investment of internal control within the Group. The CFO is responsible for the budget are prepared for each financial year and are adopted at the design, implementation and correct application of the internal control ordinary Board meeting held in December. framework at a central level. Local management is responsible for the design, implementation and correct application at a local level. Guidelines for remuneration of senior Hoist Finance’s roles and responsibilities with respect to internal conexecutives, etc. trol and risk management are structured in three lines of defence. These Guidelines for remuneration to senior executives were adopted by the three lines of defence jointly form the internal control framework, which AGM on 16 May 2019. Remuneration to senior executives is composed is designed to develop and maintain systems that ensure: of fixed salary, variable remuneration, pension and other benefits. The »» Effective and efficient business operations remuneration structure is designed to encourage senior executives to »» Satisfactory risk control deliver results in line with the Company’s targets, strategy and vision »» Business management and to act in accordance with the Company’s ethical code of conduct »» Reliable reporting of financial and non-financial information and core values. (internally and externally); and Variable remuneration for senior executives will be paid out base on »» Compliance with laws, regulations, supervisory authority a long term incentive program (LTIP), and shall not exceed 100% of the requirements and internal policies and procedures. fixed salary. Variable remuneration is based on various financial criteria Control objectives determined by the Board of Directors and also on non-financial criteria, and is linked to the performance of the Hoist Finance Group and the ns ng ce respective business unit as well as individual targets. tio rti ian er po pl Op Re m Variable remuneration takes into account the risks involved in the Co Company’s operations and is proportional to the Group’s earning capacControl Environment ity, capital requirements, earnings and financial position. The payment of variable remuneration must not undermine the Group’s long-term Risk Assessment interests. The payment of variable remuneration is contingent on the Operating Unit Function senior executive having acted in compliance with internal rules and Control Activities procedures, including policies regulating behaviour toward customers Division s and investors. Variable remuneration is not paid to a senior executive el Entry Level Information & Communication ev l l es who has participated in or been responsible for any action resulting in a n t io ili i at ib significant financial loss for the Group or the relevant business unit. Monitoring Activities is ns an o rg esp For senior executives, payment of 60 per cent of the variable O fr o remuneration is deferred for a period of at least three years. Variable Control components remuneration, including deferred remuneration, is only paid to the extent warranted by the Group’s financial situation and the performance of the Group and the relevant business unit, and the senior executive’s Areas of responsibility achievements. Risk Control function Pension and insurance are offered under national laws, regulations The Risk Control function is responsible for providing relevant and indeand market practice in the form of either collective or company-specific pendent analyses, advice and expert opinions on the Company’s risks. plans, or a combination of the two. Hoist Finance has defined-contribuIt is also responsible for the ongoing evaluation and development of the tion pension plans and does not apply discretionary pension benefits. Company’s risk management framework to ensure its functionality. This Remuneration guidelines are presented in their entirety in Note 7 involves: “Personnel expenses”. The Board’s proposed new guidelines for 2020 »» Verifying that all material risks that the Company is exposed to are are presented in the Administration Report. Information on salaries and identified, analysed and managed by the appropriate functions. other remuneration to senior executives is presented in Note 7 “Personnel expenses”. Hoist Finance  90 Annual Report 2019 Corporate Governance Report Three lines of defence for risk management and internal control 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence The first line of defence is comprised of the The second line of defence is comThe third line of defence is the Board, CEO and business organisation, who prised of the Risk Control function and Internal Audit function that conducts are responsible for conducting operations in the Compliance function, independent independent audits and reviews and accordance with the adopted risk exposure units that are not involved in business provides the Board with evaluations and internal control framework and the rules operations and that report indeof Hoist Finance’s internal control and and regulations applicable to Hoist Finance. pendently of each other to the Board risk management processes. The first line of defence has a welland the CEO. functioning governance structure and effective processes to identify, measure, assess, monitor, minimise and report risks. »» Identifying and reporting on risks arising from deficiencies in the Com»» Whether the Company’s internal regulations are adequate and conpany’s risk management. Providing recommendations for correcting sistent with laws, regulations and other rules. deficiencies and thereby avoiding or minimising these risks in the future. »» The reliability of the Company’s financial reporting, including off»» Providing information, analyses and advice on the Company’s risks to balance sheet commitments. the Board and CEO on a regular basis. »» The reliability and quality of the work performed within the Compa»» Providing all relevant information that may constitute decision-making ny’s various control functions. material when the Company develops or changes its risk strategy and »» The Company’s risk management based on the adopted risk strategy risk appetite, as well as evaluating proposed risk strategies and providand risk appetite. ing recommendations before decisions are made. The Internal Audit function also provides recommendations to rele»» Evaluating whether company proposals or decisions that may give rise vant persons based on the function’s findings, monitors whether the to a significant increase in risk are compatible with the Company’s risk measures are subsequently implemented, and reports to the Board on a appetite. regular basis. »» Identifying, verifying and reporting risks of error in the Company’s estimates and assumptions that form the basis of the financial statements. Internal control process »» Evaluating risks prior to company decisions on new or substantially The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that interchanged products, services, markets, processes or IT systems and in nal control operates efficiently. The internal control and risk managethe event of major changes to the Company’s operations and orment systems for financial reporting are designed to achieve reasonable ganisation, and evaluating the anticipated impact on the Company’s assurance regarding the reliability of external financial reporting and to aggregate risk. ensure that the financial statements are prepared in compliance with generally accepted accounting policies, applicable laws and regulations Compliance function and other requirements for listed companies. The Compliance function is responsible for supporting the Company’s compliance with all legal, regulatory and other requirements for its Hoist Finance’s internal control process follows the COSO model, which licensed operations. This involves: is based on the following components »» Identifying risks of the Company failing to comply with its legal, »» Control environment regulatory and other duties with respect to its licensed operations, »» Risk assessment and monitoring and verifying that these risks are managed by the »» Control activities relevant functions. »» Information & Communication; and »» Overseeing and monitoring compliance with laws, regulations and »» Monitoring other rules, as well as with relevant internal regulations. »» Reviewing and evaluating the functionality and effectiveness of the The control environment is the foundation of the Company’s system Company’s procedures on a regular basis. for internal control of financial reporting. The control environment is »» Providing recommendations to relevant persons based on the funcprimarily based on the corporate culture and the values that have been tion’s findings. established by the Board of Directors and the Executive Management »» Providing advice and support to the Company’s personnel, CEO and Team, as well as the organisational structure with distinct authorities and Board regarding the laws, regulations and other rules applicable to responsibilities. Policies and instructions are documented and evaluated the licensed operations, and regarding internal regulations. continuously. These steering documents, and well-conceived process »» Informing and training relevant persons regarding new or amended descriptions, are made available to the relevant personnel. regulations. »» Ensuring the quality of, and continuously updating, the Company’s The risk assessment includes processes for identifying, analysing and internal rules, policies and instructions. evaluating risks arising in financial reporting. This component assesses »» Verifying that new or substantial changes to products, services, marand prioritises the areas that each business area believes to be the most kets, processes and IT systems and major changes to the Company’s relevant in the Company, based on a risk analysis. This risk analysis takes operations and organisation comply with legal, regulatory and other into account both the probability and consequence of a risk materialrequirements applicable to the Company’s licensed operations. ising. The risk analysis is conducted regularly at Group level to identify »» Advising and reporting to the Board and the CEO on a regular basis. and create an understanding of the risks arising in the Group, in terms of both materiality and complexity. The risk analysis is then used as the Internal Audit function starting point for determining the areas that are to be assigned priority The Internal Audit function is responsible for ensuring the independent and how the risks in these areas are to be limited and managed. review and supervision of work performed by the first and second lines of defence. Accordingly, the Internal Audit function follows an updated, Control activities are the activities designed to limit the risks and ensure risk-based audit plan adopted by the Board, under which it reviews and the reliability of the Company’s organisation. The main purpose of the regularly evaluates: control activities, which can be of both a manual and automated char»» Whether the Company’s organisation, governance processes, IT acter, is to uncover and prevent errors and thereby assure the quality of systems, models and procedures are appropriate and effective. financial reporting. Examples of control activities include authorisation »» Whether the Company’s internal control is appropriate and effective manuals, payment instructions, payment vouchers, reconciliations, busiand whether the operations are conducted in accordance with the ness performance reviews, general IT controls and division of responsiCompany’s internal regulations. bilities. Control activities exist at both subsidiary and Group level. Hoist Finance  91 Annual Report 2019 Corporate Governance Report Information & Communication is both an internal tool to strengthen the internal control environment and a process to ensure that correct information is identified, collected and communicated in a manner and within a time-frame that allows the organisation to carry out its duties. Policies and instructions have been adopted and the Company’s financial manual (Hoist Finance Financial Framework) includes instructions and guidance for accounting and financial reporting. The policies, instructions and financial manual are updated continuously and are available to the entire organisation. Regular meetings are also held with accounting staff and local CFOs to provide information on new or updated rules and regulations applicable to Hoist Finance, and on internal control responsibility. The Group’s intranet is another important communication channel. The Board also receives information regarding risk management, internal controls and financial reporting from the control functions and the Risk and Audit Committee. A communication and information policy has been established to ensure that the information disclosed externally is correct and complete. Monitoring occurs at all levels in the Group. The Company regularly evaluates the internal control of financial reporting. Work on the internal control is reported to the Board of Directors and the Risk and Audit Committee. This reporting forms the foundation for the Board’s evaluation and assessment of the efficiency of the internal control of financial reporting and also constitutes a basis for decisions about potential improvement measures. The Company has an incident reporting procedure in place, under which incidents are reported and analysed and actions taken to reduce risks as far as is economically justifiable. The Company also has an internal whistleblowing procedure through which employees can anonymously report suspicions of improprieties in the organisation. Financial reporting competencies The quality of financial reporting is largely controlled by the organisation’s expertise in accounting matters and the way in which the Finance, Accounting and Treasury Departments are staffed and organised. The Executive Management Team is continuously involved in ongoing financial reporting and therefore always has insight into the preparation of financial information. The Finance Department is organised and staffed based on the need to ensure that the Group maintains high accounting standards and complies with accounting laws, regulations and standards. The Executive Management Team works actively to ensure that the Group has employees with the necessary expertise in all key positions and that there are procedures in place to ensure that employees have the requisite knowledge and skills. Hoist Finance  92 Annual Report 2019 Board of Directors Board of Directors Ingrid Bonde Cecilia Daun Wennborg Malin Eriksson Liselotte Hjorth Chair of the Board Board member Board member Board member Board member since 2014. Board member since 2017. Board member since 2017. Board member since 2015. Born: 1959. Born: 1963. Born: 1971. Born: 1957. Education: Education: Education: Education: Master of Business Administration, Bachelor of Business Administration, Bachelor of Science in Business, Bachelor of Science in Business Stockholm School of Economics Stockholm University. Ithaca College, New York Administration and Economics, and studies at New York University. Lund University. Internal assignments: Internal assignments: Internal assignments: Board member Board member Internal assignments: The Board, Chair Risk and Audit Committee, Chair Investment Committee, Chair Board member Remuneration Committee, Chair Investment Committee member Risk and Audit Committee member Other significant external Other significant external Risk and Audit Committee member assignments: assignments: Other significant external Getinge AB, Board member – Other significant external assignments: ICA Gruppen AB, Board member assignments: Alecta AB, Chair Loomis AB, Board member Previous experience: White arkitekter AB, Chair of the Board Apoteket AB, Chair Bravida Holding AB, Board member Partner and former Chief InvestWhite Intressenter AB, Chair of the Board Loomis AB, Board member Hotell Diplomat, Board member ment Officer at Credigy. Board Eastnine AB (publ), Chair of the Board Securitas AB, Board member Atvexa AB, Board member member and Head of Investment Rikshem AB (publ), Board member The Swedish Corporate Oncopeptides AB, Board member Committee in Lindorff Group, Ativo Finans AB, Board member Governance, Board member Sophiahemmet Non-Profit CEO at Rio Branco Aquisição e BNP Paribas Real Estate Investment Swedish Climate Policy Council, Association, Board member Administração de Creditos, Senior Management Germany Gmbh, Board Chair Sophiahemmet AB, Board member Consultant at Monitor and Head of member The Swedish Securities Council, US Market at Klarna Inc. Emilshus AB, Board member Previous experience: Board member Brunswick Real Estate Capital Advisory Danske bank A/S, Board member Oxfam Foundation in Sweden, Independent in relation to the AB, Board member CFO and Deputy CEO of Vattenfall, Board member Company and management and president and CEO of AMF, Director to major shareholders. Previous experience: General of the Swedish FSA, Deputy Previous experience: Various positions at SEB Group Director General of the Swedish Vice President and CFO at Ambea, Shareholding: including Group Credit Officer and National Debt Office, Vice President CEO and CFO at Carema Vård och 31,500 shares. Vice President, and most recently Global Finance of SAS, Vice President for Omsorg, Acting CEO at Skandia­ Head of Commercial Real Estate and foreign currency funding and debt banken, Head of Swedish Operations Member of the Management Board SEB management at the Swedish Skandia Group and CEO at AG. Board member of the Swedish National Debt Office. SkandiaLink. National Debt Office, the GermanSwedish Chamber of Commerce in Independent in relation to the Independent in relation to the ComStockholm, the Swedish Chamber Company and management and to pany and management and to major of Commerce in Düsseldorf and major shareholders. shareholders. Kungsleden AB. Shareholding: Shareholding: Independent in relation to the 22,600 shares. 3,500 shares. Company and management and to major shareholders. Shareholding: 4,700 shares. Shareholding stated as at 26 March 2020. Hoist Finance  93 Annual Report 2019 Board of Directors Robert Kraal Marcial Portela Joakim Rubin Lars Wollung Board member Board member Board member Board member Ledamot sedan 2019. Board member since 2018. Board member since 2017. Board member since 2019. Born: 1974. Born: 1945. Born: 1960. Born: 1961. Education: Education: Education: Education: Master of Science in geophysics, Master of Arts in Political Science, Master of Science Industrial Bachelor of Business Administration, Utrecht University. Complutense University of Madrid, Engineering and Management, Stockholm School of Economics; and and Master of Arts in Sociology, Linköping Institution of Technology. Master of Science in Information Internal assignments: University of Louvain. Technology, KTH. Board member Internal assignments: Internal assignments: Board member Internal assignments: Other significant external Board member Investment Committee member Board member assignments: Remuneration Committee member Remuneration Committee member Skillpe BV, CEO Other significant external Paysium Holding BV, CEO assignments: Other significant external Other significant external KIDER S.L, Chairman of the Board assignments: assignments: Previous experience: Gaudea, Board member EQT AB, Partner and Chief Dignisia, Chairman and CEO COO of myTomorrows. Co-founder MRFactory, Board member Investment Advisor of Public TPS Advisory AB, Management of Adyen acquiring and various Value advisory team consultant positions in the Adyen Acquiring Previous experience: Cramo Plc, Board member BlueStep Bank, Board member including COO and EVP Global CEO for Banco Santander ÅF AB, Board member MySafety Försäkringar, Chairman Acquiring and Processing. Various (Brazil), CEO Telefónica Sundbom & Partners, Chairman managerial positions at Docdata International, various positions in Previous experience: RaySearch, Chairman Payments, Google Netherlands, Argentaria and BBVA and Board Senior Partner and Head of CapMan Royal Bank of Scotland, Worldpay member of Lindorff Group. Public Market, Head of Corporate Previous experience: and Bibit. Finance and Debt Capital Markets CEO for two publicly listed entities for Independent in relation to the at Handelsbanken Capital Markets. 15 years, Acando, an IT-company, and Independent in relation to the Company and management and Zeres capital, Founder and Partner. Intrum Justitia, a credit management Company and management and to major shareholders. Board member in Sanitec Plc, B&B services company. Consultant for 15 to major shareholders. Tools, Intrum Justitia, Proffice, years at McKinsey & Company. Board Shareholding: Nobia and Capio AB (publ). member in Nordea, TF Bank, IFS, Tieto, Shareholding: 0 shares. Sigma and Connecta. 0 shares. Independent in relation to the Company and management and to Independent in relation to the major shareholders. Company and management and to major shareholders. Shareholding: 0 shares, EQT owns Shareholding: Shareholding stated as at 26 March 2020. 5,558,523 shares. 10,000 shares. Anders Bäckström Auditor in Charge Authorised Public Accountant KPMG AB Born: 1966. Independent: 0 shares. Hoist Finance  94 Annual Report 2019 Executive Management Team Executive Management Team Klaus-Anders Nysteen Anders Carlsson Ulf Eggefors Julia Ehrhardt VD Chief General Counsel Chief People Officer Chief Retail Banking and Business Development Officer Member of the Executive Member of the Executive Member of the Executive Management Team since Management Team since Management Team since August Member of the Executive MaMarch 2018. Hoist Finance October 2017. Hoist Finance 2017. Hoist Finance employee nagement Team since February employee since 2018. employee since 2014. since 2017. 2020. Hoist Finance employee since 2020. Born: 1966. Born: 1983. Born: 1961. Born: 1980. Education: Education: Education: Master of Business Administration, Master of Laws (LL.M.), Economic studies at Education: Norwegian School of Economics Stockholm University Stockholm University. Engineering Physics, The Royal and Business Administration (NHH). Institute of Technology. Previous experience: Previous experience: Other significant external Attorney at Hannes Snellman Global Head of Trade Finance Previous experience: assignments: Advokatbyrå. Services at Swedbank, CFO at Head of Swedish Consulting & Webstep ASA, Chairman. Cell Mark and a number of senior Partner, FCG. Head of Debt Asset Buyout Partner, Shareholding: positions with SEB in Stockholm Investor Relations & Rating, SEB. Board member 81,879 shares. and London. A number of positions with SEB in Treasury, Credit Portfolio and Previous experience: Shareholding: Risk Control. Senior Advisor at Nordic Capital, 7,000 shares through closely CEO at Lindorff Group, Entra related persons’ holding. Shareholding: Eiendom AS and Storebrand Bank 18,740 shares, through closely ASA. CFO at Statoil Fuel & Retail related persons’ holding and own ASA. Board member of AFF, AIM holding. Norway, Hinna Park, Oslo S Utvikling and Powerhouse. Shareholding: 78,770 shares through Nysteen Invest AS and own holding. Viktoria Aastrup was a member of the Executive Management Team during 2019 and left Hoist Finance in December 2019. Shareholding stated as at 26 March 2020. Hoist Finance  95 Annual Report 2019 Executive Management Team Christer Johansson Fabien Klecha Stephan Ohlmeyer Emanuele Reale Chief Financial Officer Country Manager France, Chief Investment Officer Chief Sales Officer Responsible for Center of Member of the Executive Excellence for Secured NPL Member of the Executive Member of the Executive Management Team since May Management Team since Management Team since May 2018. Hoist Finance employee Member of the Excecutive January 2018. Hoist Finance 2018. Hoist Finance employee since 2014. Management Team since March employee since 2018. since 2014. 2019. Hoist Finance employee Born: 1979. since 2012. Born: 1968. Born: 1966. Education: Born: 1984. Education: Education: Master of Science, Royal Institute PhD and Diploma in Physics, Degree in Business of Technology. Education: University of Hamburg. Administration, London. Bachelor Degree in Business Previous experience: Administration, Università ComPrevious experience: Previous experience: Head of Group Finance and merciale L. Bocconi (Italy). Various positions within Lone CEO in TRC Spa and board Business Control at Hoist Finance. Master Degree in Management, Star, Intrum, Och-Ziff, Värde, member in TRC Call Srl. Number of positions within HEC Paris (France). Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley Chairman in 3 Erre Srl. business development, advisory and Chase Manhattan. Countdown Italia Srl and and front office management at Previous experience: Ci.Gi.S Srl., board member. SEB. Management consultant at Hoist Finance Investment team, Shareholding: McKinsey & Company. based in London, in 2012. 10,000 shares. Shareholding: Appointed Country Manager in 0 shares. Shareholding: France 2014. 3,200 shares. Experience from the finance industry (M&A) and entrepreneurship in AgroGeneration from a start-up to be listed. Shareholding: 0 shares. Shareholding stated as at 26 March 2020. Hoist Finance  96 Annual Report 2019 Financial statements Financial statements Consolidated income statement SEK m Note 2019 2018 Interest income acquired loan portfolios 2 3,359 2,799 Other interest income 2 –2 –13 Interest expense 2 –494 –351 Net interest income 2 2,863 2,435 Impairment gains and losses 3 120 261 Fee and commission income 4 121 79 Net result from financial transactions 5 –79 43 Derecognition gains and losses 5 –9 –5 Other operating income 6 22 16 Total operating income 3,038 2,829 General and administrative expenses Personnel expenses 7 –875 –826 Collection costs 8 –787 –750 Administrative expenses 8 –568 –509 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 18,19 –122 –61 Total operating expenses –2,352 –2,146 Net operating profit 686 683 Profit from participations in joint ventures 9 62 72 Profit before tax 748 755 Income tax expense 11 –143 –165 Net profit 605 590 Profit attributable to: Owners of Hoist Finance AB (publ) 605 590 Basic earnings per share SEK 12 6.07 6.29 Diluted earnings per share SEK 12 6.07 6.29 Hoist Finance  97 Annual Report 2019 Financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK m 2019 2018 Net profit for the year 605 590 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Revaluation of defined pension benefit plans –3 1 Revaluation of remuneration after terminated employment –1 1 Tax attributable to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 1 0 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss –3 2 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Translation differences, foreign operations 32 96 Translation differences, joint venture –1 –4 Hedging of currency risk in foreign operations –114 –233 Hedging of currency risk in joint ventures –8 –8 Transferred to the income statement during the year 9 10 Tax attributable to items that may be reclassified to profit or loss 26 50 Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss –56 –89 Other comprehensive income –59 –87 Total comprehensive income 546 503 Profit attributable to: Owners of Hoist Finance AB (publ) 546 503 Hoist Finance  98 Annual Report 2019 Financial statements Consolidated balance sheet SEK m Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 18 ASSETS Cash 0 0 Treasury bills and Treasury bonds 13,15 2,729 2,653 Lending to credit institutions 13,15 3,075 1,187 Lending to the public 13,15 10 14 Acquired loan portfolios 13,15,16 24,303 20,605 Bonds and other securities 13,15 2,769 3,635 Participations in joint ventures 9 201 215 Intangible assets 18 382 387 Tangible assets 19 269 59 Other assets 21 511 425 Deferred tax assets 11 32 22 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 22 106 53 Total assets 34,387 29,255 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Liabilities Deposits from the public 13,15,26 21,435 17,093 Tax liabilities 11 86 92 Other liabilities 23 823 380 Deferred tax liabilities 11 150 188 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 154 232 Provisions 25 89 68 Debt securities issued 13,15,26 5,900 5,950 Subordinated debts 13,15,26 852 839 Total liabilities 29,489 24,842 Equity 27 Share capital 30 30 Other contributed equity 2,965 2,965 Reserves –258 –202 Retained earnings including profit for the period 2,161 1,620 Non-controlling interest 0 – Total equity 4,898 4,413 Total liabilities and equity 34,387 29,255 Hoist Finance  99 Annual Report 2019 Financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other Retained earnings contributed Translation including profit Non-controlling Total SEK m Share capital capital reserve for the year interest equity Opening balance 1 Jan 2019 30 2,965 –202 1,620 4,413 Comprehensive income for the period Profit for the year 605 605 Other comprehensive income –56 –3 –59 Total comprehensive income for the year –56 602 546 Transactions reported directly in equity Interest paid on capital contribution –62 –62 Share-based payments 1 1 Change in non-controlling interests 1) 0 0 Total transactions reported directly in equity –61 0 –61 Closing balance 31 Dec 2019 30 2,965 –258 2,161 0 4,898 1) Attributable to securitisation of Italian loan portfolios. Other Retained earnings contributed Translation including profit Total SEK m Share capital capital reserve for the year equity Opening balance 1 Jan 2018 27 2,102 –113 1,212 3,228 Transition effects IFRS 9 17 17 Adjusted opening balance 1 Jan 2018 27 2,102 –113 1,229 3,245 Comprehensive income for the period Profit for the year 590 590 Other comprehensive income –89 –89 Total comprehensive income for the period –89 590 501 Transactions reported directly in equity Dividend –154 –154 New share issue 3 552 1) 555 Additional Tier 1 capital instrument 3112) –7 304 Reclassification –3 3 0 Interest paid on capital contribution –41 –41 Tax effect on items reported directly in equity 3 3 Total transactions reported directly in equity 3 863 –199 667 Closing balance 31 Dec 2018 30 2,965 –202 1,620 4,413 1) Nominal amount of SEK 566m was reduced by transaction costs of SEK 13m. 2) Nominal amount of SEK 410m was reduced by transaction costs of SEK 6m and repurchased nominal amount of SEK 100m was reduced by transaction costs of SEK 7m. Hoist Finance  100 Annual Report 2019 Financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement SEK m Note 2019 2018 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before tax 748 755 of which, paid-in interest 3,365 2,778 of which, interest paid –374 –289 Adjustment for other items not included in cash flow 30 208 –122 Realised result from divestment of loan portfolios – 1 Realised profit from divestment of shares and participations in joint ventures –60 –65 Income tax paid –190 –109 Total 706 460 Amortisations on acquired loan portfolios 3,040 2,881 Increase/decrease in other assets and liabilities –629 –513 Cash flow from operating activities 3,117 2,828 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Acquired loan portfolios –5,952 –8,048 Disposed loan portfolios – 66 Investments in/divestments of bonds and other securities 866 64 Other cash flows from investing activities –12 –137 Cash flow from investing activities –5,098 –8,055 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Deposits from the public 4,204 3,832 New share issue – 555 Debt securities issued 3,450 3,991 Repurchase and repayment of Debt securities issued –3,629 –2,631 Additional Tier 1 capital – 310 Other cash flows from financing activities –102 –196 Cash flow from financing activities 3,923 5,861 Cash flow for the year 1,942 634 Cash at beginning of the year 3,840 3,172 Translation difference 22 34 Cash at end of the year1) 30 5,804 3,840 1) Comprised of Cash, Treasury bills and Treasury bonds and Lending to credit institutions. Hoist Finance  101 Annual Report 2019 Financial statements Parent Company income statement SEK m Note 2019 2018 Interest income 2 1,813 1,338 Interest expense 2 –458 –355 Net interest income 2 1,355 983 Dividends received 10 1,947 Fee and commission income 4 5 6 Net result from financial transactions 5 –147 –196 Derecognition gains and losses 5 –8 –2 Other operating income 6 232 310 Total operating income 1,447 3,048 General administrative expenses Personnel expenses 7 –393 –364 Other administrative expenses 8 –767 –593 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 18,19 –49 –32 Total operating expenses –1,209 –989 Profit before credit losses 238 2,059 Impairment gains and losses 3 56 83 Amortisation of financial fixed assets – –1,454 Profit from participations in joint ventures 9 71 82 Net operating profit 365 770 Appropriations 10 –47 –57 Taxes 11 –121 –66 Net profit 197 647 Parent company statement of comprehensive income SEK m Note 2019 2018 Net profit 197 647 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Translation difference, foreign operations 0 3 Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 0 3 0 3 Other comprehensive income for the period 0 3 Total comprehensive income for the period 197 650 Profit attributable to: Owners of Hoist Finance AB (publ) 197 650 Hoist Finance  102 Annual Report 2019 Financial statements Parent Company balance sheet SEK m Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 ASSETS Cash 0 0 Treasury bills and Treasury bonds 13,15 2,729 2,653 Lending to credit institutions 13,15 1,455 365 Lending to the public 13,15 13 17 Acquired loan portfolios 13,15,16 7,394 5,593 Receivables, Group companies 17,432 15,182 Bonds and other securities 13,15 2,769 3,635 Shares and participations in subsidiaries 17 807 722 Shares and participations in joint ventures 9 16 22 Intangible assets 18 186 177 Tangible assets 19 29 24 Other assets 21 290 340 Deferred tax assets 11 2 1 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 22 55 27 TOTAL ASSETS 33,177 28,758 SEK m Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Liabilities Deposits from the public 13,15,26 21,435 17,093 Tax liabilities 11 33 65 Other liabilities 23 912 524 Deferred tax liabilities 11 2 5 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 60 68 Provisions 25 53 41 Debt securities issued 13,15,26 5,431 5,950 Subordinated debts 13,15,26 852 839 Total liabilities and provisions 28,778 24,585 Untaxed reserves 268 221 Equity 27 Restricted equity Share capital 30 30 Statutory reserve 13 13 Revaluation reserve 74 66 Development expenditure fund 5 4 Total restricted equity 122 113 Non-restricted equity Other contributed equity 2,965 2,965 Reserves 3 3 Retained earnings 844 224 Profit for the period 197 647 Total non-restricted equity 4,009 3,839 Total equity 4,131 3,952 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 33,177 28,758 Hoist Finance  103 Annual Report 2019 Financial statements Parent Company statement of changes in equity Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Development Reserves Other Share Statutory Revaluation expenditure Translation contributed Retained Profit for the Total SEK m capital reserves reserve fund reserve equity earnings year equity Opening balance 1 Jan 2019 30 13 66 4 3 2,965 224 647 3,952 Transfer of previous year´s net profit/loss 647 –647 0 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year 197 197 Other comprehensive income 0 0 Total comprehensive income for the year 197 197 Transactions reported directly in equity Merger result 35 35 Transfer between restricted and non-restricted equity 1 –1 0 Interest paid on capital contribution –62 –62 Share-based payments 1 1 Portfolio revaluation reserve 10 10 Tax effect on items reported directly in equity –2 –2 Total transactions reported directly in equity 8 1 –27 –18 Closing balance 31 Dec 2019 30 13 74 5 3 2,965 844 197 4,131 Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Development Reserves Other Share Statutory Revaluation expenditure Translation contributed Retained Profit for the Total SEK m capital reserves reserve fund reserve equity earnings year equity Opening balance 1 Jan 2018 27 3 6 1,722 7 65 1,830 Transition effects IFRS 9 13 13 Adjusted opening balance 1 Jan 2018 27 3 6 1,722 20 65 1,843 Transfer of previous year´s net profit/loss 65 –65 0 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year 647 647 Other comprehensive income 3 3 Total comprehensive income for the year 3 647 650 Transactions reported directly in equity Dividend –154 –154 New share issue 3 552 1) 555 Reclassification –3 3 Merger result 10 64 3 380 333 790 Transfer between restricted and non-restricted equity –5 5 0 Additional Tier 1 capital instrument 3112) –7 304 Interest paid on capital contribution –41 –41 Portfolio revaluation reserve 2 2 Tax effect on items reported directly in equity 0 3 3 Total transactions reported directly in equity 3 10 66 –2 1,243 139 1,459 Closing balance 31 Dec 2018 30 13 66 4 3 2,965 224 647 3,952 1) Nominal amount of SEK 566m was reduced by transaction costs of SEK 13m. 2) Nominal amount of SEK 410m was reduced by transaction costs of SEK 6m and repurchased nominal amount of SEK 100m was reduced by transaction costs of SEK 7m. Hoist Finance  104 Annual Report 2019 Financial statements Parent Company cash flow statement SEK m Note 2019 2018 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before appropriations and taxes 365 770 of which, paid-in interest 880 629 of which, interest paid –344 –223 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow 30 Impairment of shares in subsidiaries – 1,454 Other items 270 158 Adjustment for items included in investing activities Dividend from subsidiaries –10 –1,947 Realised profit from divestment of shares and participations in joint ventures –60 –65 Income tax paid –160 –66 Total 405 304 Amortisations on acquired loan portfolios 1,014 922 Increase/decrease in other assets and liabilities –628 –425 Cash flow from operating activities 791 801 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Acquired loan portfolios –2,647 –3,992 Loans to Group companies –5,511 –4,626 Repaid loans, Group companies 3,919 2,170 Investments in/divestments of bonds and other securities 866 64 Dividend from subsidiaries received 10 502 Other cash flows from investing activities –49 –131 Cash flow from investing activities –3,412 –6,013 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Deposits from the public 4,204 3,832 New share issue – 555 Debt securities issued 839 3,991 Repurchase and repayment of Debt securites issued –1,526 –2,631 Additional Tier 1 capital – 310 Other cash flows from financing activities –62 –196 Cash flow from financing activities 3,455 5,861 Cash flow for the year 834 649 Cash at beginning of the year 2,690 69 Cash acquired through merger 78 1,973 Translation difference 0 –1 Cash at end of the year1) 30 3,602 2,690 1) Comprised of Cash, Treasury bills and Treasury bonds and Lending to credit institutions, decreased by Liabilities to Group companies, group account. Hoist Finance  105 Annual Report 2019 Accounting principles Accounting principles 1 Corporate information 8 Foreign currency translation 16 Employee benefits 2 Statement of compliance 9 Financial assets and liabilities 17 Taxes 3 Changed accounting principles 10 Hedge accounting 18 Earnings per share 4 New standards, amendments and inter11 Leasing 19 Equity pretations that have not yet been applied 12 Intangible assets 20 Related-party transactions 5 Assumptions 13 Tangible assets 21 Cash flow statement 6 Consolidation 14 Provisions 22 Parent Company accounting principles 7 Segment reporting 15 Income and expenses 23 Exchange rates 1 Corporate information IFRS 16 primarily affects reporting requirements for lessees. All lease The Annual Report is issued as of 31 December 2019 by Hoist Finance contracts will initially be recognised as a right-of-use asset and a liability AB (publ), CIN 556012-8489, the Parent Company of the Hoist Finance in the lessee’s balance sheet. The straight-line operating lease expense Group (”Hoist Finance”). The Parent Company is a Swedish public limitin the income statement is replaced with depreciation of the leased ed company, registered in Stockholm, Sweden. asset and an interest expense for the lease liability. The address of the head office is Box 7848, 103 99 Stockholm. The Hoist Finance applies IFRS 16 in the Group as from 1 January 2019. Group is licensed and supervised by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Hoist Finance has elected to apply the modified retrospective approach Authority. and, accordingly, there has been no recalculation of comparative The consolidated accounts for financial year 2019 were approved figures. The transition to IFRS 16 has not had any significant impact on by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2020 and will be presented for the Group’s financial position or capital adequacy. The effects of the adoption at the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2020. transition are summarised and explained below. 2 Statement of compliance Effects of transition to IFRS 16 Accounting principles of the Group Hoist Finance has applied the alternative of valuing all right-of-use assets The consolidated accounts for Hoist Finance AB (publ) were prepared in at the initial date of application at an amount corresponding to the lease accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) liability adjusted for any prepaid or accrued leasing fees related to lease issued by the International Accounting Standard Board (IASB) and intercontracts. The lease liability is valued at an amount corresponding to pretations issued by the IFRS Interpretation Committee as adopted by the present value of remaining leasing fees discounted by applying the EU. The Annual Report was prepared in accordance with the Swedish the Group’s marginal lending rate at the initial date of application. The Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies Group’s average marginal lending rate at transition was 3.74 per cent. (1995:1559), the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations For lease contracts previously classified as finance leases under IAS 17, and guidelines on annual accounts in credit institutions and securities right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are recognised on the initial date of companies (FFFS 2008:25) including applicable amendments, and the application at an amount corresponding to the asset and lease liability as Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendations RFR 1 “Supplevalued under IAS 17 immediately prior to the date of application. mentary Accounting Rules for Groups”. Hoist Finance has elected not to include right-of-use assets and lease liabilities related to lease contracts for which the lease term will Accounting principles of the Parent Company be concluded within 12 months following the transition date (short-term Parent Company Hoist Finance AB (publ) has prepared its annual lease agreements). report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act for Credit Transition to IFRS 16 had no effect on the Group’s opening balance of Institutions and Securities Companies (1995:1559) and the regulatory equity on 1 January 2019. code issued by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority on Annual Reports in Credit Institutions and Securities Companies (FFFS 2008:25), Effects on the balance sheet including applicable amendments. The Swedish Financial Board’s RFR 2, Following the transition to IFRS 16, Hoist Finance reports a lease liability Accounting for Legal Entities, was also applied. RFR 2 requires the Parent at the present value of remaining lease fees at the beginning of the lease Company to use the same accounting principles as the Group (e.g. IFRS) term. The lease liability is thereafter increased by interest expense and to the extent allowed by Swedish accounting legislation. However, the decreased by depreciation of the lease liability. The right-of-use asset is exception in RFR 2 is applied with respect to guarantee agreements initially recognised at the same amount as the lease liability, and subsebenefiting subsidiaries and leases. The differences between the Group’s quently written off on a straight-line basis over its useful life. and the Parent Company’s accounting principles are stated below. The Parent Company otherwise applies the same accounting principles as Effects on the income statement the Group, except in cases where opportunities to apply IFRS in legal Following the transition to IFRS 16, Hoist Finance reports interest entities are limited by Swedish accounting legislation. expense for lease liabilities in “Interest expense” and right-of-use deUnless otherwise indicated, the accounting principles specified bepreciation in “Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible low were applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial assets” in the income statement. The consolidated income statement reports. is therefore affected due to a reduction in “Other operating expenses” and an increase in “Interest expense” as compared with the previous 3 C hanged accounting principles application of IAS 17. New and amended standards adopted in the financial statements Compared to the annual report 2018 there has been one material new Effects on the cash flow statement accounting standard which Hoist Finance began to apply in 2019, IFRS Following the transition to IFRS 16, Hoist Finance recognises amortisa16 Leases. The following is a general description of changes to income tion of lease liabilities in “Cash flow from financing activities”, while instatement and balance sheet items under IFRS 16, as compared with preterest payments are recognised in “Cash flow from operating activities”. vious years’ reporting under IAS 17, as well as other IFRS amendments. Effects on capital adequacy IFRS 16 Leases The transition to IFRS 16 has not had any significant impact on capital The new standard IFRS 16 Leases came into effect 1 January 2019 and adequacy or major exposures in Hoist Finance’s consolidated situation. replaces existing IFRS (including IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease) related to the reporting of lease contracts. Hoist Finance  106 Annual Report 2019 Accounting principles Transition effects IFRS 16 exert influence over an investment, is exposed to or has the right to receive variable returns as a result of the investment, and is able to use its influence over the investment to affect returns. Original New carryThe Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to report carrying ing value value ReIFRS 16 under IFRS 16 business acquisitions. The consolidated acquisition value is determined SEK m 31 Dec 2018 classification transition 1 Jan 2019 by an acquisition analysis conducted in connection with the acquisition. The analysis determines the acquired identifiable assets, acquired Tangible assets 2 –0 171 173 liabilities and contingent liabilities. The acquisition value of subsidiary Prepaid expenses and shares and operations is comprised of their fair value as at acquisition accrued income 1 –1 – 0 date for assets, liabilities that arise or are transferred, and issued equity instruments transferred as consideration in exchange for the acquired Total assets 3 –1 171 173 net assets. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Other liabilities 2 – 171 173 In business combinations where acquisition cost exceeds the net Accrued expenses and value of the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, the prepaid income 1 –1 – 0 difference is reported as goodwill. When the difference is negative, it is reported directly in the income statement. The contingent purchase Total liabilities 3 –1 171 173 price is reported in the consolidated accounts at fair value through profit or loss. Intra-group receivables and liabilities, revenue and expenses, and unrealised gains and losses that arise from intra-group transactions Net effect on equity – – – – are eliminated in their entirety in the consolidated financial statements. Joint ventures IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments For accounting purposes, joint ventures are entities over which the IFRIC 23 addresses methods for reporting uncertainty regarding income Group has joint controlling influence through contractual arrangements tax amounts – for instance, how a current tax asset should be reported in with one or several parties and has a right to the net assets. In the concases such as when the amount has been appealed and is under discussion solidated accounts, joint venture holdings are consolidated in accordwith the tax authorities. ance with the equity method, under which the asset is initially reported Hoist Finance confirmes that the transition to IFRIC 23 had no significant at acquisition value. The carrying value is subsequently increased or impact on the Group decreased to reflect the owner company’s profit share in the investment after the acquisition date. Tax reported for shares and participations in Other IFRS amendments joint ventures is the capital gain that will accrue when the shares and No other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that came into effect in 2019 participations are redeemed. Changes attributable to exchange differhad any significant impact on the Group’s financial reports or capital ences are reported in ”Other comprehensive income”. In the BEST III Sec adequacy. Fund joint venture, the acquired loan portfolios are reported at fair value. Following the 5 December securitisation, Hoist Finance renamed balance sheet item “Unsecured debt” to “Issued securities”. This more 7 Segment reporting closely reflects what the item pertains to (see also footnote to the balAn operating segment is a part of the Group that operates a business ance sheet item). from which it can generate revenue and incur expenses and for which Hoist Finance decided in 2019 to establish its first bonus programme, independent financial information is available. This information serves as which is partially comprised of share-based payments. Accordingly, a governance tool and is reviewed on a regular basis by chief operating Hoist Finance began applying IFRS 2 “Share-based Payment”. See Note 7 decision makers to evaluate performance and allocate resources to the ”Personnel expenses” for additional information. segment. In all other material aspects, the Group’s and the Parent CompaFor Hoist Finance, geographic regions – comprised of individual ny’s accounting policies, bases of calculation and presentation are countries – are the main basis for division into segments. Geographic unchanged compared with the 2018 Annual Report. segments are an accurate reflection of the Group’s business activities, as acquired loan portfolios are managed on a country-by-country basis. 4  New standards, amendments and interpretations The company’s chief operating decision maker is responsible for definthat have not yet been applied ing the segment. New and amended IFRS and IFRIC that have not yet been applied are See Note 1 “Segment reporting” for additional information on the not expected to have any significant effect on the Company’s financial operating segments. reports. 8 Foreign currency translation 5 Assumptions Functional currency The preparation of financial reports in accordance with IFRS requires SEK is the functional currency of the Parent Company and the presentathat Management make estimates and assumptions that affect the tion currency of the Group and the Parent Company. Group companies application of the accounting principles and the carrying value of assets, and branches prepare their accounts in the functional currency of the liabilities, revenue and expenses. Estimates and assumptions are based country in which they operate. For consolidation purposes, all transacon historical experience and a number of other factors that are deemed tions in other currencies are converted into SEK at balance sheet date. reasonable in the prevailing circumstances. The result of these estimates All amounts, unless indicated otherwise, are rounded to the nearest and assumptions is then used to assess the carrying values of assets million. and liabilities that are not otherwise clearly indicated by other sources. Actual outcomes may deviate from these estimates and assumptions. Transactions in foreign currency Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly, and the effect on Transactions in a currency other than the local functional currency are carrying values is recognised through profit or loss. Changes in estimates translated at the exchange rate in effect on the transaction date. When are reported in the period in which the change is made, provided the such transactions are settled, the exchange rate may deviate from the change has affected only this period, or the period the change was made transaction date rate, in which case a realised exchange difference arisand future periods if the change affects both current and future periods. es. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency are also translated Estimates made by Management that have a significant impact on the to functional currency at the balance sheet date exchange rate, which consolidated financial statements and which may affect the consolidated gives rise to unrealised exchange differences. Both realised and unrealfinancial statements in subsequent years are described in more detail in ised exchange differences of this type are reported in the consolidated Note 36 ”Critical estimates and assumptions”. income statement. 6 Consolidation Translation of foreign operations’ financial statements Subsidiaries Assets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and Subsidiaries are entities over which the Parent Company has controlling other consolidated surplus and deficit values, are translated from the influence. Controlling influence exists when the Parent Company can operation’s functional currency to the Group’s reporting currency at the Hoist Finance  107 Annual Report 2019 Accounting principles balance sheet date exchange rate. Revenues and expenses are translatmeasured at fair value in the balance sheet and traded on an active ed at the yearly average rate, which serves as an approximation of the market comprise investments in eligible treasury bills, and bonds and rate that was applied on each transaction date. Translation differences other securities. Financial instruments that are not traded on an active from subsidiaries arise because the balance sheet date exchange rate market but which can be measured using other valuation methods, changes each period and because the average rate deviates from the with observable market information as input (level 2), are comprised of balance sheet date exchange rate. Translation differences are reported currency hedges and interest derivatives. In cases where assets and liain ”Other comprehensive income” as a separate component of equity. bilities have conflicting market risks, the mid-price is used to determine Information on the most important exchange rates is disclosed in the fair value. See Note 13 “Financial instruments”. separate section 23 “Exchange rates”. Financial assets and liabilities recognised at amortised cost 9 Financial assets and liabilities Acquired loan portfolios Recognition in and derecognition from the balance sheet ”Acquired loan portfolios” are comprised of loan receivables, some of A financial asset or liability is recognised in the balance sheet when the which are credit-impaired receivables acquired at a price significantly company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrubelow the nominal claim and some of which are performing loans. The ment. A receivable is recognised in the balance sheet when the counterportfolios are held within the framework of a business model focused party is contractually liable to pay, even if an invoice has not been sent. on holding the receivables in order to collect contractual cash flows Loan receivables, deposits, issued securities and subordinated debt are comprised of principal payments and interest payments on outstanding recognised in the balance sheet at the settlement date. A spot purchase principal. or sale of financial assets is recognised in and derecognised from the statement of financial position on the trade date. A financial asset is Measurement methods derecognised from the balance sheet when the contractual right to The amortised cost is the amount at which the financial asset or liability receive cash flows from the financial asset expires or when the financial was measured at initial recognition, decreased by amortisation using the asset is transferred and the company simultaneously transfers substaneffective interest method of any difference between that initial amount tially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset. A and the maturity amount and adjusted for any loss allowance. The effinancial liability or portion thereof is derecognised when the obligation fective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the expected cash is discharged or otherwise extinguished. An exchange between the flows (including transaction costs) to the gross carrying amount of financompany and an existing lender, or an existing borrower of debt instrucial assets. For purchased performing loan portfolios, the calculation ments with essentially different terms and conditions, is recognised as of the effective interest rate does not take into consideration expected an extinguishment of the old financial liability or asset, respectively, and credit losses. recognised as a new financial instrument. Financial assets and liabilities When Hoist Finance revises estimates of future cash flows on acare offset and the net amount recognised in the balance sheet only when quired credit-impaired loans, the carrying amount of the financial asset there is a legal right to offset the amounts and an intention to settle the is adjusted to reflect the new estimate discounted using the effective initems net or to concurrently realise the asset and settle the liability. terest rate determined at initial recognition. Any changes are recognised With regard to “Acquired loan portfolios”, changes in instalment agreein profit or loss. ments do not comprise grounds for derecognition from the balance sheet or for recognition of modifications of loan receivables. Debtor instalment Interest income agreements are completed on a regular basis for receivables in “Acquired Interest income for credit-impaired loans is calculated by applying the loan portfolios” and in some countries, the instalment agreements are effective interest rate to the loan’s carrying value. For performing loans, established through legal processes pursuant to insolvency rules. Changinterest income is calculated as the effective interest rate times the es in expected cash flows as a result of instalment agreements have an loan’s gross value before loss allowance. impact on the portfolios’ amortised cost and are recognised in profit or loss as “Impairment gains and losses”. Impairment Impact on earnings arising from derecognition upon, e.g., the write-off Hoist Finance assesses on a forward-looking basis the expected credit or sale of financial assets valued at amortised costs are reported in profit losses (ECL) associated with its debt instrument assets carried at amor loss as “Profit/loss on derecognition of financial assets”. ortised cost. Loss allowances for ECL are recognised at each reporting date, where the measurement of ECL reflects: Classification and measurement »» An unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is determined by Financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus transacevaluating a range of possible outcomes tion costs, with the exception of derivatives and instruments from the »» The time value of money “Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss” category, which are »» Reasonable and supportable information on current and future macrecognised at fair value in profit or loss. These are recognised at fair valroeconomic and non-macroeconomic conditions ue exclusive of transaction costs. Financial instruments are classified on initial recognition. The classification of a financial asset is based on the For acquired performing loan assets, IFRS 9 outlines a model for impairunderlying reason in the entity’s business model for acquiring the asset ment based on the changes in credit quality since initial recognition, as and the nature of the contractual cash flows generated by the financial summarised below: asset. Financial liabilities are classified at amortised cost, except for de»» All financial assets that are not credit-impaired at initial recognition rivative liabilities, which are classified at fair value through profit or loss. are classified as stage 1 and Hoist Finance continuously monitors The classification determines how the financial instrument is measured their credit risk. after initial recognition, as described below. »» Stage 2 financial assets are those which have experienced a trigger event for a significant increase in credit risk but are not yet deemed Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss to be credit-impaired. Note 31 ”Risk management” describes the The financial assets recognised by the Group at fair value through criteria for the triggers for a significant increase in credit risk. profit or loss (FVTPL) are derivatives with positive values where hedge »» Stage 3 financial assets are those which are credit-impaired. Note 31 accounting is not applied, as well as “Eligible treasury bills” and “Bonds ”Risk management” describes the criteria for a financial asset to be and other securities”. In addition to derivatives, financial assets recogconsidered credit-impaired or in default. nised at FVTPL are managed pursuant to a fair-value-based business model primarily aimed at providing liquidity for the acquisition of loan Financial instruments in stage 1 have their ECL measured at an amount portfolios. The financial liabilities recognised at FVTPL are derivatives equal to the portion of lifetime expected credit losses that result from with negative values to which hedge accounting does not apply. Derivdefault events in the next 12 months. Instruments in stage 2 and 3 have atives are initially recognised at fair value at the date the derivative is their ECL measured based on expected credit losses on a lifetime basis. contracted and are subsequently measured at fair value at the end of The ECL modelling techniques utilised by Hoist Finance are described in each reporting period. Changes in fair value are recognised in the “Net the notes. financial income” item. Write-offs Fair value measurement For acquired loan portfolios, Hoist Finance will, in whole or in part, The fair value of financial instruments traded on an active market (level 1) derecognise assets where there is no reasonable expectation of recovis determined for financial assets based on the current bid price. Assets ery. Indicators of when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery Hoist Finance  108 Annual Report 2019 Accounting principles include: (i) ceasing of enforcement activities; (ii) realisation of collateral; the acquisition value or amortised cost, depending on what is appli(iii) days past due and days since last payment was received (not used in cable. Subsequently seized assets are measured according to type of isolation); and (iv) sudden change of debtor status indicating inability to asset, with the exception of impairment on tangible seized assets which meet any portion of its contractual obligations. is reported as ”Gains/losses from tangible and intangible assets” rather than as ”Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and Unidentified revenue and payments intangible assets”. The purpose is to better reflect the similar character The Group receives large volumes of payments from debtors on its own of impairment of assets that are taken over to protect claims on counterbehalf and on behalf of Group customers. In cases where the sender’s parties and credit losses. reference information is missing or incorrect, it is difficult to assign the payment to the correct account. Payments are also sometimes received Financial liabilities on closed accounts. In such instances, a reasonable search is conductThe Group’s financial liabilities are comprised of ”Issued securities”, ed and an attempt is made to contact the payment sender. Unidentified ”Subordinated debts” and ”Other financial liabilities”. Financial liabilities payments are treated as “Other liabilities”. The amounts are recognised are initially recognised at fair value, including transaction costs directly as revenue in accordance within a predefined time frame. attributable to the acquisition or issue of the debt instrument. Subsequent to acquisition, they are recognised at amortised cost pursuant Securitisation to the effective interest method. Financial liabilities valued at fair value During 2019 the Group completed two securitisation transactions of a through comprehensive income include such financial liabilities held for significant portion of the Italian loan portfolio, in which acquired credtrading (derivatives). it-impaired loan portfolios were sold by the Group to a wholly owned subsidiary (a special purpose vehicle, SPV). The subsidiary in turn issued Modification of financial assets and liabilities bonds to investors secured by the purchased assets. When a financial For acquired loans, Hoist Finance does on occasion renegotiate or asset is transferred, Hoist Finance needs to evaluate the degree to which otherwise modify a loan’s contractual cash flows. When this happens, it retains the risks and benefits associated with ownership of the asset. Hoist Finance assesses whether or not the new terms are substantially If Hoist Finance retains substantially all risks and benefits associated different from the original terms. In doing so, Hoist Finance considers with ownership of the financial asset, Hoist Finance continues to report factors including: the asset in the statement of financial position. The loan portfolios sold »» Change in interest rate or the denomination of the currency of the by Hoist Finance do not meet the requirements for removal from the loan statement of financial position – mainly because the credit risk was not »» Extension of the loan term or changes in payment schedule transferred in its entirety – and, accordingly, the portfolios will continue »» Insertion of collateral or other security or credit enhancements that to be reported in the Group. affect the credit risk associated with the loan If the terms are substantially different, Hoist Finance derecognises Other financial assets at amortised cost the original financial asset and recognises a new asset at fair value Other financial assets at amortised cost encompasses “Lending to according to the new contractual terms, and recalculates a new effective credit institutions”, as well as accounts receivable and other financial interest rate. The difference in gross carrying amount is recognised in assets reported under “Other assets” (excluding derivatives with positive profit or loss as a gain or loss on derecognition. values). The assets are held within the framework of a business model If the terms are deemed as not substantially different the modificawith the objective of holding assets to collect contractual cash flows tion does not result in derecognition, and Hoist Finance recalculates the comprising repayments of capital and interest on the capital outstandgross carrying amount based on the revised cash flows of the financial ing. On initial recognition, accounts receivable are recognised at the asset and recognises a modification gain or loss in profit or loss in “Net transaction price and other financial assets are recognised at fair value result from financial transactions”. The new gross carrying amount is exclusive of transaction costs. Thereafter, the effective interest method recalculated by discounting the modified cash flows at the original is used to measure amortised cost. The items provide the basis for the effective interest rate determined by Hoist Finance at initial recognition. loss allowance for expected credit losses (ECL). The loss allowance for A modification of contractual cash flows for acquired loans is considaccounts receivable is calculated using the simplified approach. The ered a default trigger if the modification reduces the financial obligation ECL allowance is prepared on initial recognition and on subsequent towards Hoist Finance by more than 1 per cent. This implies that these balance sheet dates, and takes into consideration the remaining term of loans will be considered credit-impaired and consequently classified in the receivable. Stage 3 where loss allowance is recognised on a lifetime basis. The loss allowance for “Lending to credit institutions” and ”Other financial assets” is based on allocation of the assets in three different 10 Hedge accounting stages that reflect changes in credit risk. On initial recognition, the asset The Group applies hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39. is allocated to stage 1 and, on initial recognition and on subsequent Derivatives are used to hedge (for the purpose of neutralising) any balance sheet dates, a loss allowance is reported for the next 12 months. risk of interest-rate and exchange-rate exposure for the Parent Company If the credit risk for the financial asset has increased significantly since or the Group. The Group applies hedge accounting in cases where initial recognition, the asset is allocated to stage 2 and the loss allowcurrency derivatives or foreign currency debts are used to hedge net ance is calculated for the entire remainder of the term. Interest income investments in foreign operations. When hedge accounting is used for under the effective interest method for financial assets in stages 1 and foreign net investments and the hedge has proven 80–125 per cent 2 is calculated on the gross carrying amount. While a loss allowance effective, changes in the hedging instrument’s fair value are recognised continues to be calculated for the entire remainder of the term for stage in “Other comprehensive income” and accrued (as are the translation 3 credit-impaired assets, interest income according to the effective effects of net investments) in the translation reserve. In cases where the interest method is calculated on the amortised cost, i.e., after taking into hedge is 101–125 per cent effective, the ineffectiveness is recognised account the loss allowance. Should the credit risk decline, the asset can in the income statement in the item “Net financial income”. For other once again be allocated to stages 1 or 2. The allocation criteria for the derivatives to which hedge accounting does not apply, changes are various stages are determined by the Group. recognised in fair value under the item “Net financial income”. The recognised balance sheet items comprise the net of gross For qualitative information on the Group’s management of market amounts and the loss allowance. Consequently, no separate provision risk, see Note 31 “Risk management”. Quantitative information on the for the loss allowance is reported in the balance sheet. Changes in the Group’s derivative instruments for hedging purposes in presented in loss allowance are recognised under “Impairment gains and losses” in Note 14 “Derivatives”. profit or loss. 11 Leasing Seized assets Leasing under IAS 17 (comparative periods) Seized assets are assets taken over to protect a claim. Hoist Finance may Lease contracts in which a significant share of the risks and rewards of waive a loan receivable and instead seize the asset that served as collatownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. eral for the loan. Seized assets may consist of financial assets, properPayments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received ties and other tangible assets. Seized asset are recognised on the same from the lessor) are charged to the income statements on a straight-line line item in the balance sheet as similar assets that have been acquired basis over the lease term. Operating leases relate primarily to leases of otherwise. Seized assets comprised of tangible assets are measured as office premises and office equipment for the company’s normal business inventories in accordance with IAS 2. At initial recognition seized assets operations. are measured at fair value. The fair value at initial recognition becomes Hoist Finance  109 Annual Report 2019 Accounting principles Lease contracts in which a significant share of the risks and rewards tifiable net assets acquired, the excess amount is reported as goodwill. of ownership are retained by the Group are classified as finance leases. Goodwill from acquisitions of subsidiaries is reported as intangible assets. Finance leases are reported as assets and liabilities in the balance sheet Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of at the amount equal to the leased assets’ fair value or, if lower, the presimpairment testing. Allocation is made to the cash-generating units, or ent value of future minimum leasing fees as at inception of the lease. groups of cash-generating units, determined in accordance with the Lease payments are allocated between interest and amortisation of the Group’s operating segments that are expected to benefit from the busioutstanding debt. Interest is distributed over the lease term so that each ness combination in which the goodwill arose. accounting period is charged with an amount corresponding to a fixed Goodwill is tested annually, or more often if so indicated, to identify interest rate for the liability reported during that period. The depreciaany impairment requirements and is carried at cost less accumulated imtion policy for assets acquired under finance leases is consistent with pairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Profit that for comparable own assets. or loss on disposal of an entity includes the remaining carrying value of goodwill relating to the entity sold. Leasing under IFRS 16 “Leases” Contracts that are deemed as at their start date to transfer right-of-use Other intangible assets for an identified asset for a specified period in exchange for consideraOther intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their tion are reported as lease contracts by Hoist Finance. The Group applies useful lives, but not over a longer period than five years. the exceptions allowed under the standard for intangible assets, shortterm leases and lease contracts with low-value underlying assets. These Impairments lease contracts are reported as ”Other expenses”. An impairment test is conducted upon indication of depreciation in valLease contracts that include both a lease component and associated ue, or at least annually when each asset’s residual value and remaining non-lease components are accounted for separately if an observable useful life are determined. stand-alone price is available; otherwise, non-lease components are The recoverable value of the asset is estimated if there are indicanot accounted for separately but rather reported as a single leasing tions of an impairment requirement. For goodwill and other intangible component. assets with indeterminate useful lives and for intangible assets that have At a lease contract’s start date, a right-of-use asset and a lease liabilnot yet come into use, recoverable values are calculated on an annual ity are reported in the balance sheet. The lease liability is initially valued basis. If independent cash flows cannot be determined for individual at the present value of remaining leasing fees at the start of the lease assets, the assets are grouped at the lowest level at which independent contract. After initial recognition, the lease liability is valued at amorcash flows can be identified – a cash-generating unit. tised cost pursuant to the effective interest method. Lease payments are An impairment is reported when the carrying value of an asset or a allocated between interest and amortisation of the outstanding liability. cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable value. Impairments are reInterest is allocated over the lease period so that every accounting ported in the income statement. Impairments attributable to a cash-genperiod is charged with an amount corresponding to a fixed interest rate erating unit are primarily allocated to goodwill and are subsequently for the liability recognised during the respective period. Right-of-use is distributed proportionally among other assets in the unit. initially valued at an amount corresponding to the lease liability’s original The recoverable value for cash-generating units is the fair value less value plus any prepaid leasing fees or initial direct costs, and is then divestment costs or the useful value, whichever is greater. Useful value written off on a straight-line basis over its useful life. The carrying value is calculated by discounting future cash flows using a discounting factor of the right-of-use asset is adjusted for any revaluations of the lease that takes into account the risk-free interest rate and the risk associated liability. with that particular asset. Lease contracts may include provisions for extending or terminating Goodwill impairment is not reversed. Impairment of other assets is agreements included in the lease period only if it is deemed to be reareversed if there have been changes in the underlying assumptions that sonably certain that such provisions will be exercised. The lease liability were used to determine recoverable value. Impairments are reversed is revalued to reflect the new assessment of the lease period. only to the extent that the carrying value of the assets following the reLease contracts in the Hoist Group are classified in the following versal does not exceed the carrying value of the assets if the impairment categories: had not been reported. »» Equipment and furniture »» Office premises 13 Tangible assets »» Vehicles Tangible assets are comprised of IT equipment, improvements to leased »» IT hardware premises, and equipment. The majority of lease contracts are leases of office premises for the Tangible assets are reported as assets in the balance sheet if it is likecompany’s normal business operations. ly that the future economic benefits will accrue to the company and the cost of the asset can be reliably estimated. Tangible assets are reported 12 Intangible assets at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments. Intangible assets are identifiable, non-monetary assets that lack physical substance and are under Hoist Finance’s control. Principles for depreciation/amortisation of assets Assets are depreciated/amortised using the straight-line method over Capitalised expenses for IT development estimated useful life and applying the following periods: Expenditures for IT development and maintenance are generally »» Equipment 2–5 years expensed as incurred. Expenditures for software development that can »» Investments in leased premises 5 years be attributed to identifiable assets that are under the Group’s control »» Intangible assets 3–7 years and that have anticipated future economic benefits are capitalised and reported as intangible assets. 14 Provisions Additional costs for previously developed software, etc. are reported Provisions are recognised for existing legal or informal obligations as assets in the consolidated balance sheet if they increase the anticiarising from past events where it is probable that a transfer of economic pated future economic benefits of the specific asset to which they are benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation. attributable – e.g., by improving or extending a computer programme’s The amount must be able to be reliably estimated in order to for functionality beyond its original use and estimated useful life. recognition to occur. The provision is measured at the amount correIT development costs reported as intangible assets are amortised sponding to the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the using the straight-line method over their useful lives, though not more obligation at the balance sheet date. than seven years. The asset is reported at cost less accumulated amortiThe expected future date of the settlement is taken into account in sation and impairment losses. Costs associated with the maintenance of the estimate. existing computer software are continuously expensed as incurred. For capitalisation of self-generated development expenditures, the 15 Income and expenses corresponding amount is transferred from unrestricted equity to restrictInterest income ed equity in the Parent Company. Interest income encompasses interest income according to the effective interest method from “Acquired loan portfolios”, from “Lending to credit Goodwill institutions” and investments in “Eligible treasury bills” and “Bonds and When the purchase price, any non-controlling interest and fair value at the other securities”. acquisition date of previous shareholdings exceed the fair value of idenHoist Finance  110 Annual Report 2019 Accounting principles Interest income pertaining to credit-impaired assets is based on the to make such payments due to services rendered by employees and initial credit-adjusted effective interest rate and the portfolio’s amortised when the obligation can be reliably calculated. cost at the start of the period. Interest income pertaining to “Other financial instruments” is based on the initial effective interest rate and the Redundancy payments instrument’s gross value at the start of the period. However, if an asset Remuneration expense in connection with termination of personnel is has been credit-impaired, the interest income is calculated on the amorreported either when the company is no longer able to withdraw the tised cost a – i.e., the net of the gross value and the ECL loss allowance. redundancy offer or when the company reports restructuring costs, whichever occurs sooner. Payments that are expected to be settled after Interest expense twelve months are reported at present value. Interest expense is mainly comprised of expenses associated with the Group’s funding via deposits from the public and issued debt instruPensions ments. Group companies operate various pension schemes, which are generally funded through payments determined by periodic actuarial calculations Impairment gains and losses to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds. The earnings item comprises loss allowance changes pertaining to “Acquired loan portfolios”. Where applicable, modification gains/losses The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans: attributable to “Acquired loan portfolios” are included. The item also »» Defined benefit plans normally specify the pension rate to be reencompasses a loss allowance for other financial assets recognised ceived by the employee upon retirement, usually dependent on one at amortised cost. Both positive and negative remeasurements can or several factors, such as age, years of service and salary. be recognised under this item. If no reasonable expectation exists of »» Under defined contribution plans, the Group pays fixed contributions recovering the remaining receivables in a portfolio, an impairment loss into a separate entity. The Group has no legal or informal obligation is recognised and the carrying amount of the asset is derecognised from to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets the balance sheet. to pay all benefits to employees relating to employee service during “Impairment gains and losses” also includes the net of actual and the current and prior periods. projected collections. The liability reported in the consolidated balance sheet with respect to Fee and commission income defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit Companies in the Hoist Finance Group provide collection services for obligation as at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. third parties. In such agreements the counterparty selects the receivThe defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent ables to be included in the contract and transfers those to the Group, actuaries using the projected unit credit method. while retaining ownership of the receivables. In such contracts the The net present value of the defined benefit obligation is deterGroup is generally entitled to remuneration corresponding to a fixed mined by discounting estimated future cash flows using interest rates of percentage of successful collections. The Group may also be entitled to high-quality corporate bonds denominated in the currency in which the bonus payments in the event collections during a specific period reach a benefits will be paid and with durations approximating the durations of certain level. A contract may also include a cancellation fee. the related pension liability. The Group reports fee and commission income in accordance with Net interest expense/income for the defined benefit pension obliIFRS 15. Income is recognised when the performance obligation has gation/asset is reported in “Net interest income”. Net interest income is been fulfilled and when control is transferred to the customer. Variable based on the discount rate used in calculating the net obligation – i.e., payments are recognised as income to the extent it is highly probathe interest on the obligation, plan assets and interest on effects of any ble that no material provision of previously recognised accumulated asset restrictions. Other components are recognised in net operating income is likely to arise in later periods. For Hoist Finance, services are income. transferred and income is recognised at a given time, as the services are Revaluation effects are comprised of actuarial gains and losses, performed. discrepancies between actual return on plan assets and the amount included in net interest income, and any changes to effects of asset Net financial income restrictions (exclusive of interest included in net interest income). Reval“Net financial income” includes realised and unrealised exchange rate uation effects are reported in ”Other comprehensive income”. fluctuations, gains/losses on financial assets and liabilities recognised Changes or reductions to defined benefit plans are reported at the at FVTPL and the ineffective portion of hedges of foreign net investearlier of the following: ments. The item may also include modification gains/losses on financial »» when the change to or reduction in the plan occurs, or instruments that are unrelated to acquired loan portfolios. Earnings »» when the company reports the associated restructuring costs and effects that are not recognised as separate earnings items that pertain to redundancy costs financial assets recognised at amortised cost can, when derecognised Changes/reductions are reported directly as personnel expenses in from the balance sheet and on reclassification, be recognised under the profit and loss accounts. “Net financial income”. The special employer’s contribution is included in the actuarial assumptions and is reported as part of the net obligation/result in Other operating expenses derecognition, and Hoist Finance recalculates the gross carrying Various types of costs directly related to loan portfolio administration amount based on the revised cash flows of the financial asset and are grouped under “Other operating expenses”. For the Group, “Other recognises a modification gain or loss in profit or loss in “Net result from operating expenses” are mainly direct costs for external collection serfinancial transactions”. The new gross carrying amount is recalculated vices. “Fee and commission income” refers to income for these external by discounting the modified cash flows at the original effective interest services and is recognised when fee and commission provisions can be rate determined by Hoist Finance at initial recognition. reliably measured. A modification of contractual cash flows for acquired loans is considered a default trigger if the modification reduces the financial obligation 16 Employee benefits towards Hoist Finance by more than 1 per cent. This implies that these loans will be considered credit-impaired and consequently classified in All forms of remuneration provided to employees as compensation for Stage 3 where loss allowance is recognised on a lifetime basis. services rendered constitute employee benefits. Share-based payment arrangement Short-term benefits A long-term incentive plan (LTIP) enables the Executive Management Short-term benefits to employees are settled within twelve months Team to acquire shares in the Company. The fair value of the granted following the close of the reporting period during which the services options is recognised as a personnel expense, with a corresponding were rendered. Short-term benefits are mainly comprised of fixed and increase in equity. Fair value is calculated at grant date and distribvariable salary, both of which are accounted for during the period in uted over the vesting period. The fair value of the granted options is which the related services are rendered. Post-employment benefits in calculated and takes into account market conditions, conditions that Hoist Finance comprise only pensions. Benefits that are not expected to are not vesting conditions, and applicable conditions on grant date. be fully settled within twelve months are reported as long-term benefits. The cost recognised corresponds to the fair value of the estimated A provision is reported for the expected cost of profit share and bonumber of options expected to be vested, taking into account service nus payments when the Group has valid legal or constructive obligation Hoist Finance  111 Annual Report 2019 Accounting principles and performance conditions that are not market conditions. The cost is »» Associated companies and joint ventures adjusted in subsequent periods to ultimately reflect the actual number »» Key senior management of vested options, although no adjustment is made when forfeiture is »» Other related parties based solely on non-fulfilment of market conditions and/or conditions that are not vesting conditions. Social fees attributable to share-based All intra-group transactions between legal entities and transactions with instruments granted to employees as remuneration for purchased serother related parties are conducted pursuant to the arm’s length princivices are expensed over the period during which services are rendered. ple in accordance with OECD requirements. Intra-group transactions are The provision for social fees is based on the options’ fair value at the eliminated in the consolidated accounts. reporting date. For additional details, see Note 7 ”Personnel expenses”. Shareholders with significant influence Shareholders with significant influence are entitled to take part in deci17 Taxes sions on Hoist Finance’s financial and operational strategies, but do not Taxes are comprised of current tax and deferred tax. Taxes are reported have controlling influence over such strategies. through profit or loss unless the underlying transaction is directly reported in ”Equity” or in ”Other comprehensive income”, in which case the Group companies and associated companies attributable tax effect is also reported in ”Equity” or ”Other comprehenA company is defined as a related party if the company and its reporting sive income”, respectively. entity are part of the Hoist Finance Group. Current tax refers to tax paid or received for the current year, using See section 6, Consolidation, for the definition of “subsidiaries and tax rates that apply as at the balance sheet date, including adjustments joint ventures”. Further information on Hoist Finance Group companies for current tax attributable to previous periods. is presented in Note 17 ”Group companies”. Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the balance sheet method based on temporary differences between the carrying value Key senior management of assets and liabilities and their value for tax purposes. The following Key senior executives include: temporary differences are not taken into account: »» the Board of Directors »» Temporary differences that arise in the initial recognition of goodwill »» the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) »» The initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction other »» the Executive Management Team than a business combination and which, at the time of the transaction, does not affect either the reported or taxable profit See Note 7 “Personnel expenses” for details on compensation, pensions »» Temporary differences attributable to participations in subsidiaries and other transactions with key senior executives. and associated companies that are not expected to be reversed within the foreseeable future Other related parties The measurement of deferred tax is based on how the carrying valOther related parties comprise close relatives and family members of ues of assets or liabilities are expected to be realised or settled. Deferred key senior management, if that or those person(s) has or have contax is calculated by applying the tax rates and tax rules that have been trolling influence, severally or jointly, over the reporting entity. set or essentially set as of the balance sheet date. Other related parties are also companies over which Hoist Finance Deferred tax assets from deductible temporary differences and tax Group key management personnel, or their close relatives, have signifilosses carry-forwards are only recognised if it is likely that they will be cant influence. utilised within the foreseeable future. The value of deferred tax assets is Information on transactions between Hoist Finance and other related reduced when they are utilised or when it is no longer deemed likely that parties is presented in Note 33 ”Related-party transactions”. they will be utilised. Current tax, deferred tax, and tax attributable to the previous year 21 Cash flow statement are reported under ”Income tax expense”. The cash flow statement includes changes in the balance of cash and cash equivalents. The Group’s cash and cash equivalents is comprised of 18 Earnings per share cash, treasury bills and treasury bonds and lending to credit institutions. Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net profit for the year Cash flow is divided into cash flow from operating activities, investment attributable to Hoist Finance AB (publ) shareholders, adjusted for interactivities and financing activities. The indirect method is used to report est on capital instruments recorded in equity, by the weighted average cash flow. number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Cash flow from investing activities includes only actual disbursements Diluted earnings per share are determined by adjusting the weighted for investments made during the year. average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all diluForeign subsidiaries’ transactions are translated in the cash flow statetive potential ordinary shares, consisting of rights to performance shares ment at the average exchange rate for the period. Acquired and divested in the long-term warrant programmes. subsidiaries are reported as ”Cash flow from investing activities, net”, Potential ordinary shares are only considered to be dilutive on the after deducting cash and cash equivalents in the acquired or divested balance sheet date if a conversion to ordinary shares would reduce company. For acquired and divested subsidiaries that hold debt portthe earnings per share. The rights are further considered dilutive only folios, acquired and divested loan portfolios are reported in ”Operating when the exercise price, plus future services, is lower than the period’s activities”. average share price. 22 Parent Company accounting principles 19 Equity The Parent Company’s financial statements have been prepared in acWhen a financial instrument is issued in the Group it is reported as a cordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions financial liability or as an equity instrument, in accordance with the and Securities Companies (1995:1559) and the regulatory code issued financial implications of the instrument’s terms. These instruments or by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority on Annual Reports in sections thereof are reported as liabilities when the company has an Credit Institutions and Securities Companies (FFFS 2008:25), including irrevocable obligation to pay cash. Issued financial instruments that do applicable amendments. The Swedish Financial Board’s RFR 2 “Accountnot irrevocably oblige the company to pay cash on interest and nominal ing for legal entities” requires the Parent Company to use the same amounts are reported as equity. accounting principles as the Group (i.e., IFRS) to the extent allowed Return to investors is reported as a dividend to equity with respect by Swedish accounting legislation. However, the exception in RFR 2 is to equity instruments and as an interest expense in profit or loss with applied with respect to guarantee agreements benefiting subsidiaries respect to debt instruments. and leases. Mergers are accounted for in accordance with BFNAR 1999:1. The Dividend differences between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting Proposed dividends are reported as a liability after having been apprinciples are stated below. proved by the Annual General Meeting. 22.1 Change in accounting principles 20 Related-party transactions Unless otherwise indicated below, the Parent Company’s accounting Hoist Finance defines related parties as: principles have changed in accordance what is specified above for the »» Shareholders with significant influence Group. »» Group companies Hoist Finance  112 Annual Report 2019 Accounting principles The new principles for leases under IFRS 16 that the Group has started 22.6 Untaxed reserves to apply are not applied by the Parent Company. The Parent Company In the Parent Company, untaxed reserves are reported as a separate item applies the exception in RFR 2 and, accordingly, recognises existing lease in the balance sheet. In the consolidated financial statements, untaxed contracts as it has done in previous years. reserves are divided into a ‘deferred tax liability’ component and an ‘equity’ component. 22.2. Group contributions and dividends Group contributions 22.7 Financial instruments Hoist Finance applies the main rule in RFR2 IAS 27.2. Group contribuThe Parent Company applies IFRS 9 in its entirety as from 1 January tions received from Group companies are reported in the income state2018. However, the RFR 2 exception is applied with respect to guarantee ment. The net of Group contributions paid or received for optimising the agreements benefiting subsidiaries. Group’s tax expense is reported as appropriation in the Parent Company. The Parent Company’s financial assets continue to be classified at Group contributions from the Parent Company to subsidiaries are reportamortised cost and, accordingly, the transition to IFRS 9 has had no ed as an increase in participations in Group companies, net of tax. effect. The Parent Company’s financial assets recognised at amortised cost Dividends are subject to a loss allowance. The calculated credit loss in the Parent Dividends paid to Hoist Finance AB (publ) shareholders are reported as a Company is not significant and no loss allowance is presented. liability following the approval of the Annual General Meeting. Dividends from subsidiaries and associated companies are reported as ”Dividends 22.8 Hedge accounting received”. The Parent Company applies hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39. 22.3 Subsidiaries From 1 April 2018 the Parent Company applies hedge accounting Parent Company shareholdings and participations in Group companies to the fair value of participations in foreign subsidiaries as well as parare reported based on cost of acquisition. Holdings are carried at cost and ticipations in the Polish joint venture. In hedge accounting, exchange only dividends are reported in the income statement. Impairment tests are rates influence the carrying value of participations in subsidiaries and conducted in accordance with IAS 36 “Impairments of assets” and writeparticipations in joint ventures. This change in value is reported in “Net downs are made when permanent decline in value is established. financial income”, as is the change in value of hedging instruments. Transaction costs are included in the carrying value of the holding in Hedge accounting thus shows a net effect in “Net financial income” the subsidiary. compared with previous reports, when reported changes in value of Transaction costs attributable to subsidiaries are reported directly in hedging instruments did not correspond to any reported changes in profit or loss in the consolidated accounts when incurred. value of participations in subsidiaries or joint ventures. Contingent purchase prices are valued based on probability of payment. Any changes to the provision/receivable are added to/reduced 23 Exchange rates from the cost of acquisition. 2019 2018 Low-priced acquisitions that match anticipated losses and expenses are reversed during the periods in which the losses and expenses are ex1 EUR = SEK pected to arise. Low-priced acquisitions resulting from other factors are Income statement (average) 10.5850 10.2522 reported as provisions to the extent they do not exceed the fair values of Balance sheet (at end of the period) 10.4336 10.2753 acquired identifiable non-monetary assets. The portion exceeding this amount is directly taken up as income. The portion that does not exceed the fair value of acquired identifiable non-monetary assets is reported as 1 GBP = SEK income systematically over a period of time that is based on the remainIncome statement (average) 12.0706 11.587 ing weighted average useful life of the acquired identifiable depreciable assets. In the consolidated accounts, low-priced acquisitions are reportBalance sheet (at end of the period) 12.2145 11.3482 ed directly in profit or loss. 1 PLN = SEK 22.4 Revaluation reserve Income statement (average) 2.4628 2.4072 The Swedish Accounting Standards Board (BFN) responded to the Financial Supervisory Authority in June 2018 on the question of revaluation Balance sheet (at end of the period) 2.4445 2.3904 rules contained in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) regarding financial assets classified as purchased or issued credit-impaired 1 RON = SEK loans. The BFN’s response specifies that in cases where the Parent Company makes a new assessment that leads to an upward revision of Income statement (average) 2.2305 – future cash flow compared with the cash flow that formed the basis of Balance sheet (at end of the period) 2.1814 – the calculation of the effective interest rate at the time of acquisition, it must report these revaluations in a revaluation reserve for restricted equity. The transfer therefore has an effect on distributable funds, until upward adjustments to cash flows are realised or reduced and amounts in the revaluation reserve are reversed. Revaluations and their reversals have no effect on earnings. In the Parent Company, the present value of the upwardly adjusted portion of future cash flows are reported in the revaluation reserve, with respect to acquired unsecured credit-impaired loans pursuant to collective valuation. Reporting is done prospectively as from 1 October 2018. BFN’s response is also taken into account for acquired secured credit-impaired loans in cases where cash flows are adjusted upward. Revaluation may also be done for other non-current assets with a permanent value that significantly exceeds the carrying amount. 22.5 Development expenditure fund Capitalisation of self-generated development expenditures is limited by the option of distributing capital. The amount corresponding to capitalised self-generated development expenditure is transferred from retained earnings to a special restricted fund. The rule applies to capitalisation of expenditures for financial years beginning immediately after 31 December 2015. The fund is reduced in the event of amortisation, impairment or divestment. Hoist Finance  113 Annual Report 2019 Notes Notes Note 1 Segment reporting Segment reporting has been prepared based on the manner in which This Central Functions item pertains to the net income for inexecutive management monitors operations. This follows statutory tra-group financial transactions. account preparation, with the exception of internal funding cost. Group costs for central and supporting functions are not allocated The internal funding cost is included in net interest income and to the operating segments but are reported as Central Functions. allocated to the segments based on acquired loan portfolio assets in With respect to the balance sheet, only acquired loan portfolios are relation to a fixed internal monthly interest rate for each portfolio. The monitored. Other assets and liabilities are not monitored on a difference between the external financing cost and the internal fundsegment-by-segment basis. ing cost is reported in Central Function. Income statement, 2019 Other Central SEK m Great Britain Italy Germany Poland countries functions Eliminations Group Net interest income 588 729 332 350 649 215 0 2,863 of which, internal funding costs –233 –156 –63 –161 –99 712 – 0 Dividend income – – – – – 10 –10 0 Impairment gains and losses –46 126 9 94 –64 0 0 119 Fee and commission income 43 71 5 1 1 0 0 121 Net income financial transactions – – –6 – – –80 1 –85 Other operating income 5 5 10 1 8 8 –17 20 Total operating income 590 931 350 446 594 153 –26 3,038 Total operating expenses –375 –506 –221 –192 –443 –631 16 –2,352 Profit from participations in joint ventures – – – – 9 53 0 62 Profit before tax 215 425 129 254 160 –425 –10 748 Income statement, 2018 Other Central SEK m Great Britain Italy Germany Poland countries functions Eliminations Group Net interest income 536 634 347 255 437 226 – 2,435 of which, internal funding costs –203 –137 –63 –115 –77 595 – 0 Dividend income – – – – – 1,947 –1,947 0 Impairment gains and losses 8 119 –13 124 23 – – 261 Fee and commission income 53 19 6 1 1 – –1 79 Net income financial transactions – – – – – –1,410 1) 1,453 43 Other operating income 0 4 10 –2 0 4 –5 11 Total operating income 597 776 350 378 461 767 –500 2,829 Total operating expenses –381 –431 –296 –199 –347 –500 8 –2,146 Profit from participations in joint ventures – – – – 17 55 – 72 Profit before tax 216 345 54 179 131 322 –492 755 1) Write down of shares in subsidiaries seK 1,454 m. Acquired loans, 31 Dec 2019 Other Central SEK m Great Britain Italy Germany Poland countries functions Group Run-off consumer loan portfolio 10 10 Acquired loan portfolios 6,303 6,165 2,172 3,865 5,798 24,303 Shares and participations in joint ventures1) 200 200 Acquired loans 6,303 6,165 2,182 3,865 5,798 200 24,513 1) Refers to the value of shares and participations in joint ventures in Poland with acquired loan portfolios and is therefore not equivalent to corresponding item in the balance sheet. Hoist Finance  114 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 1 Segment reporting, cont Acquired loans, 31 Dec 2018 Other Central SEK m Great Britain Italy Germany Poland countries functions Group Run-off consumer loan portfolio 14 14 Acquired loan portfolios 5,671 5,935 2,190 2,757 4,052 20,605 Shares and participations in joint ventures1) 215 215 Acquired loans 5,671 5,935 2,204 2,757 4,052 215 20,834 1) Refers to the value of shares and participations in joint ventures in Poland with acquired loan portfolios and is therefore not equivalent to corresponding item in the balance sheet. Note 2 Net interest income GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest income/Net revenues Acquired loan portfolios calculated using effective interest rate method 3,359 2,799 970 662 Total interest income/net revenues from acquired loan portfolios 3,359 2,799 970 662 Lending to credit institutions 5 7 3 4 Lending to the public 4 2 4 2 Bonds and other securities –11 –22 –11 –22 Receivables, Group companies – – 847 692 Total other interest income –2 –13 843 676 of which, interest income from financial items not valued at fair value 3,348 2,777 958 639 Interest expense Deposits from the public –213 –146 –212 –146 of which, deposit guarantee scheme expenses –19 –20 –19 –20 Debt securities issued –197 –135 –161 –135 Subordinated debts –35 –33 –35 –33 Other interest expenses –49 –37 –50 –41 Total interest expenses –494 –351 –458 –355 of which, interest expense from financial items not valued at fair value –232 –168 –195 –168 Net interest expenses 2,863 2,435 1,355 983 of which, interest income from financial assets valued at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method 3,368 2,808 976 668 of which, interest expense from financial liabilities valued at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method –445 –314 –407 –314 % 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Average interest rate, deposits (incl. deposit guarantee scheme expenses) 1.2 0.9 1.2 0.9 Hoist Finance  115 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 3 Impairment gains and losses GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Portfolio revaluations LECL, acquired credit-impaired loan portfolios –145 5 –21 50 Collection differences LECL, acquired credit-impaired loan portfolios 267 259 77 35 Impairment gains and losses, acquired credit-impaired loan portfolios 122 264 56 85 Impairment gains and losses 12M ECL stage 1, acquired performing loan portfolios 1 –2 1 –1 Impairment gains and losses LECL stage 2, acquired performing loan portfolios 0 0 0 0 Impairment gains and losses LECL stage 3, acquired performing loan portfolios –3 –1 –2 –1 Impairment gains and losses, acquired performing loan portfolios –2 –3 –1 –2 Total impairment gains and losses 120 261 56 83 Note 4 Fee and commission income Revenues from fee and commission income relates to revenues percentage of collections. The Group can also be entitled to a bonus from contracts with customers. The Group provides debt collection payment if the collections for a period reaches a certain level. A conservices through call centers for third parties and the majority of custract can also include a termination fee. The majority of the contracts tomers operates within the financial industry. Under these contracts, have no fixed end-date, but continue until further notice. the Group is entitled to a remuneration that corresponds to a fixed GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Revenues from servicing 120 77 5 6 Bonus fees 1 3 – – Total 121 80 5 6 Service revenues for remaining performance obligations Expected service revenues for residual maturity, per year SEK m 2020 2021 2022 2023 Revenues from servicing 126 131 138 46 Total 126 131 138 46 Service revenues for the Parent Company derive from the German, Belgian and France branch offices. See Note 1 ”Segment reporting” for revenue distribution Note 5 Net result from financial transactions and Derecognition gains and losses GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Exchange rate fluctuations –80 –7 –140 –247 Profit/Loss from financial assets and liabilities manditorily at fair value through profit or loss, net 12 50 –7 51 Profit/Loss from financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss, net 7 – – – Profit/Loss from financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost –18 0 0 0 Total Net result from financial transactions –79 43 –147 –196 Derecognition gains and losses at amortised cost –9 –5 –8 –2 Total Derecognition gains and losses –9 –5 –8 –2 Note 6 Other operating income GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Intercompany transactions – – 222 301 Other 22 16 10 9 Total 22 16 232 310 Hoist Finance  116 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 7 Personnel expenses Total personnel expenses and remuneration 1) GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Salaries and remuneration2)3) –654 –620 –285 –263 Pension expenses –27 –28 –16 –22 Social fees –133 –124 –66 –56 Other personnel-related expenses –60 –61 –24 –24 Total –874 –833 –391 –365 1) The table also includes costs for redundancy payments and similar items in connection with organisational changes. 2) The amount includes fixed and variable remuneration. 3) I nvoiced remuneration from senior executives is specified in Note 33 ”Related-party transactions”. The total amount is SEK 0m (2) in the Group and SEK 0m (2) in the Parent Company. The amount is included in ”Consultancy services” in Note 8 ”Other operating income”. Of which, salaries and other compensation to senior executives GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 To senior executives 1) Fixed salaries and benefits –38 –38 –20 –26 Performance-based compensation –4 –8 –2 –5 Total –42 –46 –22 –31 1) Senior executives include Board members, the President/CEO and the Executive Management Team. Former Board members are included. Nil (4) Board members invoiced fees via own companies during 2019; see Note 33 ”Related-party transactions”. Senior executives during the year included 20 (23) individuals, of which Board members accounted for 10 (8) and the CEO for 1 (2). Remuneration to Members of the Board and and investors. Variable remuneration is not paid to a senior executive the Executive Management Team who has participated in or been responsible for any action resulting in Approved guidelines for remuneration for executive officers, significant financial loss for the Group or the relevant business unit. For senior executives in the EMT, payment of 60 per cent of the resolved on by the AGM on 16 May 2019. variable remuneration is deferred for a period of at least three years. In this context, the term “senior executives” means the CEO of Hoist Variable remuneration, including deferred remuneration, is only paid to Finance AB (publ) (“Hoist Finance”) and other members of the Executive senior executives insofar as it is defensible in view of the Group’s finanManagement Team (EMT), and Board members, insofar as they receive cial situation and if it is warranted by the results achieved by the Group, remuneration for services performed outside of their Board duties. the relevant business unit and the employee as well as the targets Remuneration of senior executives comprises fixed salary, variable achieved by the senior executive. remuneration, pension and other benefits. Remuneration is designed to Pension and insurance are offered pursuant to national laws, regulaencourage senior executives to deliver results in line with the company’s tions and market practices and are structured as collective agreements, targets, strategy and vision and to act in accordance with the company’s company-specific plans or a combination of the two. Hoist Finance has ethical code of conduct and core values. Remuneration is also designed defined-contribution pension plans and does not apply discretionary to enable Hoist Finance to attract, retain and motivate employees with pension benefits. A few senior executives receive gross salary; in these the requisite skills. Remuneration shall encourage good performance, instances, the company does not make pension contributions. Other sound behaviour and risk-taking aligned with customer and shareholder benefits are designed to be competitive in relation to similar operations expectations. Salaries are ageand gender-neutral and non-discriminain the respective country. tory. Hoist Finance views remuneration from a comprehensive perspecSign-on bonuses are only offered in exceptional cases and then tive and, accordingly, takes all remuneration components into account. only to compensate for the lack of variable remuneration in the senior Remuneration is weighted in favour of fixed salary, which is based on executive’s previous employment contract. Sign-on bonuses are paid the position’s complexity and level of responsibility, prevailing market during the year in which the senior executive begins to work. Decisions conditions and individual performance. on exceptional cases are made in accordance with the decision-making Variable remuneration for senior executives shall be paid within the process for variable remuneration. scope of a long-term share-based incentive programme (LTIP) and shall Issuing loans to senior executives is not permitted. not exceed 100 per cent of the fixed salary. Variable remuneration is Upon the Group’s termination of an employment contract, the based on various financial and non-financial criteria and is linked to the maximum notice period is twelve months and no redundancy payment performance of the Hoist Finance Group’s respective business units and is made. to individual targets. AGM-elected Board Members may in certain cases receive a fee for Variable remuneration takes into account the risks involved in the services performed within their respective areas of expertise, outside company’s operations and is proportional to the Group’s earning capacof their Board duties. Compensation for these services is paid at market ity, capital requirements, earnings and financial position. The payment terms and approved by the Board. Directors’ fees may not exceed of variable remuneration must not undermine the Group’s long-term SEK 50,000 to a Board Member for work on the board of a subsidiary. interests. The payment of variable remuneration is contingent on the In particular cases, the Board of Directors may deviate from the senior executive having acted in compliance with internal rules and guidelines adopted and resolved by the AGM if warranted by special procedures, including policies regulating behaviour toward customers circumstances. Hoist Finance  117 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 7 Personnel expenses, cont Remuneration to the Board of Directors 1) 1) Director and Committee member fees comprise a fixed annual amount, excluding social fees. SEK – thousand (25) was paid in fees for subsidiaries pursuant to an AGM resoluGROUP PARENT COMPANY tion. As from the 16 May 2018 AGM, all director fees are paid as salary. 2) Liselotte Hjorth invoiced the director fee from July 2016 through 15 May 2018; see Note SEK thousand 2019 2018 2019 2018 33 ”Related-party transactions”. Chair of the Board:: 3) F  rom December 2016 through 15 May 2018, Gunilla Öhman’s director fee was invoiced from Carrara AB; see Note 33 ”Related-party transactions”. She stepped down from the Ingrid Bonde 1,631 1,563 1,631 1,563 Board in conjunction with the 16 May 2019 AGM. Other Board members: 4) Jörgen Olsson stepped down as CEO on 14 March 2018. He received fixed salary through June 2018. The 18 May 2018 AGM elected Jörgen Olsson as deputy chairman of Liselotte Hjorth2) 708 678 708 678 the board. During his tenure as CEO he was employed by Parent Company Hoist Finance Gunilla Öhman3) 242 628 242 628 AB (publ). He stepped down from the Board in conjunction with the 16 May 2019 AGM. Jörgen Olsson4) 338 450 338 450 5) C ostas Thoupos did not receive any director fee. He was employed by a subsidiary and received remuneration of SEK 0 thousand (422). He stepped down from the Board in Costas Thoupos 5) – – – – conjunction with the 2018 AGM. Joakim Rubin 633 594 633 594 6) I n addition to her Board of Directors fee, Malin Eriksson received a consultancy fee via Cecilia Daun Wennborg 673 628 673 628 Malin Eriksson Consulting Services in 2018, a company that is related to her; see Note 33 ”Related-party transactions”. Malin Eriksson6) 648 747 648 747 7) Marcial Portela joined the Board as per the 15 May 2018 AGM. Marcial Portela7) 483 294 483 294 8) Robert Kraal joined the Board as per the 16 May 2019 AGM. 9) Lars Wollung joined the Board as per the 16 May 2019 AGM. Robert Kraal8) 306 – 306 – Lars Wollung9) 338 – 338 – Summa 6,000 5,582 6,000 5,582 Performancebased Allocated value Pension Salaries and benefits 1) Fixed salary compensation 4) LTIP 5) Benefits 6) benefits7 ) Total SEK thousand 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Chief Executive Officer2) Jörgen Olsson – 4,064 – – – – – – – 1,234 – 5,298 Klaus-Anders Nysteen 5,377 5,181 1,061 2,317 1,592 – 5 – 1,970 1,653 10,005 9,151 Executive Management Team3) 9 (13) people excluding the CEO 25,981 21,540 3,448 5,758 3,768 – 565 1,228 2,763 2,311 36,525 30,837 Total 31,358 30,785 4,509 8,075 5,360 – 570 1,228 4,733 5,198 46,530 45,286 1) Excluding social fees. 2) Jörgen Olsson stepped down as CEO on 14 March 2018. He received fixed salary through June 2018. During his tenure as CEO he was employed by Parent Company Hoist Finance AB (publ). Klaus-Anders Nysteen took over as CEO on 14 March 2018. 3) C harles de Munter stepped down from the EMT during 2018. Remuneration during the contractual 12-month period of notice totals SEK 3,399 thousand in addition to the amount presented above. The amount was dispensed in 2018, apart from a portion that comprises deferred variable remuneration. Karin Beijer’s remuneration is included in 2018 and was paid to Co Go Consulting AB, a company that is related to her; see Note 33 ”Related-party transactions”. 2019 fixed salary includes redundancy payment of SEK 3,588 thousand for Björn Hoffmeyer. 4) Variable remuneration relating to the 2019 financial year includes the part of the share-based incentive programme that will be paid in cash. 5) The value stated refers to a preliminary calculation of the performance amount for 2019 which will be paid in shares. The final outcome will be determined in the first quarter of 2020. In order to receive these shares an additional three years of service are required. The total cost has not yet been expensed as the cost is allocated over the vesting period in accordance with IFRS 2, see the section under the heading “Share-based incentive program”. 6) B enefits have been included in the taxable fringe benefit, excluding social fees. Benefits primarily comprise a company car, housing, health insurance and other benefits associated with foreign posting. 7) The amounts pertain to pension costs during the year for senior executives. Pension costs comprise pension premiums for defined-contribution pension plans expensed during the year (costs for services rendered during the current and previous years and settlements as defined by IAS 19). 100 per cent of total pension costs is attributable to defined contribution pension plans. Directors’ remuneration Board members employed by the Hoist Finance Group (Jörgen Olsson The Board through June 2018 and Costas Thoupos through March 2018) do not The AGM of Hoist Finance held on 16 May 2019 resolved that annual receive specific remuneration for their work on the Board. directors’ fees are to be paid as follows:1) There is no commitment for redundancy payment or similar owed to any Board members. Chair of the Board SEK 1,475,000 Board member SEK 490,000 CEO Chair, Risk and Audit Committee SEK 200,000 The CEO’s basic salary, Long-Term Incentive Plan and other terms of Member, Risk and Audit Committee SEK 125,000 employment are proposed by the Board’s Remuneration Committee Chair, Remuneration Committee SEK 50,000 and adopted by the Board of Directors. The CEO’s salary amounted to SEK 5,377 thousand (5,181), in line Member, Remuneration Committee SEK 50,000 with Hoist Finance’s remuneration policy. The CEO’s salary is paid in Chair, Investment Committee SEK 175,000 Swedish kronor. The performance-based compensation amounts to Member, Investment Committee SEK 100,000 maximum 100 per cent of fixed salary. The CEO has a 12-month notice period. There is no agreement in 1) For the period through the next AGM. place on redundancy payments. Hoist Finance  118 Annual Report 2019 Notes Not 7 Personnel expenses, cont CEO pension Remuneration is measured during the performance year at an estiThe pension premium for Klaus-Anders Nysteen is 30 per cent (30) of mated monetary value. The amount to be paid is then expressed in the fixed salary. number of share options granted during the time prior to the vesting It is a defined-contribution pension. period. The number of shares granted is based on the share price as determined in February the year after the performance year. The shares Executive Management Team (EMT) vest in equal 1/3 parts (i.e., the first, second and third year following The Board’s Remuneration Committee prepares for the Board’s decithe AGM’s approval of the annual report). In practical terms, payment sion changes to remuneration rates and bonus programme results and is made in equal parts in May 2021, May 2022 and May 2023. The share other changes to EMT compensation agreements. During 2019, 4 EMT price for the 2019 LTIP programme has been set at SEK 56.53. The cost members had agreements concerning variable salary increments of the share options is allocated on a straight-line basis across the three capped at 100 per cent of fixed salary. Three EMT members have stipulated periods, with a true-up for the rights lost by participants who had an agreement where the variable remuneration for a limited time terminate their employment during the vesting periods. exceeds 70 per cent of the fixed salary. Benefits primarily comprise a The options are converted automatically to ordinary shares on company car and health insurance benefits. the vesting day, at an exercise price of nil. Participants are entitled to As of 31 December 2019, the EMT was comprised of 7 people (7), receive dividends on the granted shares. The right expires in the event exclusive of the CEO. the participant terminates their employment during the vesting period, except in limited cases approved by the Board on a case-by-case basis. Notice period In 2019 the costs posted for the share option portion of the Group’s Five EMT members have a six-month notice period and two EMT memLTIP programme totalled SEK 1.3m, excluding social fees. ber have a three-month notice period. The table below shows the number of granted and outstanding share options at the beginning and end of the financial year: Pension benefits, EMT At year-end, four EMT members have followed Hoist Finance’s preNumber of Number of determined pension scheme, for which fixed salary is the pensionable options 2019 options 2018 compensation amount. Outstanding at beginning of the period – – One EMT member receives 10 per cent of fixed salary and one receives 13 per cent of fixed salary. + Granted during the year 118,242 – Pension provisions for one EMT member are not posted in the – Vested during the year – – company. – Expired during the year – – Outstanding at end of the period 118,242 – Share-based incentive programme (LTIP) Outstanding share options at end of the Variable remuneration for senior executives is comprised of a longperiod: term share-based incentive programme (LTIP). Variable remuneration weighted average remaining contractual takes into account the risks involved in the company’s operations and duration 2.42 years – is proportional to the Group’s earning capacity, capital requirements, profit/loss and financial position, as well as individual targets. Variable remuneration is based on results achieved during the perTo hedge the incentive programme, Hoist Finance has entered into formance year (calendar year 2019) and final performance amounts are a share swap agreement with a third party. Under the agreement the determined when the year-end report is published. third party will acquire and transfer shares to participants in its own Of the remuneration amount, 40 per cent is paid in cash (governed name to fulfil the Company’s obligation to deliver shares and will cover by IAS 19 regulations) and 60 per cent through share grant (governed social fees arising from vesting. Social fees are calculated based on the by IFRS 2). The original valuation date for the programme is July 2019, fair value of the share options and are expensed as incurred. when Hoist Finance and the counterparty agreed on the programme’s terms and conditions. Hoist Finance  119 Annual Report 2019 Notes Not 7 Personnel expenses, cont Average number of employees during the year, Group 2019 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Sweden 35 31 66 40 28 68 Germany 82 133 215 90 165 255 France 39 76 115 37 78 115 Belgium 1 2 3 5 4 9 Netherlands 18 23 41 16 17 33 UK 179 147 326 206 174 380 Italy 128 244 372 124 225 349 Poland 144 191 335 122 151 273 Jersey – – – 1 – 1 Spain 23 45 68 17 28 45 Greece 2 2 4 1 2 3 Total 651 894 1,545 659 872 1,531 The average number of employees is calculated based on the number of full-time employees (FTEs) during the year. The Group also has contracted consultants, the number of which varies during the year depending on requirements. As at 31 December 2019 the Group had 1,575 FTEs (1,556). Gender distribution, senior executives 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 % Men Women Men Women Senior executives 68 32 68 32 Board of Directors 83 17 79 21 of which, Parent Company 50 50 37 63 Note 8 Other operating expenses GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Collection costs –787 –750 –240 –205 Consultancy services1) –230 –203 –218 –129 Intra-Group consultancy services – – –31 –40 Other intra-Group expenses – – –83 –75 IT expenses –134 –108 –98 –77 Telecom expenses –11 –8 –2 –2 Premises costs –45 –73 –41 –30 Travel expenses –29 –29 –11 –12 Restructuring costs –6 0 –6 – Bank charges –16 –14 –8 –5 Sales and marketing expenses –11 –10 –2 –1 Other expenses –86 –64 –27 –17 Total –1,355 –1,259 –767 –593 1) C onsultancy services also include fees invoiced by Senior executives, specified in note 7 ”Personnel expenses”. SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 KPMG Audit assignments –12 –9 –6 –4 Audit-related assignments –2 –2 –1 –2 Tax services –1 –2 –1 –2 Other non audit-related assignments 0 –1 0 –1 Total –15 –14 –8 –9 Expenses for audit assignments are included in Consultancy services in the table above. Hoist Finance  120 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 9 Shares and participations in joint ventures GROUP Shares and participations in joint ventures relate to Hoist Finance AB’s (publ) holdings in BEST III (50 per cent) and PQH Single Special LiquiSEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 dation S.A (33 per cent). BEST III is a Polish closed-end fund located in Opening balance 215 238 Gdynia and designated for the acquisition of individual loan portfolios. Redemption of fund units –67 –73 The initial investment was PLN 40m (SEK 90m). During the year 2016 Shares and participations in the joint Hoist Kredit acquired, along with Qualco S.A. and Pricewaterhouse ventures’ earnings according to equity Coopers Business Solutions S.A., the Greek company PQH. PQH is method 47 47 based in Athens and offers advisory services. All joint ventures are Reversal from shareholders’ equity –6 –7 consolidated pursuant to the equity method. Exchange rate differences 11 10 Closing balance 200 215 Profit from shares and participations in joint ventures GROUP PQH SEK m 2019 2018 SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Shares in the joint ventures’ earnings Assets according to equity method 47 47 Current assets 8 6 Performance-based compensation 11 18 Cash 1 0 FX 4 7 Total assets 9 6 Total profit 62 72 Liabilities PARENT COMPANY Current liabilities 9 5 SEK m 2019 2018 Total liabilities 9 5 Shares in the joint ventures’ earnings according to equity method 60 64 Performance-based compensation 11 18 Net assets 0 2 Total profit 71 82 Interest income 51 51 BEST III Other expenses –52 –52 EBT –1 –1 SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Income tax expense 0 –1 Assets Acquired loan portfolios 405 435 Net profit for the year –2 –2 Cash 12 9 There are no contingent liabilities pertaining to the Group’s interest Total assets 417 444 in this joint venture, nor does the joint venture have any contingent liabilities. Liabilities Current liabilities 18 16 Total liabilities 18 16 Net assets 399 428 Interest income 136 137 Other expenses –42 –42 Net profit for the year 95 95 There are no contingent liabilities pertaining to the Group’s interest in this joint venture, nor does the joint venture have any contingent liabilities. Note 10 Appropriations The merger of Hoist Kredit AB (publ) and Hoist Finance AB (publ) was Tax allocation reserve concluded on 2 January 2018. PARENT COMPANY SEK m 2019 2018 Opening balance 221 84 Acquired through merger – 81 Provision to tax allocation reserve 55 75 Reversal of tax allocation reserve –8 –18 Closing balance 268 221 Hoist Finance  121 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 11 Tax GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Current tax expense/income Tax expense/income for the year –69 –98 –65 –60 Tax adjustment attributable to previous years –29 –34 –61 –4 Total –98 –132 –126 –64 Deferred tax expense/income Deferred tax attributable to temporary differences –45 –33 5 –2 Total –45 –33 5 –2 Total recognised tax expense –143 –165 –121 –66 GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 EBT 748 755 318 714 Tax calculated at 21.40% (Swedish) tax rate –160 –166 –68 –157 Effect of different tax rates in different countries 38 11 0 8 Adjustment related to change in tax rate – –2 – – Non-taxable revenue 43 33 11 428 Non-deductible expenses –34 –17 –11 –333 Adjustments with reference to previous years –29 –34 –61 –4 Utilisation of previously uncapitalised loss carry-forwards 4 9 – – Decrease in capitalised loss carry-forwards not expected to be utilised –9 – –3 – Other 4 1 11 –8 Total tax expense –143 –165 –121 –66 The Group’s effective tax rate was 19.08 per cent (21.82) at 31 December 2019. No tax was recognised directly in Group equity in 2019 (SEK 3m in GROUP 2018). Other comprehensive income includes tax in an amount of SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 SEK 27m (50) related to the hedging of currency risk in foreign operations, a revaluation of defined-benefit pension plans and a revalution of Deferred tax post-service remuneration. Deferred tax assets 32 22 Deferred tax liabilities –150 –187 Total –118 –165 GROUP, 31 Dec 2019 Other Opening Income comprehensive Translation Closing SEK m balance statement income differences balance Change in deferred tax Loss carry-forwards 9 3 0 12 Joint ventures –38 2 0 –36 Defined-benefit pension schemes and other employee benefits 4 1 0 5 Acquired loan portfolios –62 4 –4 –62 Untaxed reserves –46 –12 –58 Other –33 48 6 21 Total –165 45 1 2 –118 Hoist Finance  122 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 11 Tax, cont GROUP, 31 Dec 2018 Other Opening Income comprehensive Translation Closing SEK m balance statement income differences balance Change in deferred tax Loss carry-forwards 26 –16 –1 9 Joint ventures –40 2 0 –38 Defined-benefit pension schemes and other employee benefits 4 0 0 4 Acquired loan portfolios –73 13 –2 –62 Untaxed reserves –36 –10 –46 Other –8 –22 –3 –33 Total –127 –33 0 –6 –165 The Group’s deferred tax assets attributable to loss carry-forwards are expected to be fully utilised during the next four years. Deferred tax assets are only reported as a tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that a related tax benefit is likely to be realised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset to the extent there is a legal right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same tax authority. The Group has no unreported loss carry-forwards. Note 12 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share GROUP SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Net profit for the year attributable to Hoist Finance AB (publ) shareholders, before dilution Net profit for the year attributable to Parent Company shareholders 605 590 Interest on capital contribution –63 –54 Profit attributable to Parent Company shareholders, before dilution 542 536 Weighted average number of shares outstanding, before dilution 89,303,000 85,277,137 Diluted earnings per share GROUP SEK m 2019 2018 Net profit for the year attributable to Hoist Finance AB (publ) shareholders, after dilution Profit attributable to Parent Company shareholders, before dilution 542 536 Profit attributable to Parent Company shareholders, after dilution 542 536 Weighted average number of shares outstanding, after dilution Basic weighted average number of shares during the year, before dilution 89,303,000 85,277,137 Effect of options 5,000 – Weighted average number of shares during the year, after dilution 89,308,000 85,277,137 The weighted average number of shares was effected by a long-term share-based incentive programme during 2019, see note 7 ”Personnel expenses”. Basic earnings per share, SEK 6.07 6.29 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 6.07 6.29 Hoist Finance  123 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 13 Financial instruments Carrying amount and fair value of financial instruments GROUP, 31 Dec 2019 Assets/liabilities recognised at fair value through profit or loss Total Held for Hedging Amortised carrying Fair SEK m trading Mandatorily instrument cost amount value Cash 0 0 0 Treasury bills and treasury bonds 2,729 2,729 2,729 Lending to credit institutions 3,075 3,075 3,075 Lending to the public 10 10 10 Acquired loan portfolios 24,303 24,303 25,820 Bonds and other securities 2,769 2,769 2,769 Derivatives 41 66 107 107 Other financial assets 367 367 367 Total 41 5,498 66 27,755 33,360 34,877 Deposits from the public 21,435 21,435 21,435 Derivatives 29 6 35 35 Debt securities issued 5,900 5,900 6,209 Subordinated debt 852 852 840 Other financial liabilities 896 896 896 Total 29 6 29,083 29,118 29,415 GROUP, 31 Dec 2018 Assets/liabilities recognised at fair value through profit or loss Total Held for Hedging Amortised carrying Fair SEK m trading Mandatorily instrument cost amount value Cash 0 0 0 Treasury bills and treasury bonds 2,653 2,653 2,653 Lending to credit institutions 1,187 1,187 1,187 Lending to the public 14 14 14 Acquired loan portfolios 20,605 20,605 22,309 Bonds and other securities 3,635 3,635 3,635 Derivatives 11 117 128 128 Other financial assets 233 233 233 Total 11 6,288 117 22,039 28,455 30,159 Deposits from the public 17,093 17,093 17,093 Derivatives 5 14 19 19 Debt securities issued 5,950 5,950 5,922 Subordinated debt 839 839 826 Other financial liabilities 544 544 544 Total 5 14 24,426 24,445 24,404 Hoist Finance  124 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 13 Financial instruments, cont PARENT COMPANY, 31 Dec 2019 Assets/liabilities recognised at fair value through profit or loss Total Hedging Amortised carrying Fair SEK m Held for trading Mandatorily instruments cost amount value Cash 0 0 0 Treasury bills and treasury bonds 2,729 2,729 2,729 Lending to credit institutions 1,455 1,455 1,455 Lending to the public 13 13 13 Acquired loan portfolios 7,394 7,394 7,940 Receivables, Group companies 9 17,423 17,432 17,432 Bonds and other securities 2,769 2,769 2,769 Derivatives 41 66 107 107 Other financial assets 173 173 173 Total 41 5,507 66 26,458 32,072 32,618 Deposits from the public 21,435 21,435 21,435 Derivatives 29 6 35 35 Debt securities issued 5,431 5,431 5,703 Subordinated debt 852 852 840 Other financial liabilities 911 911 911 Total 29 6 28,629 28,664 28,924 PARENT COMPANY, 31 Dec 2018 Assets/liabilities recognised at fair value through profit or loss Total Hedging Amortised carrying Fair SEK m Held for trading Mandatorily instruments cost amount value Cash 0 0 0 Treasury bills and treasury bonds 2,653 2,653 2,653 Lending to credit institutions 365 365 365 Lending to the public 17 17 17 Acquired loan portfolios 5,593 5,593 6,156 Receivables, Group companies 15,182 15,182 15,182 Bonds and other securities 3,635 3,635 3,635 Derivatives 11 117 128 128 Other financial assets 172 172 172 Total 11 6,288 117 21,329 27,745 28,308 Deposits from the public 17,093 17,093 17,093 Derivatives 5 14 19 19 Debt securities issued 5,950 5,950 5,922 Subordinated debt 839 839 826 Other financial liabilities 539 539 539 Total 5 14 24,421 24,440 24,399 Fair value measurement valued based on quoted prices on active markets for similar Group instruments, quoted prices for identical or similar instruThe Group uses observable data to the greatest possible extent when ments traded on markets that are not active, or other valuadetermining the fair value of an asset or liability. Fair values are categotion techniques in which all important input data is directly rised in different levels based on the input data used in the measureor indirectly observable in the market. ment approach, as per the following: Level 3) According to inputs that are not based on observable market Level 1) Quoted prices (unadjusted) on active markets for identical data. This category includes all instruments for which the instruments. valuation technique is based on data that is not observable Level 2) Based on directly or indirectly observable market inputs and has a substantial impact on the valuation. not included in Level 1. This category includes instruments Hoist Finance  125 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 13 Financial instruments, cont Fair value measurement GROUP, 31 Dec 2019 PARENT COMPANY, 31 Dec 2019 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Treasury bills and treasury bonds 2,729 2,729 2,729 2,729 Bonds and other securities 25,820 25,820 7,940 7,940 Aquired loan portfolios 2,769 2,769 2,769 2,769 Receivables, Group companies1) 9 9 Derivatives 107 107 107 107 Total assets 5,498 107 25,820 31,425 5,498 107 7,949 13,554 Derivatives 35 35 35 35 Debt securities issued 6,209 6,209 5,703 5,703 Subordinated debt 840 840 840 840 Total liabilities 7,084 7,084 6,578 6,578 1) Receivables from Group companies pertain junior notes issued by the subsidiary Marathon SPV S.r.l valued at fair value. Fair value measurement GROUP, 31 Dec 2018 PARENT COMPANY, 31 Dec 2018 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Treasury bills and treasury bonds 2,653 2,653 2,653 2,653 Aquired loan portfolios 22,309 22,309 6,156 6,156 Bonds and other securities 3,635 3,635 3,635 3,635 Derivatives 128 128 128 128 Total assets 6,288 128 22,309 28,725 6,288 128 6,156 12,572 Derivatives 19 19 19 19 Debt securities issued 5,922 5,922 5,922 5,922 Subordinated debt 826 826 826 826 Total liabilities 6,767 6,767 6,766 6,766 For acquired loan portfolios, the valuation approach, key input data market prices quoted by external market players/places. In cases and valuation sensitivity to material changes are described in the Acwhere more than one market price observation is available, fair value counting Principles section and in Note 16 “Acquired loan portfolios”. is determined at the arithmetic mean of the market prices. Since no Derivatives used for hedging (see Note 14 “Derivatives”) were observable market price is available for the junior notes their fair value model-valued using interest and currency market rates as input data. has been calculated using the income approach. Treasury bills and treasury bonds, and bonds and other securities, Carrying amounts for accounts receivable and accounts payable are valued based on quoted rates. are deemed approximations of fair value. The fair value of current loans The fair value of liabilities in the form of issued bonds and other corresponds to their carrying amount due to the limited impact of subordinated debt was determined with reference to observable discounting. Hoist Finance  126 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 14 Derivatives The Group continuously hedges its assets denominated in foreign The Parent Company Hoist Finance AB (publ) began applying hedge currencies in order to reduce its exchange rate exposure. As per accounting during 2018 for the fair value of shares in subsidiaries and 31 December 2019, the Group had exposures in EUR, GBP and PLN, all for shares and participations in joint ventures. Gains/losses on derivative of which are hedged using currency forward contracts. All outstanding instruments for hedge accounting in the Parent Company are recogderivatives are measured at fair value. Gains/losses on derivative instrunised in shares in subsidiaries and in shares and participations in joint ments are recognised in the income statement for each annual stateventures. ment. Gains/losses for hedge accounting in the Group are recognised Additional information on the Group’s and the Parent Company’s in other comprehensive income for each annual statement. management of hedge accounting is presented in Accounting Policies The Group ceased its hedge accounting in EUR during 2018, as sections 10 and 22.8 “Hedge accounting”. critical conditions for hedging net investments in foreign operations are no longer met. Derivatives held for trading GROUP, 31 Dec 2019 Nominal amount/maturity Nominal Positive Negative SEK m Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years amount market values market values Interest rate-related contracts Swaps 1,043 1,527 1,043 3,613 3 –1 Currency-related contracts Currency forwards 7,111 – – 7,111 38 –28 Total 8,154 1,527 1,043 10,724 41 –29 Positive Negative SEK m market values market values Currency breakdown of market values SEK – –27 EUR 39 –1 GBP 2 0 PLN – –1 Total 41 –29 Derivatives for hedge accounting GROUP, 31 Dec 2019 Nominal amount/maturity Nominal Positive Negative SEK m Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years amount market values market values Currency-related contracts Currency forwards 10,633 – – 10,633 66 –6 Total 10,633 – – 10,633 66 –6 Average exchange rate Positive Negative SEK m Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years market values market values Currency breakdown of market values SEK/GBP 12.33 – – 66 – SEK/PLN 2.44 – – – –6 Total 66 –6 Hoist Finance  127 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 14 Derivatives, cont Derivatives held for trading GROUP, 31 Dec 2018 Nominal amount/maturity Nominal Positive Negative SEK m Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years amount market values market values Interest rate-related contracts Swaps 2,000 2,500 – 4,500 – 1 Currency-related contracts Currency forwards 1,512 – – 1,512 11 4 Total 3,512 2,500 – 6,012 11 5 Positive Negative SEK m market values market values Currency breakdown of market values SEK 1 1 EUR 1 1 GBP 8 – PLN 1 3 Total 11 5 Derivatives for hedge accounting GROUP, 31 Dec 2018 Nominal amount/maturity Nominal Positive Negative SEK m Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years amount market values market values Currency-related contracts Currency forwards 8,470 – – 8,470 117 14 Total 8,470 – – 8,470 117 14 Average exchange rate Positive Negative SEK m Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years market values market values Currency breakdown of market values SEK/GBP 11.58 – – 117 – SEK/PLN 2.37 – – – 14 Total 117 14 Hoist Finance  128 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 14 Derivatives, cont Hedging instruments and effectiveness in the hedge accounting 2019 GROUP Change in value of the hedging Carrying amount Balance sheet Change in fair value instrument Ineffectiveness Income statement item in which the used to calculate recognised in other recognised item which Nominal hedging instruineffectiveness comprehensive in the income include the SEK m amount Assets Liabilities ment is included for the period income statement ineffectiveness Currency-related contracts Net result GBP – Derivatives, positive from financial values 6,484 66 – Other assets –66 –66 – transactions Net result PLN – Derivatives, positive from financial values 20 0 – Other assets – – – transactions Total 6,504 66 – –66 –66 – Net result PLN – Derivatives, negative from financial values 4,129 – –6 Other assets –49 –49 – transactions Total 4,129 – – –49 –49 – 2018 GROUP Change in value of the hedging Carrying amount Balance sheet Change in fair value instrument Ineffectiveness Income statement item in which the used to calculate recognised in other recognised item which Nominal hedging instruineffectiveness comprehensive in the income include the SEK m amount Assets Liabilities ment is included for the period income statement ineffectiveness Currency-related contracts Net result EUR – Derivatives, positive from financial values – – – Other assets –89 –92 3 transactions Net result GBP – Derivatives, positive from financial values 5,571 117 – Other assets –83 –84 1 transactions Total 5,571 117 – –172 –176 4 Net result PLN – Derivatives, negative from financial values 2,899 – 14 Other assets –63 –65 2 transactions Total 2,899 – 14 –63 –65 2 Hedged items 2019 Amounts remaining in the Change in fair value used to hedge reserve from hedging calculate ineffectiveness relationships for which hedge SEK m for the period Hedge reserve accounting is no longer applied Hedging of foreign exchange risk in net investments in foreign operations EUR – –149 –149 GBP –491 –209 – PLN –120 –200 – Total –611 –558 –149 Hoist Finance  129 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 14 Derivatives, cont Hedged items 2018 GROUP Amounts remaining in the Change in fair value used to hedge reserve from hedging calculate ineffectiveness relationships for which hedge SEK m for the period Hedge reserve accounting is no longer applied Hedging of foreign exchange risk in net investments in foreign operations EUR –92 –149 –149 GBP –140 –143 – PLN –85 –155 – Total –317 –447 –149 Hedged items 2019 PARENT COMPANY Accumulated fair value adjustment included in Carrying amount the carrying amount of Change in value of hedged item the hedged item Balance sheet hedged items used item in which the to determine SEK m Assets Assets hedged item is included ineffeciency for the period Fair value hedges Shares and participations in subsidiaries EUR 295 – and joint ventures – Shares and participations in subsidiaries GBP 335 19 and joint ventures 22 Shares and participations in subsidiaries PLN 147 10 and joint ventures 17 Total 777 29 39 Hedged items 2018 PARENT COMPANY Accumulated fair value adjustment included in Carrying amount the carrying amount of Change in value of hedged item the hedged item Balance sheet hedged items used item in which the to determine SEK m Assets Assets hedged item is included ineffeciency for the period Fair value hedges Shares and participations in subsidiaries EUR 249 – and joint ventures – Shares and participations in GBP 331 –4 subsidiaries –4 Shares and participations in subsidiaries PLN 163 –6 and joint ventures –6 Total 743 –10 –10 Hoist Finance  130 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 15 Maturity analysis For additional information see Note 31 ”Risk management”. GROUP, 31 Dec 2019 Remaining contractual maturity Of which, (undiscounted value) anticipated and anticipated date of Payable on <3 3–12 1–5 >5 No fixed recovery date recovery, SEK m demand months months years years maturity Total > 12 months Assets Treasury bills and treasury bonds 1,890 572 267 2,729 267 Lending to credit institutions Swedish banks 1,605 1,605 foreign banks 1,391 79 1,470 Lending to the public 38 83 507 807 1,435 1,314 Bonds and other securities 251 384 2,134 2,769 2,134 Total assets with fixed/ contractual maturities 2,996 2,258 1,039 2,908 807 10,008 3,715 Acquired loan portfolios1) 1,102 5,444 22,377 9,951 38,874 32,328 Total assets with no fixed/ anticipated maturities 1,102 5,444 22,377 9,951 38,874 32,328 Liabilities Deposits from the public2) retail 8,690 2,097 2,754 7,822 21,363 7,822 corporate 72 72 Total deposits from the public 8,762 2,097 2,754 7,822 21,435 7,822 Lease liabilities 12 35 155 48 250 203 Debt securities issued 365 177 5,7353) 503 6,780 6,238 Subordinated debt 32 899 931 899 Total liabilities with fixed/ contractual maturities 8,762 2,474 2,998 14,611 551 29,396 15,162 GROUP, 31 Dec 2018 Remaining contractual maturity Of which, (undiscounted value) anticipated and anticipated date of Payable on <3 3–12 1–5 >5 No fixed recovery date recovery, SEK m demand months months years years maturity Total > 12 months Assets Treasury bills and treasury bonds 2,523 40 90 2,653 90 Lending to credit institutions Swedish banks 370 370 foreign banks 747 70 817 Lending to the public 59 117 538 905 1,619 1,443 Bonds and other securities 0 3,174 461 0 3,635 461 Total assets with fixed/ contractual maturities 1,117 2,652 3,331 1,089 905 9,094 1,994 Acquired loan portfolios1) 922 4,560 19,390 8,730 33,602 28,120 Total assets with no fixed/ anticipated maturities 922 4,560 19,390 8,730 33,602 28,120 Liabilities Deposits from the public2) retail 11,264 1,266 2,947 1,533 17,010 1,533 corporate 83 83 Total deposits from the public 11,347 1,266 2,947 1,533 17,093 1,533 Debt securities issued 853 215 5,478 3) 6,546 5,478 Subordinated debt 32 918 950 918 Total liabilities with fixed/ contractual maturities 11,347 2,119 3,194 7,929 24,589 7,929 1) M aturity analysis for acquired loan portfolios is based on future cash flow forecast horizon of 180 months. See Note 31 “Risk management” for additional details on the Group’s management of credit risk. 2) Deposits in SEK and EUR are payable on demand, although a fee is assessed for premature withdrawals from fixed-term deposits. 3) T  he nominal value is SEK 2,608m for unsecured debt maturing in 2021 and SEK 2,608m for unsecured debt maturing in 2023 as per 31 December 2019. The nominal value is SEK 2,569m for unsecured debt maturing in 2021 and SEK 2,569m for unsecured debt maturing in 2023 as per 31 December 2018. See Note 26 “Funding” for additional information. Hoist Finance  131 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 15 Maturity analysis, cont PARENT COMPANY, 31 Dec 2019 Remaining contractual maturity (undiscounted value) Of which, anticipated and anticipated date of Payable on <3 3–12 1–5 >5 No fixed recovery date recovery, SEK m demand months months years years maturity Total > 12 months Assets Treasury bills and treasury bonds 1,890 572 267 2,729 267 Lending to credit institutions Swedish banks 1,245 1,245 foreign banks 210 210 Lending to the public 15 32 188 272 507 460 Receivables, Group companies 1,134 7,038 5,408 3,416 16,996 8,824 Bonds and other securities 251 384 2,134 2,769 2,134 Total assets with fixed/ contractual maturities 1,455 3,290 8,026 7,997 272 3,416 24,456 11,685 Acquired loan portfolios1) 364 1,722 6,861 2,733 11,680 9,594 Total assets with no fixed/ anticipated maturities 364 1,722 6,861 2,733 11,680 9,594 Liabilities Deposits from the public2) retail 8,690 2,097 2,754 7,822 21,363 7,822 corporate 72 72 Total deposits from the public 8,762 2,097 2,754 7,822 21,435 7,822 Liabilities, Group companies 582 68 650 Debt securities issued 313 101 5,4613) 5,875 5,461 Subordinated debt 32 899 931 899 Total liabilities with fixed/ contractual maturities 9,344 2,478 2,887 14,182 28,891 14,182 1) M aturity analysis for acquired loan portfolios is based on future cash flow forecast horizon of 180 months. See Note 31 “Risk management” for additional details on the Group’s management of credit risk. 2) Deposits in SEK and EUR are payable on demand, although a fee is assessed for premature withdrawals from fixed-term deposits. 3) T  he nominal value is SEK 2,608m for unsecured debt maturing in 2021 and SEK 2,608m for unsecured debt maturing in 2023 as per 31 December 2019. The nominal value is SEK 2,569m for unsecured debt maturing in 2021 and SEK 2,569m for unsecured debt maturing in 2023 as per 31 December 2018. See Note 26 “Funding” for additional information Hoist Finance  132 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 15 Maturity analysis, cont PARENT COMPANY, 31 Dec 2018 Remaining contractual maturity (undiscounted value) Of which, anticipated and anticipated date of Payable on <3 3–12 1–5 >5 No fixed recovery date recovery, SEK m demand months months years years maturity Total > 12 months Assets Treasury bills and treasury bonds 2,523 40 90 2,653 90 Lending to credit institutions Swedish banks 205 205 foreign banks 148 12 160 Lending to the public 35 64 200 302 601 502 Receivables, Group companies 583 2,241 7,661 6,000 16,485 13,661 Bonds and other securities 3,174 461 3,635 461 Total assets with fixed/ contractual maturities 353 3,153 5,519 8,412 302 6,000 23,739 14,714 Acquired loan portfolios1) 303 1,440 5,087 2,602 9,432 7,689 Total assets with no fixed/ anticipated maturities 303 1,440 5,087 2,602 9,432 7,689 Liabilities Deposits from the public2) retail 11,264 1,266 2,947 1,533 17,010 1,533 corporate 83 83 Total deposits from the public 11,347 1,266 2,947 1,533 17,093 1,533 Liabilities, Group companies 328 61 389 Debt securities issued 853 215 5,478 3) 6,546 5,478 Subordinated debt 32 918 950 918 Total liabilities with fixed/ contractual maturities 11,675 2,180 3,194 7,929 24,978 7,929 1) M aturity analysis for acquired loan portfolios is based on future cash flow forecast horizon of 180 months. See Note 31 “Risk management” for additional details on the Group’s management of credit risk. 2) Deposits in SEK and EUR are payable on demand, although a fee is assessed for premature withdrawals from fixed-term deposits. 3) T  he nominal value is SEK 2,608m for unsecured debt maturing in 2021 and SEK 2,608m for unsecured debt maturing in 2023 as per 31 December 2019. The nominal value is SEK 2,569m for unsecured debt maturing in 2021 and SEK 2,569m for unsecured debt maturing in 2023 as per 31 December 2018. See Note 26 “Funding” for additional information. Note 16 Acquired loan portfolios GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Gross carrying amount 23,921 20,346 7,267 5,532 Loss allowance 382 259 127 61 Net carrying amount 24,303 20,605 7,394 5,593 For additional information see Accounting principles section 15 ”Income and expenses” and Note 31 ”Risk management”. Hoist Finance  133 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 16 Acquired loan portfolios, cont Acquired credit-impaired loan portfolios GROUP PARENT COMPANY Gross carrying Loss Net carrying Gross carrying Loss Net carrying SEK m amount allowance amount amount allowance amount Opening balance 1 Jan 2019 19,334 262 19,596 5,133 63 5,196 Acquisitions 5,952 – 5,952 2,647 – 2,647 Interest income 3,271 – 3,271 936 – 936 Gross collections –6,179 – –6,179 –1,877 – –1,877 Impairment losses and gains – 122 122 – 67 67 Disposal 0 – 0 – – – Translation differences 631 3 634 83 0 83 Closing balance 31 Dec 2019 23,009 387 23,396 6,922 130 7,052 Acquired credit-impaired loan portfolios GROUP PARENT COMPANY Gross carrying Loss Net carrying Gross carrying Loss Net carrying SEK m amount allowance amount amount allowance amount Opening balance 1 Jan 2018 14,766 – 14,766 – – – Merger – – – 2,464 – 2,464 IFRS 9 transition effects 11 – 11 7 – 7 Acquisitions 6,925 – 6,925 3,532 – 3,532 Interest income 2,744 – 2,744 637 – 637 Gross collections –5,533 – –5,533 –1,509 – –1,509 Impairment losses and gains – 264 264 – 64 64 Disposal –66 0 –66 – – – Translation differences 487 –2 485 2 –1 1 Closing balance 31 Dec 2018 19,334 262 19,596 5,133 63 5,196 Undiscounted acquired loss allowances As at 31 December 2019, the undiscounted acquired loss allowances at initial recognition totaled SEK 27,897m (43,261) for credit-impaired loan portfolios acquired by the Group during January to December, of which SEK 7,498m (24,689) is attributable to Parent Company acquisitions. Acquired performing loan portfolios GROUP Gross Net carrying Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Loss carrying SEK m amount 12M ECL LECL LECL allowance amount Opening balance 1 Jan 2019 1,012 –2 0 –1 –3 1,009 Interest income 88 – – – – 88 Amortisations and interest payments –220 – – – – –220 Changes in risk parameters – 1 0 –3 –2 –2 Derecognitions –9 – – – – –9 Translation differences 41 0 0 0 0 41 Closing balance 31 Dec 2019 912 –1 0 –4 –5 907 Acquired performing loan portfolios PARENT COMPANY Gross Net carrying Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Loss carrying SEK m amount 12M ECL LECL LECL allowance amount Opening balance 1 Jan 2018 399 –1 0 –1 –2 397 Interest income 34 – – – – 34 Amortisations and interest payments –107 – – – – –107 Changes in risk parameters – 1 0 –2 –1 –1 Derecognitions –8 – – – – –8 Translation differences 27 0 0 0 0 27 Closing balance 31 Dec 2018 345 0 0 –3 –3 342 Hoist Finance  134 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 16 Acquired loan portfolios, cont Acquired performing loan portfolios GROUP Gross Net carrying Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Loss carrying SEK m amount 12M ECL LECL LECL allowance amount Opening balance 1 Jan 2018 – – – – – – Acquisitions 1,123 – – – – 1,123 Interest income 56 – – – – 56 Amortisations and interest payments –148 – – – – –148 Changes in risk parameters – –2 0 –1 –3 –3 Derecognitions –3 – – – – –3 Translation differences –16 0 0 0 0 –16 Closing balance 31 Dec 2018 1,012 –2 0 –1 –3 1,009 Acquired performing loan portfolios PARENT COMPANY Gross Net carrying Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Loss carrying SEK m amount 12M ECL LECL LECL allowance amount Opening balance 1 Jan 2018 – – – – – – Acquisitions 460 – – – – 460 Interest income 24 – – – – 24 Amortisations and interest payments –74 – – – – –74 Changes in risk parameters – –1 0 –1 –2 –2 Derecognitions –1 – – – – –1 Translation differences –10 0 0 0 0 –10 Closing balance 31 Dec 2018 399 –1 0 –1 –2 397 Portfolio overview Revaluations The portfolios comprise a large number of loans. The debtors have The Group evaluates actual collections in relation to the forecast varying characteristics, such as payers, partial payers and nonthat served as the basis for portfolio valuation during the same payers. There is some degree of mobility between debtor categories, period. Deviations may in some cases result in an adjustment to with non-payers becoming payers and vice versa. The Group divides future forecasts, specifically if operational efforts have not had, or its portfolios into different categories, such as countries, age, asset are not expected to have, the intended effect. Forecast adjustments class and acquisition type. are analysed in consultation with the Investment Committee, and are determined at the Group Management level. Forecast revisions Collection forecast are implemented by the resources directly subordinate to the Chief The Group evaluates portfolios by estimating future cash flows for Financial Officer. Forecast adjustments and their impact on earnings the next 15 years. Cash flow forecasts are regularly monitored during are disclosed internally and externally. The portfolio valuation is the year and updated based on factors such as achieved collection independently audited by the Risk Control function. results and instalment plan agreements with debtors. A new carrying amount is calculated for the loan portfolios based on the updated forecasts. Acquired loan portfolios reclassified from fair value through profit or loss under IAS 39 to amortised cost under IFRS 9, Group SEK m Effective interest rate of reclassified acquired loans on date of initial application, % 21 Interest revenue recorded during the period Jan–Dec 2019 143 Hoist Finance  135 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 17 Shares and participations in subsidiaries Legal structure Hoist Germany The Hoist Finance Group with its most important (Branch) subsidiaries and branches as at 31 December 2019. Hoist France (Branch) Hoist Finance AB (publ) Hoist Belgium Sweden (Branch) Hoist Netherlands (Branch) 100% 100% 100% JV 50% JV 33% Hoist Hoist Finance Hoist Finance BEST III NS FIZ PQH Single SpeciFinance UK Ltd. Spain S.L. Cyprus Ltd Poland al Liquidation S.A. UK Spain Cyprus (Fund) Greece 100% Robinson Way 100% 100% Ltd. UK Optimus Portfolio Hoist I NS FIZ GoDebt I FIZ NFS Hoist II NS FIZ Management S.L Poland Poland Poland Spain (Fund) (Fund) (Fund) Hoist Finance UK Hoist Finance UK Hoist Finance UK Holdings 1 Ltd. Holdings 2 Ltd Holdings 3 Ltd. UK UK UK 100% Nais Uno Reoco Nuova Maran Hoist Polska Immobilière de Hoist Hoist Italia S.R.L. MARTE SPV S.r.l. Hoist Hellas S.A S.r.l. S.r.l. SpZ.O.O Lancereaux SAS Kredit Ltd. Italy Italy Greece Italy Italy Poland France UK Marathon SPV S.r.l. Italy Hoist Finance AB (publ), corporate identity number 556012-8489 and with its registered office in Stockholm, is the Parent Company of the Group. The list of Group subsidiaries is provided below. Hoist Finance  136 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 17 Shares and participations in subsidiaries, cont Ownership percentage corresponds to share of voting power. All shares are unlisted. No registered credit market company. Information on the number of shares in Group companies is available upon request. Carrying value SEK m Corp. ID no. Registered office Ownership, % 31 Dec 2019 Swedish Hoist Finance Services AB 1) 556640-9941 Stockholm 100 1 Foreign HECTOR Sicherheiten-Verwaltungs GmbH HRB 74561 Duisburg 100 0 HOIST I NS FIZ 2) RFI702 Warszaw 100 – Hoist Kredit Ltd. 07646691 London 100 0 Hoist Finance UK Ltd. 08303007 Manchester 100 335 C L Finance Ltd. 1) 01108021 Manchester 100 – Robinson Way Ltd. 06976081 Manchester 100 – The Lewis Group Ltd. 1) SC127043 Glasgow 100 – Compello Holdings Ltd. 1) 08045571 Manchester 100 – Compello Operations Ltd. 1) 08045559 Manchester 100 – MKE (UK) Ltd. 1) 07042157 Manchester 100 – MKDP LLP 1) OC349372 Manchester 100 – Marte SPV S.r.l. 4634710265 Conegliano 100 0 Hoist Italia S.r.l. 12898671008 Rom 100 14 Hoist Finance Cyprus Ltd. HE 338570 Nicosia 100 0 Hoist Polska SpZ.O.O 0000536257 Wroclaw 100 147 Hoist Finance Spain S.L. B87547659 Madrid 100 216 Optimus Portfolio Management S.L. B86959285 Madrid 100 – Hoist Hellas S.A 137777901000 Athens 100 21 Nais Uno Reoco S.r.l. 14564684007 Rom 100 1 GoDebt1 FIZ NFS 2) 292229 Warszaw 100 – Immobilière de Lancereaux SAS 2018B20590 Paris 100 0 Hoist Finance UK Holdings 1 Ltd. 11473838 Manchester 100 – Hoist Finance UK Holdings 2 Ltd. 11473850 Manchester 100 – Hoist Finance UK Holdings 3 Ltd. 11473909 Manchester 100 – Nuova Maran S.r.l. 14846811009 Rom 100 43 Hoist II NS FIZ 2) RFi1617 Warszaw 100 0 Hoist Finance Romania S.r.l 3) 41830400 Bucharest 100 – Marathon SPV S.r.l 3) 5048650260 Conegliano 100 – 1) The company is being liquidated. 2) Polish Sec. fund. 3) Companies added during the year. Hoist Finance  137 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 17 Shares and participations in subsidiaries, cont The acquisition of net assets was conducted through the newly SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 formed, wholly owned subsidiary Nuova Maran S.r.l. and the entire Accumulated acquisition value acquisition has been 100 per cent consolidated since the agreement Opening balance date. The purchase price of SEK 39m has been reported as a pur904 1,688 chaser liability until settlement is concluded pursuant to compulsory Absorbed through merger –7 –1,688 administrative proceedings in accordance with Italian insolvency law. Acquired through merger 0 2,315 Merger-related expenses totalled SEK 4m and are included in administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement. Acquisitions 0 1 The acquired net assets of SEK 39m included goodwill of SEK 6m, Capital contribution 53 11 reported in intangible assets. Goodwill is mainly attributable to the Disposal 0 –1,423 expertise received by the Group. The net assets were consolidated in the Hoist Finance Group as Closing balance 950 904 from October 2018. Accumulated depreciations Acquired net assets at acquisition date 1) Opening balance –182 – SEK m Acquired through merger –172 Intangible assets 32 Hedge fair value 1) 39 –10 Tangible assets 1 Closing balance –143 –182 Total net assets 33 Closing balance 807 722 Goodwill 6 Purchase price 39 1) For additional information see Accounting principles section 22.8 ”Hedge accounting” and Note 14 ”Derivatives” 1) Acquisition balance is preliminary. Merger Fusion Hoist Finance AB (publ) with Hoist Kredit AB (publ) Hoist Finance SAS with Hoist Finance AB (publ) Hoist Kredit AB (publ) and Hoist Finance AB (publ) completed a mergThe subsidiary Hoist Finance SAS, corp id 4446114563, and Hoist er as of 2 January 2018. Through the merger, all of Hoist Kredit’s assets Finance AB (publ) were merged on 2 January 2019, following which the and liabilities have been transferred to Hoist Finance at the same time French operations are conducted through the branch Hoist Finance as Hoist Kredit was liquidated. The previously announced simplificaAB (publ) France. The income statement and balance sheet of Hoist tion of the corporate structure has been completed and Hoist Finance Finance SAS, as of the effective date of the merger, 2 January 2019, transitions from a holding company into the operational Parent are presented below. Company of the Group. The merger has no material financial effects for Hoist Finance. Like Hoist Kredit, Hoist Finance is a credit market company under the supervision of the Swedish FSA. The merged company’s income statement and balance sheet: SEK m The merged company’s balance sheet: Total operating income 0 SEK m Profit before tax 0 Cash and interest-bearing securities 5,787 Other assets 15,566 Cash and interest-bearing securities 78 Other assets Total assets 21,353 9 Total assets 87 Deposits from the public 13,228 Other liabilities 44 Debt securities issued 4,355 Equity 42 Subordinated debt 803 Total liabilities and equity 87 Total interest-bearing liabilities 18,386 Other liabilities 407 The merger result in Hoist Finance AB (publ), which is recognised in Untaxed reserve 81 equity, amounts to profit of SEK 7m. Equity Restricted equity 143 Acqusition Non-restricted equity 2,336 Nuova Maran S.r.l. Total liabilities and equity 21,353 On 11 October 2018, Hoist Finance signed an agreement to lease and subsequently acquire the existing operations in Italian credit management companies Maran S.p.A and R&S S.r.l. (the “Maran Group”) in a The merger result in Hoist Finance AB (publ), which is recognised in multi-stage process under compulsory administrative proceedings equity, amounts to profit of SEK 790m. (concordato preventivo) in accordance with Italian insolvency law. The acquisition of Maran Group’s operations will add capacity and expertise to the current operations in Italy and create an integrated service platform, establishing Hoist Finance as a credit management partner with a comprehensive solution for the Italian finance industry. Hoist Finance  138 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 18 Intangible assets GROUP, 31 Dec 2019 PARENT COMPANY, 31 Dec 2019 Internally Internally developed Licences and Work in developed Licences and Work in SEK m Goodwill software software progress Total software software progress Total Opening balance 210 10 347 122 689 10 210 122 342 Investments for the year – – 8 41 49 – 2 38 40 Acquired companies – – – – – – 8 – 8 Reclassification – – 112 –112 0 – 109 –109 0 Divestments and disposals – – –1 –2 –3 – –1 – –1 Translation differences 3 – –7 3 –1 – 1 –1 0 Acquisition value 213 10 459 52 734 10 329 50 389 Opening balance –57 –5 –240 – –302 –5 –160 – –165 Depreciation for the year – –2 –54 – –56 –2 –36 – –38 Divestments and disposals – – 1 – 1 – 1 – 1 Translation differences 0 – 5 – 5 – –1 – –1 Accumulated depreciation –57 –7 –288 – –352 –7 –196 – –203 Carrying amount 156 3 171 52 382 3 133 50 186 GROUP, 31 Dec 2018 PARENT COMPANY, 31 Dec 2018 Internally Internally developed Licences and Work in developed Licences and Work in SEK m Goodwill software software progress Total software software progress Total Opening balance 202 10 268 56 536 10 35 51 96 Investments for the year – – 6 94 100 – 5 92 97 Acquired companies 6 – 48 – 54 – – – – Acquired through merger – – – – – – 149 7 156 Reclassification – – 21 –22 –1 – 21 –22 –1 Divestments and disposals – – 0 –6 –6 – 0 –6 –6 Translation differences 2 – 4 0 6 – 0 0 0 Acquisition value 210 10 347 122 689 10 210 122 342 Opening balance –57 –3 –189 – –249 –3 –29 – –32 Depreciation for the year – –2 –39 – –41 –2 –20 – –22 Acquired companies – – –10 – –10 – – – – Acquired through merger – – – – – – –102 – –102 Reclassification – – 0 – 0 – –9 – –9 Divestments and disposals – – 0 – 0 – 0 – 0 Translation differences – – –2 – –2 – 0 – 0 Accumulated depreciation –57 –5 –240 – –302 –5 –160 – –165 Carrying amount 153 5 107 122 387 5 50 122 177 Impairment test for goodwill The forecast period for gross cash collections is 15 years. Collection The Group’s goodwill of SEK 156m (143) has been identified as becosts are calculated in relation to collection on portfolios, and other longing to the cash-generating units Poland (SEK 139m) and Spain revenues and costs are based on established 3-year business plans. In(SEK 10m). The remaining SEK 6m of goodwill is recognised locally in vestments are considered to be of a long-term nature and, accordingly, subsidiary Nuova Maran S.r.l., and arose in connection with the Octoit is assumed that, for the period beyond the forecast period, revenues, ber 2018 acquisition of net assets in Maran Group; see Note 17 “Group costs and investments will increase 2 per cent in perpetuity. companies”. Goodwill was impairment tested in conjunction with the The effective tax rate applied in the impairment test is the local tax year-end accounts. rate in the relevant country. The discount rate is the weighted average Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually or when there cost of capital in the relevant country. The discount rate for 2019 is are indications for impairment. In impairment tests, the value in use of within the 4–5 per cent range after tax. the cash-generating units is calculated by discounting estimated future In this year’s Group impairment test, the value in use was deemed cash flows. Value in use is compared with carrying value to determine to exceed the carrying value of the cash-generating units Poland and whether impairment is required. Spain. There is therefore no impairment requirement. Cash flow forecasts are based on an assessment of future collections, portfolio acquisitions, and cost and revenue development. Hoist Finance  139 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 19 Tangible assets GROUP, 31 Dec 2019 PARENT COMPANY, 31 Dec 2019 Land and Properties repossessed for SEK m buildings Equipment protection of claims Total Equipment Total Opening balance – 225 5 230 115 115 Transition to IFRS 16 161 12 – 173 – – Investments for the year 69 27 6 102 16 16 Acquired through merger – –4 – –4 2 2 Divestments and disposals – –26 – –26 –11 –11 Translation differences 5 6 0 11 1 1 Acquisition value 235 240 11 486 123 123 Opening balance – –171 – –171 –91 –91 Depreciation for the year –38 –27 0 –65 –11 –11 Acquired through merger – 4 – 4 – – Divestments and disposals – 22 – 22 8 8 Translation differences 0 –7 0 –7 0 0 Accumulated depreciation –38 –179 0 –217 –94 –94 Carrying amount 197 61 11 269 29 29 GROUP, 31 Dec 2018 PARENT COMPANY, 31 Dec 2018 Properties repossessed SEK m Equipment for protection of claims Total Equipment Total Opening balance 162 – 162 7 7 Investments for the year 31 5 36 13 13 Acquired companies 5 – 5 – – Acquired through merger – – – 97 97 Reclassification 25 – 25 1 1 Divestments and disposals –3 – –3 –3 –3 Translation differences 5 – 5 0 0 Acquisition value 225 5 230 115 115 Opening balance –120 – –120 –6 –6 Depreciation for the year –20 – –20 –10 –10 Acquired companies –4 – –4 – – Acquired through merger – – – –75 –75 Reclassification –24 – –24 – – Divestments and disposals 0 – 0 0 0 Translation differences –3 – –3 – – Accumulated depreciation –171 0 –171 –91 –91 Carrying amount 54 5 59 24 24 Hoist Finance  140 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 20 Leasing The Group’s lease contracts mainly comprise leased premises, with liabilities is presented in note 15 Maturity analysis. Total cash flow for a small share of lease contracts covering vehicles, equipment and lease liabilities during the year is presented in Note 30 Specification furniture and IT hardware. All right-of-use assets are reported in Tangible to the cash flow statement. assets in the balance sheet. The effects of transition to IFRS 16 are presented in the AccountLease liabilities are reported in Other liabilities in the balance sheet ing Principles section. and totalled SEK 211m at 31 December 2019. A maturity analysis of lease GROUP, 31 Dec 2019 Other right-of-use SEK m Leased premises assets Total Opening balance – – – Transition to IFRS 16 161 12 173 Investments for the year 69 6 75 Translation differences 5 1 6 Acquisition value 235 19 254 Opening balance – – – Depreciation for the year –38 –7 –45 Translation differences 0 0 0 Accumulated depreciation –38 –7 –45 Carrying value 197 12 209 The year’s investments in right-of-use assets pertain to new acquisitions Operating leasing PARENT COMPANY and to additional amounts resulting from reviewing existing lease liabiliSEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 ties when lease contracts are extended or prematurely terminated. In addition to lease contracts reported in the balance sheet, the Payment obligations under Group also has leases in which the right-of-use asset is not accessible noncancellable lease contracts until the following financial year. Obligation under these contracts Within 1 year 24 16 amounted to SEK 18m at 31 December 2019. Years 1–5 98 38 Year 5 and thereafter 48 65 Amounts reported in the income statement Total 170 119 GROUP SEK m 2019 Depreciation of right-of-use assets –45 Interest expense related to lease liabilities –6 Costs related to short-term leases –3 Costs related to low-value leases 0 Total –54 Interest expense related to lease liabilities is reported in Net interest income. Costs related to short-term and low-value leases are reported in General administrative expenses. 2018 comparative figures (IAS 17) The carrying value of assets classified as finance leases totalled SEK 2m at 31 December 2018. The Group’s lease expenses totalled SEK 40m. No variable leasing fees were charged to 2018 net profit. Parent company IFRS 16 is not applied by the Parent Company. There are no leases classified as finance leases. The Parent Company’s lease expenses totalled SEK 30m (22) during the year. No variable fees were charged to net profit for the year. The Parent Company’s obligations under operating lease agreements are presented below. Hoist Finance  141 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 21 Other assets GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Long-term financial assets 0 0 0 0 Long-term receivables 4 4 1 – Derivatives1) 107 128 107 128 Short-term financial assets 46 22 45 21 Deposits for portfolio acquisitions – 72 – 72 Short-term tax receivables 22 45 –5 36 VAT receivables 14 15 13 4 Accounts receivables 170 27 1 0 Advance payments to customers 20 28 20 28 Other short-term receivables 128 84 108 51 Total 511 425 290 340 1) See note 14 ”Derivatives”. Note 22 Prepaid expenses and accrued income GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Prepaid expenses 60 24 23 11 Accrued income 46 29 32 16 Total 106 53 55 27 Note 23 Other liabilities GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Long-term liabilities 5 4 – – Accounts payable 117 101 62 53 Short-term payables to Group companies – – 647 383 Unpaid purchase consideration for portfolios 13 16 13 16 Liabilities from service billing 185 37 2 2 Derivatives1) 35 19 35 19 VAT payables 12 9 0 – Employee withholding tax on deposit interest 27 36 27 36 Employee withholding tax 26 23 11 1 Short-term payables to employees 34 41 4 14 Collateral received 91 – 91 – Lease liabilities 211 – – – Other current liabilities 67 94 21 – Total 823 380 913 524 1) See note 14 ”Derivatives”. Hoist Finance  142 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 24 Accrued expenses and deferred income GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Accrued personnel expenses 57 65 23 32 Accrued commission expenses 4 6 – 3 Accrued legal costs 15 23 – – Accrued collection costs 8 11 5 9 Accrued expenses for deposits from the public – 16 – 16 Deferred income 1 47 – – Other accrued expenses 69 64 32 8 Total 154 232 60 68 Note 25 Provisions Other non-current Pension provision Restructuring reserve employee benefits Other provisions GROUP 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening balance 26 27 20 36 17 17 5 7 68 87 Provision 0 0 27 19 7 6 1 0 35 25 Amount released –1 –1 –11 –32 –8 –6 0 –1 –20 –40 Dissolution recognized in income – – –2 0 – – –1 –1 –3 –1 Change in value 4 0 2 –3 2 0 1 0 9 –3 Closing balance 29 26 36 20 18 17 6 5 89 68 Restructuring Pensions Restructuring costs in 2019 relates to costs resulting from the decision The Group has defined-benefit pension schemes for Hoist Finance AB to coordinate Hoist Finance’s operations in France to fewer offices, and (publ), the German branch Hoist Finance AB (publ) Niederlassung and additional restructuring costs in Germany. This provision is expected in the Greek subsidiary Hoist Hellas SA., based on the employees’ pento be utilised in 2020. Restructuring costs in 2018 related to costs sionable remuneration and length of service. Pension commitments resulting from the decision to coordinate Hoist Finance’s operations are determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, which includes in Germany and Great Britain to fewer offices. The provisions are to a current pensions, vested rights and future increases in these paramemajority utilised in 2019 and the remaining are expected to be utilised ters in the valuation. in 2020. GROUP SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Net pension provision, recognised in the balance sheet Defined-benefit commitment 34 30 Fair value of plan assets 5 4 Net pension provision 29 26 Pension commitments Opening balance 30 30 Interest expense 1 1 Pension payments –1 –1 Actuarial gains (–)/losses (+) 4 –1 Currency effects, etc. 0 1 Other 0 0 Closing balance 34 30 Assets under management Opening balance 4 3 Interest income 0 0 Employer-contributed funds 1 1 Benefits paid –1 –1 Actuarial gains (+)/losses (–) 1 1 Currency effects 0 0 Closing balance 5 4 All plan assets are invested in investment funds. The Parent Company’s defined-benefit pension liability in Sweden at 31 December 2019 was SEK 11,000 (27,000). The change of SEK –16,000 (–7,000) is attributable to pension payments. Hoist Finance  143 Annual Report 2019 Notes Not 26 Funding GROUP SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Deposits from the public 21,435 17,093 Senior debt 5,431 5,950 Secured debt 469 – Total issued securities 5,900 5,950 Subordinated debt 852 839 Total interest-bearing debt 28,187 23,882 Terms and conditions and repayment periods 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Nominal Nominal Carrying Nominal Carrying SEK m Currency interest rate Maturity value amount value amount Deposits from the public SEK 0.60% – 1.75% 2019-2022 12,161 12,243 11,238 11,292 Deposits from the public EUR 0.40% – 1.30% 2019-2024 9,152 9,192 5,798 5,801 Senior debt EUR 3.125% 2019 – – 146 146 Senior debt EUR 1.125% 2021 2,608 2,567 2,569 2,505 Senior debt EUR 2.750% 2023 2,608 2,551 2,569 2,447 Senior debt EUR 0.199%–0.203% 2020 313 313 853 852 Secured debt EUR 8.0%–15.0% 2034 527 469 – – Subordinated debt EUR 3.875% 2027 835 852 822 839 Total interest-bearing liabilities 28,204 28,187 23,995 23,882 Retail funding senior unsecured bond loans totalling EUR 500m under the EMTN proDeposits from the public gramme. A number of money market instruments were issued during Hoist Finance AB (publ) has offered deposits for retail customers and the year with interest rates ranging from 0.2 to 0.3 per cent depending corporates in Sweden since 2009 under the HoistSpar brand, where on duration (3 to 6 months). Issues outstanding under the commercial customers can save up to SEK 950,000. A new deposit programme paper programme amounted to EUR 30m at year-end. was established in Germany in 2017, with customers allowed to save up to EUR 100,000. The Swedish and German deposit products offer Secured debt both current account and fixed-term deposits, with the majority (99 The Italian special purpose vehicle Marathon SPV S.r.l issued bonds per cent) of all deposits covered by the Swedish deposit guarantee. totalling EUR 337m during the year in three tranches, secured by Italian At year-end 2019, Hoist Finance AB (publ) had SEK 5,843m and SEK unsecured NPLs. The two subordinated tranches in the transaction 6,400m in current account and fixed-term deposits in SEK, respectivestructure, corresponding to 15 per cent of total issue amount, have ly, and SEK 3,028m and SEK 6,164m in current account and fixed-term been 95 per cent subscribed by external investors. deposits in EUR, respectively. Subordinated debt Wholesale funding Hoist Finance AB (publ) issued no subordinated debt in 2019. Senior debt No new debt was issued in 2019 under the Company’s EMTN programme. At year-end Hoist Finance AB (publ) had two outstanding Hoist Finance  144 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 27 Equity Share capital. The Articles of Association of Hoist Finance AB (publ) capital at 31 December 2018 and 2019 was EUR 30m and EUR 40m, specify that the company’s share capital shall total a minimum of SEK respectively. 15m and a maximum of SEK 60m. AT1 capital contributions are subordinated loans, which have priority GROUP only over share capital. Subordinated loans that meet the requirements specified in Regulation (EU) No 575/203 may be rated as AT1 capital. Number of shares 2019 2018 The instruments are perpetual and are redeemable only upon approval Opening balance 89,303,000 81,184,546 of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and no earlier than five years after issue date. Hoist Finance AB (publ) issued no new AT1 New share issue – 8,118,454 capital in 2019. Closing balance 89,303,000 89,303,000 Retained earnings comprise accrued earnings in the Parent Company, subsidiaries and joint ventures. For the 2019 financial year, the Board The quota value is SEK 0.33 per share. has decided to propose to the AGM not to pay a dividend for 2019. The total number of shares at 31 December 2018 and 2019 was The revaluation reserve in the Parent Company comprises SEK 64m 89,303,000, of which 8,118,454 were issued through new share issues taken over from Hoist Kredit AB (publ) in the merger and which arose in 2018. All shares are paid in full. from revaluation of the share value in Hoist Finance UK Ltd in 2013. The revaluation reserve also comprises portfolio revaluations of SEK 9m (2) The translation reserve comprises all exchange differences arising pertaining to positive revaluations of portfolios reported in restricted through translation of foreign operations less hedging effects. equity. Other contributed equity refers to equity, other than share capital, The development expenditure fund in the Parent Company, totalling contributed by the shareholders. During 2018 Hoist Finance AB (publ) SEK 5m (4), pertains to expenditures for the Company’s own developrepurchased Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital issued in 2013 for a nominal ment work and has been transferred from retained earnings and taken amount totalling SEK 100m, and issued new AT1 capital for a nominal over from Hoist Kredit AB (publ) in the merger. amount totalling EUR 40m. The nominal value of outstanding AT1 Note 28 Pledged assets GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Pledges and equivalent collateral to secure own liabilities and commitments recognised as provisions 79 70 0 12 Note 29 Contingent liabilities GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Commitments 356 1,116 325 367 Forward flow contracts In forward flow contracts, a pre-determined volume (fixed or range) of NPLs is acquired at a pre-defined price during a certain time period. Hoist Finance  145 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 30 Specifications to the cash flow statement Cash and cash equivalents GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Cash 0 0 0 0 Treasury bills and treasury bonds 2,729 2,653 2,729 2,653 Lending to credit institutions 3,075 1,187 1,455 365 Liabilities to Group companies, group account – – –582 –328 Total 5,804 3,840 3,602 2,690 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Impairment of shares in subsidiaries – – – 1,454 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 122 61 49 32 Realised and unrealised component of net income from financial transactions 57 0 96 188 Impairment gains and losses –120 –261 –56 –83 Unrealised gains on shares and participations in joint ventures 7 11 – – Increase/decrease in accrued interest income and interest expense 128 81 156 17 Increase/decrease in provisions 14 –20 10 –18 Derecognitions 9 3 8 1 Other items –9 3 7 21 Total 208 –122 270 1,612 Reconciliation of liabilities from funding activities Non-cash changes 31 Dec Exchange rate 31 Dec SEK m 2018 Cash flow Investments Accrued expenses fluctuations 2019 Deposits from the public 17,093 4,204 65 73 21,435 Issued securities 5,950 –178 63 65 5,900 Subordinated debt 839 1 12 852 Lease liabilities, transition effect IFRS 16, 1 Jan 2019 173 –40 75 1 2 211 Total liabilities from funding activities 24,055 3,986 75 130 152 28,398 Hoist Finance  146 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 31 Risk management Introduction »» Bonds and other securities. »» Deposits in credit institutions. The risks that originate from the Group’s operational activities are primarily attributable to Group assets in the form of acquired loan portfo»» Counterparty risk exposure to institutions with which the Group lios and consequently the payment capacity of Hoist Finance’s debtors. conducts derivative transactions to hedge the Group’s FX and These risks are mitigated by a historically strong and predictable cash interest rate exposure. flow and through the continuous monitoring and evaluation of portfolio development. The Group is also exposed to operational risks as part of Credit Risk for acquired non-performing loan portfolios its daily operational activities and in connection with the Group’s rapid The non-performing loans are acquired in portfolios at prices that typigrowth. These risks are managed using a framework for managing cally vary between 5 and 35 per cent of the nominal value outstanding operational risks that is based on continuous improvements to proceat the acquisition date. The price depends on the portfolios’ specific dures and processes, risk awareness in the organisation, duality in all characteristics and composition in terms of, inter alia, size, age, the eximportant transactions and analyses, and a clear division of responsiistance of collaterals and type of loans, as well as debtor age, location, bilities. The Group is also exposed to exchange rate and interest-rate type, et cetera. fluctuations. These two market risks are managed through the ongoing use of derivatives to hedge exchange rates and interest rates. Measuring Credit Risk in the non-performing loan portfolios The Group has adopted policies, regulations and instructions govCredit risk in the non-performing loan portfolios relates primarily to erning the management, analysis, evaluation and monitoring of risks. the Group overpaying for a portfolio — that is, recovering less from the The Group has also adopted risk management strategies built on the portfolio than expected — resulting in higher than expected portfolio principle that the company, based on its extensive experience and excarrying amount impairments and lower revenue. pertise in acquiring loan portfolios, actively seeks to increase its volumes Total credit risk exposure is equal to the carrying amount of the in this business area while minimising other exposures and risks (such as assets. The year-end carrying amount of Hoist Finance’s non-performmarket, liquidity and operational risks) as far as is financially justifiable. ing loan portfolios was SEK 23,396m (19,333). The majority of these The Group’s Risk Control function is responsible for working loans are unsecured, although a number of portfolios have real estate independently from Management to analyse, monitor and report all properties as collateral. As at 31 December 2019, these portfolios had a significant risks to the CEO and Board of Directors. The Risk Control carrying amount of SEK 4,076m (2,230). function also serves as an advisor to the Board on issues concerning Information on the loan portfolios’ geographical distribution is prerisk management, risk appetite and risk strategies. This ensures that sented in Note 1 ”Segment reporting”. Other information on acquired duality is achieved, as all significant risks are analysed, reported and non-performing loan portfolios is presented in Note 16 ”Acquired loan monitored by the business operations as well as the independent Risk portfolios”. An important parameter for Hoist Finance’s credit risk manControl function. Risks within the Group are managed and limited in agement of non-performing loan portfolios is net cash flow forecasts, accordance with policies and instructions adopted by the Board. The as presented in Note 16 ”Acquired loan portfolios”. Risk Control function is responsible for reporting and escalating deviations from the limits to both the CEO and the Board. Impairment of non-performing loan portfolio values Risk exposures are calculated, analysed and compared with anticiThe risk of loan portfolios failing to pay as expected is regularly monpated revenue to ensure the achievement of an attractive risk-adjusted itored by the business operations and the Risk Control function, by return. Once defined, the Group’s risk profile is assessed and evaluatcomparing actual outcome against forecasts. This analysis is also used ed. Assessment and evaluation include the following steps: to assess the potential need to impair portfolio values. Revaluation of portfolios and the difference between realised collections and fore1) Assessment of each risk category casts is reported under “Impairment gains and losses”. Each risk category is individually assessed. The risk assessment is documented and always results in a qualitative assessment of the risk Expected credit loss measurement for acquired as well as a quantifiable amount if possible. performing loan portfolios For acquired performing loans IFRS 9 outlines a three-stage model for 2) Stress testing: Assessment of unforeseen events impairment based on changes in credit quality since initial recognition, Unforeseen events are defined as events that are possible but highly which is presented in the adjacent table. The model is only applicable unlikely. Such events may be designated as “stress test events” and to the Group’s performing loan portfolios. Non-performing loan porttheir consequences simulated and documented. Simulation results are folios are always classified in Stage 3. The loss allowance for non-perreviewed against the Group’s capital and liquidity. Unforeseen events forming loans is detailed below in the section “Credit risk for acquired may be based on historical experience, academic theory and/or hyponon-performing loan portfolios”. thetical scenarios. For Hoist Finance, initial recognition is the date on which a portfolio is acquired and subsequently recognised on the balance sheet. For 3) Assessment of how risks can be managed and controlled acquired performing loan portfolios, all loans that are not considered Although not all risks can be quantified in an adequate way, an analysis credit-impaired are classified in Stage 1 at initial recognition. Criteria is done to detail the way in which risks can be managed and controlled. for migration to Stage 2 or Stage 3 are described under ”Significant When appropriate, measures are implemented to improve the manageincrease in credit risk” and “Definition of default and credit-impaired ment and control of the risk. assets” respectively. The general approach applied by Hoist Finance for measuring The most significant risks identified by the Group as being relevant to Expected Credit Losses (“ECL”) for acquired performing loan portfoliits business are: os is component-based and builds upon an estimation of Exposure at »» (i) credit risk; Default (“EAD”), Loss Given Default (“LGD”), and Probability of Default »» (ii) operational risk; (“PD”). These components are multiplied together each month to »» (iii) market risk (FX risk and interest rate risk); and produce an ECL which is recognised in financial statements as a loss »» (iv) liquidity risk. allowance. These risks are presented in separate sections below. At each reporting date, ECL is estimated on a 12-month and a lifetime basis for all acquired performing loan contracts. For loans in stage 1, loss allowance is recognised for ECL over the next 12 months Credit risk whereas for loans in Stage 2 and Stage 3, loss allowance is recognised Credit risk is the risk to revenue and/or capital arising from a counterfor lifetime ECL. party’s failure to repay principal or interest at the stipulated time or a The ECL for all acquired performing loans is measured on a collecfailure to otherwise perform as agreed. tive basis, where a grouping is performed based on shared risk characteristics, type of product, type of counterparty and type of collateral. Credit risk on the Group’s balance sheet relates mainly to: During the period, there have been no changes in estimation tech»» Acquired loan portfolios, comprised of performing and non-perniques or significant assumptions in the ECL measurement process. forming loans. Details on the credit risk for these two categories are presented in a separate section below. Hoist Finance  147 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 31 Risk management, cont Change in credit quality since initial recognition Recognition of expected credit losses 12 month expected Lifetime expected Lifetime expected credit loss credit losses credit losses Interest revenue Effective interest on Effective interest on Effective interest on amortised cost carrying amount gross carrying amount gross carrying amount (i.e. net of loss allowance) Steg 1 Steg 2 Steg 3 Performing Underperforming Non-performing (Initial recognition1)) (Assets with significant increase in credit risk (Credit impaired assets1)) since initial recognition1)) 1) Except for puchased or originated credit impaired assets Measuring ECL – explanation of inputs, assumptions »» When a concession is granted which modifies the contractual cash and estimation techniques flows resulting in a material loss When a performing portfolio is acquired, the ECL model components »» Bankruptcy of the obligor are estimated based on historical information both on a customer and »» Confirmed death of the obligor on a debt level. »» An obligor’s sources of recurring income are no longer available to At initial recognition and at subsequent reporting dates, the lifetime meet the payments of instalments and 12-month PD is estimated using transition matrices for modelling »» Hoist Finance has called any collateral, including a guarantee the probability of being in different survival states prior to default over »» There are justified concerns about a obligor’s future ability to the remaining lifetime of the loan. All loans are classified in a risk rating generate stable and sufficient cash flow class system for which the probability of moving between different risk classes is estimated. The estimation of PD also includes incorporation Concerning what is to be regarded as a purchased credit impaired asof forward-looking macroeconomic information which is described set, the assessment is based on the information provided by the sellers under “Forward-looking information incorporated in ECL models”. of the acquired non-performing loan portfolios. The lifetime and 12-month EAD is estimated based on the contractual payment profile of the loan along with behavioural assumptions for Forward-looking information incorporated in ECL models possible prepayments, overpayments and underpayments. The PD component incorporates forward-looking information through The lifetime and 12-month LGD is determined on the basis of factors use of the macroeconomic variable proven to have the strongest imimpacting the expected post default recoveries such as the probapact on the default frequency of the portfolio. In the case of not having bility of curing to a non-default state and the value of any underlying enough data a proxy default frequency may be used. The PD for each collateral. The estimation of LGD also includes the incorporation of point in time is then adjusted in accordance with scenarios derived forward-looking macroeconomic information which is described under from that macroeconomic variable. “Forward-looking information incorporated in ECL models”. The LGD component incorporates forward-looking information by Lifetime ECL is calculated as the present value of all cash shortfalls applying macroeconomic variable assumptions on the collateral valuaover the remaining lifetime of the loan, discounted using the effective tion which impacts future recovery rates. interest rate (“EIR”). The 12-month ECL is quantified based on the For the purpose of incorporating forward-looking macroeconomic lifetime ECL weighted by the probability that this loss will occur during information in the measurement of ECL, three different probability the next 12 months. weighted scenarios are utilised. The most significant assumptions affecting the ECL allowance are »» (i) A base economic scenario which builds upon the projected as follows: economic development as estimated by the International »» (i) The debtors’ historical and current payment patterns and ability Monetary Fund (“IMF”). The probability weighting assigned to comply with their contractual obligations which is the main to this scenario is 90 per cent. component used in estimating the PD of the debtors. »» (ii) A negative economic downturn scenario. The probability »» (ii) The Loan-To-Value for collateralised loans mitigating the loss in weighting assigned to this scenario is 5 per cent. the event of default (LGD). »» (iii) A positive favourable economic scenario. The probability weighting assigned to this scenario is 5 per cent. Significant increase in credit risk Hoist Finance has defined rating class staging criteria based on the PD The below table outlines how the most significant period-end economrating class system used in the transition matrices utilised for PD estiic variable assumptions as at 31 December 2019 have been applied for mation. Significant increase in credit risk (“SICR”) is defined as when the different economic scenarios. a loan experiences a risk class migration increase of one risk grade as counted from its original risk class at initial recognition. Performing loans Hoist Finance is not rebutting the IFRS 9 presumption that a SICR has occurred when a loan contract is more than 30 days past due on % 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 contractual payments. However it should be noted that Hoist Finance Germany Inflation CPI 1.7 1.7 1.9 2.0 2.1 applies this backstop criteria provided that the past due amount is conGDP Current sidered material in accordance with the definition of default described Poland 6.4 5.7 5.5 5.4 5.2 prices under “Definition of default and credit-impaired assets”. Hoist Finance has not used the low credit risk exemption for any United GDP PPP (share –1.9 –1.9 –1.9 –2.0 –2.0 Kingdom of world) acquired performing loan portfolios. The positive and negative economic scenarios are derived by applying Definition of default and credit-impaired assets +/– two standard deviations from the assumed future macroeconomic Hoist Finance defines an acquired loan as in default, which is fully variable development in the basic scenario. aligned with the definition of credit-impaired, when it meets any of the following criteria: »» The obligor is more than 90 days past due on its contractual paySensitivity analysis Set out in the table below are the changes to the ECL as at 31 December ments by a material amount 2019 that would result if the negative and positive economic scenarios Hoist Finance  148 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 31 Risk management, cont used for ECL measurement purposes, as described in section “Fornificant change in the overall quality of collateral held by Hoist Finance. ward-looking information incorporated in ECL models”, materialised. For acquired secured performing loans that subsequently have become credit-impaired, it becomes more likely that Hoist Finance might take possession of the collateral to mitigate potential credit losses. As ECL Scenario Sensitivities at 31 December 2019 the value of collateral held for credit-impaired % LGD assets represents more than 100 per cent of the gross carrying amount of these loans which represents the maximum exposure to credit risk. Positive Neutral Negative PD Positive –8.86 –0.29 8.82 Write-offs Neutral –8.77 0.00 9.24 For acquired loan portfolios, Hoist Finance will, in whole or in part, derecognise assets where there is no reasonable expectation of Negative –8.62 0.34 10.03 recovery. As at 31 December 2019, there are no contractual amounts outstanding that are still subject to enforcement activity for written off Collateral acquired loans. For acquired secured performing loan portfolios, the collateral which serves as security for mitigation of credit risk consists of properties Modifications and to a minor extent car vehicles. Hoist Finance prepares a valuation For acquired loan portfolios, Hoist Finance has the ability to modify of the collateral to be obtained as part of the transaction process. Hoist the contractual terms of the loan which alters the contractual cash Finance monitors the development of the value of the collateral in secured portfolios through periodic revaluation on an annual basis. There flows. As at 31 December 2019, no losses or gains arising from modis no case where the ECL for a loan is zero due to the value of collateral. ifications of contractual cash flows for acquired loan portfolios have Hoist Finance’s policies for obtaining collateral have not significantbeen recognised for the reporting period. Thus, modification of conly changed during the reporting period and there has not been any sigtractual cash flows have not had any impact on measurement of ECL. Credit risk exposure and maximum exposure to credit risk For acquired non-performing and performing loan portfolios, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the gross carrying amount of the loan. The adjacent table contains an analysis of the credit risk exposure for acquired loan portfolios based on credit risk classes. The credit risk class for “high credit quality” corresponds to loans where the exposure weighted average 12 month PD is 0.3 per cent. The equivalent PD averages for “medium credit quality” and “low credit quality” are 1.5 per cent and 49.5 per cent respectively. Acquired loan portfolios 31 Dec 2019 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Purchased credit SEK m 12-month ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL impaired Total Credit grade Credit grade for high credit quality 653 – – – 653 Credit grade medium credit quality 201 – – – 201 Credit grade for low credit quality 6 8 – – 14 Default – – 44 23,009 23,053 Gross carrying amount 860 8 44 23,009 23,921 Loss allowance –1 0 –4 387 382 Net carrying amount 859 8 40 23,396 24,303 A full reconciliation of gross carrying amount and ECL movements can be found under Note 16 ”Acquired loan portfolios”. Hoist Finance  149 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 31 Risk management, cont Credit risk for the liquidity portfolio assets Financial per type of financial instrument The credit risk associated with exposures in Hoist Finance’s liquidity Financial assets and liabilities subject to set-off and covered by legally reserve is managed in accordance with the Group’s Treasury Policy, binding netting or similar agreements. which regulates the portion that may be invested in assets issued by individual counterparties. Restrictions include limits on exposures to a 31 Dec 2019 given counterparty credit rating. The table below shows S&P’s credit rating for the Group’s exposures Related amounts in the liquidity reserve as per 31 December 2019 compared with 31 not offset in the December 2018. balance sheet Gross Rating amount of Amount Net amount financial offset in the presented in % 31 dec 2019 31 dec 2018 assets and balance the balance Cash Net AAA 62.1 71.1 SEK m liabilities sheet sheet collateral amount AA+ 0.0 0.0 Assets AA 6.5 13.9 Derivatives 107 – 107 –91 16 AA– 10.4 0.9 Liabilities A+ 0.0 0.0 Derivatives 35 – 35 –35 0 A 14.6 8.0 Total 73 0 73 –56 16 A– 0.5 0.9 See also Note 14 “Derivatives”. BBB+ 3.3 3.8 BBB 0.0 0.0 31 Dec 2018 BBB– 0.0 0.0 BB+ 0.2 0.1 Related amounts not offset in the BB 0.0 0.1 balance sheet BB– 2.0 1.1 Gross B+ 0.0 0.0 amount of Amount Net amount B 0.0 0.0 financial offset in the presented in assets and balance the balance Cash Net B– 0.2 0.0 SEK m liabilities sheet sheet collateral amount N/A 0.1 0.0 Assets Total, SEK m 8,024 7,399 Derivatives 128 – 128 0 128 of which, in the liquidity portfolio 5,498 6,288 Liabilities As per 31 December 2019, the weighted average maturity for liquidity Derivatives 19 – 19 –19 0 portfolio assets was 1.66 years (1.86) and the modified duration was Total 109 0 109 19 128 0.26 years (0.32). Maturity and modified duration are important measures for evaluating Hoist Finance’s credit spread risks and interest-rate Operational risk risks. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, personnel, IT systems or from external events, and Credit risks arising from bond holdings includes legal and compliance risk. or derivative transactions The operational risk that Hoist Finance is mainly exposed to is dividCredit risks arising from bond holdings or derivative transactions are ed into the following seven categories: treated in the same way as other credit risks, that is, they are analysed, »» Unauthorised activities and internal fraud managed, limited and controlled. »» External fraud »» Employment practices and workplace safety Counterparty risk »» Clients, products and business practices The Group uses FX and interest-rate derivatives to hedge its ex»» Damage to physical assets change-rate and interest-rate exposure (see Note 14 “Derivatives”). To »» Business disruption and system failures avoid counterparty risks associated with these derivatives, the Group uses ISDA and CSA agreements for all derivative counterparties. These »» Execution, delivery and process management agreements allow for netting and daily settlement of credit risk and, acThe Group manages operational risk by continuously improving its incordingly, counterparty risk with derivative counterparties corresponds ternal procedures and day-to-day controls, and by training employees at most to a one-day fluctuation of the derivative’s value. The CSA in risk management and risk management techniques. The Group also agreement is backed by cash collateral. Derivative transactions are only applies the dual-control principle which means that a business flow conducted with stable counterparties with a minimum credit rating of or transaction must always be managed by at least two independent A-, which also serves to limit the counterparty risk. units/individuals. Hoist Finance also applies segregation of duties to The tables below show financial assets and liabilities subject to setensure that a transaction is never managed from start to finish by one off and covered by legally binding netting or similar agreements. single person. To identify and mitigate operational risks within the Group, the risk control function in each country has established routines, including the following: 1. A  ll employees are required to submit incident reports via a Groupwide risk management system, where incidents and actions taken are monitored by the risk control function. Significant reported incidents are included in the risk report submitted to the Board and the management in the relevant country. 2. Annual evaluation and identification of operational risks, and controls to reduce risks. This is a process to identify, quantify, analyse Hoist Finance  150 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 31 Risk management, cont and thereby determine measures to reduce operational risks in Hoist Group Treasury has overall responsibility for continuous management Finance to an acceptable level. The analysis includes an assessment of these risks. of a given risk’s probability of occurrence and what its consequences (impact) would be, it lists the steps taken by Hoist Finance to Transaction risk manage the risks, and details additional measures that need to be In each country, most revenue and operating expenses are in local curtaken. Assessments are not made by a single person – they are made rency. Currency fluctuations therefore have only a limited impact on the in groups, since discussion and different perspectives are vital to the company’s operating profit in local currency. Revenue and expenses identification of relevant risks. in national currency are therefore hedged in a natural way, which limits 3. The process for approval and quality assurance of new and amended the transaction risk exposure. products, services, markets, processes, IT systems and major changes in Hoist Finance’s operations and organisation. Translation risk 4. Business Continuity Management (BCM) provides a framework for The Group’s presentation currency is SEK, while its three main functionplanning for and responding to events and business disruptions to al currencies are EUR, GBP and PLN. The Group’s loan portfolios (assets) ensure the continuation of business operations at an acceptable are mainly denominated in foreign currency, while the Group’s deposits predefined level. The Group’s BCM comprises disruption and crisis from the public (liabilities) are denominated in SEK and EUR, which management: gives rise to a translation risk (balance-sheet risk). To manage transla»» Disruptions are managed by having business continuity plans in tion risk, the Group calculates its unhedged exposure to the aggregate place. value of net assets denominated in currencies other than SEK. The »» Crises are managed by predefined crisis management teams. Group’s translation exposure is then managed through linear derivative 5. Key risk indicators are reported to Management and the Board on a contracts. The Group uses hedge accounting for the net investment in regular basis in order to follow up measurable operational risks and foreign operations. Additional information regarding hedge accounting provide early warning when risks have increased. in the Accounting Principles section 10 “Hedge accounting” and in note 6. Regular training in operational risks is conducted in key areas. 14 “Derivatives”. The tables below show the Group’s exposure per currency. The Market risk Group has no significant positions in currencies other than EUR, GBP Market risk is defined as the risk that FX and interest-rate fluctuations and PLN. The tables also present the translation risk expressed as senmay negatively affect a company’s results or equity level. sitivity to a movement of 10 per cent in the exchange rate between SEK and each currency. Currency/FX risk The FX risk that has an adverse impact on the Group’s income stateInterest rate risk ment, balance sheet and/or cash flow arises primarily as a result of: The Group’s interest-rate risk originates from changes in interest rates »» Certain income and expense items arising in different currencies, that may affect the company’s revenues and expenses to varying resulting in a transaction risk. degrees. Changes in interest rates could affect the company’s revenues »» The translation of assets and liabilities in currencies other than the from loan portfolios as well as the liquidity reserve, while the cost of Group’s presentation currency into the presentation currency each funding these assets may also change. month, resulting in a translation risk. Impact on Impact on Group FX risk in EUR 31 Dec 2019 equity 31 Dec 2018 equity Net assets on the balance sheet, EUR m 162 –9 Currency forwards, EUR m –167 7 Net exposure, EUR m –5 –2 A 10% increase in the EUR/SEK FX rate impacts Group results by (SEK m) –6 –0.12 % –3 –0.09 % A 10% decrease in the EUR/SEK FX rate impacts Group results by (SEK m) 6 0.12 % 3 0.09% Impact on Impact on Group FX risk in GBP 31 Dec 2019 equity 31 Dec 2018 equity Net assets on the balance sheet, GBP m 1,839 514 Currency forwards, GBP m –1,822 –513 Net exposure, GBP m 17 1 A 10% increase in the GBP/SEK FX rate impacts Group results by (SEK m) 4 0.09 % 1 0.03 % A 10% decrease in the GBP/SEK FX rate impacts Group results by (SEK m) –4 –0.09 % –1 –0.03 % Impact on Impact on Group FX risk in PLN 31 Dec 2019 equity 31 Dec 2018 equity Net assets on the balance sheet, PLN m 547 1,442 Currency forwards, PLN m –545 1,436 Net exposure, PLN m 3 6 A 10 % increase in the PLN/SEK FX rate impacts Group results by (SEK m) 4 0.07 % 1 0.05 % A 10 % decrease in the PLN/SEK FX rate impacts Group results by (SEK m) –4 –0.07 % –1 –0.05 % Hoist Finance has strict limits for exposure to each currency. The limits for an open FX position are 2–3 per cent of the gross currency exposure. Hoist Finance  151 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 31 Risk management, cont. The table below shows the effect on various assets and liabilities of a sudden and permanent parallel shift of 100 basis points in market interest rates. Total impact on net interest income over 3 years Impact on Impact on Total impact on net interest income over 3 years, SEK m Impact on profit/loss 31 Dec 2019 equity Impact on profit/loss 31 Dec 2018 equity –100 bps +100 bps –100 bps +100 bps Impact on net interest income (over 3 years) 168 –165 122 –121 Impact on derivatives (instantaneous impact) –79 79 –70 70 Total impact of change in short-term interest rate 89 –86 +/–1.76 % 52 –51 +/–1.41% The table below shows the instantaneous impact on profit/loss of a parallel shift of 100 basis points in market interest rates. Group interest-rate risk, items at fair value Impact on Impact on Total items measured at fair value incl. derivatives, SEK m Impact on profit/loss 31 Dec 2019 equity Impact on profit/loss 31 Dec 2018 equity –100 bps +100 bps –100 bps +100 bps Liquidity portfolio 8 –8 20 –20 Interest-rate swaps –79 79 –70 70 Total –71 71 +/–1.44 % –50 50 +/–1.34% A sudden and permanent interest-rate increase may adversely impact The overall objective of the Group’s liquidity management is to the Group’s profit to the extent interest rates and interest expense for ensure that the Group maintains control over its liquidity risk situation, loans and deposits from the public are affected more by the increase with sufficient funds in liquid assets or immediately saleable assets to than are revenues from loan portfolios and the liquidity reserve. To ensure timely discharge of its payment obligations without incurring ensure that the exposure is within the company’s risk appetite, high additional costs. Group Treasury manages and reduces these interest-rate risks by conThe Group has a diversified funding base with a diversified maturity tinuously hedging the Group’s interest-rate exposure through linear interstructure. Funding is mainly raised in the form of deposits from the est-rate derivatives denominated in SEK, EUR, GBP and PLN. Hoist Finance public and through the capital markets through the issuance of senior does not apply hedge accounting for the interest rate risk hedging. unsecured debts, own funds instruments and equity. 41 per cent (65) Pursuant to accounting policies, however, the effects of interof deposits from the public are payable on demand (current account), est-rate changes are taken up as income at different times. For while approximately 59 per cent (35) of the Group’s deposits from the instance, the Group’s liquidity reserve and interest derivatives are public are locked into longer maturities (fixed-term deposits) ranging measured at fair value, so changes in interest rates have an instantaneous impact on the book value and hence on Group results. Loan portfofrom one to five years. lios, on the other hand, are generally valued under the amortised cost Details of the Group’s funding base are presented in the table principle, so changes in interest rates have an impact over time (rather below. than instantaneous) on asset value and Group results. The Group’s liabilities are valued under the amortised cost principle, so changes in In addition to having a diversified funding structure with respect to interest rates have an impact over time (rather than instantaneous) on funding sources and maturity structure, the Group has implemented a Group results. number of measures to minimise liquidity risk: Hoist Finance has strict limits for maximum allowed interest-rate expo»» Centralised liquidity management: Management of liquidity risk is sure. These regulate the maximum impact on earnings that can be toleratcentralised and handled by Group Treasury. ed given a parallel shift of 100 basis points of the interest-rate curve. »» Independent analysis: The Group’s Risk Control function serves as a central unit for independent liquidity analysis. Internal Audit is Liquidity risk responsible for inspecting the Group’s liquidity control tools. Liquidity risk is the risk of difficulties in obtaining funding, and thus not »» Continuous monitoring: The Group uses short and long-term liquidbeing able to meet payment obligations at maturity without a signifiity forecasts to monitor the liquidity position and reduce liquidity risk. These forecasts are presented to management and the Board. cant increase in the cost of obtaining means of payment. Because the Group’s revenues and expenses are relatively stable, »» Stress testing: The Group conducts stress tests of the liquidity situation. These tests vary in nature to demonstrate the risk from liquidity risk is primarily associated with the Group’s funding which is multiple angles and to preclude negative results due to defects in based on deposits from the public and the risk of major outflows of stress test methodology. deposits at short notice. Funding SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Deposits from the public, flexible 8,871 11,041 Deposits from the public, fixed 12,564 6,052 Debt securities issued 5,900 5,950 Additional Tier 1 capital 690 690 Subordinated debt 852 839 Shareholder’s equity 4,208 3,723 Other 1,302 960 Balance sheet total 34,387 29,255 Hoist Finance  152 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 31 Risk management, cont »» Interest-rate adjustment: The size of deposits from the public can The processes start with the management’s business plan and be managed by adjusting quoted interest rates. budget for the coming three years. These are formalised into a forecast. »» Well-diversified deposit portfolio with no concentration risks: The The ICAAP and ILAAP use these forecasts as a starting point and, as a highest savings deposit is limited to SEK 950,000. first step, evaluate the risks inherent in the forecasts. »» Liquidity portfolio: Liquidity investments are made in low-risk, high-liquidity interest-bearing securities, which allows for rapid ICAAP cash conversion if needed. The risk of large outflows is further ICAAP is Hoist Finance’s internal evaluation to ensure that it has suffireduced through the coverage of 99 per cent of deposits by the cient capital to meet the risks in both normal and stressed scenarios. national deposit insurance. Credit and market risks are rigorously stress-tested to determine the extent of the losses that Hoist Finance is capable of withstanding under As a credit institution, Hoist Finance is subject to laws and regulations extremely adverse circumstances. This loss figure is then compared covering liquidity requirements. As per 31 December 2019, Hoist to the statutory capital requirement calculated according to Pillar 1. Finance’s liquidity reserve amounted to 24 per cent of total assets (25). If the simulated losses exceed this amount, the excess is covered by The liquidity portfolio is largely made up of Swedish government and additional Pillar 2 capital. municipal bonds and covered bonds, and also includes short-term Operational risks are evaluated based on the company’s reported lending to other banks. Hoist Finance’s short-term liquidity coverage incidents statistics. Once the operational risks have been quantified, ratio (LCR) was 755 per cent (473) at year-end, compared with its reguthe next step is calculation of the amount of capital required to cover latory ratio of 100 per cent. all potential unexpected losses related to the operational risks. The company must be able to withstand even extremely serious operational incidents. Here as well, the calculated capital requirement is compared Liquidity reserve to the statutory Pillar 1 capital requirement and any excess loss risk is SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 covered by additional Pillar 2 provisions. Hoist Finance conducts stress tests and sensitivity analyses of the Cash and holdings in central banks 0 0 business plan, under ICAAP and on an ongoing basis in the operations, to ensure that the Group maintains a strong financial position in relation Deposits in other banks available overnight 2,526 1,111 to regulatory capital requirements under extremely adverse internal and external market conditions. Securities issued or guaranteed by The capital requirement produced by ICAAP is used by managesovereigns, central banks or multilateral development banks 2,207 1,622 ment as a decision-making tool when making future plans for the Group. ICAAP thus adds a further dimension to the Group’s deciSecurities issued or guaranteed by municipalities or other public sector sion-making above and beyond strategic and daily planning. Before entities 522 1,031 being implemented, strategic plans, forecasts and immediate management decisions are always reviewed against the background of capital Covered bonds 2,769 3,635 requirements. Securities issued by The conclusions from this year’s ICAAP are that Hoist Finance has non-financial corporates – – sufficient capacity to withstand unexpected events without risking its Securities issued by solvency. financial corporates – – Other – – ILAAP ILAAP is Hoist Finance’s internal evaluation to ensure that the Group Total 8,024 7,399 maintains sufficient levels of liquidity buffers and sufficient funding in light of the liquidity risks that exist. The process identifies, verifies, The Group’s Treasury Policy specifies a limit and a target level for the plans and stress-tests Hoist Finance’s future funding and liquidity amount of available liquidity. Available liquidity totalled SEK 8,024m requirements. (7,399) as per 31 December, exceeding the limit and the target level by Hoist Finance uses ILAAP to define the size of the liquidity buffer a significant margin. that the Group needs to maintain, to prevent identified liquidity risks Hoist Finance has a liquidity contingency plan for managing liquidfrom affecting the Group’s capacity to achieve its business plan and ity risk. This identifies specific events that may trigger the contingency to meet regulatory requirements (LCR/NSFR) and the limits set by the plan and require actions to be taken. These events may include: »» An outflow from savings deposits of more than 10 per cent of total Board of Directors. Results from this year’s ILAAP show that Hoist Finance has sufficient deposits over a 30-day period. »» A lowering or removal of Hoist Finance’s credit rating by an official capacity to meet unexpected liquidity risks without risking refinancing problems, and that Hoist Finance maintains a liquidity reserve sufficient rating institute. to maintain continued growth. Internal capital and liquidity adequacy Securitisation assessment processes Hoist Finance completed its first securitisation transactions in 2019. The internal capital and liquidity adequacy assessment processes These transactions can be regarded as involving increased regulatory (ICAAP and ILAAP) are ongoing processes carried out by the Executive risk, given that Hoist Finance is obliged to continuously monitor and Management Team, which reviews, evaluates and quantifies risks to ensure that the requirements for ”significant risk transfer” are fulfilled which the Group is exposed in carrying out its business operations. at all times. This risk analysis forms the basis for ensuring that the Group has The securitised assets are fully consolidated in Hoist Finance’s sufficient capital and liquidity to cover the regulatory requirements balance sheet and developments in the underlying loan portfolios are and to ensure a comfortable financial margin vis-à-vis the regulatory monitored in the same way as for non-securitised assets. requirements. The securitisation structure is funded with secured bonds. The The capital and liquidity assessment process is developed and bond’s capital requirements are determined by their rating and, for this reviewed at least once per year. The annual review focuses on ensuring reason, the rating is constantly monitored. that the process is always relevant to the current risk profile and to the Group’s operations. The Board decides on any changes to the process, and Internal Audit verifies that the process is carried out pursuant to the Board’s instructions. Hoist Finance  153 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 32 Capital adequacy The information in this Note includes information that is required to Additional information on capital adequacy is available in the combe disclosed pursuant to FFFS 2008:25, including applicable amendpany’s Pillar 3 report available on www.hoistfinance.com. ments, regarding annual reports for credit institutions and FFFS 2014:12, including applicable amendments, concerning supervisory Transitional rules, IFRS 9 requirements and capital buffers. The following laws and regulations After obtaining Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s approval, were applied when establishing the company’s statutory capital Hoist Finance has decided to apply the transitional rules regarding requirements: Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament IFRS 9 for the period 30 April 2018 through 31 December 2022. Appliand Council on prudential requirements for credit institution and incation of these transitional rules allow the gradual phase-in of expected vestment firms; Swedish law 2014:968, Supervision of credit institucredit losses to capital adequacy. tions and securities companies; and Swedish law 2014:966 on capital buffers. These laws are aimed at ensuring that the regulated entity and Risk weights for non-performing loans its consolidated situation manages its risks and protects its customers. From 18 December 2018, Hoist Finance assigns a risk weight of 150 per The information refers to the Hoist Finance AB (publ) consolidated cent for unsecured non-performing loans, following the Swedish situation (“Hoist Finance”) and Hoist Finance AB (publ), the regulated Financial Supervisory Authority’s new interpretation of the capital entity. The difference between the consolidated accounts and the conadequacy regulation. solidated situation for capital adequacy purposes is as follows. Joint ventures are consolidate with the equity method in the consolidated Own funds accounts, whereas the proportional method is used for the consoliThe table below shows own funds used to cover the capital requiredated situation. Securitised assets are recognised in the consolidated ments for Hoist Finance consolidated situation and the regulated entity accounts but are removed from the accounting records for the consolHoist Finance AB (publ). idated situation. Hoist Finance’s participating interest in the securitised assets is always covered. There are no existing or anticipated actual or legal obstacles to the immediate transfer of own resources or debt repayment between companies and their subsidiaries. Hoist Finance consolidated situation Hoist Finance AB (publ) Own funds, SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 1,913 1,913 1,913 1,913 Retained earnings 1,534 1,005 819 199 Accumulated other comprehensive income and other reserves 133 191 694 649 Independently reviewed interim profits net of any foreseeable charge or dividend1) 605 590 197 647 Intangible assets (net of related tax liability) –382 –387 –186 –177 Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability –27 –18 –2 –1 Exposure amount of securitisation positions which qualify for a RW of 1,250 %, where the institution opts for the deduction alternative –9 – –9 – Other transitional arrangements 4 3 2 2 Common Equity Tier 1 capital 3,771 3,297 3,428 3,232 Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 690 690 690 690 Additional Tier 1 capital 690 690 690 690 Tier 1 capital 4,461 3,987 4,118 3,922 Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 852 839 852 839 Tier 2 capital 852 839 852 839 Total own funds 5,313 4,826 4,970 4,761 1) The Board of Directors will propose to the annual general meeting that no dividend be paid for 2019. The annual general meeting decided not to pay any dividend for 2018. Therefore no dividend deduction has been included for financial years 2018 and 2019. As presented in the above table, issued Tier 1 capital instruments and subordinated loan matures on 19 May 2027 with possibility for early Tier 2 capital instruments are both used in calculating the Group’s own redemption after five years and carries a fixed coupon rate of 3.875 per funds. These instruments are described briefly below. cent. The instrument is listed on the Dublin Stock Exchange. There are no existing or anticipated actual or legal obstacles to Additional Tier 1 capital the immediate transfer of own resources or debt repayment between Additional Tier 1 capital is comprised of two issues of write-down companies and their subsidiaries. instruments with a nominal amount of EUR 30m and EUR 40m, respecAdditional information on capital adequacy is available in the comtively, and with coupon rates of 8.625 per cent and 8 per cent, respecpany’s Pillar 3 report available on www.hoistfinance.com. tively. The convertibles were issued to improve Hoist Finance’s capital structure. The instruments have no scheduled maturity date, although Revaluation reserve the issuer may redeem the instruments in full at specified dates. The Hoist Finance’s own funds include a revaluation reserve of SEK 73m in first possible redemption dates are 21 June 2023 and 1 September other reserves, of which SEK 64m pertains to a revaluation of shares 2023, respectively. in subsidiary Hoist Finance UK Ltd during 2013 and SEK 9m pertains to revaluation of acquired loan portfolios. Tier 2 capital instruments In May 2017 Hoist Finance issued a subordinated loan of EUR 80m, which is included as Tier 2 capital in Hoist Finance’s own funds. The Hoist Finance  154 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 32 Capital adequacy, cont Capital requirement The tables below show the risk-weighted exposure amounts and own funds requirements per risk category for Hoist Finance and the regulated entity Hoist Finance AB (publ). Hoist Finance consolidated situation Hoist Finance AB (publ) Risk-weighted exposure amounts, SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Exposures to central governments or central banks 0 0 0 0 Exposures to regional governments or local authorities or agencies 0 0 0 0 Exposures to institutions 752 355 363 161 of which, counterparty credit risk 60 48 60 48 Exposures to corporates 319 142 14,565 15,286 Retail exposures 38 75 33 69 Exposures secured by mortgages on immovable property 368 402 101 112 Exposures in default 28,746 28,919 10,043 7,667 Exposures in the form of covered bonds 277 363 277 363 Equity exposures – – 807 722 Other items 382 117 84 51 Credit risk (standardised approach) 30,882 30,373 26,273 24,431 Securitisation positions in the banking book (external ratings-based approach) 2,984 – 2,984 – Market risk (foreign exchange risk – standardised approach) 78 25 78 25 Operational risk (standardised approach) 3,935 3,670 1,916 1,430 Credit valuation adjustment (standardised approach) 48 53 48 53 Total risk-weighted exposure amount 37,927 34,121 31,299 25,939 Hoist Finance consolidated situation Hoist Finance AB (publ) Capital requirements, SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Pillar 1 Exposures to central governments or central banks 0 0 0 0 Exposures to regional governments or local authorities or agencies 0 0 0 0 Exposures to institutions 60 28 29 13 of which, counterparty credit risk 5 4 5 4 Exposures to corporates 26 11 1,165 1,223 Retail exposures 3 6 3 6 Exposures secured by mortgages on immovable property 29 32 8 9 Exposures in default 2,300 2,313 803 613 Exposures in the form of covered bonds 22 29 22 29 Equity exposures – – 65 58 Other items 31 9 7 4 Credit risk (standardised approach) 2,471 2,428 2,102 1,955 Securitisation positions in the banking book (external ratings-based approach) 239 – 239 – Market risk (FX risk – standardised approach) 6 2 6 2 Operational risk (standardised approach) 315 294 153 114 Credit valuation adjustment (standardised approach) 4 4 4 4 Total own funds requirement – Pillar 1 3,035 2,728 2,504 2,075 Pillar 2 Concentration risk 245 215 356 215 Interest-rate risk in the banking book 129 54 129 54 Pension risk 3 3 3 3 Other Pillar 2 risks 37 31 37 31 Total own funds requirement – Pillar 2 414 303 525 303 Capital buffers Capital conservation buffer 948 853 783 649 Countercyclical buffer 128 103 94 73 Total own funds requirement – Capital buffers 1,076 956 877 722 Total capital requirements 4,525 3,987 3,906 3,100 Hoist Finance  155 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 32 Capital adequacy, cont. Capital ratios and capital buffers exposure amount and an institutional specific countercyclical buffer of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and the 0.34 per cent of the total risk-weighted exposure amount. Council requires credit institutions to maintain Common Equity Tier The table below shows CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and the total cap1 capital of at least 4.5 per cent, Tier 1 capital of at least 6 per cent ital ratio in relation to the total risk-weighted exposure amount for Hoist and a total capital ratio (capital in relation to risk-weighted exposure Finance and for the regulated entity Hoist Finance. It also shows the amount) of 8 per cent. Credit institutions are also required to maintain total regulatory requirements under each pillar and the institution-spespecific capital buffers. Hoist Finance is currently required to maintain cific CET1 capital requirements. All capital ratios exceed the minimum a capital conservation buffer of 2.5 per cent of the total risk-weighted requirements and capital buffer requirements. Hoist Finance consolidated situation Hoist Finance AB (publ) Capital ratios and capital buffers, % 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 CET1 ratio 9.94 9.66 10.95 12.45 Tier 1 capital ratio 11.76 11.68 13.16 15.11 Total capital ratio 14.01 14.14 15.88 18.34 Institution-specific CET1 requirements 7.34 7.30 7.30 7.28 of which, capital conservation buffer requirement 2.50 2.50 2.50 2.50 of which, countercyclical buffer requirement 0.34 0.30 0.30 0.28 CET1 capital available to meet buffers1) 5.44 5.16 6.45 7.95 1) C ET1 ratio as reported, less minimum requirement of 4.5 per cent (excluding buffer requirements) and less any CET1 items used to meet the Tier 1 and total capital requirements. Internally assessed capital requirement As per 31 December 2019, the internally assessed capital requirement for Hoist Finance was SEK 3,449m (3,031), of which SEK 414m (303) was attributable to Pillar 2. Hoist Finance  156 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 33 Related-party transactions GROUP The information below, presented from Hoist Finance’s perspective, shows the way in which Hoist Finance’s financial information has SEK m 2019 2018 been affected by transactions with related parties. Operating expenses – – Other expenses1) –1 –2 PARENT COMPANY Group companies Other related parties SEK m 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Assets Short-term receivables 433 392 – – Long-term receivables 16,999 14,790 – – Liabilities Short-term liabilities 647 385 – 9 PARENT COMPANY Other related parties Group companies Senior executives SEK m 2019 2018 2019 2018 Net interest income Interest income 848 692 – – Interest expense –7 –4 – – Operating income Dividends received 10 1,947 – – Other operating income 222 301 – – Operating expenses Other operating expenses1) –31 –73 – –2 GROUP Other related parties 1) Specification of other expenses Senior executives SEK t 2019 2018 Carrara Communication AB – –296 CDW Konsult AB – –263 Co Go Consulting AB – –1,002 J&S Rubin AB – –271 Firma Liselotte Hjorth – –296 Malin Eriksson Consulting Services – –,172 Total – –2,300 The above amounts comprise fees including social security contributions for the comparative period. Hoist Finance  157 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 34 Reconciliation of alternative performance measures EBITDA, adjusted SEK m 2019 2018 Profit for the year 605 590 + Income tax expense 143 165 +/– Net result from financial transactions 79 –43 + Interest expense 494 351 +/– Interest income (excl. interest from run-off performing portfolio) 6 15 +/– Portfolio revaluations 145 –5 + Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 122 61 EBITDA 1,594 1,134 + Gross cash collections on acquired loan portfolios 6,179 5,533 – Interest income on acquired loan portfolios –3,359 –2,800 EBITDA, adjusted 4,414 3,867 Return on equity, adjusted for items affecting comparability SEK m 2019 2018 Equity 4 898 4 413 Additional Tier 1 capital –690 –690 Reversal of interest expense paid for AT1 capital 62 42 Reversal of items affecting comparability 1) 2) 72 9 Total equity 4 342 3 774 Total equity (quarterly average) 4 063 3 277 Profit for the year 605 590 Reversal of items affecting comparability 1) 2) 72 9 Estimated annual profit 677 599 Adjustment of interest on AT1 capital –60 –59 Adjusted annual profit 617 540 Return on equity, adjusted for items affecting comparability, % 15 16 1) Items affecting comparability 2019 refer to restructuring costs for the French operations, to the IT organisation and to interest rate swaps in the third quarter, and to securitisation expenses and to start-up expenses related to IT outsourcing during the fourth quarter, including tax. 2) Items affecting comparability 2018 refer to a cost linked to the take-over of a previously externally managed loan portfolio and to restructuring costs during second quarter, a modification gain taken up as income in conjunction with new share issue and repurchase of senior bonds during third quarter, and restructuring and acquisition costs during fourth quarter, including tax. Hoist Finance  158 Annual Report 2019 Notes Note 35 Critical estimates and assumptions The Management and the Board of Directors have discussed the The measurement of the expected credit loss (ECL) for financial assets developments, choices and disclosures regarding the Group’s critical measured at amortised cost is an area that requires the use of complex accounting policies and estimates as well as the application of these models and significant assumptions about future economic conditions policies and estimates. They have also discussed and assessed and credit behaviour (e.g. the likelihood of customers defaulting and future assumptions and other important sources of uncertainty in the resulting losses). A number of assessments are required in applythe assumptions as per the balance-sheet date that may represent a ing the accounting requirements for measuring ECL, such as: substantial risk for material restatements of the carrying amounts in »» Determining criteria for significant increase in credit risk the financial statements in the coming financial years. Certain critical »» Choosing appropriate models and assumptions for the measureestimates have been made through the application of the Group’s ment of ECL accounting policies described below. »» Establishing the number and relative weightings of forward-looking scenarios for each market Measurement of acquired loan portfolios As described in Note 16 “Acquired loan portfolios”, the recognition of Detailed information about these estimates and assumptions is includacquired non-performing loans is based on the Group’s own forecast ed in Note 31 ”Risk management”. of future cash flows from acquired portfolios. Although the Group historically has forecasted reasonably accurate with regard to cash flows, Changes in tax expenses future deviations cannot be ruled out. The Group applies internal rules Hoist Finance operates cross-border and manages its consolidated and a formalised decision-making process for the adjustment of pretax issues relating to subsidiaries in several jurisdictions. The Group is viously adopted cash flow forecasts. The internal rules are based on therefore exposed to potential tax risks arising from varying intera constant fifteen-year period. The effective interest rate for acquired pretation and application of existing laws, treaties, regulations, and credit-impaired loan portfolios is based on the initial cash flow foreguidance in areas including income tax and VAT (Value Added Tax). cast specified at acquisition date. The company also acquired performing loans, for which both Additional Tier 1 capital effective interest rate and cash flow are subject to the contractual Hoist Finance’s additional Tier 1 capital (AT1 capital) comprises depreobligations defined at acquisition. The effective interest rate is based ciable perpetual debt instruments. Hoist Finance has no obligation to here as well on initial expected future cash flows as per the customer pay cash or other financial assets to the holders of the instruments. In contract, discounted by the purchase price. Cash flows are regularly other words, Hoist Finance has a unilateral and unconditional right to adjusted as receivables are paid or customer terms and conditions are choose not to make payments. Therefore, AT1 capital does not comrenegotiated. prise a financial liability, and is instead recognised as equity. Note 36 Subsequent events Hoist Finance is closely monitoring the development of COVID-19. have an impact of approximately SEK 120m. Additionally, the turbuBusiness continuity has been ensured, which includes that personnel lence in the financial markets have caused interest rates to drop, and can work remotely. This enables new ways of working all while conbond spreads to widen, which in the first quarter of 2020 translates tinuing our focus to support our customers in the best possible way. In into estimated effects of SEK 50m. For further information, the first quarter of 2020, the previously seen unsatisfactory collection see www.hoistfinance.com. performance in Spain has accelerated as a result of COVID-19, which No other significant events affecting operations took place. combined with a negative revision on future collections is expected to Note 37 Appropriation of profits According to the Parent Company’s balance sheet, the following The Board of Directors proposes that unappropriated earnings un­appropriated earnings are at the disposal of the Annual General be distributed as follows: Meeting: SEK SEK Other contributed capital 2,964,067,323 To be carried forward: Retained earnings 844,366,574 Other contributed capital 2,964,067,323 Other non-restricted reserves 2,786,003 Retained earnings 1,040,868,674 Net profit for the year 193,716,097 Total 4,004,935,997 Total1) 4,004,935,997 The Board of Directors propose to the Annual Shareholders meeting 1) Unrealised changes in assets and liabilities at fair value have had a net impact 2020 that no dividend will be paid to the shareholders for the financial on equity of SEK 73m in accordance with Chapter 4, section 14 of the Swedish year 1 January – 31 December 2019. The Board of Directors considers Annual Accounts Act. that this deviation from the established dividend policy will contribute to strengthen the company’s CET1 ratio and support further growth in 2020. Hoist Finance  159 Annual Report 2019 Certification of the Board of Directors Certification of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors and the CEO certify that the Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting policies in Sweden, and the consolidated accounts in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting standards. The Annual Report and consolidated accounts provide a true and fair presentation of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s financial position and performance. The Parent Company’s and the Group’s Administration Reports provide a true and fair account of the development of the respective entities’ business, financial position and performance, and accurately describe the significant risks and uncertainties faced by the Parent Company and Group companies. Stockholm, 27 March 2020 Ingrid Bonde Chair of the Board Cecilia Daun Wennborg Malin Eriksson Board member Board member Liselotte Hjorth Robert Kraal Board member Board member Marcial Portela Joakim Rubin Board member Board member Lars Wollung Board member Klaus-Anders Nysteen CEO Our audit report was submitted on 27 March 2020. KPMG AB Anders Bäckström Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in charge Hoist Finance  160 Annual Report 2019 Auditor’s Report Auditor’s Report to the general meeting of the shareholders of Hoist Finance AB (publ), corp. id 556012-8489 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Opinions We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Hoist Finance AB for the year 2019, except for the corporate governance statement on pages 86–96 and the sustainability report on pages 7–9, 21–36 and 40–49. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages 7–9, 21–36, 40–49 and 80–160 in this document. in our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit institutions and securities Companies, and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 december 2019 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit institutions and securities Companies. the consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit institutions and securities Companies and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 december 2019 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with international Financial Reporting standards (iFRs), as adopted by the eu, and the Annual Accounts Act for Credit institutions and securities Companies. our opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement on pages 86–96 and sustainability report on pages 7–9, 21–36 and 40–49. the statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. our opinions in this report on the the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. Basis for Opinions We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion. Assessment of future collection from acquired loan portfolios / valuation and revenue recognition See disclosures in Note 1, Note 3, Note 15, Note 16, Note 31 and Note 35 and accounting principles on pages 108, 109 and 111 in the annual account and consolidated accounts for detailed information and description of the matter. Description of key audit matter Response in the audit The carrying value of acquired loan portfolios amounts to SEK 24,303 We have read the descriptions and assessed the appropriateness of the million per 31 December, 2019 corresponding to 71 percent of the Group’s policies, procedures and key controls related to loss allowances Group’s total assets. Acquired loan portfolios consist of credit-impaired as well as tested these controls on a sample basis to assess the effectivereceivables of SEK 23,396 million and not creditimpaired receivables of ness of applied procedures. SEK 907 million. We have read analysis made of the accuracy of the forecasted cash The portfolios are valued at amortized cost based on the effective flows in comparison with actual outcomes of cash flows taking into interest method. Interest income from acquired loan portfolios is calaccount cash collected and timing of collections. We have also on a culated by applying the initial effective interest rate to the receivable’s sample basis performed own analysis. When discrepancies were noted, carrying amount. For portfolios with credit impaired receivables the we followed up on how this affected the Group’s assessment of future effective interest rate is credit-adjusted, projected cash flows. We have also reviewed and assessed whether Calculation of credit losses differs between credit-impaired and these analyses and calibrations were carried out by management at the non-credit-impaired loans. For credit-impaired receivables, expected appropriate level and were appropriately approved. credit losses consist partly of collection differences, ie the difference Collection differences have on a sample basis been verified to between forecasted cash flows and actual collection in the current payments. period, and partly of revaluations. We have, on a sample basis, tested the calculations made in the Loss allowance for credit-impaired receivables, as well as the Group’s system used for the accounting of portfolios and of the transfer calculation of the effective interest rate, are determined based on of data between central systems. fifteen-year forecasted cash flows. The Group uses cash flow models to Furthermore, we have considered the circumstances disclosed in estimate the value of portfolios. Given the nature of the loan portfolios the notes to the financial statements and evaluated whether the inforsignificant judgement is required to estimate future cash flows. The mation provided is sufficiently detailed to understand management’s projections include assumptions about what amounts are possible assessments and the key assumptions used. to collect and the timing of collection. The latter is dependent on the In view of the large element of complexity and assessments in the management’s chosen strategy of collection. If management changes cash flow models as well as in the models for non-credit impaired its assessment or strategy, the cash flow model is adjusted. receivables, this represents a key audit matter. Non-impaired receivables are valued according to the expected credit loss model that IFRS 9 prescribes and which is based on changes in the credit quality since initial recognition. Hoist Finance  161 Annual Report 2019 Auditor’s Report Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts this document also contains other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–6, 10–20, 37–39, 50–60 and 164–166. the Board of directors and the Managing director are responsible for this other information. in connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. in this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. if we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts The The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies and, concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director Directors and the Managing Director intend to liquidate the company, are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necto cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. essary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Direcaccounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to tor’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee fraud or error. the company’s financial reporting process. Auditor’s responsibility in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted future events or conditions may cause a company and a group to in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in cease to continue as a going concern. Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Mis» Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the statements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. manner that achieves fair presentation. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise profes» Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the sional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the financial information of the entities or business activities within the audit. We also: group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are » Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional deficiencies in internal control that we identified. omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that » Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding indeto our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropripendence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other ate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. and where applicable, related safeguards. » Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most » Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore Managing Director’s, use of the going concern basis of accounting the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s rein preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We port unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter. also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention Hoist Finance  162 Annual Report 2019 Auditor’s Report Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Hoist Finance AB for the year 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. Basis for Opinions We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. Auditor’s responsibility auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed apour opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence propriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member the Companies Act. of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing respect: standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain » has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the can give rise to liability to the company, or administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit » in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit the Banking and Financing Business Act, the Annual Accounts Act procedures performed are based on our professional judgment with for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies or the Articles of starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the examAssociation. ination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the operations and where deviations and violations would have particular Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of importance for the company’s situation. We examine and test decisions the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other circumassess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in stances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from accordance with the Companies Act. liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarappropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined whether the antee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance statement on pages 86–96 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor´s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies. The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report the Board of directors is responsible for the sustainability report on pages 7–9, 21–36 and 40–49, and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR:s auditing standard RevR 12 the auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. this means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with international standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. KPMG AB, Box 382, 101 27, stockholm, was appointed auditor of Hoist Finance AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 16 May 2018. KPMG AB or auditors operating at KPMG AB have been the company’s auditor since 2013. stockholm 27 March 2020 KPMG AB Anders Bäckström Authorized Public Accountant Hoist Finance  163 Annual Report 2019 Definitions Definitions Alternative performance measures Alternative performance measures (APMs) are financial measures of past or future earnings trends, financial position or cash flow that are not defined in the applicable accounting regulatory framework (IFRS), in the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD IV), or in the EU’s Capital Requirement Regulation number 575/2013 (CRR). APMs are used by Hoist Finance, along with other financial measures, when relevant for monitoring and describing the financial situation and for providing additional useful information to users of the financial statements. These measures are not directly comparable with similar performance measures that are presented by other companies. C&I ratio, Return on equity, Net interest income margin and Adjusted EBITDA are alternative performance measures that provide information on Hoist Finance’s profitability. ”Estimated Remaining Collections” is Hoist Finance’s estimate of the gross amount that can be collected on acquired loan portfolios. Definitions of alternative performance measures are presented below. The financial fact book, available on ir.hoistfinance.com, provides details on the calculation of key figures. Acquired loans EBITDA, adjusted Number of employees (FTEs) Total of acquired loan portfolios, run-off EBIT (operating earnings), less depreciation/ Number of employees at the end of the year consumer loan portfolios and participations impairments, adjusted for depreciation of converted to full-time posts. in joint ventures. acquired loan portfolios. Own funds Acquired loan portfolios Fee and commission income Sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. An acquired loan portfolio consists of a Fees for providing debt management services Portfolio growth number of defaulted and non-defaulted conto third parties. sumer loans and SME loans that arise from the Changes in the carrying amount of acquired Gross 120/180-month ERC loan portfolios over the last 12 months (LTM) same originator. “Estimated Remaining Collections” – the Additional Tier 1 capital Portfolio revaluation company’s estimate of the gross amount that Capital instruments and associated share can be collected on the acquired credit-imChanges in the portfolio value based on premium reserves that fulfil the requirements paired loan portfolios currently owned by revised estimated remaining collections for of Regulation (EU) 575/2013 and that may the company. The assessment is based on the portfolio. accordingly be included in the Tier 1 capital. estimates for each loan portfolio and extends Return on assets from the following month through the coming Net result for the year as a percentage of Average number of employees 120/180 months. The estimate for each loan average assets during the year. Average number of employees during the portfolio is based on the company’s extensive year converted to full-time posts (FTEs). The experience in processing and collecting over Return on equity calculation is based on the total average the portfolio’s entire economic life. Net profit for the year adjusted for accrued number of FTEs per month divided by the unpaid interest on AT1 capital, divided by year’s twelve months. Internal funding cost equity adjusted for AT1 capital reported in eqThe internal funding cost is determined per uity, calculated as an average for the financial Basic earnings per share portfolio applying the following monthly interyear based on a quarterly basis. Net profit for the year, adjusted for interest est rate: (1+annual interest)^(1/12)-1. on capital instruments recorded in equity, Risk exposure amount divided by the weighted average number of Items affecting comparability The risk weight of each exposure multiplied outstanding shares. Items affecting comparability are defined as by the exposure amount. items that disturb comparison in the sense Capital requirements – Pillar 1 SMEs that their occurrence and/or scale has an Minimum capital requirements for credit risk, irregularity that does not apply to other items. A company that employs fewer than 250 peomarket risk and operational risk. ple and has either annual sales of EUR 50m Legal collection or less or a balance sheet total of EUR 43m Capital requirements – Pillar 2 Legal collections relate to gross collections or less. Capital requirements beyond those stipulated following the initiation of Hoist Finance’s in Pillar 1. litigation process. This process assesses Tier 1 capital CET1 capital customers’ solvency and follows regulatory The sum of CET1 capital and additional Tier 1 Capital instruments and the related share and legal requirements. capital. premium accounts that fulfil the requirements Liquidity reserve Tier 1 capital ratio of Regulation (EU) 575/2013, and other equity Hoist Finance’s liquidity reserve is a reserve Tier 1 capital as a percentage of the total risk items that may be included in CET1 capital, less of high-quality liquid assets which is used to exposure amount. regulatory dividend deduction and deductions carry out planned acquisitions of loan portfofor items such as goodwill and deferred tax Tier 2 capital lios and to secure the Company’s short-term assets. Capital instruments and the related share precapacity to meet payment obligations in the mium accounts that meet the requirements CET1 ratio event of lost or impaired access to regularly of Regulation (EU) 575/2013 and that may CET1 capital in relation to the total risk available funding sources. accordingly be included in own funds. exposure amount. Net interest income margin Total capital ratio C/I ratio Net interest income for the year in relation to Own funds as a percentage of the total risk Total operating expenses in relation to Total the year’s average Acquired loan portfolios, exposure amount. operating income and Profit from shares and calculated as the average based on quarterly participations in joint ventures. values during the year. Weighted average number of Non-performing loans (NPLs) shares outstanding Diluted earnings per share An originator’s loan is non-performing as at Weighted number of shares outstanding plus Net profit for the year, adjusted for interest potential dilutive effect of warrants outstandon capital instruments recorded in equity, the balance-sheet date if it is past due or will be due shortly. ing. divided by the weighted average number of outstanding shares after full dilution. Hoist Finance  164 Annual Report 2019 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information Investor relations Annual General Meeting Hoist Finance’s Investor Relations department is responsible for The AGM of the shareholders of Hoist Finance AB (publ) will be held on providing relevant information to – and being available for talks and Thursday 14 May 2020, in Stockholm. meetings with – shareholders, investors, analysts and the media. During the year Hoist Finance conducted a number of international Notification of attendance road shows and participated in numerous capital market activities. The Shareholders who wish to attend the AGM must be listed in the sharecompany also held regular analyst meetings. holders’ register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB by no later than Friday 8 May 2020 and notify the company of their intention to attend no later than Friday 8 May 2020. Analysts who continuously monitor Hoist Finance The notification must include the shareholder’s name, address, phone number, the number of shares held and the number of Citibank Borja Ramirez assistants attending (maximum of two). Nordea Rickard Henze The notification should Pareto Securities Vegard Toverud be sent to: SEB Ramil Koria Hoist Finance AB (publ) Annual General Meeting Box 7848 SE-103 99 Stockholm, Sweden or arsstamma@hoistfinance.com IR Contact Hoist Finance AB (publ) Andreas Lindblom Box 7848, 103 99 Stockholm Nominee shareholders wishing to vote at the AGM must temporarily Head of Hoist Finance IR Tel: +46 8 555 177 90 register the shares in their own names in the shareholders’ register Tel: +46 (0) 72 506 14 22 maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB. Registration should be completed E-post: info@hoistfinance.com in good time prior to Friday 8 May 2020. Annual report Hoist Finance’s annual reports and other financial information are available at www.hoistfinance.com Financial calendar 2020 Interim reports: January–March  6 May 2020 January–June  23 July 2020 January–September  30 October 2020 Every case has been taken in the translation of this annual report to English. However, in the event of discrepancies, the Swedish original will supersede the English translation. Production,Financial Information: Addira Hoist Finance  165 Annual Report 2019 ADDRESSES Hoist Finance AB (publ) hoistfinance.com Sweden Greece The Netherlands Spain UK Bryggargatan 4 Hoist Hellas S.D.L.S.A Amstelveenseweg 760 Avda Manoteras 44. 1ª Robinson Way Ltd. 111 21 Stockholm Zalokosta 44 & Kifissias avenue 1081 JK Amsterdam planta. Quays Reach, Salford Sweden 152 33 Chalandri Athens The Netherlands 28050 Madrid Manchester M50 2ZY Tel +46 8 55 51 77 90 Greece Spain UK info@hoistfinance.com Tel +30 210 6842776 Tel +31 88 14 14 000 Tel +34 910 52 92 69 Tel +44 345 601 3495 info@hoistspar.se infogr@hoistfinance.com info@hoistfinance.nl info@hoistfinance.com sales.enquiries@ robinson-way.com France Italy Poland UK Germany 165 Avenue de la Marne Via Gino Nais, 16 ul. Gen. Józefa Bema 2 Nuffield House Philosophenweg 51 59700 Marcq en Baroeul 00136 Roma 50-265 Wroclaw 41-46 Piccadilly 47051 Duisburg France Italy Poland London W1J 0DS Germany Tel +33 3 20 91 51 00 Tel +39 06 39 95 01 Tel +48 71 735 98 00 UK Tel +49 2 03 75 69 10 info@hoistfinance.fr informazioni@hoistfinance.com office@hoistfinance.pl Tel +44 20 72 33 00 info@hoistfinance.de info@hoistfinance.com Hoist Finance  166 Annual Report 2019 WaaS Access denied This site is password protected Enter the access code below to view the site Access code View https://hoist.test.waas.site/our-business/asset-classes/[2020-04-09, 10:21:46]
