2020 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 An extremely limited quantity is printed to minimize environmental impact. We use Forest Stewardship Council paper and plant a tree for each printed report. INTRODUCTION Table of Contents CORPORATE MIND INTRODUCTION PAGE 3 PLANET AWARE PAGE 30 PEOPLE CARE (CONT.) Overview 4 Responding to Climate Change 33 Building Relationships and 55 Connections Letter from the CEO 5 Minimizing Electricity Usage 34 and Emissions Prioritizing Employee Health CORPORATE MIND PAGE 6 57 and Well-Being Conserving Natural Gas 35 PRODUCT REACH Purpose, Vision and Values 10 Resources and Benefits that Building a Sustainable Future 36 57 Support Employee Wellness Investment in the Future 11 Tracking and Reducing Effects COMMUNITY TOUCH PAGE 60 Conscious Leadership 13 38 from Product Distribution Supporting Science Aligning Values Throughout Minimizing Effects from 62 16 40 Around the World the Supply Chain Business Travel Committing to Cornerstone Preserving Natural Capital 42 68 Living in a Broader Sense of Initiatives PLANET AWARE 16 Place Minimizing Waste 42 Engaging In Community: PRODUCT REACH PAGE 18 Supporting Global and 71 Conserving Water 44 Local Initiatives Customer Focus 21 Reducing Packaging Materials 45 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PAGE 76 Government and Academic 21 PEOPLE CARE PAGE 46 2019 Report Parameters 77 Research Laboratories PEOPLE CARE Fornensics and Paternity 21 Nurturing Employee Creativity, Key Indicators 79 48 Growth and Self-Actualization Pharmaceutical and GRI Index 80 24 Creating Workspaces Biotechnology Industries 50 to Inspire Environmental and Food 26 Cultivating Emotional and Social Testing Laboratories 51 Intelligence (ESI) COMMUNITY TOUCH Clinical and Molecular 26 Providing Personal Development Diagnostics Laboratories 52 and Growth for Employees Medical Affairs 27 Investment in Innovation 28 Quality Process and Product 29 ADDITIONAL INFO INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE OVERVIEW While this report covers our efforts in 2019, we can’t help but reference Visit promega.com to learn how Promega is supporting COVID-19 how the COVID-19 pandemic has rapidly changed our world. We are testing and the evolving needs of customers responding to this pandemic. amazed to see how society has instinctively responded with “What can Additional details will be featured in our report that comes out in 2021. COMMUNITY TOUCH I do to help?” At Promega, this has meant coming together in new, unique ways. We have doubled down on manufacturing, increasing The following information shares how Promega employees work to make production tenfold in some cases. Employees have volunteered to drive a difference for our customers, employees, and planet. You will find a hundreds of miles to get product to labs faster, and cross-functional triage spirit across the company that’s driven to connect, conserve, innovate, teams have built new connections and catalyzed new ways of working. and yes…to help. As we continue to find solutions for the challenges presented by the pandemic, we remain committed to our corporate values and goals. ADDITIONAL INFO 4 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION LETTER FROM THE CEO CORPORATE MIND For decades, we have found that working with the future in mind creates a better present. This sentiment became more popular for business at the 2019 Business Roundtable. Members of Fortune 500 companies agreed that the greatest business success will come from delivering long-term value, which requires support to the whole—customers, shareholders, employees, community, and PRODUCT REACH the planet. At Promega, we are experiencing the strength of that approach, and that’s been particularly clear in the COVID-19 climate. Our future-minded approach made a significant difference in our ability to deliver a strong and immediate response to a world that changed over a few weeks. PLANET AWARE We’ve been able to respond to the unforeseen needs of the day—our research scientists immediately engaged our technologies in exploration of a COVID-19 antibody test, the operations team increased production exponentially and hundreds of our employees transitioned to working from home. All of this happened without sacrificing customer service or product delivery. There are a multitude of practices that successfully enabled this enormous shift: investing in an infrastructure that accommodates at least 10–20 years of future planning; creating efficiencies and PEOPLE CARE design in manufacturing that permits flexibility in both manual and automated systems; developing an emotional and social intelligence sensibility to keep us strong as the days become challenging; and cultivating a company culture where all individuals knows their contributions truly matter. But even with all of this, we could not have found success if not for one thing. This all took time COMMUNITY TOUCH and a willingness to do what we believed best for long-term business vs a short-term bottom line. We integrated this approach decades ago. Today, we benefit from deep institutional knowledge, sincere relationships and a belief that providing high-quality materials and systems is the most efficient (and effective) approach to business. COVID-19 made us acutely aware of capability and connections of which we are tremendously grateful… WILLIAM A. LINTON and if anyone thinks a long-term approach doesn’t matter in the here and now…well, please reconsider! Chairman and CEO ADDITIONAL INFO 5 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH Corporate Mind ADDITIONAL INFO Promega is flexing our muscles in the fight against colorectal cancer by supporting research and 6 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 bringing awareness to this disease. INTRODUCTION …we find that as we develop the full potential CORPORATE MIND inherent in each of us; our perceptions of limitations change: the impossibilities of yesterday become the probabilities of tomorrow. WILLIAM A. LINTON PRODUCT REACH Chairman and CEO PLANET AWARE Corporate Mind In a rapidly changing world, we reflect on how Promega contributes to scientific advancement and improving life around the globe. We look for qualities that stand the test of time—the sense that we can seek and coPEOPLE CARE create meaning and purpose for the larger community of customers, suppliers and stakeholders, both as an organization and for ourselves as individuals. Our business is life science, and our lives are fueled by curiosity and life-long learning. It’s a thread that appears in countless forms across our global organization. Founded in 1978, our company is headquartered COMMUNITY TOUCH in Madison, WI, USA, with sales branches in 16 countries, more than 50 global distributors, and three global manufacturing locations. Promega is governed by a Board of Directors and daily operations are led by the Corporate Leadership Team and global Branch Managers. This diverse group brings wide-ranging expertise and unique cultural experience to management decisions. ADDITIONAL INFO 7 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION PROMEGA BY THE NUMBERS: 2019 11 CORPORATE MIND 4,000+ OVER 16 % SALES BRANCHES IN PRODUCTS PRODUCT REACH 1,696 COUNTRIES OF REVENUE INVESTED IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 4,000+ 110,000 PLANET AWARE OVER EMPLOYEES PRODUCTS SQUARE METERS OF BUILDING FOOTPRRINT 79 NEW PATENT FILINGS IN 2019 NEW PRODUCTS LAUNCHED IN 2019 17 PEOPLE CARE 450M REVENUE OVER 640 ISSUED AND PENDING PATENTS 50+ $ GLOBAL DISTRIBUTORS COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO 8 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH Headquarters R&D and Branch Office Distributor Manufacturing ADDITIONAL INFO 9 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PURPOSE, VISION AND VALUES Purpose Values Promega exists on an evolutionary frontier where the values of science, Promega reflects a set of living values that include: business and human well-being intersect. Acknowledging these interdependencies, Promega cultivates its environment to allow employees • Contributing to the advancement of science for improving life in PRODUCT REACH to flourish, develop deep and enduring relationships with customers the global community. and all stakeholders and create intelligent life-science solutions. • Operating as an adaptable living organism in which each element Vision and human contribution are a vital part of a whole and capable of Promega Corporation grows from a vision where success is measured in responding to the emerging complexities of our time. meaning generated for people and in relationships sustained by both PLANET AWARE value and purpose. With an eye toward a changing future, Promega • Encouraging personal development through inner and outer continues to evolve: exploration and self-awareness practices. • Our life sciences tools to accelerate discovery and realize innovative • Recognizing that both work and home cultivate wholeness and and practical applications of advanced technology. wholeheartedness. We do this through learning, offering the best of ourselves, integrating new insights and developing inner and • Our commitment to improving human health. outer qualities that allow each individual to be present and engaged. PEOPLE CARE • Our work environments, which support and perpetuate curiosity, • Rewarding and acknowledging achievement through creativity, self-awareness and community integration. risk-taking, process improvements and innovation. • Our capacity as a stable resource for the growth and transformation • Promoting adaptability and flexibility in the workplace. COMMUNITY TOUCH of the people and communities we touch. In essence, our vision spans across all life and moves us to act on the knowledge that we are interdependent. ADDITIONAL INFO 10 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH An Applications Scientist works PLANET AWARE in a Promega Madison lab. PEOPLE CARE INVESTMENT IN THE FUTURE We look at human needs to anticipate our customers’ wishes while In the last year, we demonstrated this commitment through investment providing an inspiring place for employees to work and support the in scientific innovation, expansion of global facilities and development COMMUNITY TOUCH communities in which we live. We commit to building a long-term of technical and leadership capabilities. Our focus in these areas means sustainable future through investments in innovation, people, products we can continue to meet customer needs and generate increased value and services, infrastructure and community outreach. that equates to not only financial but also meaningful growth for the goods, services, incomes, and community well-being we provide. ADDITIONAL INFO 11 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Effects of Products and Innovation We provide innovative solutions and technical support to researchers, technicians and analysts in life sciences, industry and government. Over 4,000 catalog and additional custom products enable our worldwide customers to advance knowledge in the fields of genomics, proteomics, cellular analysis, molecular diagnostics, human identification and applied PRODUCT REACH biotechnology. In the last year, product revenue exceeded $450 million. The Product Reach section of this report expands on how our products benefit human health and advance the scientific community. Our growing investment in innovative research resulted in 79 new patent filings in 2019, bringing our intellectual property library to over 434 PLANET AWARE granted patents and 206 pending patents. In the last year, Promega launched 17 new products, fulfilling customer needs by: • Aiding life science research with automated solutions. • Advancing forensic DNA testing. In 2019, Promega announced a global collaboration with PEOPLE CARE • Improving methods for studying protein structure and function. Merck to develop the Promega MSI technology as an onlabel, solid tumor companion diagnostic (CDx) for use with • Optimizing research in clinical labs. Merck’s immune checkpoint anti-PD-1 therapy, KEYTRUDA®. The Promega MSI Analysis System is used to identify tumors • Expediting discovery of biotherapeutics. that are likely to respond well to immunotherapy. Learn more COMMUNITY TOUCH about this diagnostic and how other technologies are making a difference in the Product Reach section. Over 4,000 catalog and additional custom products enable our worldwide customers to advance knowledge in the fields of genomics, proteomics, cellular analysis, molecular diagnostics, human identification and applied biotechnology. ADDITIONAL INFO 12 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION The Feynman Center on the Promega Madison campus. CORPORATE MIND Investments in People and Place PRODUCT REACH Our global facilities exceeded 1.1 million square feet or 110,000 square meters, all applying sustainable design approaches. Expansion of our branch facilities in the UK and Germany completed in 2019, providing creative workplaces and healthy spaces for our employees, customers and community outreach. In addition, construction is well underway in Madison on a world-class research building and also a state-of-the-art component PLANET AWARE manufacturing facility. These buildings will add 435,000 ft2 or 40,000 m2 to the Promega footprint when completed in the next few years. For details on these expansions and environmental focus of all operations, see the Planet Aware section of this report. CONSCIOUS LEADERSHIP Projects implemented by Promega engineers and our facilities PEOPLE CARE At the heart of science is the understanding of the interdependent, complex teams in 2019 saved over 2 million gallons of water and and dynamic nature of systems. With nearly 1,700 individuals worldwide, enough energy to power 50 homes for an enitre year. Learn this complexity is increasingly true at Promega as well. In rapidly changing more about our commitment to environmental sustainability environments, our leaders use their minds and hearts to flourish. We are in the Planet Aware section. continuously developing an environment that fosters personal connections COMMUNITY TOUCH and creates trust in the face of ambiguity to encourage conscientious and courageous action. We support the simultaneous use of intuition and the conscious awareness of emotions, sensations, and connections when developing vision and outlook. We want a space in which everyone has an opportunity for self-awareness, personal transformation and professional development. The People Care section of this report expands on ways that Promega invests in our people and focuses on strengthening relationships. ADDITIONAL INFO 13 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH Promega global general managers gather in Madison, WI. ADDITIONAL INFO 14 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Advancing Diversity As a global company, we acknowledge and honor the fundamental value and dignity of all individuals and pledge ourselves to creating and maintaining an environment that respects diverse traditions, heritages, experiences and perspectives. Being relevant requires continued focus on building diversity and inclusion. Increasing minority and gender diversity is a goal for hiring PRODUCT REACH and promotion. Women represent approximately 47% of employees worldwide and occupy 39% of management positions. With offices in 16 culturally diverse locations, we benefit from the unique cultures and experiences of all employees. Respecting Human Rights PLANET AWARE As a member to the UN Global Compact, Promega follows all regulations regarding employment and has zero tolerance for violations of human rights. We are committed to upholding and advancing The Universal Declaration of Human Rights by developing productive business relationships around the world to continue working cooperatively among different customs and cultures. Issues that we take very seriously include: Our active and continuously developing Emotional and PEOPLE CARE Social Intelligence (ESI) initiative emphasizes connection • Protecting children from exploitation. and encourages employees globally to grow and become • Protecting all workers from modern slavery. their best. ESI skills support an environment that respects diverse traditions, heritages, experiences and perspectives. • Paying at least minimum wage. Learn about all the ways Promega supports employees in • Safe working conditions. COMMUNITY TOUCH the People Care section. Promega complies with all local workplace regulations and ensures that our employees and community members are treated with respect and dignity. We hold the same expectations for our suppliers and look to align with organizations that uphold international human rights and labor standards. ADDITIONAL INFO 15 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Prioritizing Anti-Corruption Promega aims to operate with the greatest integrity and has zero tolerance for corruption or bribery. This commitment to anti-corruption is communicated to all employees in a Code of Conduct and additional training is provided to managers and employees in purchasing or sales departments. PRODUCT REACH ALIGNING VALUES THROUGHOUT THE SUPPLY CHAIN Promega recognizes the effect and importance that suppliers have in the scope of our Corporate Responsibility and forms partnerships with PLANET AWARE companies who have similar commitments. Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines our expectations relating to business ethics, labor, health and safety, and environmental responsibility. This document is shared with new and existing suppliers to encourage collaboration in these areas. A focus on sourcing from local suppliers also supports local communities and reduces environmental effects from shipping. Promega Corporation and branches in Spain, Singapore, PEOPLE CARE France, Switzerland, Germany and the Netherlands support LIVING IN A BROADER SENSE OF PLACE the International Genetically Engineered Machines (iGEM) competition for emerging scientists. Learn more about this “Place” is not singular at Promega. Our sense of place covers all touch and other efforts to give back in the Community Touch section. points by integrating work, home and community. We understand how any one touch point can impact the others: A tough day at work can COMMUNITY TOUCH mean an irritable evening at home, and poor community connections can leave gaps resulting in misunderstanding. By living with regard to the interactions and dependencies of each of these “places,” we can become more fully fueled in ourselves, our work and our understanding of each other. Just as importantly, we open ourselves to greater learning and innovation for the future. ADDITIONAL INFO 16 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE Promega was recognized by the Wisconsin Economic Development Association (WEDA) for making significant contributions to Wisconsin’s economy. PEOPLE CARE Within the context of each place (work, home, community), we find Wisconsin alone, a third-party economist estimates that Promega has complexity. For example, Promega engagement in community includes an annual economic impact of over $1 billion each year. multiple approaches like opening opportunities for employees to give COMMUNITY TOUCH back on their terms, supporting our emerging scientists around the Growth and success of any business, especially one the size and scope world and fostering greater creativity and learning. Stories on many of of Promega, can have a positive ripple effect in communities, which these actions are shared throughout this report. comes back again to support long-term, sustainable practices. Creating such a positive cycle happens when we are connected and share our place The benefits of this work reach far beyond good will. Our work brings with all stakeholders. growth and real impact to the community bottom line. In the state of ADDITIONAL INFO 17 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH Product Reach ADDITIONAL INFO A Promega scientist at the company’s Rosalind 18 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 Franklin Center production facility in Madison, WI. INTRODUCTION With passionate dedication to emotional awareness and CORPORATE MIND intellectual execution, people at Promega connect with each other and with scientists around the world to co-create solutions to the most relevant problems in life science. PONCHO MEISENHEIMER PRODUCT REACH Senior Director, Research and Development PLANET AWARE Product Reach Developing innovative solutions to meet the complex and ever-changing needs of our customers begins with listening. We build solid relationships with our customers by investing time to truly understand their work and anticipate their needs so we can problem solve together. Our alliance with PEOPLE CARE them, coupled with determined scientific exploration and flexible manufacturing capabilities, enable us to support our customers in their work to improve the world in profound ways using science. Every day, research scientists, technicians, and analysts in laboratories and industrial facilities around the world rely on our products and technical COMMUNITY TOUCH expertise to succeed in the work they undertake. With high-quality, reliable products at their disposal, researchers, applied scientists, clinical practitioners, forensic analysts, quality assurance personnel and others have more freedom to focus on specific questions at the forefront of scientific discovery. This results in the acceleration of research discovery, better health care, and more consistent justice. ADDITIONAL INFO 19 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Breadth of Capabilities Scientific Segments Academic/ Pharma/ Clinical Applied and Genetic Government 25 % Biotech 28 % Diagnostics 24 % Enviro Testing 3 % Identity 20 % PRODUCT REACH Sample Preparation Solutions Manual to Automated Nucleic Acid Purification · Instruments Sample Analysis Solutions PLANET AWARE Nucleic Acid Quantification · Amplification · NGS/Sequencing · Instruments · STR Analysis Core Technologies Protein Analysis and Molecular Cloning Cloning · Protein Expression and Purification · Mass Spectrometry · Immunoassays PEOPLE CARE Cellular Reporting and Signaling Genetic Reporters · Protein Reporters · Target Engagement · Cell Signaling · Instruments · Bioassays Cell Health and Functional Analysis Real-Time Assays · Energy Metabolism · 3D Analysis · ADME · Instruments · Protein Degradation COMMUNITY TOUCH Segment Services Custom and OEM Manufacturing · Custom Assays · Platform Integration · Application Development ADDITIONAL INFO 20 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND CUSTOMER FOCUS Forensics and Paternity Laboratories Forensics and paternity testing laboratories deal with unrelenting caseloads With the emergence of new tools and technologies on the horizon, labs and tight turnaround times. Dependable results, fast throughput and will be able to gain more information from challenging sample types, reliable product supply are critical in this setting. Forensic labs use save time with increased sample processing capacity, triage samples for PRODUCT REACH limited, often challenging samples to develop investigative leads from more efficient workflows, solve more cold cases with investigative crime scenes. Sexual assault kits and property crime evidence are some genealogy and database searches, and even bring the entire workflow to of the more challenging samples for labs to process. Forensic labs process the scene of the crime or event. large numbers of reference samples to populate reference databases that help law enforcement connect arrestees to other crimes, with the goal We have worked with forensic and paternity laboratories for more than of identifying possible repeat offenders. Ongoing testing of the rape kit 30 years and support their challenging workflow procedures by providing PLANET AWARE backlog has identified over 1,000 suspected serial rapists in the United advanced technologies for efficient DNA extraction through discriminating States alone. STR analysis. In addition to analyzing evidence collected at crime scenes, forensics Government and Academic Research Laboratories labs help bring closure to families whose loved ones are missing or lost In the face of increasing pressure and demands, today’s academic and in mass disasters, and even help exonerate those who have been wrongly government researchers work on the front line of discovery. They require convicted of a crime. These researchers and analysts require optimal and the newest available tools with enhanced sensitivity and specificity to PEOPLE CARE reliable results from valuable and often irreplaceable evidence samples. address more complex biological questions compared to methods used just a few years ago. Promega continues to develop and improve technologies from next-generation nucleic acid isolation and PCR to We have worked with forensic and paternity advanced assays for cellular biology, metabolism, 3D cellular structures laboratories for more than 30 years and support and organoids, protein manipulation and CRISPR knock-ins for tagging their challenging workflow procedures by providing COMMUNITY TOUCH cell lines. To help modern researchers successfully publish their results, advanced technologies for efficient DNA extraction fulfill their research programs and nurture carefully planned careers, through discriminating STR analysis. Promega is committed to developing the most advanced bioassays, target engagement and protein degradation tools. ADDITIONAL INFO 21 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Forensic analyst swabbing the head and ears of a Rhinoceros in South Africa. rhino during a dehorning procedure in Port Elizabeth. PRODUCT REACH Forensics CSI SAVANNA: OVERCOMING THE CHALLENGES OF ISOLATING HUMAN TOUCH DNA FROM POACHED RHINOCEROS PLANET AWARE Rhinoceros numbers are on a steep decline, from 500,000 in the 20th low abundance of DNA, and the dry, rough, dirty surface of rhino skin century to an estimated 30,000 alive today. Poaching is the main driver compounds the recovery issue. Optimal sampling techniques combined for this decline, which comes from consumer demand for rhino horn. with sensitive extraction and DNA amplification technologies will Although the trade of rhino horn is banned, the demand remains high. therefore be needed to establish human DNA profiles. With prices averaging $60,000 per kg, the sale of rhino horn on the black market is a lucrative venture. To preserve rhinoceros species, poaching Researchers from the University of the Free State in South Africa are must be stopped. investigating various methods of touch DNA recovery from rhino back, PEOPLE CARE rump, ears, legs, head and horns. Several Promega technologies designed Poaching cases can be extremely difficult to investigate and prosecute for low-level DNA samples have been instrumental in their work. due to the nature of the evidence available at the scene. Current practices use rhino DNA profiling to match horns with carcasses, but due to The Promega Casework Direct Kit, designed for extraction from low genetic diversity among some rhino species there is decreased low-abundance DNA samples, is being used to prepare lysates for COMMUNITY TOUCH confidence in matching a horn to a specific animal. Human DNA profiling downstream PCR amplification. The sensitive PowerPlex® ESI 16 System using touch DNA from poachers could be a better approach. and Direct Amplification from swabs method is being used to generate the DNA profiles from these low-abundance touch samples. Preliminary Humans have very unique DNA profiles, increasing chances of linking a results have uncovered mixed and partial profiles, generating hope that poacher to the scene. However, sample collection challenges exist with human touch DNA could one day be an essential tool in linking this approach that need to be overcome. Human touch DNA samples have or excluding suspects involved in these crimes against wildlife. ADDITIONAL INFO 22 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Dr. Soly Ismail, Postdoctoral Fellow, Francis Crick Institute PRODUCT REACH Research Laboratories MEETING THE SCREENING CHALLENGE ON PROTEIN:PROTEIN TARGETS TO UNDERSTAND MALFUNCTION OF HEALTHY CELLS PLANET AWARE Billions of new cells are made in the body every day, replacing lung tumors, and so it is a very important target to understand. worn-out, dead or damaged cells and keeping us healthy. Cells Much work has been done on inhibitors of Ras, specifically those that multiply by dividing—an existing cell splits in half to create two new inhibit the Ras-Raf and Ras-P13K protein:protein interactions. In the past ones. This process is very tightly organized so that new cells are 10 years, the Oncogene Biology Laboratory has shown that inhibition made only when and where they are needed. Faults in key genes of the Ras-P13K interaction has a significant effect on tumor initiation, controlling cell division (known as oncogenes) make cells multiply development and maintenance so finding out how to switch off Ras out of control, leading to cancer. The Oncogene Biology Laboratory signaling could be a powerful way to treat cancer. Soly’s aim is to discover PEOPLE CARE headed by Julian Downward at the Francis Crick Institute in the and characterize specific inhibitors that could block RAS/P-I3K and RAS/ UK investigates how the molecular signals received by cells make RAF for future targeted therapies. them grow and multiply, and how faulty signals lead to cancer. They focus on oncogene function in healthy cells and find out what Targeting the interaction of proteins represents a particular challenge happens when they go wrong. Some types of cancer can even for drug screening largely due to the strength by which they bind or COMMUNITY TOUCH become ‘addicted’ to certain oncogenes, relying on just one faulty their solubility. Promega NanoLuc® Binary Technology (NanoBiT®) gene to drive their unchecked growth. was originally developed to detect protein:protein interactions in live mammalian cells. Instead Soly successfully adapted this NanoBiT Dr Soly (Mohammed) Ismail, a post doctorate researcher within cellular assay into a biochemical, cell-free format using mammalian cell the Oncogene Biology Laboratory, is particularly interested in a lysates. The NanoBit Biochemical Assay now offers an attractive tool for target known as Ras. This oncogenic protein is found to be faulty drug screening against challenging protein:protein interaction targets, in almost 30% of human cancers, including bowel, pancreas and including the interaction of RAS with PI3K. ADDITIONAL INFO 23 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION Pharmaceutical AIDING IN DRUG DEVELOPMENT AND DISCOVERY CORPORATE MIND The cell is the basic structural and biological unit of all organisms. How Artist’s conception of NanoBRET™ TE Intracellular Kinase Assay at our cells function, including if they divide or die, is tightly controlled by a work inside a live cell. large collection of proteins called kinases. When these proteins mutate and their signaling capabilities become faulty, cell growth and division can be negatively impacted and diseases such as cancer can occur. PRODUCT REACH Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Industries Scientists within the pharmaceutical industry are continuously developing Live-cell model systems are an important tool for laboratory researchers new small-molecule drugs that can enter cells easily and affect specific in their quest to develop and evaluate cancer drugs against target target proteins. Targeted cancer therapies that block the growth and kinases. The most helpful live-cell models represent the endogenous spread of cancer by interfering specifically with the diseased cells, but biology, or true-to-life conditions, observed within the human body. not normal healthy cells, are one example where small-molecule drugs Studying potential drug compounds in a live cell is a relatively new PLANET AWARE are used therapeutically. At early phases of drug development, researchers practice. Scientists typically use biochemical methods with enzymes may screen more than 100,000 compounds at once to identify leads purified from ruptured cells, but this testing approach isn’t always that can be further optimized and turned into new drugs. The availability relevant to how drugs behave in the body. Live cells, with the enzymes of high-throughput-compatible, reliable and predictable assays serves a inside, would provide researchers a more predictive model of drug crucial step toward discovering new safe and effective drugs. behavior. Obtaining this more predictive data in the early stages of drug exploration will allow researchers to move through R&D faster Promega has developed a broad portfolio of assay reagents that meet and continue to advance human health. PEOPLE CARE the needs of these pharmaceutical researchers and have been used widely during various phases of drug discovery and development. For example, Promega scientists developed a unique way to study kinases using our NanoBRET™ Target Engagement Assays allow researchers to an energy transfer technique and specially designed cell-permeable quantitatively measure the interaction between a molecule and a protein detection probes that enable testing in a live-cell environment. The in live cells reliably in a high-throughput manner. This is a significant NanoBRET™ TE Intracellular Kinase Assays use Bioluminescence COMMUNITY TOUCH advancement as these cellular assays can better predict compound Resonance Energy Transfer, or BRET, to measure the binding of the drug performance. In addition to common drug targets like kinases, this to the kinase. This new technique helps researchers determine if the drug NanoBRET™ Target Engagement technology has also been applied to gets into the cell, if it interacts with the intended target, and how long it CRISPR-Cas9 gene edited cells to help identify drugs that can lead to stays bound despite other things in the cell trying to bump it off. With this oncoprotein degradation. new live-cell approach, pharmaceutical researchers can arm themselves with the comprehensive data they need for a more complete picture of kinase target effects as they move to the next phases of development. ADDITIONAL INFO 24 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION Over 20 million olive trees in Italy and other CORPORATE MIND parts of Europe are infected with Xylella. PRODUCT REACH Environmental Testing XYLELLA FASTIDIOSA: SEEKING EARLY DETECTION OF A MICROSCOPIC THREAT TO AGRICULTURE ECONOMIES Agriculture is the lifeblood of human existence. We rely on the cultivation the disease. In the US, Spain and Middle East, almond trees are infected. PLANET AWARE of plants as a source of nourishment for our bodies and the generation With such immense socio-economic impacts at stake, quick detection of of plant-derived products to support our economies. Agriculture offers this bacterium can go a long way to manage the spread of the disease. a connection to the land and a way of life for generational growers. Labs are exploring new ways of detection, and DNA purification from Destruction of our agricultural ecosystems can have devastating impacts plants is becoming one of the key aspects of analysis. on our livelihoods. Sadly, a global agricultural threat is growing at an alarming rate, and the causative agent is a microscopic one. Xylella Promega is positioned to help in the quest for early detection and PEOPLE CARE fastidiosa is a bacterium that infects and reproduces in xylem, a tissue continuous monitoring of X. fastidiosa infection. We provide tools for found within vascular plants that transports water and nutrients from DNA extraction and automated processing that can meet the needs of roots to stems and leaves. The bacterium is mainly spread by insects plant pathogen testing labs as the number of samples continues to grow. feeding on plants. Infection with this bacterium deprives plants of the Together with the laboratory community, we have developed plant and nutrients they need, resulting in starvation and death. Most plants die insect DNA extraction methods that are robust and reliable for use with COMMUNITY TOUCH within 1–2 years of infection and there is currently no cure. a variety of materials. The Maxwell® line of instruments provides a walkaway, automated approach to extracting plant DNA from up to 48 samples Globally, infection with Xylella has affected over 20 million olive trees in simultaneously. When used together, this system provides purified DNA to Italy and other parts of Europe, bringing the olive oil industry to its knees. plant pathogen testing labs in under one hour for subsequent immediate In Brazil, the majority of orange trees have been killed in efforts to control use in qPCR and other molecular detection methods. ADDITIONAL INFO 25 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Water treatment facilities and desalination plants test water quality and Our Environmentally Preferable Products require biofilm formation to reduce energy consumption and improve plant less packaging, include fewer hazardous components and generate less waste to support sustainability operational efficiency. By partnering with these facilities, we have been efforts of customers. To learn more, visit: able to improve our luminescent bacterial detection assay for specific Promega.com/EnvironmentallyPreferred use with water sampling to help with industrial processes like biocide dosage and timing for water cooling systems. Promega Water-GloTM PRODUCT REACH microbial analysis uses bioluminescence to measure the amount of adenosine Environmental and Food Testing Laboratories triphosphate (ATP) in drinking water, desalinated water and other samples Demand for food and water testing is increasing as laboratories seek to monitor water quality. rapid, reliable solutions to ensure products are safe and food ingredient claims are authentic. Biotechnology offers tools for testing labs to detect Clinical and Molecular Diagnostics Laboratories bacteria or other contaminants in food, water or plants. From GMO In 2020, Promega’s impact on the clinical diagnostic world was demonstrated PLANET AWARE testing and pathogen detection in food to water quality and contamination through our rapid and robust response to COVID-19 testing. Promega analysis, assays need to satisfy the requirements of food and water testing solutions supported COVID-19 diagnosis in over 25 million samples laboratories, including sensitive detection of unwanted microbes and around the globe in the first quarter alone. GoTaq® Probe 1-Step RT qPCR undeclared ingredients. System was added to the CDC’s 2019-Novel Coronavirus Real-Time RT-PCR Diagnostic Panel Emergency Use Authorization on March 31, To screen plants for GMOs, analyze food for pathogen contamination 2020, further expanding testing options and capacity for labs in the United or authenticate ingredients, DNA must be extracted from the samples. States. Promega Viral RNA sample extraction solutions, ranging from PEOPLE CARE The resulting DNA needs to be pure enough to work in PCR-based manual to high throughput, provided options for clinical labs processing analysis, the method most food testing labs use for detection. In Europe, samples in a time of unprecedented demand on public health labs. Promega Promega DNA purification reagents have become a reference standard custom manufacturing supplies critical reagents that are part of 15 in authenticity determination of meat products, and European Union COVID-19 diagnostic tests marketed by other diagnostic manufacturers. Reference Laboratory for Animal Proteins in feeding stuffs (EURL) has COMMUNITY TOUCH developed a Standard Operating Procedure for DNA extraction based OncoMate™ MSI CE IVD became available to the European market in on our purification chemistry. In addition, our Maxwell® RSC PureFood March of 2020. This new molecular diagnostic tool enables labs to determine GMO and Authentication Kit was recently selected by the European microsatellite instability status in tumor tissue, an important step in Reference Laboratory on GMO Food and Feed Testing for developing diagnosing and treating cancer patients. Until 2015, MSI testing was part new Standard Operating Procedures for food DNA extraction, influencing of a workflow to determine if a patient tumor was hereditary, enabling food companies to use Promega products as part of their routine quality relatives to have preventive testing. More recently, in addition to hereditary control testing. tumor testing, MSI Dx Analysis System status is recognized as a key factor ADDITIONAL INFO 26 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION Clinical Diagnostics SUPPORTING TAILORED TREATMENT WITH TUMOR CELL TESTING CORPORATE MIND Promega first developed the Microsatellite Instability Analysis (MSI) system over fifteen years ago, but the advent of immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy has revealed new applications for the technology. Tumors with defects in the expression of functional mismatch repair (MMR) proteins often have somatic mutations that produce “foreign” proteins that can be detected by the immune system. As a result, these PRODUCT REACH tumors are effective at priming an immune response and subsequently in determining if patients are eligible for a new and effective class of susceptible to immunotherapies. MSI analysis can identify the presence oncology drugs, PD-1 inhibitors, that are having dramatic results in of mismatch repair (MMR) deficiency, and thus predict a positive extending the lives of late-stage cancer patients. In November of 2019, response to immunotherapies such as immune checkpoint inhibitors. Promega signed a global companion diagnostic development agreement with Merck to further develop the OncoMate MSI assay as a companion In late 2019, Promega announced a global collaboration with Merck to diagnostic for Keytruda, a PD-1 inhibitor. Clinical trials are underway PLANET AWARE develop the Promega MSI technology as an on-label, solid tumor companion in China for this indication. diagnostic (CDx) for use with Merck’s immune checkpoint anti-PD-1 therapy, KEYTRUDA® (pembrolizumab). KEYTRUDA®, like other immune Medical Affairs checkpoint inhibitors, works by activating the body’s own immune system Accelerating the impact of research on the practice of improving human to identify and attack tumor cells. The Promega MSI technology was used health and well-being is the highest priority for the Medical Affairs team. in clinical trials to identify tumors that were likely to respond to this type of Our dedicated team of scientific experts focuses on providing technical treatment. The global collaboration will initially seek regulatory approval and scientific support to the clinical research and healthcare communities PEOPLE CARE for the Promega OncoMate™ MSI Dx Analysis System in the United States around the world. and China. Plans to seek approvals in additional territories may follow. Medical Affairs plays a critical role in the interchange of scientific and In March 2020, the OncoMate™ MSI Dx Analysis System (OncoMate™ medical knowledge as it relates to patient care. We engage with key scientific MSI) also received CE marking as a new in vitro diagnostic (IVD) leaders and clinicians to provide perspective and input on the evolving COMMUNITY TOUCH medical device in Europe. needs for medical information, education and support of new product development efforts. Promega’s research-use-only MSI technology has been validated in labs around the world to characterize solid tumor MSI status. As scientists From infectious disease to oncology, impactful science and emerging understand more about the biology of MSI-high tumor cells, even more resilience tie Medical Affairs to our global community. tailored and effective therapies can be developed against tumors expressing the MSI biomarker. ADDITIONAL INFO 27 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND INVESTMENT IN INNOVATION To sustain our contributions to scientific exploration and application, Our growing investment in innovative research resulted in 79 new Promega invests in the development and discovery of new technologies. patent filings in 2019, bringing our intellectual property library to over In 2019, over 11% of total revenue was allocated to research and 434 granted patents and 206 pending patents. Promega research development. Research is not solely focused on the development of new scientists had 21 scientific papers published in the last year. We also PRODUCT REACH products; our Advanced Technology Group and a group funded by the work with academic institutions and other entities to license and develop Federal Government perform basic research. promising technologies. Patents PLANET AWARE Issued and Pending Applications CELLULAR ANALYSIS 479 26 640 PEOPLE CARE GENOMICS GENETIC IDENTITY AND OTHER 28 PROTEOMICS 36 COMMUNITY TOUCH TOTAL INSTRUMENTATION 71 ADDITIONAL INFO 28 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND QUALITY PROCESS AND PRODUCT GOING ABOVE AND BEYOND FOR OUR CUSTOMERS Promega Corporation has a long history of supporting our customers I am so thankful and proud to work for Promega and with such with high-quality products, services and information. Promega Madison, amazing co-workers! We received a call from a clinical lab late WI, USA, was first certified to International Organization for yesterday afternoon, after our corporate office had closed. The Standardization (ISO) for quality management systems in 1998, and lab was in a pinch with clinical samples to run on their Maxwell® PRODUCT REACH our commitment continues with our current ISO 13485 and ISO 9001 AS3000 Instrument. Their external computer had crashed, and certifications. The ISO series of quality management system standards they could not get the replacement computer to connect to the are developed and maintained by the International Organization for instrument. They had pending patient reports that they needed to Standardization. An organization achieving ISO certification has release to clinicians and needed to run additional samples today, on demonstrated to a third party that the organization meets all requirements Christmas Eve. Team members from multiple departments globally of the standard and has implemented a quality system capable of connected late into the evening to begin the troubleshooting and PLANET AWARE developing, manufacturing, testing and delivering high-quality products devised a plan to help this lab before Promega closed for the around the world. ISO certification assures our global customers that holidays. I visited the lab the next day to trouble-shoot on-site with Promega is committed to quality and has established reliable and effective the remote support of several Promega team members. We were processes. ISO certification exemplifies commitments to our customers, all taking time away from family Christmas eve celebrations. After to our business, and to all those who rely on and benefit from the use trying multiple different things over several hours, we were able of our products. Currently, 16 Promega locations around the world are to access the patient sample run data files and print them to pdf certified to meet the requirements of ISO 9001, ISO 13485 or both. per their SOP. One of the runs was a viral screen of a child pending PEOPLE CARE results. The lab was able to move forward per their SOP and release In February 2016, ISO 18385:2016 was published as the first international the results to the doctors. The level of support this lab felt from standard specific to the forensic manufacturing community. In 2017, Promega was astounding. We were literally jumping for joy when Promega became the first major forensic manufacturer to achieve thirdwe were successful. They are back in business and will be running party certification of the published ISO 18385 standard to minimize samples through the holiday. The gratitude and joy the customers COMMUNITY TOUCH the risk of human DNA contamination in products used to collect, store and I felt were awesome. Promega co-workers truly are a family and and analyze biological material for forensic purposes. Promega products a support network that can always be relied on! This would not have manufactured in alignment with the ISO 18385 standard include a worked without everyone’s input and tenacity. “Forensic Grade” certification logo. — Amy Parman, Sr. Regional Manager with gratitude to Rebecca Roberts, Brian Leininger, Jessica Rossol-Allison, Promega Korea, Promega Australia ADDITIONAL INFO 29 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH Planet Aware Sustainability is integral to how we design and build ADDITIONAL INFO facilities with our new Research and Development Center being projected to use 60% less energy per 30 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 square foot than our existing research facility. INTRODUCTION One of the hardest things for people to wrap their CORPORATE MIND heads around tends to be the idea that small wins add up to big victories. However, if we want to make a big difference for the future of our planet and its people, PRODUCT REACH we have to overcome our indifferences towards so many small things in life. PLANET AWARE MAURO CIGLIC General Manager, Promega AG PEOPLE CARE Planet Aware In 2019, Promega realized gross reductions in electricity, natural gas COMMUNITY TOUCH and water while also achieving all environmental improvement targets set for the end of 2020. As indexed to revenue, we have seen carbon emissions reduce by 13% and water use reduce by 27% since 2015. These accomplishments are thanks to the efforts of our people, whether it be individuals improving efficiencies in operations or employee-lead teams enhancing a culture of sustainability. ADDITIONAL INFO 31 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION As we enter a new decade, we hold both hope and uncertainty about will evaluate and commit to the next generation of environmental goals CORPORATE MIND the future of our world. From climate change to global pandemics, we in the coming year. During this process we take inspiration from the are facing urgent issues. In response, Promega hosted the first ever United Nations’ approach to the Sustainability Development Goals and sustainability summit for our European branches to identify actions acknowledge that the ‘Decade of Action’ will require mobilizing everyone, PRODUCT REACH and environmental targets for the upcoming decade. All regions globally urgency and ambition, and supercharging ideas in action. Status Toward 2020 Goals ALL AHEAD OF TARGET PLANET AWARE Electricity 15% Carbon 13% Gas 12% 2% Goal Water PEOPLE CARE 27% 10% Goal Waste 10% Goal 15% 15% Goal COMMUNITY TOUCH Reductions and targets are indexed to revenue and over a 2015 baseline. Distribution 6% 10% Goal In 2019, Promega realized gross reductions in electricity, natural gas and water while also 5% Goal achieving all environmental improvement targets set for the end of 2020. ADDITIONAL INFO 32 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND RESPONDING TO CLIMATE CHANGE Global Carbon Promega prioritizes greenhouse gas reduction from all global operations. In evaluating emissions, we consider fuel combustion, purchased electricity, Footprint Composition indirect emissions from business travel, outgoing distribution, water usage and paper usage at all Promega locations worldwide (see Figure 1). PRODUCT REACH We are currently ahead of our 2020 target for carbon emissions thanks to actions to reduce impacts from energy usage. Carbon Footprint 52 % Electrical Usage 20 Natural Gas % Tons of CO2 Per Million USD PLANET AWARE 105 107 7 2 100 99 94 96 20 21 % % 20 19 Air Travel Automobile Travel 18 Fuel Combustion PEOPLE CARE 0 0 Purchased Electricity 54 55 51 51 47 % % Business Travel Rail Travel Water Outgoing Distribution COMMUNITY TOUCH Water Usage 31 31 29 29 29 Paper Usage 2015 2019 2020 Goal 0 % Paper 19 % Distribution Figure 1. Global carbon footprint as indexed to revenue has reduced by 13% since 2015. Carbon is calculated from fuel combustion (scope 1), purchased electricity (scope 2), and business travel, outgoing distribution, water usage and paper usage (scope 3). ADDITIONAL INFO 33 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION Electricity CORPORATE MIND Thousands of kWh Per Million USD • Connecting our R&D facility to a more efficient central chiller plant has delivered savings over 500,000 kWh each year. In 2020, 79.7 81.4 78.1 we will extend our central plant to additional facilities to further 74 73.2 67.7 optimize energy requirements. Renewable energy is a key strategy to limit greenhouse gas emissions PRODUCT REACH from operations. In 2019, our largest solar array was installed on the newly renovated Feynman parking ramp. This system will generate 562.5 kW and quadruple our current renewable energy production. This array alone will generate enough energy to power over 100 homes each year. We also have committed to large scale photovoltaic arrays on the Feynman Center and the new R&D center in 2020. Additional facilities PLANET AWARE 2015 2019 2020 that use renewable energy sources such as photovoltaic and geothermal Goal currently include: Minimizing Electricity Usage and Emissions In the last year, gross electricity usage decreased by 2% even with an • Promega GmbH in Waldorf, Germany increase in building footprint. This saved over 524,000 kWh, the • Promega UK in Southampton equivalent of the electricity used by nearly 50 homes annually. Transitioning • Promega Italia in Milan operations to more-energy efficient-facilities, projects to improve energy • Promega Biotech Ibérica in Alcobendas, Spain PEOPLE CARE efficiency and the daily efforts of all employees worldwide made these • Promega Biotech AB in Stockholm, Sweden reductions possible. Electricity usage contributes to over 50% of our • Promega AG in Zurich, Switzerland carbon emissions and minimizing these effects is a focus at all Promega • Promega Brazil in Sao Paulo locations. To this end, we invest in energy efficiency, generate electricity • The Aviation Operations building in Madison, WI, USA from photovoltaic panels and purchase electricity from renewable sources. • The da Vinci facility in Madison, WI, USA COMMUNITY TOUCH Recent highlights include:  ompany-wide initiatives to incorporate high-efficiency LED C ...gross electricity usage decreased by 2% even lighting continued in 2019. Renovations were completed at with an increase in building footprint. This saved three more facilities last year, affecting over 1,000 lamps and saving over 524,000 kWh, the equivalent of the electricity over 117,000 kWh annually. used by nearly 50 homes annually. ADDITIONAL INFO 34 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION Natural Gas CORPORATE MIND Therms Per Million USD PRODUCT REACH 3,444 3,391 3,321 3,287 3,025 3,100 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 The recently completed parking garage provides clean energy Goal Figure 4. Natural gas usage as indexed to revenue. to the campus and electric vehicle charging. PLANET AWARE Conserving Natural Gas In the last year, gross natural gas usage reduced by 2% or by 8% as indexed to revenue. Natural gas is our largest source of direct air emissions and our third largest source of overall emissions. Natural gas is used PEOPLE CARE primarily at manufacturing sites for heating and production-related processes. Geothermal wells, solar water heaters and heat capture technology help minimize heating requirements and related emissions. COMMUNITY TOUCH Geothermal wells, solar water heaters and heat capture technology help minimize heating requirements and related emissions. ADDITIONAL INFO 35 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 Promega was a Distinguished Performer Award winner in the sustainability category as part of the 2019 Wisconsin 75 list recognizing the largest privately held companies in the state. INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND The new home of Promega UK has been designed to exceed BREEAM standards for excellence in sustainability. Promega GmbH in Waldorf, Germany Building a Sustainable Future Promega GmbH Relocates to Waldorf, Germany PRODUCT REACH In times of rapid growth, we look to the future with optimism while In November, Promega GmbH relocated from Mannheim to also assuring that our expansion is sustainable. The Promega Global Waldorf, Germany. At 14,000 m2 (150,000 ft2), the new facility is the largest Facilities Planning Team emphasizes environmental stewardship and outside of Madison, WI, and brings together all Promega teams previously PLANET AWARE long-term planning. Each building is designed to meet ambitious located in Mannheim, including the largest non-US branch office, the sustainability goals, and innovations incorporated into one project European Distribution Center (Euro Hub), the European Instrument Center inform the next. In 2019, we finished construction on two new buildings and Terso Europe. The building is operational, but finishing touches are in Europe and made progress on two important facilities at our headquarters still being completed. in Wisconsin. “We take pride in the details and quality... UK Branch Office Opens in Southampton, UK and in preserving nature and making sure our PEOPLE CARE In September, the employees of Promega UK moved into a new building is a place where people like to be.” 1,700m2 (18,000 ft2) building featuring wet and dry training labs, a product storage facility, office spaces and even a small gym for use by staff. During ANETTE LEUE, Digital Marketing Manager of Promega GmbH the five years of planning that went into the new building, the team focused on conserving energy and water while reducing carbon emissions. They The facility features a ground source heat exchange system for heating and COMMUNITY TOUCH included features such as ground source heating, which is cleaner and more cooling, solar photovoltaics, green roof and a small onsite lake for grey water efficient than gasor oil-powered heating. The resulting facility is built to usage. Most of the office spaces are lit by natural lighting, and there are exceed BREEAM ‘Excellent’ standards, an assessment used in the UK to plenty of green spaces inside to improve air quality. Care went into preserving certify the sustainability of buildings. In the few months it has been occupied, the environment around the building, and lumber from trees that needed this new facility has been 45% more energy efficient per cubic meter than to be removed during construction is now being used to build a bike shed, the previous facility. which the team hopes will encourage more employees to bike to work. Electric vehicle charging stations are also being added. ADDITIONAL INFO 36 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND New Research & Development Building in Madison, WI Component Manufacturig Center groundbreaking in 2019 New R&D Building in Madison, WI Inside, the space has been designed to foster creative lab and desk spaces PRODUCT REACH The new Promega Research & Development building is under active while maximizing efficiency. Wet labs are surrounded by dedicated instrument construction with the structure mostly complete. When finished, the building rooms, and all lab benches are modular. The cloverleaf shape of the building will house all R&D groups, as well as Scientific Applications & Training gives each research group its own area with plenty of space to work and PLANET AWARE and Integrated Systems & Engineering. At approximately 26,600 m2 grow. With a new cafeteria serving locally grown food, a gymnasium and (287,000 ft2) this building will house more than double the amount of lab a sound therapy studio, the building balances efficient workspaces with space Promega currently occupies. plenty of areas for employees to recharge. The new R&D building is projected to use 60% less energy per square foot Component Manufacturing Center in Madison, WI than the existing R&D Center. The thermal slab will provide heating and When the Component Manufacturing Center opens in 2021, it will house cooling from a ground source heat exchange system, saving energy. Additionally, newly developed product manufacturing lines in a 14,600 m2 (158,000 ft2) PEOPLE CARE the whole perimeter of the building will be wrapped in a double-walled facility only a few miles from the Promega global headquarters. This facility facade, consisting of an interior concrete wall and an exterior brick wall, will complement existing manufacturing capacities in Madison and California separated by three feet of air space. The result is like a Thermos of coffee— by supplying small-molecule components for use in other manufacturing the space between the two walls creates a buffer to absorb some of the heat processes. that would otherwise be gained or lost to the environment. The glass panes COMMUNITY TOUCH in both walls can also be opened when weather permits, which will provide The groundbreaking ceremony took place in June 2019 and construction natural ventilation and further alleviate the energy requirements of temperature is well underway. The building is scheduled for completion in the second control. A water reclamation system is also expected to save over 1,000,000 quarter of 2021. gallons annually. ADDITIONAL INFO 37 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Helix carbon offsets support the Blandin Improved Forest Management Project PRODUCT REACH Tracking and Reducing Effects from Product Distribution We look for ways to reduce air emission from outgoing product distribution Distribution Emissions with continuous focus on decreasing the size and weight of packaging Tons of CO2 Per Million USD materials. This approach, combined with using efficient modes of transportation, reduces emissions and maintains our quick and safe 21.1 20.3 20.0 19.8 PLANET AWARE service. As a result, we have seen a 26% reduction in distribution 19.3 18.9 emissions as indexed to revenue in the last 10 years. Over the last few years, we have transitioned to smaller shipping boxes and made packaging improvements that minimize weight, optimize dry and gel ice requirements and use more sustainable materials. PEOPLE CARE To understand the indirect emissions from outgoing shipments, data was collected from Promega-owned global distribution hubs on weight, distance and mode of transportation. Ambient Shipping Initiative COMMUNITY TOUCH In the last year, Promega launched the ‘Ship Ambient Project’ to transition select product lines that currently ship on dry or gel ice to room temperature or ‘ambient’ shipping. Rigorous testing of DNA molecular weight markers shipped at room temperature showed no changes to 2015 2019 2020 product performance. The first phase of this project launched in early Goal ADDITIONAL INFO 38 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Helix carbon offsets support the Blandin Improved Forest Management Project PRODUCT REACH 2019 and saved 12,700 kg of dry ice, avoided 32 metric tons of carbon Since 2010, the Helix® program has offset nearly 7,000 tons of carbon dioxide and eliminated the need for more than 3,000 EPS coolers. We dioxide, equivalent to the emissions from 160,000 barrels of oil. To see are currently analyzing additional product lines for this transition to more information and learn how to participate, please visit: further reduce carbon emissions and minimize waste. promega.com/helix PLANET AWARE Net Zero Emissions from our Helix® On-Site Stocking System Our state-of-the-art, on-site inventory management system called Helix further reduces emissions through precise consolidated restocking shipments. The Helix® program uses RFID technology that tracks product use in real time, and results in more efficient shipping. This automated inventory management system ensures that customers have uninterrupted access to supplies while reducing the effect on our planet. PEOPLE CARE In addition, Promega purchases carbon credits to offset all greenhouse gas emissions from the Helix® program, including energy usage and distribution of units and product stocking. In 2019, Helix® on-site stocking offset 650 tons of emissions worldwide by supporting the COMMUNITY TOUCH following projects: • Blandin Improved Forest Management Project in Minnesota, United States Promega UK Helix Awards go to accounts that reduced impacts from product distribution the most by partnering with Helix. • Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve REDD+ in Indonesia ADDITIONAL INFO 39 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH Promega employee Frank Fan takes advantage of the opportunity to charge his new electric vehicle at work. PLANET AWARE Minimizing Effects from Business Travel In the last year, we saw a 15% reduction in emissions from business wired the structure to be able to add additional chargers in the future. travel thanks to increased adoption of carbon offsets. Business travel via Charging stations are also available at Promega Benelux, Promega AG air, automobile and rail comprise approximately 10% of our current and Promega Biosciences in California. carbon footprint. As we look to the future, we recognize that use of PEOPLE CARE public transit and alternatively fueled vehicles will be key in helping us reduce carbon emissions while staying connected. “Workplace electric vehicle charging is very consistent with our corporate culture and sustainability values... In a survey completed last year, fifty-six percent of respondents at our ...We encourage employees to have that mindset at Promega campus said they would consider an electric vehicle (EV) for work and at home. We support employees who choose COMMUNITY TOUCH their next vehicle purchase, and nearly half of respondents said they EVs by having chargers available here for them to use.” would be more likely to lease or purchase when Promega installs more charging stations. Since that survey, we renovated the parking garage at DAN MOTL our Promega campus, significantly expanding our electric vehicle chargers. Promega Senior Director of Facilities We are currently able to power 34 vehicles simultaneously and have ADDITIONAL INFO 40 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH The Promega North American branch offset air travel in 2019 by protecting rainforests in Brazil through the Acre Amazonian Rainforest REDD+ PLANET AWARE Business Travel Carbon offsets are another strategy used to mitigate emissions from Carbon Footprint Tons of CO2 Per Million USD unavoidable travel. Since 2009 we have offset over 3,000 tons of CO2 from automobile travel in North America through the Emkay GoGreen 9.1 9.1 9.0 9.3 8.7 program. Our North American branch also elected to offset emissions PEOPLE CARE from air travel with over 550 tons offset in 2019 supporting reforestation efforts in the Amazon. Alternative Transportation Alternative transportation programs have been implemented by a number COMMUNITY TOUCH of locations worldwide to reduce environmental effects. Employees are encouraged to use public transportation, ridesharing or biking to work. All buildings at Promega Madison and Promega Biosciences in California offer bicycles for employees to use, as well as resources to support cyclists, including access to pumps and bike repair kits. Many locations worldwide have similar programs in place. 2015 2019 ADDITIONAL INFO 41 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRESERVING NATURAL CAPITAL Hazardous Waste Kilograms Per Million USD “Working with the Sustainability Team adds another 262.0 277.2 289.0 246.7 284.1 dimension to my job and highlights an additional 16.8 15.1 59.0 PRODUCT REACH way that Promega helps to create a better world. My 83.8 101.8 105.1 62.8 137.8 experience with sustainability generates value that 69.2 goes beyond just my interactions at work.” 161.4 160.3 114.8 58.9 162.3 49.9 EMMANUELLE KILLIAN-MARTEL 2015 2019 Genomic Product Manager, Promega France Recycled Treated Incinerated PLANET AWARE Minimizing Waste To reduce waste, Promega locations globally focus on avoiding single-use and difficult-to-recycle materials, enhance recycling programs and increase employee awareness of what is recyclable. This has included Non-Hazardous Waste segregating materials for recycling, composting and encouraging reuse Cubic Meters Per Million USD PEOPLE CARE by providing reusable materials in cafeterias and kitchenettes. Employees embrace the mantra “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” and have championed 30.5 32.4 35.3 36.6 32.6 this effort. In 2019, we saw recycling levels increase by 2% and landfilled 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 waste continue to decrease due to the following efforts: 14.7 16.3 20.1 20.9 19.3 COMMUNITY TOUCH • The recycling of nitrile gloves and protective garments has been one 15.2 15.7 14.8 15.2 13.0 14.2 of our most successful programs to date. In partnership with Kimberly-Clark Professionals Rightcycle Program, we diverted 4.2 2015 2019 2020 metric tons (over 8,500 pounds) of personal protective equipment Goal from landfills in Wisconsin and California. Promega was again Landfilled Recycled Incinerated recognized with the Chelsea Santucci Greenovation Award in 2019. ADDITIONAL INFO 42 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND In kit packaging we are moving away from plastic bags and use PRODUCT REACH divider boxes. This helps to eliminate at least 50 bags per day. Our annual recycling drive for Earth Day collected over 5 tons of material. PLANET AWARE P  romega locations globally have made concerted efforts to • Facilities in Madison, WI, and San Luis Obispo, CA, feature reduce plastic consumption by switching to glass cups and employee-managed composting programs to divert organic waste other reusable materials instead of plastic. The Promega campus in and support our employees’ passions for gardening. Wisconsin as well as offices in California, Switzerland, France, PEOPLE CARE Germany and the UK are just some of the locations to recently ban • Over 140 employees participated in the annual electronics recycling single-use materials. When reusable materials are prohibitive we drive at our Promega Earth Day celebration. The drive set a record use plant-based and recyclable materials. by collecting over 12,481 pounds or 5,661 kg of materials. • Segregating plastic shrink wrap, banding and bottles for recycling Managing Hazardous and Infectious Waste COMMUNITY TOUCH from our shipping and dispensing areas across the Promega campus In the biotech industry, manufacturing processes can require use of allowed us to recycle over 17 tons of plastic in the last year. potentially hazardous substances, along with the obligation to minimize waste and ensure its proper disposal. Promega looks to use vendors that • The Sustainability Committee at our Promega campus held recycling can help us reuse and recycle waste. lunch ’n’ learns, coordinated removal of plastic cups from watercoolers and piloted bokashi composting to help minimize waste going to landfills from a Sustain Dane Summit hosted at Promega. ADDITIONAL INFO 43 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND “Company-wide, around the world, we’re continually looking for ways to reduce the environmental impacts of everything we do. Every improvement is shared, PRODUCT REACH celebrated, and motivates us to keep looking for better ways of doing things.” GHISLAINE SAMWAYS, General Manager, Promega Australia PLANET AWARE Conserving Water Water Usage In the last year, gross water usage decreased by over 7.5 million liters or 2 million gallons. Since 2015, water usage has been reduced by 27% as Thousands of Liters Per Million USD indexed to revenue. Promega evaluates initiatives to conserve water in manufacturing, landscaping and other everyday needs. Notable reductions were seen at the Feynman Center in Madison, WI, as a result of a project PEOPLE CARE to reuse wastewater generated from our water purification system. This project alone saves over 1 million gallons or 3.7 million liters annually. 342 334 307 283 250 291 Many global locations incorporate design features to conserve and ensure proper disposal of water. Offices in Sydney, Australia, collect rainwater COMMUNITY TOUCH for cleaning, flushing toilets and irrigating plants. Similarly, the Madison2015 2019 2020 based global headquarters uses rainwater collection and rain gardens for Goal natural filtration. Promega Biosciences in San Luis Obispo, CA, has a long history of water conservation projects and a custom-designed water recirculating system for distilled water. In the last ten years, gross water usage has decreased by over 50% at our San Luis Obispo facility despite a significant increase in headcount and manufacturing levels. ADDITIONAL INFO 44 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH Promega has implemented new kit packaging boxes that use sustainably sourced materials, reduce material used, and promote recycling for customers. Last year, Promega was recognized with the Graphic Design USA Award for Sustainable Packaging for these new kit boxes. To reduce the environmental effects of packaging, Promega has also: PLANET AWARE • Switched to smaller shipping boxes to use less packaging materials. • Incorporated new materials that provide better insulation and reduce the amount of dry ice needed. • Implemented self-adhesive shipping boxes at our European logistics PEOPLE CARE hub in Waldorf, Germany, that will avoid over 2,800 meters of tape The new Promega kit packaging design was chosen as a winner in the 2019 Graphic Design USA Package Design Award in the each year. Sustainable Packaging Category. • Implemented packaging designs that minimize air space while also reducing dry ice usage and shipment weight. Reducing Packaging Materials COMMUNITY TOUCH Many Promega products are temperature-sensitive, creating unique • Changed to unbleached shipping boxes that contain sustainably requirements in packaging that involve use of dry ice, gel ice and foam harvested materials. coolers. We continually evaluate the effect of packaging on the environment, and search for innovative ways to reduce packaging, use environmentally Promega is supporting and reporting progress toward the friendly materials, and design for recycling or reuse. Environmental Australian Packaging Covenant Organization’s goal of preventing sustainability, product protection and quality are all key priorities. packaging materials from ending up in the landfill by 2025. ADDITIONAL INFO 45 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH People Care ADDITIONAL INFO Employees celebrate the opening of 46 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 2019 the new Promega UK facility in 2019. INTRODUCTION Promega is so much more than a place to work. It is a CORPORATE MIND family where we all support each other to be our best selves. We are blessed with a culture of giving and going the extra mile just because it’s the right PRODUCT REACH thing to do. Promega provides the opportunity to create a different way of working and being. DARBIE MILLER PLANET AWARE Director, HR Organizational Development PEOPLE CARE People Care Promega provides the opportunity and space for employees to grow as individuals and professionals. Our culture nurtures creativity, prioritizes emotional and physical well-being, and emphasizes self-actualization. COMMUNITY TOUCH Employees are given flexibility in how they work, and we acknowledge the individual differences of each employee. Our 19 worldwide locations provide support in ways that meet the specific needs of each region and encourage employees to achieve a balance of work-home integration. We live the notion that every one of our employees has the potential to make a meaningful difference. And they do. ADDITIONAL INFO 47 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND The team at the Promega Europe Training and Application Lab (PETAL) enjoys some bowling. Promega employees in the field. NURTURING EMPLOYEE CREATIVITY, GROWTH 2. Believing that both people and companies can self-actualize, and PRODUCT REACH AND SELF-ACTUALIZATION that growth at either level lifts the other into realizing their greater potential. Feeling fulfilled is crucial to our development as humans, and realizing PLANET AWARE our personal potential means we grow and strive to achieve our true 3. Structuring a culture that reinforces the idea that all stakeholders capabilities. As a company, Promega provides a work environment and (customers, employees, community and shareholders) can find culture that offers each employee the opportunity for individual growth and transformation through: development and to build meaningful relationships with one another. a. Organizational reporting that provides for easy collaborative The Promega Culture communication across and at all levels of the organization. The psychology of the organization—our “cultural DNA”—provides a PEOPLE CARE foundation through which company principles and operations are shaped. b. Decision-making that is shared among the group, not controlled, For us, these principles include: and the organization remains nimble because people in key nodes are empowered to act, having considered all voices. 1. Nurturing creativity, self-discovery and individual growth, creating an environment where the unique contributions of each employee c. P hysical work environments, including design, lighting, COMMUNITY TOUCH are embraced. communication systems and access to information. ADDITIONAL INFO 48 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Promega BioSystems in Korea visited Jeju Island to celebrate its anniversary and the production of over 500 Maxwell® Instruments last year. Teams stayed active by surfing, paddle boarding, fishing and horseback riding. d. Resources that employees need to do their best work. PRODUCT REACH 2019 Climate Survey Top Ten e. A financial structure that supports organizational goals and Question Positive values for personal development. Economic metrics provide I work with great people. 99% PLANET AWARE guidance on sustainable business practices but are not the only drivers for business decisions. I’m proud to work for Promega. 98% f. Selection and support of employees entering the organization I have a reasonable work schedule. 97% who reflect our values. Promega has an overall good reputation in 96% the community. 4. Contributing to life science research and related discoveries have PEOPLE CARE been and will continue to be important to society and human I have the tools and resources to do my job. 96% development by designing and supplying products, systems and I have an intimidation-free and harassment96% services that simplify this research and give more reliable and free workplace. accurate results. I work in a collaborative environment. 95% COMMUNITY TOUCH We seek employee feedback in annual climate surveys and monthly I’d recommend Promega to my friends. 95% employee sessions to understand employee happiness and engagement. My manager is approachable. 94% Feedback from the survey in 2018 highlighted that employees feel they work in a collaborative environment, are proud to work at Promega, I have a boss with high integrity. 94% enjoy the people they work with, and find their work to be meaningful. ADDITIONAL INFO 49 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Creating Workspaces to Inspire As a business based on creative output and employee satisfaction, Promega prioritizes environmental quality and stimulating experiences in the workplace. Invigorating spaces come both in the design and variety of space offerings. Key components of workspaces include abundant light (natural light whenever possible), a variety of art and comfortable, warm PRODUCT REACH furniture. The variety of spaces gives employees the opportunity to work in a creative “third space,” exercise, meditate or grab a bite to eat. Throughout Promega, there are opportunities to discover stories, history and whimsy. Employees are engaged in the design of new space and the renovation PLANET AWARE of existing workspaces to improve functionality, ergonomics and foster group collaboration. This process considers all aspects of a space, including types and quality of lighting, sound levels and air flow. Additionally, customizable workspaces for employees encourage collaboration. Architecture and design that “brings the outdoors in” encourages an appreciation of natural beauty. For example, our new facility in Germany PEOPLE CARE incorporates an extensive array of indoor plants and trees to add life and warmth. Locations globally use local resources, art and culture to provide comfortable, functional and unique work environments. Our priority is to create environments with an attention to detail that is inspiring, flexible and aligned with the needs of employees. COMMUNITY TOUCH Our priority is to create environments with an attention to detail that is inspiring, flexible and aligned with the needs of employees. Creative workspaces invigorate and inspire employees. ADDITIONAL INFO 50 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Cultivating Emotional and Social Intelligence (ESI) To foster a supportive and dynamic work environment, Promega embraces the principles of emotional and social intelligence (ESI). ESI helps employees improve relationships, manage stress and enhance connections. The components of the ESI program include 1:1 and group coaching, daily guided meditations, formal trainings and company-wide initiatives. PRODUCT REACH Beyond strengthening our ESI skills, these programs bring employees together in ways that are both professional and personal, thereby strengthening our community. To date, over 200 employees have attended our flagship program, the ESI Bootcamp. The ESI Bootcamp is an immersive experience that gives PLANET AWARE participants the time, space and support to focus deeply on learning and integrating the building blocks of ESI. Promega KK actions to support employees on their ESI journey As the number of employees actively participating in ESI activities grows, included scratch art cards and ‘body scan’ meditations. we have continued to expand and deepen our programs with the fundamental goals of seeding and anchoring ESI widely throughout the business. A first cohort of Promega employees has now engaged in a job “I am participating in the most rewarding and exciting project of my PEOPLE CARE enrichment, train-the-trainer program called the Advanced Practitioner career—embedding Emotional and Social Intelligence (ESI) deeply and Training (APT), which makes ESI a formal part of the APT graduate’s broadly throughout Promega. The tremendous leadership support; the role. Through dedicated Communities of Practice, these employees unparalleled enthusiasm of the entire Promega team; and the capacity of refine and share best practices and come to serve as listeners and advisors an open and resilient organization to learn and integrate new ideas quickly, to each other on journeys of personal and professional growth. We have yet still with heart, has produced a culture that can stand as a role model COMMUNITY TOUCH also engaged Promega employees to act as ESI Teaching Assistants who for businesses everywhere.” are first tasked with deepening their own understanding of the topics they will teach. In so doing, their ESI Building Blocks courses come Tim Weitzel alive with personal stories, making ESI more real and tangible to fellow ESI Architect employees. People from all walks of Promega life report that our shared ESI language allows us to connect and evolve in response to challenges in ways that are more satisfying and effective. ADDITIONAL INFO 51 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH Employees at Promega KK in Toyko connect and The team at Promega Biotech Ibérica in cultivate their emotional and social intelligence skills. Spain take part in leadership training. PLANET AWARE PROVIDING PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT Leadership Training and Employee Development AND GROWTH FOR EMPLOYEES Professional development programs like Coaching for Leaders, Leadership Forum, Transformational Leadership, Leadership Conversations Promega takes an innovative approach to employee development that and Manager Roundtable programs support managers at all levels. PEOPLE CARE focuses on a series of conversations to recognize employee strengths and Individually targeted leadership development is available on site, or with encourage growth based on employee passions. Since growth starts from external or training partners. In addition, organizational development the inside, we have shifted from the more standard manager-driven services include talent management resources, personality and leadership review process to one that starts with the employee. More and more assessments, coaching and consulting. Initially these programs were departments use a conversational approach that facilitates individual limited to North America, but they have expanded to our branches in COMMUNITY TOUCH development plans, personalized growth goals and a listening session to Italy, Sweden, France, BNL, Spain and UK in the last year. understand what our talent needs to keep them with Promega. Employee development sessions are available for all employees and currently include Seeking & Receiving Feedback, Influencing without Authority, Conflict Management and much more. Due to overwhelming popularity, the number and diversity of programs increased in the last year. Two sessions on Coaching for Individual Contributors were added ADDITIONAL INFO 52 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH Employees have added a sticker with the Principles of ESI to the back of their badge to help remind them to ‘check in with yourself’ Training at PETAL (Promega European Training and ‘listen with empathy’ throughout the day. and Application Laboratory) in Lyon, France. PLANET AWARE in 2019 for 45 attendees and 75 people on the wait-list before the 2020 Scientific Training sessions were even advertised. These on-site programs are facilitated by The Scientific Training team designs, develops and implements Human Resources team members or external training partners. product and sales trainings for employees around the globe, which are delivered in live and virtual classrooms. Live courses are available in PEOPLE CARE Madison, WI; Lyon, France; and Singapore to address the training needs “I am so grateful for this mind-bending experience. of employees globally. These facilities also incorporate video conferencing I made “To Do” notes to myself during the progression equipment for scientists and trainers to participate from off-site locations. of the day-long event, and followed through with English Classes for Employees expanded attitudes and directed actions, built upon COMMUNITY TOUCH Our branches in Korea, Japan, and Germany offer employees the course’s concepts. I feel I’ve been changed for English lessons to improve communication across the company and the better in many wonderful ways.” with clientele. These efforts help employees access the resources they need to advance their career. KATHARINE HOFFMAN Senior Scientist in Response to Coaching for Individual Contributors ADDITIONAL INFO 53 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Promega Italia celebrating their move to a Promega Australia celebrating their 35th Our Japanese team on a trip to Hokkaido to build connections with new office space in 2019. Anniversary on the water in Sydney. their colleagues and appreciate the natural beauty of the region. PRODUCT REACH Promega AG from Switzerland visited the Aletsch Glacier, the largest glacier in the Alps, on a company outing in August 2019. PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE Colleagues at Promega France play bocce Employees across Promega let loose to ‘The Git Up’ Challenge in 2019. ball on the courts outside their office. Managers at Promega Biotec Ibérica participated in the DISC personality assessment training program to facilitate the communication process COMMUNITY TOUCH between different departments. ADDITIONAL INFO Employees at Promega headquarters who are musically inclined have joined forces to create the band 54 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY “Lead2020 REPORT Generation.” For over a decade, employees ranging from scientists, marketers, Promega Korea celebrated their 10th anniversary by visiting Namsan Hanok Village or IT specialists, and administrators have come “A Village of Traditional Houses in the Namsan Valley” to appreciate Korean history and together to share their talents. reflect on their successes. INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS AND CONNECTIONS We cultivate an environment of connection among employees so strong bonds can be nurtured and extend through the company to our families and community. From team-building activities to employees joining together to share in hobbies, strong relationships are the foundation of PRODUCT REACH what we do. Eppendorf Exchange Program For Promega’s 40th anniversary, we received a generous gift from a friend in the industry: Eppendorf. The teenage child of any Promega employee was given the opportunity to visit an Eppendorf family in another PLANET AWARE country, and in return host the Eppendorf family’s child in their home. The goal was for both children to experience another culture and build a relationship with each other. In 2019, 11 Promega children bid good-bye to their parents, hopped on a plane, and flew to Germany. There they would stay for three weeks or more with a family they’d never met. For all involved, it proved to PEOPLE CARE be a valuable and positive learning opportunity. Teenage children of Promega and Eppendorf employees spent the summer of 2019 experiencing each other’s countries and cultures. “The change in the way I view the world, a more artistic and abstract view, will serve me well in school COMMUNITY TOUCH and life as I move forward. Before I took this trip, I was told that it would change my life. I never realized how true that would be.” EPPENDORF EXCHANGE PARTICIPANT ADDITIONAL INFO 55 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION PROMEGA WELLNESS BY THE NUMBERS: 2019 CORPORATE MIND 774 381 1,600 1,674 FUN RUN REGISTRANTS KNOW YOUR NUMBERS PRODUCT REACH PARTICIPANTS PHYSICAL THERAPY APPOINTMENTS PLANET AWARE WELLNESS CENTER VISITS 20 FITNESS CLASSES/WEEK 768 530 FLU VACCINES ADMINISTERED 4 PEOPLE CARE 142 NUTRITIONAL AND MENTAL NEW YOGA INSTRUCTORS COMMUNITY TOUCH HEALTH COUNSELING ADDED IN 2018 SESSIONS ADDED IN 2019 8 WITH A TOTAL OF ACUPUNCTURE APPOINTMENTS 290 EMPLOYEE MASSAGES AT THE ZEN ZONE 250+ WELLNESS FAIR ATTENDEES YOGIS ADDITIONAL INFO 56 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION Biopathways CORPORATE MIND A new event, called Biopathways, was offered for junior-high and high school children of Promega employees in 2019. This was our take on “Bring your child to work day,” allowing children the chance to learn PRODUCT REACH about their parent’s company and expose them to the multitude of careers revolving around science. We want the future generation to be excited about what they can do in this industry and give them insights that can proactively help them turn an “undecided” degree into something they are sure of. PRIORITIZING EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING PLANET AWARE Promega takes a multifaceted approach toward employee well-being. Physical health and wellness start with safety but expand to include fitness and health care facilities, wellness programs and benefits packages. Employee Safety PEOPLE CARE Employee health and safety is a high priority. Environmental Health and “Emmy has been instrumental in helping me transform my life Safety programs are committed to establishing, maintaining and improving and get healthy. I started working with her last February… She work environments for the safety and well-being of our employees as well recommended a new diet for me, helped educate me on what as the communities in which we operate. to eat, what to avoid, and how to balance it. And, she helped motivate me to start exercising regularly, and the right way. Resources and Benefits That Support Employee Wellness COMMUNITY TOUCH Since working with her I’ve lost 30 pounds and have gotten my Promega employees are offered comprehensive benefit packages based on bio numbers back on track. Her expertise, along with Promega’s country standards. These programs typically include medical, dental and great workout facilities, have given me the opportunity and vision coverage as well as a competitive 401(k) plan and flexible spending motivation to get healthy.” accounts for health care. Shortand long-term disability insurance, life insurance, tuition assistance and paid time off are also provided to ensure — Michael Bjerke, Sr. Product Manager, Promega the well-being of our employees and their families. ADDITIONAL INFO 57 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Wellness Center Offerings Encouraging Active Lifestyles The Wellness Center located at our Madison, WI, headquarters provides A multitude of options are made available to employees so that they all employees on-site health consultations and counseling, which is may develop healthy and active lifestyles supported by Promega at our available five days a week. Services include routine blood draws, travel headquarters and across the globe. Many locations offer on-site fitness and routine immunizations, consultations for general health concerns, facilities, yoga classes and group fitness instruction. Some branches also physical examinations and physical therapy. In 2019, Promega added a offer reimbursement for health club memberships and support for PRODUCT REACH licensed professional counselor and a registered dietician to the Wellness participation in sports or competitive events like marathons or triathlons. Center Staff, offering free consultations to all employees. Counseling services can help a variety of needs like anxiety, depression, nutrition or navigating career and workplace challenges. Health Assessments with ‘Know Your Numbers’ PLANET AWARE Each year Promega employees are encouraged to participate in the Know Your Numbers program, which provides a free basic health screening for those interested in participating. Employees obtain a finger-stick test and meet with our Nurse Practitioner the same day to review their results. Promega received a Health Transformation Award from The Alliance in This program is offered every year and aims to help employees understand recognition of our Caregiver Leave as a progressive benefit offering in 2019. what health risks they might face. These diagnostic indicators can help employees formulate a plan around lifestyle changes they can make to Promega C25k PEOPLE CARE prevent or delay the onset of certain diseases such as diabetes and heart Each year Promega challenges employees to train for the annual Couch disease. In 2019, 774 employees participated in this program. to 5k program, which provides new runners the education and training support to complete a 5k race. Supporting Employees During Times of Need Caregiver Leave was made available to Promega employees in the US “I am grateful to work for Promega because the way of COMMUNITY TOUCH for the last few years. Employees can use two weeks of paid time to care for aging parents, ill spouses, children with medical needs, or time off thinking is different, and my experiences have made to bond with a newborn or newly adopted child without sacrificing their me a stronger, more relaxed and empathic person.” own paid sick leave or vacation. Nearly two hundred employees have used this program since it was offered. NICOLAS SCHAFER Clerk Export & Spoke Support, Promega Euro Hub ADDITIONAL INFO 58 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Promega Annual Fun Run/Walk 5k The 10th Annual Promega 5k Fun Run/Walk encourages employees to 1 2 stay active and collects donations for the local food bank. In 2019, the team collected 565 pounds in addition to monetary donations. Eating Well, Living Well PRODUCT REACH Employees have access to fresh and local produce from our on-site culinary garden at the Madison, WI, location. Thousands of pounds of produce are harvested annually from the garden and, in conjunction with over three dozen local farms, are used to create healthy and organic menus across the campus. Employees may also select their own plots within an on-site community garden so they can exercise their own 3 4 PLANET AWARE green thumbs. An additional way Promega supports employees is with take-home meals provided by the culinary team at Promega. 1. Employees at Promega Biosciences in California played dodgeball as part of a fundraiser for Big Brothers and Big Sisters. 2. Employees from Promega Shanghai took part in a cycling event to encourage employees to bike more. Seven employees participated with three in the team competition group winning third place. PEOPLE CARE 3. Employees at Promega Biotech Ibérica participate in sporting events like Carrera Internacional de la Ciencia to support the scientific community and stay active. 4. The culinary team at Promega uses fresh and local produce from the culinary garden and local farms to create healthy and organic menus. 5. Employees from Promega Italia participated in Wanderlust, dubbed ‘the 5 6 world’s only mindful triathlon’ featuring a 5k run, 75 minutes of yoga and a COMMUNITY TOUCH 25-minute guided meditation in an outdoor setting. This gathering looks to spread love, peace, and compassion. 6. Employees at Promega Singapore participate in the Annual Fun Run. 7. The team at Promega India participated in Airtel Delhi Half Marathon to stay active and help raise funds for charitable work in India. Over 40,000 people participated and raised the equivalent of 65 million USD. 8. Our team at Promega France has added honeybee hives at their office in Lyon to help safeguard the bee population and educate employees on how to maintain a hive. An added benefit has been the ability to harvest fresh honey for employees. ADDITIONAL INFO 59 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 7 8 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH Community Touch ADDITIONAL INFO Promega was a Gold Sponsor for the Wisconsin Science Festival interacting with thousands of children on school 60 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 field trips about the science of bioluminescence. INTRODUCTION I am amazed by the open hearts of the people at CORPORATE MIND Promega. They have a genuine desire to make a difference in communities around the world by educating and inspiring young minds, volunteering their time, and donating to PRODUCT REACH causes they are passionate about. There is an innate awareness that we all rise by lifting others up. STEPHANIE SHEA PLANET AWARE Employee Giving Coordinator Community Touch In communities across the globe, Promega employees find meaningful PEOPLE CARE ways to make a difference. They connect directly with their local communities to identify volunteer and philanthropic opportunities, empowering them to work with organizations they care about. After all, they are most familiar with the unique needs of their own communities and the most effective approaches to address those needs. They seek to COMMUNITY TOUCH better the world in the distinctive ways that match their unique skills and bring meaning to their lives. Promega celebrates this passion and supports a culture that catalyzes employee involvement through policies such as volunteer time-off and matching gifts. ADDITIONAL INFO 61 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH Promega Corporation and branches in Spain, Singapore, France, Switzerland, Germany and the Netherlands support the International Genetically Engineered Machines (iGEM) competition. Learn more about this and other efforts to give back in the Community Touch section. PLANET AWARE There is an overall sensibility that not only encourages but actively backs of synthetic biology as multidisciplinary teams of high school and the unlimited potential of employees who put action behind ideas for university students from around the world design, build, test and measure how they, their team, or the company as a whole, can engage meaningfully a system of their own creation using interchangeable biological parts in the world. On a global scale, each branch and manufacturing location and standard molecular biology techniques. has the autonomy to focus on the unique needs of its community through an integrative and authentic approach to provide support at a local level. In addition to sponsoring the iGEM Foundation, Promega awarded $2,000 in reagent sponsorships to ten international teams competing PEOPLE CARE On a broader scale, Promega continues a level of corporate giving that in the 2019 iGEM competition. Promega branches and distributors in contributes to the advancement of science for improving life in the Spain, Singapore, Germany, Japan, Israel, France, Switzerland, North global community. Our giving is inspired by the components that fuel America and the Netherlands sponsored additional teams. Promega also this advance, which includes science, education, and creativity. provided technical support and three iGEM-exclusive webinars to all iGEM teams globally in 2019. COMMUNITY TOUCH SUPPORTING SCIENCE AROUND THE WORLD to change the world for the better The nonprofit Revive & Restore Catalyst Science Fund identifies and develops advanced techniques for genetic rescue and brings new In 2019, Promega continued to support students participating tools to conservation work benefiting endangered species and threatened in the International Genetically Engineered Machines (iGEM) ecosystems. Promega launched the fund in 2018 with a 3-year pledge competition as a Partner Sponsor of the iGEM Foundation. This annual of $1 million annually. Designed to hasten impactful innovations in competition encourages education, collaboration and the advancement conservation that enhance biodiversity, the fund supports early-stage, ADDITIONAL INFO 62 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND transformative bioscience research and proof-of-concept projects that can be applied to a variety of high-value, high-impact conservation challenges. A key barrier to the adoption of genomic solutions by the conservation community is the lack of success stories. The Catalyst Science Fund aims to support the work that results in these innovative scientific solutions. PRODUCT REACH The Catalyst Science Fund, managed by Revive & Restore and supported In 2019, the Catalyst Science Fund grew from one project the year before by a $3M contribution from Promega, funds projects that are using to eight projects. Areas of focus include Genomic Insight, Synthetic cutting-edge biotechnology and genetic tools to rescue endangered Alternatives, Restoring Diversity, Facilitated Adaptation, and De-extinction. species. One of the first grants from this fund was awarded to the lab of While most projects are focused on a single species, the purpose of each Dr. George Church at Harvard University for its project to synthesize the project is to catalyze biotechnology developments that will be useful genome of a strain of Elephant Endotheliotropic Herpesvirus (EEHV). PLANET AWARE across species and applications. Learn more at: reviverestore.org EEHV can be fatal to young Asian elephants, a vulnerable species The Marine Biological Laboratory (MBL), founded in Woods Hole, declining in population. The virus causes rapid onset, often fatal Massachusetts, in 1888, is one of the largest nonprofit biological hemorrhagic disease and is even known to thwart breeding programs in laboratories in the world and is an affiliate of the University of Chicago. zoos. In fact, some estimates suggest that EEHV is the cause of death for MBL attracts a diverse population of over 500 trainees from more than at least 25% of Asian elephants. 300 institutions and over 30 countries. Course directors and faculty are PEOPLE CARE leaders in their fields, drawn globally from leading universities and Research on EEHV has struggled because existing methods for culturing research institutions. The Promega Discovery Fund, established in 2013, viruses have not worked with EEHV. The inability to study the virus to supports the MBL Education Department in offering highly competitive, understand how it interacts with its host hampers efforts to pursue discovery-based courses and research programs, as well as providing tools possible vaccine strategies or screen for effective antiviral compounds. and technologies. Promega scientists also work on-site to assist students COMMUNITY TOUCH during summer courses. Promega provides additional monetary support George Church, an American geneticist, molecular engineer, and chemist, for the MBL Director’s Vision Implementation Fund to ensure the is widely recognized for his innovative contributions to genomic science. institute’s future growth. Learn more at: MBL.edu The Church Lab plans to synthesize the genome of the virus and transfect it into cultured elephant cells. If the cultured cells successfully produce EEHV viral particles using the synthetic genome, then the system can be used to propagate EEHV and help researchers find more effective methods for treating and preventing the infection in Asian elephants. ADDITIONAL INFO 63 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND who are undertaking an international internship aimed at using science to improve the quality of life in the world. Students from all scientific fields are eligible but preference is given to those whose internships use molecular biology techniques. Students must be based in a country other than their own and cannot be in a country where the recipient has already spent significant time. The scholarship is awarded annually PRODUCT REACH to four students. Established in 2013, the Promega Award for Biochemistry recognizes important collaborations in the study of stem cells by innovative researchers in China. Promega grants the award annually in partnership with the Chinese Society of Biochemistry and Molecular PLANET AWARE Biology (CSBMB). Two researchers were honored in 2019, Dr. Guanghui Liu from The Institute of Zoology at The Chinese Academy of Sciences, and Dr. Haitao Li from Tsinghua University School of Medicine. Dr. Haitao Li (left) and Dr. Guanghui Liu (right) received The Promega Award for Biochemistry, given to innovative researchers in China. Our Australian branch supports the Lorne Genome Conference each year with a student prize, which is awarded to a delegate In 2019, Promega Spain won the iGEM Voluntades award enrolled in a post-graduate or undergraduate degree who, as first author, PEOPLE CARE given for our commitment to mentoring young scientists. Our submits the best abstract for oral presentation. Over the years, the branch in Spain supported an innovative group of students who meeting organizers have consistently placed great importance on coordinated a research project that demonstrated the close relationship accessibility to students by offering several free student registrations between the start of metastasis (malignant growths) and palmitic acid when the supervisor registers, as well as making student travel awards (a common fatty acid found in animals). The iGEM team was awarded available. COMMUNITY TOUCH with VIP access to Promega Spain’s technical services department, products that were free of charge to conduct the experiments needed, Celebrating its 40th year in 2019, the International Symposium on and a visit to the Promega Spain office to receive training and professional Human Identification (ISHI) has grown into the world’s largest development on the latest molecular biology topics and technologies. conference focused on technologies, policies and innovations in forensic DNA analysis for human identification. The annual meeting, launched The Promega International Scientific Internship Scholarship and sponsored by Promega, draws 1,000 scientists, DNA analysts, law supports undergraduate students at the University of Wisconsin-Madison enforcement professionals, and legal and ethical experts from 40+ ADDITIONAL INFO 64 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH Programme Jeunes Chercheurs created by Promega PLANET AWARE France supports young researchers using Promega technology for innovative applications PEOPLE CARE countries to share knowledge through interactive workshops, presentations, at UW-Madison, interacting with thousands of children on school field case studies and scientific poster sessions. Many labs and industry trips about the science of bioluminescence. agencies count hours attended towards continuing education requirements. ISHI is an inclusive forum open to all practitioners and suppliers of Programme Jeunes Chercheurs or Young Researchers Program DNA analysis for human identification. Learn more at: ishinews.com is a competition offered by Promega France that rewards the COMMUNITY TOUCH best scientific articles that discuss using Promega technology and The Wisconsin Science Festival is a four-day statewide celebration highlight an innovative application. The winner gets a trip to the United that connects people of all ages with science, technology, engineering, States for a conference and a visit to Promega Headquarters to meet art and math. Events at hundreds of venues across Wisconsin include with the R&D team. The winner this year was Gayetri Ramachandran hands-on science exhibitions, demonstrations, workshops, speakers and from the Imagine Institute Paris. more. Promega was one of four Gold Sponsors for the 2019 “Curiosity Unleashed” Festival and participated in the two-day Discovery Expo ADDITIONAL INFO 65 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND An entry in the Cool Science Image Contest depicts the complexity of a single PRODUCT REACH grain of corn. The germ—the living base of a kernel where the plant’s genetic information resides, pictured here—includes the coleoptile, a sheath that protects. PLANET AWARE Technical Services Scientists from Promega Madison regularly visit Is it science? Is it art? Yes. The Cool Science Image Contest, sponsored local elementary and middle school classrooms to provide students with by Promega, acknowledges that images from microscopes, satellites, hands-on experience in molecular biology. In 2019, Promega scientists telescopes and other technologies are informative and can also be true visited 53 classrooms in 16 Madison and surrounding area schools, works of art. The annual competition challenges students, staff and where they helped 1,153 students extract DNA from strawberries. faculty at the University of Wisconsin-Madison to capture and share compelling science images. Winning artwork is showcased at Promega PEOPLE CARE The Promega Training Support Program gives instructors who teach headquarters, the Wisconsin Science Festival, and UW-Madison web courses using DNA, RNA, protein or cell-based techniques at the high sites and communications. school, undergraduate and graduate levels the opportunity to receive up to $2,000 in Promega products to supplement their classes. For more information, visit: promega.com/training-support “The Cool Science Image Contest, sponsored COMMUNITY TOUCH by Promega, acknowledges that images from Scientists at Promega GmbH sponsor the BlueGenes Project microscopes, satellites, telescopes and other that provides middle school students an early microbiology experience. Two basic molecular biology experiments can be completed technologies are informative and can also be with limited reagents and lab materials that the branch provides at a true works of art.” discount. Twelve schools participated in the project in 2019. ADDITIONAL INFO 66 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH Since 2016, Promega has organized the Beijing Bioassay Forum, which is part of the highly influential Chinese Pharmaceutical Association’s Forum on Biopharmaceutical Characterization and Quality Control. Promega is one of the key contributors and organizers. PLANET AWARE In 2019, Promega Italy continued to refine an innovative initiative Promega Biotech Ibérica has partnered with the Universidad to support and connect with customers in meaningful ways. Autonoma de Madrid to offer a Career Orientation to help For the last three years, the Italy branch has facilitated a two-day course young scientists identify and prepare for career paths in biology. This with Human Resources facilitators from Promega Madison leading program included practical courses in Biotechnological Applications management training sessions that focus on leadership conversations, with our latest luminescent technologies. as well as identifying strengths, motivators and challenges in oneself PEOPLE CARE and team members. New this year, participants from multiple customers Promega India collaborated with Forensic Science Laboratory were invited to partake and share learning by having multiple viewpoints Delhi to host the Forensic DNA Profiling Workshop as part represented. of a skill development program. This workshop provided leadership tools to advance forensic science, foster interdisciplinary research, embrace “The effort, craftsmanship and knowledge which I experienced was artfully new technology, nurture young minds and encourage collaboration in COMMUNITY TOUCH delivered upon us in the training session. I received tools to become a better the scientific community. person and professional.” —MANAGEMENT TRAINING SESSION PARTICIPANT ADDITIONAL INFO 67 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND COMMITTING TO CORNERSTONE INITIATIVES maintaining long-term, deep-rooted ties for meaningful outcomes The BioPharmaceutical Technology Center Institute (BTC Institute) is a not-for-profit organization founded by Promega in 1993 and located on the Madison, WI, campus that provides educational, scientific and PRODUCT REACH cultural enrichment experiences. Educational programs focus on the life sciences for a wide range of learners from upper elementary students to college and graduate students, as well as career scientists in academia, industry and the general public. During the 2018–2019 academic year, approximately 3000 middle and PLANET AWARE high school students participated in the BTC Institute’s Biotechnology Field Trips program. Students and their teachers either visited BTC Institute labs for hands-on, molecular biology-based education or were served by an onthe-road program that brings BTC Institute teachers and lab activities directly to classrooms. In addition, 28 teachers participated in two week-long summer courses designed for middle and high school teachers to facilitate integration of biotechnology topics and techniques into their own classrooms. PEOPLE CARE Teachers represented a wide range of educational settings including rural, suburban and urban. Learn more at: btci.org “I have sent a proposal to my principal about starting a Biotechnology Club in January 2020 and it has been approved. We will also be starting a unit on Earth COMMUNITY TOUCH and Space in February and I will be able to explore the NASA resources with my students. I will be happy to share how these activities will go. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to teach a subject that I knew nothing about before summer 2019.” Peju Okungbowa is a 4th grade teacher that received support from the BTC Institute to start a biotechnology club at The —PEJU OKUNGBOWA, 4th Grade Teacher, International School of IITA, Nigeria. The International School of IITA, Nigeria ADDITIONAL INFO 68 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Promega Madison employee plays on a handmade instrument Hand-dyed lab coats were created during an artist-led tie-dye PRODUCT REACH created out of materials found on campus. Part of the 2019 workshop. Over 70 employees participated and showed off their artist-led workshop initiative. creations at the 2019 Spring Art Showcase opening reception. PLANET AWARE Annually, BTC Institute hosts the International Forum on Consciousness, for after-school programming for school-age children and a gymnasium bringing together the worlds of natural and social sciences, and the for indoor large-motor activities for all enrolled children. Learn more Wisconsin Stem Cell Symposium in partnership with the UW-Madison at: woodshollow.org Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine Center. Learn more at: btci.org For many, science and art are often considered to be two different “It’s very heartening to see this level of professionalism, scientific inquiry, and worlds, but scientists know that their work requires individual artistry, concern for furthering human well-being.” and artists in many ways understand the science within their art. For PEOPLE CARE more than 20 years, Promega has hosted the Promega Art Showcase on — 2019 INTERNATIONAL FORUM ON CONSCIOUSNESS PARTICIPANT the Madison, WI, campus that attracts hundreds of community members each year. The quarterly art shows feature the work of local and international Woods Hollow Children’s Center is located on the main corporate painters, photographers, sculptors and artists in many other media. campus and serves Promega employees as well as families from surrounding Professionally curated exhibitions free and open to the public offer both COMMUNITY TOUCH communities. The nonprofit facility provides early childhood education well-established and up-and-coming artists a venue for their work and and care for children 6 weeks to 10 years old and is fully accredited by provide opportunities for Promega employees and the surrounding the National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC). community alike to explore diverse perspectives. Showcase-opening Promega founded Woods Hollow in 1991 and has provided ongoing symposiums consistently attract hundreds of art enthusiasts. An annual support ever since. In line with the company’s commitment to the longPromega Employee Art Show supports a corporate culture that encourages term success of Woods Hollow, Promega completed a 9,300 square foot creative expression. Learn more at: promega-artshow.com expansion in 2019 that included construction of additional classrooms ADDITIONAL INFO 69 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION In 2019, the Promega art program added a series of artist-led workshops CORPORATE MIND for employee participation. Employees brushed up on their chemistry skills in a tie-dye workshop and helped Arizonan artist Joe Willie Smith build a functioning art-instrument out of materials found on PRODUCT REACH campus. “It was a more collaborative experience than I ever expected. It was fun to watch the artist truly learn and evolve his art through interactions with people & materials and by watching people interact with his art.” PLANET AWARE –PROMEGA ART WORKSHOP PARTICIPANT Hello PhD Art Contest for Creative Scientists was created to celebrate the creative side of the Hello PhD podcast listeners. Students submit their artwork for a chance to win a free trip to the Promega Employee Art Showcase in Madison. PEOPLE CARE Promega sponsors the Hello PhD podcast as a resource for young scientists and leads discussions covering all things related to graduate school and careers in science. The Hello PhD podcast was started by Joshua Hall and Daniel Arneman, COMMUNITY TOUCH who met during their grad school admissions interview, and after “… countless conversations that helped guide their paths, they wanted to ease the way for students, postdocs, faculty and scientists who 2019 Hello PhD grand-prize winner, Aparna Shah, and her submission navigate these same hard questions every day.” For more information, of “an image of an immuno-histochemically stained mouse brain slice acquired on a confocal microscope”. visit: hellophd.com ADDITIONAL INFO 70 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND ENGAGING IN COMMUNITY: SUPPORTING GLOBAL AND LOCAL INITIATIVES AND ORGANIZATIONS THAT ENRICH HUMANITY Promega in Action is an opportunity for employees at Promega headquarters PRODUCT REACH in Madison, Wisconsin, to use paid time to volunteer. Employees can Sarah Theos, a senior client support consultant at Promega Madison, apply for a grant of up to 40 hours to work for the charity or organization applied for a volunteer service award through the Promega In Action of their choice. In return, employees are asked to document their interactions program in 2018. Sarah’s son was diagnosed with Chronic Recurrent and present their experiences and insights to their colleagues. Multifocal Osteomyelitis (CRMO) in 2016. Sarah used her time to cofound the CRMO Foundation, with the goal of building a collaborative To date, 33 organizations have benefited from the Promega in Action research network for patients, caregivers and researchers working PLANET AWARE program, including local programs such as Madison Area Food Pantry on CRMO. Gardens and global programs such as SizaBantwana in South Africa. Employees’ involvement with these groups often does not end when paid In 2019, the CRMO Foundation is one of 30 patient-led rare disease volunteer hours are exhausted. Many continue to actively volunteer, as foundations selected to receive a $450,000 grant from the Chan well as recruit others to the cause. Promega keeps an updated database of Zuckerberg Initiative (CZI) Rare As One Program. One goal of CZI organizations where employees have served, and many employees who is to cure or manage all disease by the end of the century. This network are not Promega in Action participants will do volunteer work for these will provide relationships and learning opportunities, enabling them to PEOPLE CARE causes on their own time. support infrastructure to build a self-sustaining patient-fueled, productive research network. “The Promega in Action award was the catalyst that gave me To date, 33 organizations have benefited from the the dedicated time to focus on helping start the foundation.” Promega in Action program, including local programs COMMUNITY TOUCH such as Madison Area Food Pantry Gardens and global The CRMO Foundation will expand their CRMO patient registry so that the programs such as SizaBantwana in South Africa. community can get a more accurate idea of the prevalence of CRMO, cause of the disease, natural history, and potential diagnostic tools and treatment options. The CRMO Foundation embodies how the Promega in Action program can reach far beyond a single act of community service; it can grow into a force that changes lives on an even larger scale. ADDITIONAL INFO 71 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION 2019 Promega-in-Action awardees donated their volunteer hours to the CORPORATE MIND following organizations and programs: • Agrace Hospice PRODUCT REACH • Bethel Horizons • Dane Net Promega was presented the Seeds of • Horizon Elementary Change Award for showing innovation, growth and commitment to community. • Kandu Industries • Leopold Community School • Madison Area Food Pantry Gardens—Lacy Garden PLANET AWARE • National Allegiance on Mental Illness (NAMI) Promega leaders are lending their expertise to Edgewood College • Our Lady of Perpetual Help Catholic School—Scholastic Book Fair in Madison, Wisconsin, by serving on the school’s Advisory Council • Science Olympiad on Sustainable Leadership. Edgewood offers the first place-based, face• Second Harvest Food Bank to-face social innovation and sustainability leadership MA program in • St. Vincent de Paul Food Pantry the nation. The program teaches leadership that co-creates well-being • Three Gaits Therapeutic Horsemanship Center “in ourselves, our workplaces and in our communities…” • Wings as Eagles on Pine Ridge Reservation (Oglala Lakota nation) in SD PEOPLE CARE • World Hope Chicago (WHC) USA—Children in Haiti Promega sponsors the Advanced Manufacturing Scholarship at Madison Area Technical College to support students training in For over 22 years, the Promega Madison Employee Giving Campaign advanced manufacturing technology and processes—skills vital to the has matched dollar-for-dollar employee charitable donations to Community future success and innovation of Promega as a biotech manufacturer. Shares of Wisconsin and United Way of Dane County. Promega Madison COMMUNITY TOUCH was recognized by United Way of Dane County as a ‘Community Builder’ The employee-led Community Action Team (CAT) at Promega helping the non-profit raise more than $18 million dollars from countyBiosciences in San Luis Obispo, CA, works to support the growth of wide employee giving campaigns. Promega was also awarded The Seeds their local community in civic vitality, cultural richness, human welfare, of Change award, which is presented to local businesses that show environmental sensitivity, educational opportunities and providing for innovation, growth, and commitment to Community Shares of Wisconsin. and protecting those in need. In 2019, CAT supported twelve local Over the past 15 years, Promega and our employees have collectively organizations through fundraisers and employee match requests including contributed over $717,000 to this non-profit. Community Action Partnership of San Luis Obispo County, Jack’s ADDITIONAL INFO 72 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH Promega India was awarded with Udyog Ratan The Promega Biosciences Award from Members of Community Action Team Parliament for providing raised funds for a local economic development and humane society during betterment of the country. Oktoberfest. PLANET AWARE Helping Hand, and United Way. They also collected over fifty-five The Strongerthanever Challenge is an initiative to inspire and donations of blood and organized two road cleanups. Promega Biosciences motivate (ex)cancer patients to implement sports into their lives offers all full-time employees four hours of paid time each month to as part of the recovery process. Studies have shown that athletic activities use toward volunteer activities. during and after treatments help patients stay physically and mentally fit. For the last four years, Promega Benelux has been one of the key Promega India was awarded with Udyog Ratan Award for sponsors of the Strongerthanever Challenge. Participants completed a outstanding contribution to the economic development and sprint triathlon, which included a 750m swim, 20km of cycling and PEOPLE CARE betterment of the country. The award was presented by Members of 5km of running. Parliament at The Constitution Club of India. Promega India has reached many milestones for excellence in corporate social and responsibility activities, in turn bringing new employment opportunities, making the “Working at Promega means growing and developing nation healthier and safer through its innovative products and services. with a very innovative company that stands for progress COMMUNITY TOUCH and knows how to combine economic and social The Promega team in Korea organized a charity auction and aspects. The cultural diversity and scientific inspiration bazaar to benefit their local community. Employees donated goods for the event to be auctioned off and the proceeds were donated make the company a place where people enjoy working.” to the Korea Food for the Hungry International (KFHI). The donations CAROLINE END, Product Manager, Promega Germany enriched the lives of two families who needed support during the challenging winter season. ADDITIONAL INFO 73 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND 3 5 9 PRODUCT REACH 1 8 PLANET AWARE 2 4 6 7 PEOPLE CARE 1. The Molecular Cellular Biology Reporters (MCBR) group built new hiking trails 6. Madison employees developed a new volunteer training program for Badger with the Madison, WI, based non-profit, Ice Age Trail Alliance. Prairie Needs Network food pantry. 2. The Scientific Applications group shelved and sorted donations at St. Vincent 7. Promega Singapore ran the JP Morgan Corporate Challenge benefiting Movement COMMUNITY TOUCH de Paul Food Pantry. for the Intellectually Disabled of Singapore. 3. A Madison, WI, employee taught English to students in Haiti through the World 8. Inspiring young girls to be joyful, healthy and confident by integrating a running Hope Chicago USA—Children in Haiti organization. curriculum, a Madison employee coached a “Girls on the Run” team. 4. The RFC Protein Purification group benefited 2880 families through volunteer 9. Dedicated to providing tools to empower young women to create meaningful work at Second Harvest Food Bank . lives through healthy choices, self-awareness, mindfulness, movement, 5. Madison, WI, employees helped the Department of Natural Resources search camaraderie and community involvement, a Madison employee served for fawns to be tagged, collared, and biopsied for genetic tests. as a Y-Strong Girl Mentor for Copley Price YMCA . ADDITIONAL INFO 74 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION 13 CORPORATE MIND 10 12 PRODUCT REACH 11 18 PLANET AWARE 14 15 16 17 PEOPLE CARE 10. Promega France colleagues participated in the 2019 Courir Pour Elles (Run For 15. Operations Molecular Cellular Biology Reporters (MCBR) team picked up litter for Them) race to support the fight against women’s cancers. “Adopt A Highway.” 11. The Madison-based HR Team raised money for Big Brothers Big Sisters of Dane 16. The Promega Madison Marketing team created cardboard couture for the Ready COMMUNITY TOUCH County by participating in Bowl for Kids’ Sake. to Wear competition benefiting the Madison Reading Project. 12. R&D Protein & Nucleic Acid team’s work at Second Harvest Food Bank equaled 17. One employee from Madison chaired the Royal Oaks School Community 2,772 meals. Organization’s annual “Rocket Run” fundraiser. 13. Cell Manufacturing, MCBR, and Distribution teams packed 279,436 meals for 18. Each year at the holidays, the employees at Promega Italia collect donations Feed My Starving Children in Madison, WI. for Banco Alimentare della Lombardia, a food bank in northern Italy. The entire 14. Promega India participated in ‘Splash’ to support and encourage artistic ability in staff collects monetary donations and provides more than 40 kilos of food for children with disabilities. babies and children. ADDITIONAL INFO 75 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH Additional Information ADDITIONAL INFO Employees are encouraged to explore 76 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 their creativity and self-expression. INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH 2019 Report Parameters PLANET AWARE Reporting on Promega Corporate Responsibility progress is completed on a calendar year basis with information in this report sharing results and actions from January 1, 2019, to December 31, 2019. This is the twelfth Promega report in this area following the initial report released in July of 2009. This process of reporting will continue annually in the future. Corporate Responsibility reporting attempts to focus on the PEOPLE CARE environmental and social impacts of Promega operations worldwide using the framework established by the Global Reporting Initiative Guidlelines and the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Information for this report has been gathered from all 22 Promega branch and subsidiary locations worldwide. Engagement with internal COMMUNITY TOUCH stakeholders has been focused on areas identified as key impacts or opportunities. Our current process captures information on a wide range of indicators but we recognize that there is still room for growth in the information we capture. In rare instances, additional or adjusted information for prior periods was captured resulting in slight variations from previously reported indicators. ADDITIONAL INFO 77 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION Carbon footprint calculations have been made using emission factors CORPORATE MIND provided by the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol on energy and business travel. Reported emissions from distribution were calculated with the conversion factors provided by DEFRA’s 2019 Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors and have incorporated the new methodology for emissions for air freight that include radiative forcing. Lastly, the Environmental Defense Fund’s Paper Calculator has been PRODUCT REACH used for calculating the life cycle impacts of our paper usage. Current and previous years’ carbon footprints have been calculated using the most updated information and emission factors from the resources above. Some sections of the GRI that were not covered in the report will be addressed below. In 2019 we had no incidents or issues in the following PLANET AWARE areas: • Environmental fines or sanctions (G4-EN29) • Incidents of discrimination and action taken (G4-HR3) • Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people PEOPLE CARE and actions taken (G4-HR 8) • Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices (G4-SO 7) COMMUNITY TOUCH • Fines and non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations (G4-SO 8) Please contact sustainability@promega.com with any questions on the Promega Corporate Responsibility Report. ADDITIONAL INFO Promega scientist working on 78 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 large-scale protein manufacturing. INTRODUCTION Key Indicators Economic 2008 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 CORPORATE MIND Number of Employees 958 1,381 1,440 1,483 1,601 1,696 Building Footprint (Square Meters) 66,991 101,722 104,601 107,241 107,941 110,685 PRODUCT REACH Number of Global Locations 16 19 19 19 19 19 Environmental Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Tons of CO2) 22,397 37,021 38,983 39,154 42,291 42,010 PLANET AWARE Emissions Per Million in Revenue (Tons of CO2/Million Dollars) 111.1 106 106 99 99 92 Emissions Per Building Footprint (Tons of CO2/Thousand Sq. Meters) 334.3 364 373 365 392 380 Energy Consumption Electricity (kWh) 16,880,814 27,772,864 29,915,213 29,263,972 31,352,221 30,827,243 PEOPLE CARE Natural Gas (Therms) 683,201 1,200,449 1,246,266 1,313,131 1,408,187 1,376,992 Water Consumption (Liters) 53,909,442 119,265,434 122,648,487 121,627,418 121,472,799 113,552,272 Solid Non-Hazardous Waste (Cubic Meters) 7,884 10,622 11,912 13,947 15,751 15,659 COMMUNITY TOUCH Incinerated (Cubic Meters) 249 214 163 162 174 133 Land Filled (Cubic Meters) 3,973 5,297 5,752 5,854 6,528 6,331 Recycled (Cubic Meters) 3,661 5,111 5,996 7,932 9,049 9,195 Chemical Waste (Kilograms) 65,950 83,949 92,444 104,104 94,099 117,127 Infectious Waste (Kilograms) 4,226 7,475 9,527 10,446 11,681 12,241 ADDITIONAL INFO 79 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND GRI Index We are committed to transparent reporting on our environmental, social and economic performance. This report uses Standard Disclosures the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting G4 Guidelines. The following table has been developed to help users locate specific information in the report. PRODUCT REACH Content GRI Section # Page # Overview 4 CEO Letter 102-14 5 PLANET AWARE Corporate Mind GRI Section # Page # Overview 102-1, 102-2 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-7, 102-8, 201-1, 401-1 7 Purpose, Vision and Values 102-16 10 Investment in the Future 102-10, 203-1 11 Conscious Leadership 102-1, 102-18, 103-2, 205-2, 405-1 15 PEOPLE CARE Aligning Values Throughout the Supply Chain 102-9, 204-1 17 Living in a Broader Sense of Place 203-2, 204-1 17 COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO 80 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Product Reach GRI Section # Page # Overview 19 Customer Focus 102-2, 102-6 21 Investment in Innovation 27 PRODUCT REACH Quality Process and Product 416-1 29 Planet Aware GRI Section # Page # Overview 102-11, 102-15 31 PLANET AWARE Responding to Climate Change 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 33 Minimizing Electricity Usage and Emissions 302-1, 302-3, 302-4 34 Conserving Natural Gas 302-1, 302-3, 302-4 35 Building a Sustainable Future 36 Tracking and Reducing Effects from Product Distribution 302-5, 305-3 38 PEOPLE CARE Minimizing Effects from Business Travel 305-3 40 Preserving Natural Capital 42 Minimizing Waste 306-2, 306-4 42 Conserving Water 303-5, 304-3 44 COMMUNITY TOUCH Connecting with Customers without Paper 301-1, 301-2 44 Reducing Packaging Materials 301-1, 301-2 45 ADDITIONAL INFO 81 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND People Care GRI Section # Page # Overview 47 Nurturing Employee Creativity, Growth and Self-Actualization 49 Providing Personal Development and Growth for Employees 404-2, 404-3 52 PRODUCT REACH Building Relationships and Connections 54 Prioritizing Employee Health and Well-Being 201-3, 401-2, 401-3, 403-1 55 Community Touch GRI Section # Page # PLANET AWARE Overview 203-2 61 Supporting Science Around the World 413-1 62 Committing to Cornerstone Initiatives 413-1 68 Engaging in Community: Supporting Global and Local Initiatives 413-1 70 PEOPLE CARE Additional Information GRI Section # Page # 102-12, 102-45, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54 307-1, Report Parameters 77 417-2, 417-3 Key Indicators 79 COMMUNITY TOUCH GRI Index 102-55 80 ADDITIONAL INFO 82 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION BACK CORPORATE MIND Carbon Footprint Tons of CO2 Per Million USD 105 107 PRODUCT REACH 100 99 94 96 20 21 20 19 18 Fuel Combustion PLANET AWARE Purchased Electricity 54 55 51 51 47 PEOPLE CARE Business Travel Outgoing Distribution Water Usage 31 31 29 29 29 Paper Usage COMMUNITY TOUCH 2015 2019 2020 Goal ADDITIONAL INFO 83 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION Global Carbon BACK Footprint Composition CORPORATE MIND 52 20 PRODUCT REACH % % Electrical Usage Natural Gas 7 % Air Travel 2 % Automobile Travel PLANET AWARE 0 % Rail Travel 0 Water % PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH 0 Paper % 19 % Distribution ADDITIONAL INFO 84 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION BACK CORPORATE MIND Electricity PRODUCT REACH Thousands of kWh Per Million USD 79.7 81.4 78.1 74 73.2 67.7 PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE 2015 2019 2020 Goal COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO 85 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION BACK CORPORATE MIND Natural Gas PRODUCT REACH Therms Per Million USD PLANET AWARE 3,444 3,391 3,321 3,287 3,025 3,100 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 PEOPLE CARE Goal COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO 86 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION BACK Distribution Emissions Tons of CO2 Per Million USD CORPORATE MIND 21.1 20.3 20.0 PRODUCT REACH 19.3 19.8 18.9 PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH 2015 2019 2020 Goal ADDITIONAL INFO 87 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION BACK Business Travel CORPORATE MIND Carbon Footprint Tons of CO2 Per Million USD PRODUCT REACH 9.3 9.1 9.1 9.0 8.7 PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH 2015 2019 ADDITIONAL INFO 88 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION BACK CORPORATE MIND Hazardous Waste PRODUCT REACH Kilograms Per Million USD 262.0 277.2 289.0 246.7 284.1 15.1 PLANET AWARE 16.8 59.0 105.1 83.8 101.8 62.8 137.8 69.2 161.4 160.3 58.9 162.3 114.8 49.9 2015 2019 PEOPLE CARE Recycled Treated Incinerated COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO 89 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION BACK CORPORATE MIND Non-Hazardous Waste PRODUCT REACH Cubic Meters Per Million USD 30.5 32.4 35.3 36.6 32.6 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.4 PLANET AWARE 0.3 14.7 16.3 20.1 20.9 19.3 15.2 15.7 14.8 15.2 13.0 14.2 2015 2019 2020 Goal PEOPLE CARE Landfilled Recycled Incinerated COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO 90 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INTRODUCTION BACK CORPORATE MIND Water Usage PRODUCT REACH Thousands of Liters Per Million USD PLANET AWARE 342 334 307 283 250 291 PEOPLE CARE 2015 2019 2020 Goal COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO 91 | PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 PROMEGA CORPORATION • 2800 WOODS HOLLOW ROAD • MADISON, WI 53711-5399 USA • TELEPHONE 608-274-4330 www.promega.com • © 2020 PROMEGA CORPORATION • ALL RIGHTS RESERVED • PRICES AND SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE • PRINTED IN USA 07/2020 • 58043169
