Communication on Progress Year : 2019 2020 Hindustan Platinum Pvt. Ltd. has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 17th July 2008. We are committed to the ten principles of the compact which promote better corporate responsibility in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Summary of the progress made in these principles is attached Ashish Choksi Executive Vice President Contact: 022 61904000 Email: ashish.choksi@hp.co.in P 1/6 Commitment/ Policies, Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans Global Compact Principle for the upcoming Year 1: Businesses should support and Commitment/ Policies : We are following the international declaration of Human Rights. We respect the protection of have formulated conflict mineral policy for us and our suppliers. internationally proclaimed human rights Action Taken : We have sent conflict mineral reporting template to our core suppliers. We have signed many contracts / agreements with our overseas customers, which includes human welfare and rights. Outcomes : Employee grievances, if any are addressed on priority. Our suppliers have understood and endorsed the CMRT declaration. Plan for the upcoming Year : We will be audited by third party for sustainability in next financial year. 2: and make sure that they are not Commitment/ Policies : We have formulated below policies for our organisation : complicit in human rights abuses. 1. Sustainable and ethical procurement policy, 2. Code of conduct & Ethics 3. Prevention of sexual harassment policy 4. Human rights policy. 5. Employee suggestion scheme policy 6. Employee support service policy 7. Security Policy 8. Employee Support Service Policy Action Taken Our company has a strict policy of registration of all employees with the provident fund, Employees state insurance. We follow guidelines of the workers minimum wages act. Company provides conveyance to all employees from all parts of the city. Mediclaim policy for all the employees and their family member is provided. We have conducted third party audit for all factors related to sustainability. We have made internal complaint committee under the sexual harassment of women at workplace (prevention, prohibition and redressal) Act 2013 & the rules, 2013. P 2/6 Outcomes The HR department discusses all issues related to the employees with recognised and representative union and finds a solution. If required the issue is brought to the notice of Executive Vice President for a solution. Our overall compliance in this aspect is more than Indian average. Our division is awarded with OHAS 45001 certification. We review the status six monthly to resolve any a issues regarding sexual harassment. Plans for the Upcoming Year . : To conduct Code of Conduct audit. We will be audited by third party for sustainability in next financial year. 3: Businesses should uphold the Commitment/ Policies Our company has a recogonised employees union. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Action Taken Office bearers of the employees union discuss with company management on collective bargaining; various issues including wages. Wages are revised in discussion with the union. Outcomes. Employees get solutions to their problems. Plans for the Upcoming Year : We conduct meetings to discuss all issues. We will be audited by third party for sustainability in next financial year. 4: the elimination of all forms of Commitment/ Policies : We have recruitment and On-Boarding Policy. forced and compulsory labour; Action Taken : Above policy is strictly followed. We have conducted third party audit. Outcomes : No forced labour. We got 100 % marks in forced labour that means we do not have any forced labour in our organisation. Plans for the Upcoming Year : We will adhere to our policies. We will be audited by third party for sustainability in next financial year. 5: the effective abolition of child Commitment/ Policies : We have human rights policy, where we have addressed to recruit a labour; person above 18 years. Action Taken The company human rights policy ensures that no child labour is recruited. We have conducted third party audit. Our customers have audited us to check the effectiveness of this policy. Outcomes : The age of all employees is more than 18 years. We have asked some of our vendor to sign on code of Conduct, where minimum age limit is specified for the workman. P 3/6 Plans for the Upcoming Year : We will strictly follow the company human rights policy on child labour. We will be audited by third party for sustainability in next financial year. 6: and the elimination of Commitment/ Policies : The policy on Human Rights includes no discrimination on account of discrimination in respect of age, sex, nationality or religion. employment and occupation. Action Taken : The company’s Human Rights policy ensure that there is no discrimination on account of age, sex, nationality and religion. We have conducted third party audit. Outcomes: We have women working as Managers and General Managers. Third party audit had rated us 100 % on this criteria. We have formulated a internal complaints committee for redressal of sexual harassment of women at work place. Plans for the Upcoming Year : To hold meeting once in six months / after the receipt of complaint to resolve it. We will be audited by third party for sustainability in next financial year. 7: Businesses should support a Commitment/ Policies : Company has an environment policy. precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Action Taken : 1. The company has made a procedure to check aspect and impact on environment of all activities. If it exceeds to certain value it will be taken seriously and precautionary measures will be taken to reduce its impact on the environment. 2. Company has installed wet scrubber for melting furnace, having low power consumption, 3. Installed exhaust system for plating plant 4. Company has its own effluent treatment plant, where effluent is treated before it is release to the CEPT. 5. Company has sewage treatment plant, after treating sewage water, it is released to root zone. 6. Third party testing of our treated effluent is done every month and testing of the same is done daily in our own laboratory for COD, TDS, SS and PH. 7. Ambient air, air emission are also checked by third party periodically. Noise level in the company’s premises is also checked periodically. 8. Mass transportation is being provided to our staff as well as our workers to reduce pollution. 9. Obtained ISO : 14001 certificate in the month of March ’12. 10. Started maintain records as per ISO : 14001 and finalised Environment Management Program like reduction in consumption of water, electricity, reduction in generation of hazardous waste and set the target to reduce the adverse effect on environment due to our operations. 11. Started sending Hazardous Waste, Bio-Medical Waste and E-waste to Government P 4/6 Authorised disposer for proper disposal of waste. 12. Company has procured noise level checking instrument and noise level is monitored periodically. 13. We have developed AgZnO material, this can be used as substitute to Cadmium. 14. One of our customers has conducted RoHS audit and we scored 60 % marks. 15. The generation of electrical power at our wind mills and solar panels installation is in net surplus of our total power consumption. 16. We have tested our electrical contacts for REACH compliance of 169 substances. 17. We have reduced our effluent quantity approximately by 15 %. 18. We have started using Eco-friendly fuel (PNG supplied by Mahanagar Gas Ltd.) 19. We have planted around 84 trees inside the plant. 20. We have installed SCADA to check PH and Flow of outlet of treated water and on-line connected to CEPT. 21. We have upgraded our Environment Management System to new standard i. e. ISO : 14001 : 2015. Outcomes : We have reduced adverse impact of our activities on environment. Plans for the Upcoming Year : We monitor all Environmental data and will try to achieve the target. 8: undertake initiatives to promote Commitment/ Policies : To reduce water / power consumption greater environmental responsibility; Action Taken : 1. We have changed water distribution system 2. We have installed overhead tank to save consumption of power. 3. We monitor water and power consumption every month. 4. We have kept targets to reduce water consumption and electrical consumption without affecting production. 5. We have replaced halogen lamps with LED lamps to save power in the factory. 6. We have changed Hard disc to solid state disc and installed LED monitors to save power consumption. 7. We have installed motion detector in all passages area to reduce power Consumption. 8. Company has rain water harvesting system, The water collected by rain harvesting system is used for plantation and gardening. 10. We have replaced all tube lights of office area by LED. 11. We have introduced saw dust polishing to save water. 12. We use around 10 % recycled water. 13. We have planted 3000 trees with the help of NGO and MPCB. And we are / P 5/6 will be paying maintenance of each tree for 5 years Outcomes Consumption of power and water has been reduced. Plans for the Upcoming Year . We monitor power and water consumption every month and have kept target to reduce the same. We keep track of environment related new laws and abide by them. We have planned to plant 200 trees this year with the help of NGO and DISH. We are planning to upgrade our Sewage Treatment Plant. We are replacing APC (Air Pollution Control) system with new upgraded system. 9: and encourage the development Commitment/ Policies To reduce use of natural resources by using eco-friendly technology, and diffusion of environmentally To reduce adverse effect on environment by using advance machines friendly technologies. Action Taken 1 Used Belt Polishing machine instead of open air hand brushing to reduce air pollution. 2. We have installed 60 KW power melting furnace to replace 150 KW furnace. 3. We have started practice of reducing furnace temperature during no load situation and starting furnace just in time to be ready for production process when required. 4. We have installed N2 generator to replace the H2 gas. Outcomes : Due to belt polishing machine, spreading of polishing dust on the floor and in air is avoided. Electric power is saved. Plans for the Upcoming Year : We promote Environment friendly electrical contact material against AgCdO. 10: Businesses should work against Commitment/ Policies : We have formulated Human Rights policy for our employees and Code all forms of corruption, including of conduct for suppliers. extortion and bribery. Action Taken : Code of conduct has been forwarded to core supplier for signing, which also covers corruption and bribery. Outcomes : Vendors have taken it in right spirit. Our vendors have signed the code of conduct policies. Plans for the Upcoming Year Plan to increase awareness among all the supplier on this aspect. We will be audited by third party for sustainability in this year. P 6/6
