Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Eisai Co., Ltd. Our Response to the Novel Coronavirus Infection Contribution to Stable Drug Supply and Therapeutic Treatment Development As an “human health care (hhc)” company, we are engaged in stable drug supply even in the social turmoil under the pandemic, research and development of therapeutic drugs, and support activities in each country. We also take measures to prevent the infection spread at all of our facilities. 1. Stable Supply of Medicines We secure the necessary inventory for stable supply from normal times, and we are making every possible effort to supply pharmaceuticals through stable production. Our operation of global 9 production sites are all smoothly ongoing with sufficient inventory of raw materials, drug substance and ample stock of final products. We will continue to carefully check the situation and take necessary measures. 2. Contribution to Development of Remedies (1) Regarding the TLR4 (Toll-Like Receptor 4) inhibitor eritoran (E5564), created and developed internally as a sepsis treatment, Eisai is participating in the international network REMAP-CAP (A Randomised, Embedded, Multi-factorial, Adaptive Platform Trial for Community-Acquired Pneumonia) which aims for ●Initiatives toward development of treatments for COVID-19 novel coronavirus medicine development, and is to Eritoran (E5564) begin an international collaborative clinical trial Clinical study planning in hospitalized patients with COVID-19 and have worsening symptoms which is designated for the patients hospitalized Eritoran and in a progressing disease state. It is hoped that through suppressing the most upstream TLR4 activity which controls production of multiple cytokines, the cytokine storm in patients can be suppressed and pneumonia can thus be prevented from becoming severe. Acute lung disease Multiple organ failure (2) Eisai is participating in a consortium of life science companies entitled “COVID-19 Therapeutics Accelerator,” initiated by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and formed with collaboration from Wellcome Trust (U.K.) and MasterCard (U.S.). This consortium aims for the fast delivery of potentially relevant research results relating to vaccines, medicines, and diagnosis techniques to people affected by COVID-19 across the world. Eisai has provided its unique collection of approximately 2,600 natural product compounds to the Scripps Institute (U.S.) for constructing a compound library for the development of treatments. Eisai is planning to provide its new vaccine adjuvant (E6020) which has possibility to boost antibody production. (3) Gimsilumab, the anti-GM-CSF antibody which Eisai has licensed to Roivant Sciences Ltd. (U.K.), is assumed to inhibit activity of GM-CSF that is thought to act on immune pathology which is caused by the novel coronavirus. Eisai is supporting and has provided active pharmaceutical ingredients of Gimsilumab for a placebo-controlled, double-blind study conducted by Roivant in the U.S. on acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) caused by COVID-19. (4) Eisai supplied active pharmaceutical ingredients to the National Institute of Infectious Diseases (NIID) in response to a request “for the provision of active pharmaceutical ingredients applicable for screening of remedies for the novel coronavirus” issued on February 7, 2020 through the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare (MHLW) towards the Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association of Japan (FPMAJ) and the Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (JPMA). (5) Eisai is conducting efforts for realizing new remedies that apply its assets and technologies, through collaborations with academia and external organizations. 1 3. S  upport of Response Efforts to the Spread of the Novel Coronavirus Infection in Different Countries Company Introduction (1) In Japan, Eisai is providing supplies such as its own products to patient organizations, municipalities, and non-profit organizations for the impaired. (2) In the U.S., our U.S. subsidiary donated more than 1 million USD (approximately 107 million JPY) to medical facilities and non-profit patient groups and provided with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE; masks, goggles, and hazmat suits) to local Management Strategies healthcare providers. (3) In Europe, through its EMEA subsidiary, Eisai has provided 945 thousand euros (approximately 111 million JPY) in funding to professional organizations targeting COVID-19 such as the World Health Organization (WHO), as well as to support healthcare providers and supporting communities in the U.K., Italy, Germany, Spain, Belgium, France, Portugal, and the Slovak Republic. (4) In China, Eisai donated 1 million yuan (approximately 15 million JPY) to the Wuhan Charity Federation NPO and provided local healthcare providers with medicines and medical relief supplies through its Chinese subsidiary. Value Creation Activities (5) In Asian countries and other countries outside of China, Eisai donated 11.8 million rupees (approximately 17 million JPY) to federal emergency funding in India, and will provide funding and supplies to support organizations such as community chests in South Korea, Thailand, Vietnam, Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore and Mexico. (6) In African countries, Eisai has committed the equivalent of 1 million USD in aid over the next 1 year in order to support the controlling of the spread of COVID-19 along with prevention of delays of elimination activities for neglected tropical diseases (NTDs). As part of this support, in cooperation with the Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi), Eisai has now begun provision of PPE to core hospitals in Africa for research of and countermeasures against infectious diseases. In addition, Eisai makes donation and supports Amref Health Africa Financial Base for the development and popularization of its mobile health platform Leap for healthcare workers. 4. Minimize Impacts on Clinical Trials With regard to clinical trials of potential next-generation dementia treatments and anti-cancer agent Lenvima®, we see some delays in setting up study sites, patient enrollment and data collection in some countries, but we minimize the impact by adding new sites or changes of evaluation facilities. Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital 5. Efforts for Prevention of Spread of Infection and Employees Safety We regularly review our Business Continuity Plan (BCP), which minimizes human damage in the event of a disaster or emergency and secures a backup manufacturing system, at all facilities around the world, and are taking measures to prevent infectious diseases from expanding through corporate activities. We will continue to work to prevent the spread of all infectious diseases and support countermeasure activities. We hope the end of COVID-19 pandemic as soon as possible. Appendix 2 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Contents Special Feature Financial Base 1 Our Response to the Novel Coronavirus Infection 45 Financial Strategy 49 Consolidated Financial Highlights in the Last 10 Years Company Introduction 51 CFO Dialogue: Challenge for ESG, 4 Materiality Making Invisible Value Visible 5 The driving force of Eisai: “human health care (hhc)” 9 History of Eisai 11 SWOT Analysis (Business) Management Strategies Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital 13 Message from CEO 58 Enhancement of Non-Financial Capital for 19 Value Creation Process and Flow Corporate Strategy 21 Medium-Term Business Plan ‘EWAY 2025’ 59 SWOT Analysis (ESG) 61 Initiatives for Achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)/ESG Indices 65 Improving Access to Medicines (ATM) Value Creation Activities 69 Strategy for Talent Innovation 22 Our Value Chain 73 Corporate Governance System 23 Development of Next-Generation 79 Interviews with Outside Directors Dementia Treatments 83 Compliance, Risk Management, and Internal Audit 31 Initiatives for Dementia Ecosystem Appendix 35 Progress of Innovative Medicine Creation in Oncology Area 39 Quality Assurance and Stable Supply 88 Corporate Executives 41 Marketing Activities 89 Major Products 43 Strategic Partnerships 91 Status of Shares 92 Corporate Information/On the Issuance of the Integrated Report 2020 Major External Evaluations As of June 2020 THE INCLUSION OF Eisai Co., Ltd. IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF Eisai Co., Ltd. BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. FTSE Russell (the trading name of FTSE International Limited and Frank Russell Company) confirms that Eisai has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Created by the global index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices. The FTSE4Good indices are used by a wide variety of market participants to create and assess responsible investment funds and other products. 3 Materiality Eisai’s corporate philosophy is to give first thought to results” in consideration, it is regarded to be more Company Introduction patients and their families. Likewise, Eisai provides efficient to focus on long-term investors, beneficiaries employees, who are responsible for patient of residual income, as the important stakeholder＊1. contribution, with opportunities to develop their talents With the long-term interests of all stakeholders to enrich their careers and cultivate work satisfaction. including patients and employees taken into account, Eisai’s mission is the enhancement of patient it is believed that identifying the concerns relating to satisfaction, then revenue and earnings are generated the interests of long-term investors and then taking consequently. We place importance on this sequence initiatives on a priority basis, is the fast track to the of placing mission before the ensuing results. maximization of corporate value. On the other hand, in order to sustainably maximize Process for establishing materiality and Eisai’s corporate value to fulfil every stakeholder’s Materiality Matrix are shown below. Reviews and Management Strategies satisfaction, and taking into consideration the updates are undertaken as needed. corporate philosophy’s concept of “mission and the ＊1 C  oncept derived from Enlightened Value Maximization Theory (Michael C. Jensen, 2001) ●Process for establishing materiality Process 2: Prioritization of issues and creation of Materiality Matrix We prioritize issues with a particularly high degree of importance, and then Process 1: Identification of issues create a matrix, from the perspectives of “impact on Eisai’s business” We identify issues giving consideration to various types of considering the corporate philosophy and impact on finances, and of guidelines (e.g. Sustainability Accounting Standards for “interest to long-term investors,” which includes financial reporting, Pharmaceuticals by SASB＊2, GRI Guidelines), to Sustainable opportunities to create innovation, and the impact of legal restrictions and Development Goals (SDGs)＊3, to communication with industry norms. stakeholders and to socially responsible investment (SRI) indices Value Creation Activities (e.g. Dow Jones Sustainability Index). Process 3: Reviews and updates Reviews and updates are undertaken as needed taking into consideration the progress of initiatives toward issues and changes in the business environment. ＊2 SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) is a U.S.-based non-profit organization that identifies materiality by industry for reasonable investors and develops sustainability disclosure standards. ＊3 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a set of international goals under the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted at the United Nations. Sustainable Development Summit in September 2015. ●Eisai’s Materiality Matrix Updates from Integrated Report 2019 are in bold. Figures in parentheses indicate the corresponding pages in this report. ■ Improving access to medicines ■ Creating innovative medicines Financial Base (P.65-68) (P.1-2, 23-30, 35-38) Very High ■ Offering solutions that go beyond ■ Safety management for products＊8 providing pharmaceuticals (P.31-34) ■ Corporate governance system (P.73-82) ■ Provision of opportunities to develop ■ Compliance and risk management careers and talent for employees (P.83-87) ■ Compliance and risk management Long-term investors’ interests (P.69-72) ■ Supporting employee health (P.45-57) (P.1-2, 69-72) and safety ■ Ethical and transparent drug creation management＊5 activities＊9 ■ Information disclosure＊6 ■ Protection and reinforcement of Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital intellectual property＊10 ■ Appropriate pricing＊11 ■ Stable supply and quality assurance (P.1-2, 39-40) ■ Business with consideration for the ■ Promoting diversity (P.69-72) ■ Promotion based on compliance＊12 global environment (P.61-63) ■ Prevention of bribery and corruption＊7 High ■ Initiatives against counterfeit drugs＊4 High Impact on Eisai’s business Very High ＊4-12 Please refer to Eisai’s Corporate Website ＊4 Initiatives against Counterfeit Drugs ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/atm/product-security.html Appendix ＊5 Occupational Safety and Health ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/employee/health_safety/index.html ＊6 Information Disclosure (Corporate Governance Guidelines Article 11) ▶ https://www.eisai.com/company/governance/cgregulations/cgguideline/index.html ＊7 Prevention of Bribery and Corruption ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/management/compliance/index.html ＊8 Safety Management for Products ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/atm/pharmacovigilance.html ＊9 Ethical and Transparent Drug Creation Activities ▶ https://www.eisai.com/company/business/research/discovery/index.html ＊10 Intellectual Property Initiatives ▶ https://www.eisai.com/company/business/research/ip/index.html ＊11 Realizing Affordable Pricing ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/atm/markets/005.html ＊12 Compliance-based Promotion ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/management/compliance/index.html 4 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 The Driving Force of Eisai “human health care (hhc)” 30 years Number of years since the company announced the concept of “Eisai Innovation” – the origin of “human health care (hhc)” Spiral of “hhc” Philosophy and Knowledge Creation Theory Dialogue with Ikujiro Nonaka, Professor Emeritus at Hitotsubashi University Ikujiro Nonaka (Left) Chihiro Takayama (Right) Professor Emeritus, Hitotsubashi University Knowledge Creation Fellow Distinguished Professor Emeritus, University of California, Berkeley Knowledge Creation Department Importance of the “SECI Model” from Knowledge Creation Theory and “Socialization” Takayama: According to your Knowledge Creation ●SECI Model Knowledge Creation Spiral Theory, the process of exchanging and transferring tacit Tacit Tacit knowledge and explicit knowledge within an Share direct Socialization(S) Externalization(E) Express tacit experience and knowledge organization consists of and is theorized in four phases build up tacit Environment E O I through dialogue Explicit knowledge I I and reflection called SECI; Socialization, Externalization, Combination, (Emphasizing) Tacit I Individual I Group I (Conceptualizing) and Internalization. Eisai took Socialization as the most I important phase and has been focusing on it. We Internalization( I ) Combination(C) Explicit Practice the Organize believe that unless we make an effort to emphasize with E Tacit O G model or G relevant concepts narrative and into a prototype, each patient, we cannot truly “empathize” and no new I G Org. G create new E G model, or tacit knowledge narrative knowledge will be created. (Practicing) (Modeling) Explicit Explicit I = (Individual), G = (Group) O = (Organization), E = (Environment) Prof. Nonaka: The patient’s view of the world is usually not obvious for others. We cannot understand the 5 patients unless we get close to them and feel together sharing the essence we sympathized through dialogue. with them. The origin is empathy. Socialization begins with Different people have different feelings even when they empathy, that is to put yourself completely in his or her see the same thing. I believe that a system of empathy Company Introduction shoes at the level of unconsciousness. This leads to and sympathy interactively creating ideas, concepts, sympathy, that is, to objectify another person and and hypotheses by intelligent combat, thoroughly experience emotions from the point of view of that person. discussing “this is like that, I felt like that” is the very Then we move to Externalization, that is, to articulate foundation of sustainable innovation. tacit knowledge by words and create concepts by Socialization and “Encounter” Takayama: I feel the necessity for our employees to character, spirit and unconscious emotional depth of Management Strategies express their humanity more through Socialization. I others without alienating, objectifying or manipulating want each employee to experience the fact that new them. In other words, a sincere, open and honest values are created through human interaction with attitude towards people, things, phenomena, patients. environments and everything can help each other’s subjectivity to become as one, and build relationships Prof. Nonaka: Empathy is different from sympathy. that lead to dialogue. This is called the “I – Thou” Empathy is elicited in a selfless state of experiencing the relationship. This empathy is the most important starting consciousness of others, being oneness in body and point in knowledge creation. Because the only way to soul. The essence of empathy is to “encounter.” understand the essence of the pain and sadness of Encounter means that we, as a unique existence, patients is to empathize with them though our whole Value Creation Activities mutually participate in the dynamic process of life of body and soul as if they were your own. each other. Through pure encounters, we perceive Strategies Based on Patients’ Anxieties Takayama: Eisai’s CEO, Haruo Naito, says that only in the mind), human consciousness is divided into empathy and anxieties are important. He suggested eight levels. The deepest level is called alaya-vijnana, that sharing feelings with patients through Socialization which is the eighth consciousness that corresponds to may possibly remain only as tacit knowledge conceived true unconsciousness. In alaya-vijnana, an inexhaustible superficially. What is truly expected through collection of memories is preserved, such as all Financial Base Socialization is to understand and extract anxieties in memories of what we have experienced in our life and the emotional depths of patients, and then to formulate what our ancestors have experienced. This alayaand implement a strategy to eliminate those anxieties. vijnana, underlying unconsciousness, is the origin of true creativity. Prof. Nonaka: By exchanging tacit knowledge derived When we perceive the serious anxiety that arises from from subjectivity with each other in the process of the emotional depth of the patients, it brings motivation Socialization, an empathy naturally arises from the that inspires us to devote ourselves to do something Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital inside and leads us to a state of intersubjectivity, which helpful for them. This motivation should be the basis for we ought to call “our subjectivity,” and enables us to true understanding of the anxieties, the source of the extract potential anxieties in emotional depths of feeling of “for the patient’s best benefit,” the reason for patients and their families. Such anxieties may be more realizing that no-one but us can undertake this task, and sorrowful than their feelings conceived superficially, and eventually, the meaning of life. It is necessary to begin with may be derived from the worries for loved ones such as the empathy in the whole-hearted and spiritual encounter family members, or the loss of significant values that with each patient who has his or her own history and story have shaped one’s own life. of life, and to truly understand the essence of anxiety, In vijnapti-matrata (the theory that everything exists explicitly formulate a hypothesis, and put it into practice. Relationship between Prof. Nonaka and Eisai Takayama: After Eisai CEO Haruo Naito established he found the Knowledge Creation Theory, which posits Appendix the idea of “human health care (hhc)” in 1989, he that new knowledge cannot be created unless empathy struggled for about seven years to find out how to put is elicited, and he integrated the theory into Eisai’s empathy with the patients, which is the most important philosophy-based management. I believe you first met phase, into practice. After that, he was impressed when CEO Naito in 1996. Could you tell me about your first 6 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 encounter with him, please? Chair in 1996. Then Mr. Naito took an interest in my Prof. Nonaka: I was invited by Mr. Naito to participate in book, The Knowledge-Creating Company (TOYO KEIZAI a 2-year project named “Code of the Company for 21st INC., 1996) and started the Knowledge Creation Project Century” in Keizai Doyukai (Japan Association of in Eisai. Surprisingly, he recognized that Socialization was Corporate Executives), which Mr. Naito initiated as the the true origin of the knowledge creation process. 30 Years of Knowledge Creation Takayama: “hhc” stands for Eisai’s corporate empathize with patients and their families through direct philosophy of “human health care,” and that means, “to experience in Socialization programs. Mr. Naito says give first thought to patients and their families, and to “our philosophy urges us to take action.” The “hhc,” increase the benefits that health care provides to them.” which was presented as a corporate philosophy, shed Around the time of the Eisai Innovation Declaration in light on Eisai’s strategy concept and the path of 1989, we struggled to expand the idea within the execution. As a result, the business domain is enriched company, but it gradually progressed by putting your and explored, not only for new drug creation, but also Knowledge Creation Theory into practice. Giving first for solutions in the community. thought to patient’s emotions, we have developed unique “human health care” activities over the past 30 years based on the Knowledge Creation Theory. For creating the future, we must polish our intuition based on empathy into collective knowledge through thorough dialogue, with no compromises or conjecture. In the “hhc” company, it is necessary for each employee to explore the significance of their existence as human beings and the purpose of life. During that time, you gave us a lot of practical advice. Prof. Nonaka: Eisai invited me to assist in 1996 and I shared my Knowledge Creation Theory then. The Knowledge Creation Department, which I named, was established as a department directly under CEO in 1997. From then on, the department has made efforts to enhance the “hhc” philosophy among employees and provided opportunities to be intuitive for essence to Incorporating the Corporate Philosophy in the Articles of Incorporation Takayama: In 2005, when you were an Outside Director before the ensuing results.” of Eisai, the corporate philosophy was incorporated into the Articles of Incorporation by the Annual General Prof. Nonaka: That was an epoch making event. It Shareholders’ Meeting. And in the following year, in was innovative to put the proposal of “human health 2006, the Shareholders’ Meeting approved the revision care” into the Articles of Incorporation. It was truly of the Articles of Incorporation to state, “The Company’s inspiring to see the positive sequence, prioritizing mission is the enhancement of patient satisfaction. The patient contribution (social contribution) over profit, was Company believes that revenues and earnings will be added to the Articles of Incorporation at the generated by fulfilling this mission. The Company places Shareholders’ Meeting. I think the action was ahead of importance on this sequence of placing the mission the trend of wise capitalism. Eisai’s “Societal Innovation” Takayama: Eisai is currently developing a new aim of “creating a community where people with business domain called “Societal Innovation” which is to dementia can live comfortably.” change our society. As a specific example, we are taking on the challenge of social innovation in Prof. Nonaka: The Resident-Driven Living Labs, which collaboration with local communities, such as the Living Eisai initiated in 2015 as a new challenge for knowledge Labs, based on Knowledge Creation Theory, with the creation activities, is an innovative approach that is 7 ●Business model based on “hhc” CSR CSV hhc Company Introduction Corporate Social Responsibility Creating Shared Value human health care Value: Economic and social Value: Doing good Value: The common good benefits relative to cost Citizenship, philanthropy, Joint company and community Companies together create value sustainability value creation in tune with community needs Discretionary or in response to Integral to competition No fixation on competition external pressure Profits are gained as the result of Separate from profit maximization Integral to profit maximization Management Strategies striving for the common good Agenda is determined by external Agenda is company specific and internally generated Agenda is shared by each company reporting and personal preferences Impact is limited by corporate Realigns the entire corporate Included in the company’s regular footprint and CSR budget budget operating budget Example: Transforming procurement Example: Input of customer Example: Fair trade purchasing to increase quality and yields needs into value chain ＊Compiled by Deloitte Tohmatsu Consulting based on Michael E. Porter, “Creating Shared Value,” Harvard Business Review, and other resources and revised by Eisai. Supervised by Ikujiro Nonaka, Professor Emeritus of Hitotsubashi University. Value Creation Activities completely different from living labs such as business field for many years to realize the “hhc” demonstration experiment conducted based on corporate philosophy as social goodness. By hypothesis by companies and academia, or national coordinating the practice of Knowledge Creation Theory and local governments’ policies conducted in other focusing on the needs of residents, Eisai will be able to regions of Europe, the United States and Japan. obtain answers to healthcare needs and challenges Eisai’s Living Labs is an unprecedented mechanism through new solutions as well as medicine. for creating innovation, in which the local residents Furthermore, Eisai could build a new ecosystem by themselves put the Knowledge Creation Theory into linking the creation of Social Capital to Societal practice. Eisai has been engaged with this theory in the Innovation. Financial Base What Society Requires after COVID-19 Takayama: Recently, I feel that COVID-19 has been In such a society, wise leadership is becoming causing not only physical infection, but also social increasingly important even in changing and chaotic infection by causing people to feel uneasy as an situations. The leadership can make quick decisions and infection in the mind, and inducing prejudice and create the future through interaction between the discriminatory behavior. We have witnessed that human common good and the reality. The foundation of wise Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital beings are forced to lose their ties with their own self leadership is empathy, which enables us to connect with and are driven to inappropriate actions or ideas. How all people, things, and the environment at “here and now.” do you see the current world situation under Based on the empathy in the field, we will find a COVID-19? breakthrough through a battle of knowledge, and systematically and autonomously accomplish Prof. Nonaka: Known as “new normal,” the impact knowledge creation with grit. In addition, we will from COVID-19 changed the world drastically and we overcome conflict of interests with the principles of can no longer go back to where we were before. “common good” and bring together the world’s network Digitalization or digital transformation (DX) will be further of knowledge, including grass-roots networks. We have enhanced. However, it is human creativity that gives many predecessors who have advocated and practiced meaning to numbers and data in the digital world. We the dynamic synthesis of altruism and egoism. I think it cannot create the future without striving for creative is time to form an agile scrum together to reconstruct activity with diverse people, addressing their and disseminate the origins of Japanese management Appendix unconsciousness and the tacit knowledge. This is the represented by “Sampo Yoshi (good for the seller, good universal “royal road” of knowledge creation in any era. for the buyer, and good for society)” to the world. 8 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Aiming to Contribute to Patients around the World History of Eisai 1941 Founded Eisai 1980s～ Established a foundation for global business expansion The founder Toyoji Naito established Eisai and Three-hub R&D network established focused on drug creation activities, because he 1982 Tsukuba Research Laboratories (Japan) was dissatisfied with how Japan’s drug industry at the time remained overly reliant on 1989 Eisai Research Institute of Boston, Inc. (U.S.) imports. 1992 Eisai London Research Laboratories, Ltd. (U.K.) 1941 Established Nihon Eisai Co., Ltd. 1955 Changed corporate name from Nihon Eisai Co., Ltd. to Eisai Co., Ltd. Founder: Toyoji Naito Tsukuba Research Laboratories Eisai Research Institute of Eisai London Research Boston, Inc. Laboratories, Ltd. Late 1960s Commenced full-fledged overseas expansion Entry into dementia and oncology areas Yuji Naito was inaugurated as the second President 1983 Commenced drug discovery research on dementia of Eisai in 1966, and promoted overseas at Tsukuba Research Laboratories expansion proactively. 1987 Launched R&D group to develop anticancer agents at Tsukuba Research Laboratories Late1960s to early1970s 1988 Inauguration of Haruo Naito, Present CEO Local subsidiaries established in Southeast Asia 1992 Adopted the corporate philosophy of “human health care (hhc)” Yuji Naito 1941年 Late 1990s～ Growth of two major brands accelerated global business expansion Major in-house products Launched Alzheimer’s Launched proton-pump disease (AD) treatment Aricept® inhibitor Pariet® 1997 Aricept® 1997 in the U.S. 1997 in Japan and Europe (U.K.) 1999 in Japan Yujiin the U.S. 1998 in Europe (U.K.) 1999 (brand name: AcipHex®) 1997 Pariet® 1941年to FY2005 Millennium Plan FY2002 ■Outcome Absence of launch of products developed in-house Achievement of major KPIs a year ahead (Revenue ¥600 billion, Operating Profit ¥100 billion) Enhancement of corporate governance 2004 Transferred to a company with committees ■Issue 2005 Incorporated the Corporate Philosophy Dispersion of R&D resources into the Company’s Articles of Incorporation Unable to launch in-house developed products 1941年to FY2010 FY2006 Dramatic Leap Plan ■Outcome Strengthened foundation in oncology area Establishment of product supply system on affordable pricing 2007 : Acquired Morphotek, Inc. in the U.S. Completion of Vizag 2008 : Acquired MGI Pharma, Inc. in the U.S. Plant in India 2010 : Established H3 Biomedicine Inc. in the U.S. Launched anticancer agent Halaven® Vizag Plant (India) 2010 reach of peak sales of 2 major brands ■Issue Halaven® Aricept® ¥322.8 billion (FY2009) Underachivement of performance targets Pariet® ¥175.9 billion (FY2007) （Revenue ¥1 trillion, Operating profit (eribulin mesylate) Injection ¥200 billion） Total ¥470.8 billion (FY2009) Dispersion of R&D resources Achievement of record revenue (FY2009） 9 Concentration of resources in neurology and oncology area Company Introduction 2010s Value creation through new products developed in-house and partnership model Formulated partnerships in the neurology and oncology area ・Neurology area ・Oncology area Biogen Inc. Merck & Co., Inc., 2014 : Entered into a collaboration agreement with Biogen Inc. for Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. the development and commercialization of AD treatments 2018 : Entered into global strategic oncology collaboration for Lenvima® with Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. 1941年 FY2011 to FY2015 Plan Hayabusa Management Strategies 2012 Fycompa® ■Outcome ■Issue ® Enhancement of business in China and Asia Under achievement of performance targets （Revenue over ¥800 billion, Strengthened efforts to improve access to Operating Profit over ¥200 billion） medicines Lack of capability to Loss of exclusivity (LOE) Launched new products developed in-house respond to changes in the in two major brands business environment 2012 : Launched antiepileptic agent by LOE of two major brands Aricept ® Pariet ® 2015 Fycompa® 2010 in the U.S. 2010 in Japan Lenvima® 2015 : Launched anticancer agent Lenvima® 2011 in Japan 2012 in Europe in the U.S., Japan, and Europe 2012 in Europe 2013 in the U.S. 1941年 FY2016 to FY2025 EWAY 2025 → P.21 Value Creation Activities FY2019～ Development progress in neurology and oncology area July 2019 The Eisai Center for Genetics Guided Dementia Discovery (G2D2), a new exploratory research facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S., began full-scale research activities. September The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) marked the first approval of Lenvima® (lenvatinib) plus KEYTRUDA ® (pembrolizumab) combination treatment for patients with endometrial carcinoma＊ October Regulatory filing planned for investigational aducanumab in early AD November Launched Parkinson’s disease treatment Equfina® tablets in Japan Lenvima® accepted additional indication for differentiated thyroid cancer in China 2020 December Anti-insomnia drug Dayvigo TM obtained new drug approval in the U.S., followed by Japan in January 2020 Dayvigo™ January 2020 Launched Fycompa® and Halaven® in China Financial Base March Launched digital tool “NouKNOWTM” in Japan for self-assessment of brain performance (brain health) June Launched Dayvigo TM in the U.S. (Japan in July) July Biogen Inc. completed submission of Biologics License Application (BLA) to the FDA for the approval of aducanumab, an investigational treatment for AD Initiated new Phase Ⅲ study (AHEAD 3-45) of investigational BAN2401 preclinical (asymptomatic) AD ＊Advanced endometrial carcinoma that is not microsatellite instability high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient (dMMR), who have disease progression following prior systemic therapy and are not candidates for curative surgery or radiation Advancement to Medico Societal Innovator Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital ●Trends in revenue and operating profit＊1 Fiscal 2019 ROE 18.6% CAGR＊5 Operating profit Revenue (Billions of yen) Revenue Operating Profit 20％ (Billions of yen) 800 695.6 160 719.0 125.5 600 CAGR＊5 120 25％ 年平均成長率 20％ 400 88.0＊3 80 200 Dramatic 40 Millennium Plan Leap Plan Plan Hayabusa EWAY 2025 0 0 7 ＊2 M Appendix 2 3 4 5 6 8 9 l2 B ed fis usin ium 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 010 011 012 013 014 015 016 017 018 01 l2 l2 l2 l2 l2 l2 l2 l2 l2 l2 l2 l2 l2 l2 l2 l2 l2 fis 9 ca es -Te l 2 s P rm ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca for c al ca 0 2 la fis fis fis fis fis fis fis fis fis fis fis fis fis fis fis fis fis fis ec 2 0 as 2 0 5t n t arg et ＊ 4 ＊1 Results up to fiscal 2013 were calculated pursuant to J-GAAP, while results for fiscal 2014 and beyond were calculated pursuant to IFRS. ＊2 The reduction of operating profit in fiscal 2007 reflected the acquisition of MGI Pharma, Inc. ＊3 We position fiscal 2020 as a year of upfront investment for future growth. ＊4 Fiscal 2025 target is estimated growth prediction, not an official forecast. ＊5 During fiscal 2019 to fiscal 2025 (forecast). Numbers are approximate. 10 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 SWOT Analysis (Business) Taking on the challenge to promptly expand our contributions to patients with clear understanding of our characteristics S Eisai’s characteristics S trengths 1 Internalized philosophy of “hhc” and deep engagement of employees 83 points Employees’ empathy toward Corporate Mission and Vision exceeded all industries’ average Reference P69-72 2 Ample knowledge of medicine creation backed by experience Pipelines (as of May 2020) P1-2, Neurology area 9 Oncology area 34 Reference 23-30, 35-38 3 Global business activities More than 15 Drug discovery, 9 production sites 40 subsidiaries Research and development, and Clinical research sites P22, 39-40 Reference 41-42 4 Strategic partnerships •Neurology area Biogen Inc. •Oncology area Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. Reference P43-44 5 Development of the Dementia Ecosystem Platform People living with dementia Private insurance and their families Medical Information on people Information on institutions Cognitive functions prediction Fitness clubs in daily life and prevention Diagnostic tools Automobile manufacturers Collaboration on products and services Regulatory that will be useful in the prevention of dementia as well as the maintenance authorities Retail businesses and enhancement of cognitive functions Use of lifelog data to improve the Universities, Nursing homes accuracy of diagnostic measurement research organizations, technologies and prediction of cognitive and bio-ventures functions, and support optimal diagnosis and therapeutic intervention New benefits with New benefits with other producers other producers Societal Medico Achievement of societal innovation through the dementia ecosystem Reference P31-34 11 Company Introduction Weaknesses ●Revenue and R&D expenses of top 10 pharmaceutical companies and Eisai in fiscal 2019 Company A 1 Limited R&D expenses Company B Company C Company D Management Strategies Company E Utilize partnerships Company F Company G W Company H Company I Company J 2 ■R&D expense ■Revenue Loss of exclusivity (LOE) of major products Eisai 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 (Billions of yen) Preparation of new treatment of Alzheimer’s disease Source : AnswersNews (Only available in Japanese) https://answers.ten-navi.com/pharmanews/18365/ 3 Slow business development in Africa Value Creation Activities Collaboration with international NGOs O Environment surrounding pharmaceutical industry Opportunities Financial Base 1 Global expansion of pharmaceutical market 2 Growing interest in preventive medicine Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital 3 Progress of personalized medicine utilizing data science T Threats 1 Market entry of innovative treatments 2 Downward pressure on drug prices Appendix 3 Increasing market share of generic drugs 12 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Message from CEO To Our Stakeholders We would like to extend our deepest sympathies to The Whole Picture of Eisai’s Business those who were infected with the new coronavirus (COVID-19), and thank all the healthcare workers who are fighting against the virus on the front lines day and night, and we hope that the infection will come to an end soon. TRUST I consider “Trust,” “Purpose,” and “Integrity” as important elements of our business, and we have undertaken initiatives during the COVID-19 pandemic focusing on these. I believe that “Trust” is built when you show that you are constantly considering others. PURPOSE INTEGRITY As one of those efforts, we have provided our products and relief goods such as masks to local governments with partnership agreements for dementia and patient groups in Japan, as well as donations to countries around the world. I think the most important things in (BCP), we secured sufficient supply of active order to realize “hhc” philosophy, which is “Purpose,” pharmaceutical ingredient (API), raw and intermediate are to improve the quality of life (QOL) of patients materials as well as ample stock of final products. As based on empathy, and to supply life-related products for the safety of employees at the sites, we continue to in a stable manner. Even under COVID-19, all of our 9 operate while implementing strict measures to prevent manufacturing sites around the world are operating infection in accordance with the COVID-19 Operational smoothly. Based on our Business Continuity Plan Manual established by the company. Another important “Purpose” is to develop treatment for COVID-19. Eritoran is in-house developed by our former Research Institute of Boston as a treatment candidate＊ for severe sepsis, which may suppress upstream of cytokine storm which causes severe lung inflammation or multiple organ failure. Clinical study is currently ongoing in cooperation with international networks with an aim to contribute to patients as soon as possible. We are also involved in the development of immunologic adjuvant (vaccine) and compound candidates (treatments) in collaboration with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation as the only Japanese company involved in this project. Although the spread of COVID-19 is affecting people all over the world, the Eisai Group gives first thought to patients, and continues to carry on our business, including stable supply of drugs, through properly managed corporate behavior. We will take every possible measure. ＊ The development was discontinued in 2014 after Phase Ⅲ study was conducted. 13 Stable Supply of Life-Related Products: Smooth Operation in Global 9 Sites Hatfield, U.K. Kawashima (Gifu), Japan Fukushima, Japan Baltimore, U.S. (EA pharma) Company Introduction Kashima (Ibaraki), Japan Management Strategies Vizag, India Benxi, China Bogor, Indonesia Suzhou, China Contribution to Patients Backed by Engagement and Practice of Corporate Philosophy “We give first thought to patients and their families, and pediatric cancer hospital ward and spent a day with a increase the benefits that health care provides them, and boy who had cancer. This employee and the boy Value Creation Activities fulfil various healthcare needs of the world.” This belonged to different generations and there was a description of “hhc” is easy to understand, but language barrier, but at the end of the day, the employee understanding how patients feel joy, what makes them was in tears, understanding what kind of feelings this boy upset or sad, and what they look forward to, is not easy. lived with. This shows what empathy means and this is Accordingly, approximately 10,000 employees worldwide what we expect from “Socialization.” What is more are encouraged to spend 1% of their total business hours important about the concept of “hhc” is that it is shared interacting with patients to learn their true thoughts and not only among us but also with our shareholders. The feelings. We believe that it is important to truly consider concept was codified into our Articles of Incorporation at the perspectives of patients, and share thoughts and the General Shareholders Meeting in 2005 upon receiving feelings that might not be expressed in words, by talking approval. This mutual sharing of our corporate philosophy Financial Base to patients or having meals together with them. I would with shareholders forms a core tenet of the Company. like to introduce an example of “Socialization.” When a foreign employee Articles of Incorporation Article 2 from our overseas (1) T  he Company’s Corporate Philosophy is to give first thought to patients and their families, and increase the benefits that health care provides them. Under subsidiary was this Philosophy, the Company endeavors to become a human health care (hhc) participating in an incompany. Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital house training activity in (2) T  he Company’s mission is the enhancement of patient satisfaction. The Company believes that revenues and earnings will be generated by fulfilling Tokyo, he visited a this mission. The Company places importance on this sequence of placing the mission before the ensuing results. (3) The Company strives to fulfill its social responsibilities by positioning compliance (i.e., the observance of legal and ethical standards) as the basis of all business activities. (4) The Company’s principal stakeholders are patients, customers, shareholders and employees. The Company endeavors to develop and maintain a good relationship with stakeholders and to enhance the value of their stake through: 1. Satisfying unmet medical needs, ensuring a stable supply of high-quality products, and providing useful information on subjects including drug safety and efficacy; 2. Timely disclosure of corporate management information, enhancement of corporate value, and a positive return to shareholders; and 3. Ensuring stable employment, offering challenging and fulfilling duties, and providing full opportunities for the development of employees’ capabilities. Appendix Societal Innovation through Establishing the Dementia Ecosystem We have been spending time with people with dementia for over 20 years since the launch of 14 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Aricept®, then finally came to understand the following Eisai’s Fundamentals three anxieties that they have after years of “Socialization.” The first one is “when will symptoms Empathy with Extraction of Employees spend 1% of their total appear?,” the second is “are there any ways to avoid people in need business hours with patients. anxieties this disease?,” and the third is “I don’t want to be a Spending time with Three anxieties about dementia 1. When will symptoms appear? burden on my family.” Then, based on a hypothesis people living with dementia and their families Mutual experience Sharing ideas about 2. Are there any ways to avoid the disease? 3. I don’t want to be a burden on my family. with people with fashion with breast that if we successfully respond to these three anxieties, dementia (Tokyo) cancer patients (Tokyo) we could bring a sense of happiness and assurance to Execution of Initiatives to people with dementia, we introduced the Dementia initiatives Joint work with people with intellectual handicaps Spending time with relieve anxieties Ecosystem Platform Model, a strategy aimed at (Shizuoka) pediatric cancer patients (Tokyo) Trials of initiatives if they would Designing dementia realizing Societal Innovation, through repeated relieve anxieties of people ecosystem platform brainstorming. living with dementia We have initiated a full-fledged effort to form a dementia platform “Easiit” (pronounced “E-Zit”). The accumulated, we are considering conducting AI core of “Easiit” is a loop of information between people analysis and returning information about preventive with dementia and our data platform. The core asset of activities and risk projection of dementia to all parties. “Easiit” is high-quality data obtained from internal and This information loop potentially promotes the external clinical studies including the studies for nextmeasurement of brain health and the habit of generation dementia treatments that we have preventive behavior. At the same time, in the medical accumulated since the development of Aricept®. We domain, we plan to input data of check-ups conducted will make various projections and give advice based on at medical institutions, and brain performance data the AI analysis of the information of the people with measured by “CognigramTM” that shares algorithms dementia. To realize this, we would like firstly to ask with “NouKNOWTM,” through an application designed people to share daily living domain information such as for doctors. By analyzing the data, we aim to visualize how you sleep, walk, eat and so on, and the results treatment results and assist with detection of side from “NouKNOWTM” (pronounced “NOH-NOH”). effects, leading on to treatment as well as greater “NouKNOWTM” is a digital tool for self-assessment of efficiency in medical consultation or diagnosis. This brain performance (brain health), and was launched in function of bridging the daily living domain and medical March 2020 for legal entities such as municipalities domain is the whole image of “Easiit” through which and corporations. Based on the data we have we aim to realize Societal Innovation. Schematic Representation of the Dementia Ecosystem Platform Daily living domain Medical domain Smartphone Participate in the platform with Participate in the platform with accumulated data about daily living accumulated medical data Data on sleeping Data on diet Blood test result MRI/PET images Dementia platform Interview/ NouKNOWTM Data on walking Eisai’s high quality data of diagnosis information CognigramTM clinical studies of AD treatments Measure brain performance by and external cohort oneself in a short time by simple test with trump cards on PCs and tablets AI analysis AI analysis Information about prevention and Visualization of treatment effect risk projection of dementia Assistance for side effect detection Neurology Area–The time to contribute to patients by next-generation dementia treatments is approaching Aducanumab＊1 is an investigational next-generation our partner is currently actively engaging with the U.S. Alzheimer’s disease (AD) treatment, and Biogen Inc., Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and regulators in 15 Europe and Japan. In the World’s First Potential Next-Generation Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) Treatment United States in particular, Biogen Inc. completed Company Introduction Anti-amyloid beta (Aβ) antibody Anti-amyloid beta (Aβ) protofibrils antibody submission of a Biologics License Application (BLA) Aducanumab BAN2401 to the FDA. Working closely together, Biogen Plan to complete the filing Plan for final readout of Inc. and we are in July 2020 (U.S.) primary endpoint in fiscal 2022 proceeding to prepare and • Confirmed reduction of amyloid in brain and • Confirmed reduction of amyloid in brain and formulate various initiatives reduction of clinical decline in the final reduction of clinical decline in Phase Ⅱ study such as establishing analysis of Phase Ⅲ study • Phase Ⅲ study is progressing to support filing. • Completed submission of Biologics License • Phase Ⅲ study targeting pre-clinical go-to-market strategy, Management Strategies Application (BLA) to the FDA (asymptomatic) AD started in July 2020. building out medical • Engagements with regulators in Japan and Europe are progressing teams, preparing market access, and so on. As regards BAN2401＊1, 2 Full-scale preparations underway to realize patient contributions an investigational antiwith potential world’s first next generation AD treatment amyloid beta (Aβ) protofibrils antibody, Clarity AD, a pivotal Phase Ⅲ study in early AD is of future cognitive decline, has been initiated in July steadily ongoing and the readout of primary endpoint 2020, as a public-private partnership with the ACTC＊3. is targeted for the second quarter of fiscal 2022. Value Creation Activities ＊1 Co-development with Biogen Inc. ＊2 Licensed-in from BioArctic AB Regarding preclinical (asymptomatic) AD, AHEAD ＊3 Alzheimer’s Clinical Trials Consortium 3-45, a Phase Ⅲ study to evaluate potential prevention Oncology Area–Expanding contribution to patients with Lenvima® With Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., KEYTRUDA® combination are being conducted on a co-commercialization activities have been rolled out in large scale with estimated enrollment of a total of 18 major countries. The first indication of Lenvima ® approximately 8,200 patients with cancer. By covering and KEYTRUDA® combination was approved and wide range of cancer types, we expect that this Financial Base ＊ launched for endometrial carcinoma in the United combination therapy may be established as a States in September 2019. We are expanding backbone therapy. contribution to patients globally and recognized all the ＊ Advanced endometrial carcinoma that is not Microsatellite Instability-High (MSI-H) or Mismatch expected payments of 1,625 million USD by fiscal Repair Deficient (dMMR) who have disease progression following prior systemic therapy and are not candidates for curative surgery or radiation. 2019. Following the recommendations in Lenvima®: Expanding Contribution to Patients as multiple cancer treatment Oral Formulation Agents on Recommendations from Guidance Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital guidance committees, we believe that the Hepatocellular carcinoma (single agent) contribution to patients International Liver Cancer Association (ILCA) issued guidance with an oral anticancer to recommend oral formulation cancer agents. agent, Lenvima® may Lenvima® is recommended as Category 1 (based upon high-level evidence) treatment option in expand further. National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines. We are conducting pivotal studies for 13 Renal cell carcinoma in combination with everolimus indications in 7 cancer European Association of Urology (EAU) issued guidance types to expand to recommend oral formulation cancer agents. indication of Lenvima ® and KEYTRUDA® Endometrial carcinoma in combination with KEYTRUDA® combination. Society of Gynecologic Oncology (SGO) guidance recommends every 6 week administration Appendix Clinical studies of of KEYTRUDA®, instead of every 3 week, to reduce the number of hospital visits. Lenvima and ® Combination therapy of Lenvima® and KEYTRUDA® has been increasingly selected. 16 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Pursuing Thorough Safety in Drug Discovery Activities, Ensuring Ethics and Transparency We have been strengthening safety measures for clinical study implementation plan, monitoring of clinical participants in our clinical studies. Particularly for the studies, and evaluation of the structure of clinical study first clinical study of a compound under development sites. We will continue to pay the utmost attention to (Fist in Human Study), we ensure greater safety of the ensuring safety to conduct pharmaceutical research participants while in the process of formulating the and development with high ethical standards. Initiatives for Digital Transformation (DX) One of the keywords under the new order brought by strategy in information provision activities at our sales COVID-19 is digital transformation (DX), and this is an frontline. We will continue to develop new solutions absolute requirement for us in order to realize Societal while establishing and operating a robust data Innovation. As a pharmaceutical company whose management platform. To realize a stable supply primary purpose is to improve the well-being of regardless of climate change or natural disasters, it is patients and consumers, we feel the necessity of recessary to establish global enterprise resource linking digital and individual. We are currently planning (ERP) to formulate and implement optimal establishing a dementia platform “Easiit” to realize this plans, from raw material procurement to manufacturing linkage. “Easiit” contains 3 characteristics of DX: 1. plans utilizing AI to predict the shift of market demand Data-driven, 2. Connected, 3. Speed. Nowadays, in a timely manner. To improve our digital capabilities, online medical consultation or remote medicine are we will also hire people who possess high skills in this provided utilizing digital platforms, and the combination area and establish partnerships with other companies. of digital and in-person activities has become a core Corporate Value Creation by Enhancing Non-Financial Capital We are working to eliminate the various medical and countries. We will continue to provide DEC tablets, until care gaps that exist throughout the world to fulfill a LF is eliminated in all the LF-endemic countries. mission of enhancement of patient satisfaction. One ＊A  disease caused by thread-like worms (helminths) of a pathogen, known as filarial. It is transmitted to humans by mosquitoes. Infection can cause serious damage to the lymphatic representative example is an effort to eliminate neglected system and may cause physical impairment such as elephantiasis, which swells and enlarges the foot so that it resembles that of an elephant. Statistics show that more than 120 million tropical diseases (NTDs). NTDs, such as lymphatic people in 73 tropical and subtropical countries are infected with this disease. filariasis＊ (LF) are serious social issues concentrated in developing and emerging countries. Moreover, due to Regarding human capital, we position employees as poverty and other reasons, the majority of these people important stakeholders in the Articles of Incorporation, cannot receive necessary treatments. With the aim of and strive to ensure stable employment, provide eliminating LF, we commenced manufacturing of worthwhile work, and enhance opportunities for diethylcarbamazine (DEC) tablets, treatment for LF, at developing skills. In the realization of the “hhc” our Vizag Plant in India, which is being provided to the philosophy, employees are an important asset. In order World Health Organization (WHO) at Price Zero. Since to create an environment in which employees with commencing the provision in October 2013, we have diverse values can maximize their capabilities, we are delivered approximately 1.99 billion tablets to 28 implementing various measures to enhance employee countries as of end of March 2020. The WHO motivation, such as promoting “work style reform” announced that the elimination of LF was achieved in 17 represented by telework significantly in Japan. Eisai’s Initiatives for ESG are Highly Evaluated by External Parties We were ranked the eighth among the global major list in the CDP Climate Change Report 2019 was pharmaceutical companies in the Access to Medicine granted. We have also set mediumto long-term Index (ATM Index) 2018, evaluated for the successful targets for greenhouse gas reduction, and our activities in Society (S), including initiatives to eliminate emission targets have been recognized as being based NTDs. In the Environment (E) category, we have been on scientific grounds and certified by the “Science making efforts to reduce environmental impact globally Based Targets (SBT) Initiative.” In June 2019, we over the years, and as a result, a high evaluation of A expressed our agreement with the Task Force on 17 Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The CEO is the only board member from the In the area of Governance (G), we believe that we management side. At the board meetings, various have been taking questions are raised and active discussions are held Company Introduction advanced approaches in from diverse perspectives with outside directors Corporate Governance. playing a central role. We adopted a Company Additionally, we have been selected as a member of with a Nomination the FTSE4Good Index Series for the 19th consecutive Committee, etc., System year since 2002. We have also been selected for in June 2004, to clearly membership in four ESG indices adopted by the GPIF separate functions (Government Pension Investment Fund): MSCI Japan between supervision of ESG Select Leaders Index, FTSE Blossom Japan management and Index, MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN), Management Strategies execution of business, as and S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index. We are well as ensuring fairness and transparency in participants in the United Nations Global Compact. management. The majority of the Board of Directors Through implementing initiatives in ten principles of the are outside directors with a high degree of United Nations in the four areas of human rights, labor, independence. The Chairman of the board, as well as environment and anti-corruption, we continue to make the chairs of the nomination, audit, compensation, and efforts to enhance our corporate value. hhc governance committees, are all outside directors. Value Creation Activities Maximizing Shareholder Value over the Mediumto Long-Term We believe that proactive investment for growth, based With regard to IR, our activities over the years led to us on mediumto long-term ROE management, a stable being recognized and selected by the US financial dividend policy, and a global investor relations (IR) information magazine “Institutional Investor” as the strategy, are three important measures that make up “Most Honored Company,” and we have been ranked our financial strategy to maximize shareholder value. first place overall in the Biotechnology & We achieved the target ROE of over 15% set in ‘EWAY Pharmaceuticals sector of “The All-Japan Executive 2025’ initially targeted for fiscal 2025, far ahead of Team” with the first place in “Best CEOs” and “Best schedule, and we are generating a 10-year historical CFOs” respectively in the sector. Furthermore, the “IR average ROE of 11.1% , with positive equity spread＊ Grand Prix Award” was granted at the IR Award 2018 Financial Base of 3.1%. In working to realize mediumto long-term held by the Japan Investor Relations Association growth, we will continue proactive investment in R&D (JIRA). We intend to in the dementia and oncology areas. As regards disclose information in a dividends, we plan to maintain our policy of paying timely and fair manner to stable dividends, maintaining the dividend on equity fulfill our accountability to (DOE) ratio at the 8% level. At the end of fiscal 2019, investors, and continue Eisai’s net debt equity ratio (Net DER) was -0.29, while to work to enhance Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital the ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent shareholder value. was 63.8%. We have retained our sound financial condition that enables proactive investment and stable We would like to fulfill our stakeholder’s mandate by dividends. increasing sustainable corporate value under the ＊E  quity spread: ROE Cost of equity. We conservatively assume cost of equity of 8% concept of “hhc” philosophy and compliance. We ask all our stakeholders for their continued support. August 2020 Representative Corporate Officer and CEO Appendix 18 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Value Creation Process and Flow Eisai seeks to increase corporate value by putting its Corporate Philosophy into practice. Accordingly, Eisai considers it a top priority to: work to build relationships of trust with a wide range of stakeholders including customers, shareholders and local communities; maximize value for patients, shareholders and employees; and strive to be a socially responsible company. Value generated through corporate activities is built up as “capital,” which is increased, decreased and converted through the business model. In this report, based on the framework＊1 released by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), the process of investing capital to engage in business and create added value, wherein the increase in capital exceeds the inputs, is considered to be the “value creation process.” Meanwhile, “value creation flow,” or how value is generated through business activities, is ultimately an ●Eisai’s value creation process and strategy map Six Types of Capital Based on the IIRC Framework The Learning & Growth Perspective The Internal Business Process Perspective Types of Capital to Sustain Eisai Eisai’s Strengths Financial Capital • Net DER -0.29＊ Creating innovative • Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the products parent 63.8%＊ • Net Debt/EBITDA -1.20 years＊ (P.1-2, 23-30, • Credit rating AA(R&I announced in June 2020) 35-38) ＊end of fiscal 2019 Development of Disseminating global leaders the concept of “hhc” and support to help them (P.5-8) take on active roles as Intellectual Capital professionals (P.69-72) Providing solutions • Abundant experience and knowledge of drug creation activities and pipeline in the dementia beyond the provision and oncology area of medicines (P.31-34) Input Capitals for Value Creation Human Capital • The engagement survey scored 83 as to employees’ empathy toward the corporate philosophy • Acceptance of diverse values Improving access • Hiring and training digital talent to medicines (P.65-68) Manufactured Capital • Stable supply from global 9 production sites Strengthening initiatives for product safety and side effects Social and Relationship Capital • Execution of partnership strategy • Various initiatives for improving access to medicines Strengthening Strengthening compliance Encouraging ethics Natural Capital and transparency corporate governance and risk management • Listed A in CDP (fiscal 2019) (P.73-82) (P.83-87) • Analysis of financial impact from climate change on Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 19 Company Introduction assessment focused on the financial perspective based on the balanced scorecard’s＊2 four perspectives＊3, 4. This is also consistent with the thinking (sequence of goals and outcomes) that is based on Eisai’s Corporate Philosophy of creating social value by enhancing patient satisfaction, our overriding objective, and thereby generating economic value in the form of sales and profit. This report expresses Eisai’s continuous value generation as a value creation process and flow model based on a new model that incorporates the IIRC framework and balanced scorecard. ＊1 IIRC, “The International IR Framework,” International Integrated Reporting Council, 2013 Management Strategies ＊2 Kaplan, Robert S. and Norton, David P., “Using The Balanced Scorecard as a Strategic Management System,” Boston, MA: Harvard Business Review, January-February, 1996 ＊3 Jensen, Michael C., “Value Maximization, Stakeholder Theory, and The Corporate Objective Function,” Business Ethics Quarterly 12 （2） , 2002 ＊4 Porter, Michael E. and Kramer, Mark R., “Creating Shared Value,” Harvard Business Review, June 2011, pages 8-31 Accumulate Capital for Further Value Creation The Customer Perspective The Financial Perspective Value Creation Activities Pursuit of Capital Expansion Expanding long-term Financial Capital shareholder value • Net DER -0.3 to 0.3 • Ratio of equity attributable to owners of (P.4, 51-57) the parent 50-60％ • Net Debt/EBITDA 0 to 3 years • Credit rating A level Intellectual Capital • Contribution to patients with world’s first potential next-generation dementia treatments Financial Base • Value maximization of anti-cancer agent Lenvima® Enhancing customer Cultivating Increasing revenue satisfaction new customers (P.45-50) Expansion of Capital Human Capital • Human talent able to anticipate change and continuously create innovation • More active engagement with the company Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Increasing profit (P.45-50) Manufactured Capital • Stable supply of high quality products to the world even in case of emergency Social and Relationship Capital • Expansion of partnership strategy • Contribution to the growth of developing and emerging countries by improving access to medicines Improving Natural Capital Appendix social value • Environmentally responsible business operations • Mitigating climate change risk and Figures in parentheses indicate creating opportunities the corresponding pages of this report Source: Created by Eisai based on Kazunori Ito and Toshiaki Nishihara, “Disclosure and Usability of Information on Integrated Report of Eisai,” The KAIKEIGAKU KENKYU (The Annual bulletin of accounting study) No.43, 2017 and advice by Professor Kazunori Ito 20 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Medium-Term Business Plan ‘EWAY 2025’ 10 years Realize Societal Innovation for Alzheimer’s Disease with ‘EWAY FUTURE’ Eisai began formulating threeto five-year span medium-term business plans in 1957, and has executed plan management based on a mediumto long-term perspective. ‘EWAY 2025,’ commenced in April 2016, is Eisai’s first medium-term business plan spanning 10 years. We have positioned the four years until March 2020 as ‘EWAY CURRENT’ and the six years from fiscal 2020 to fiscal 2025 as ‘EWAY FUTURE.’ ‘EWAY CURRENT’ Achieved operating profit target of fiscal 2020 and ROE target of fiscal 2025 ahead of schedule Eisai established business groups of neurology and by steadily developing a partnership model in oncology as strategically focused areas with ‘EWAY collaboration with Biogen Inc. and Merck & Co., Inc., 2025,’ based on Eisai’s corporate philosophy “human Kenilworth, NJ, U.S.A. in each area. health care (hhc),” which embodies a sincere Medium-term Business Plan commitment to contributing to patients’ well-being. Eisai Fiscal 2019 Results (At the time the plan was formulated) identified “Ricchi” where we can become a frontrunner Revenue ¥695.6 billion ¥800 billion level (fiscal 2020) and have taken concentrated actions in such areas. In neurology and oncology, we have been able to achieve Operating Profit ¥125.5 billion ¥102 billion level (fiscal 2020) acceleration of development of innovative new drug ROE 18.6% 15% level (fiscal 2025) creation and meeting of financial targets ahead of time Key achievements Key issues Achieved mid-term targets of operating profit and ROE for fiscal 2020 in fiscal 2019 M  ain development theme unachieved Acceleration of development of next-generation Alzheimer’s disease treatments • Alzheimer’s disease treatment • Initiation of Phase Ⅲ study of investigational BAN2401＊1, 2 in 2019 investigational elenbecestat＊1 •C  ompleted submission of investigational aducanumab＊1 based on analysis on large datasets in the U.S. in 2020 Approval of Lenvima® (lenvatinib) plus KEYTRUDA® (pembrolizumab) combination treatment for patients with endometrial carcinoma＊3 in the U.S. in 2019 L aunched in-house created DayvigoTM for the indication of insomnia in the U.S. and Japan in 2020 ‘EWAY FUTURE’ The biggest focus is on initiatives for Alzheimer’s disease We believe that the next-generation dementia disease understanding, preventive behavior, and treatments we are creating will bring great value to realizing habits of cognitive function check. To that end, society not only by suppressing Alzheimer’s disease based on the Eisai dementia platform “Easiit,” we will onset and deterioration of cognitive function, but also prepare various solutions such as acceleration of reducing the cost of medical care, nursing care disease awareness and introduction of digital cognitive services, and care by family. What is most important in function check tools by utilizing our own media tools maximizing the value of next-generation dementia such as websites, and we will realize Societal treatments is the elimination of the chasm (gap) of Innovation. Maximizing Lenvima®’s value and medicine creation based on gene mutation Lenvima® will undergo late-stage clinical trials as related to carcinomatous transformation, proliferation, combination therapy with KEYTRUDA® aiming to invasion, recurrence, metastasis, and treatment establish a core position in the treatment of various resistance that occur at each stage of Cancer cancer types. In addition, we aim to cure cancer by Continuum＊4 with liquid biopsy＊5. realizing precision medicine, grasping the gene mutation ＊1 Co-development with Biogen Inc. ＊2 Licensed-in from BioArctic AB ＊3 Advanced endometrial carcinoma that is not Microsatellite Instability-High (MSI-H) or Mismatch Repair Deficient (dMMR) who have disease progression following prior systemic therapy and are not candidates for curativesurgery or radiation. ＊4 The continuous progression of disease. Cancer Continuum is classified as precancerous condition/ultra-early cancer, early cancer, and advanced cancer. ＊5 A biological test using blood as a sample 21 Our Value Chain Company Introduction Connecting value creation to future patients with a strong global network Marketing Enhance cooperation with community medicine by localizing human resources and developing After-sales service interactive digital platforms Toll-free “Eisai hhc Hotline” Management Strategies providing service 24/7 (Japan) Progress towards regulatory approvals Expansion of indications of investigaional of combination therapy aducanumab＊1 and with KEYTRUDA® BAN2401＊1, 2 ® Oncology area Neurology area Value Creation Activities (eribulin mesylate) Injection ＊1 Co-development with Biogen Inc. ＊2 Licensed-in from BioArctic AB Production Stable supply through Research and Development quality control in Create breakthrough innovation production and based on researchers’ strong sense distribution of mission and ample experience accumulated over many years Financial Base ●List of the functions of each plant, and major manufactured items Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Plant APIs Formulation Packaging Major manufactured items Country Kashima ○ Lenvima®, DayvigoTM, Halaven®, Fycompa® Kawashima Japan ○ ○ Lenvima®, DayvigoTM, Fycompa®, Lunesta® Fukushima (EA Pharma) ○ ○ Elental®, Goofice®, Moviprep® Suzhou ○ ○ Methycobal®, Merislon®, Aricept® China Benxi ○ ○ ○ Transfer factor ＊ Bogor Indonesia ○ ○ Pariet®, Aricept®, Methycobal® Warfarin®, diethylcarbamazine (DEC) tablets Vizag India ○ ○ ○ API for generics Appendix Hatfield U.K. ○ ○ Lenvima®, DayvigoTM, Halaven®, Fycompa® Baltimore U.S. ○ ○ Gliadel® ＊ Product name in Chinese：转移因子口服溶液 22 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Intellectual Capital Development of Next-Generation Dementia Treatments 152 million people Estimated number of people with dementia worldwide as of 2050 ■ SWOT Analysis Strengths Weaknesses 1. Industry-leading rich R&D pipeline along with the continuous 1. High degree of difficulty in developing new drugs disease pathology of Alzheimer’s disease (AD Continuum) 2. Large-scale and long-term clinical studies are necessary • Investigational anti-Aβ antibody aducanumab: Completed 3. Large R&D expenses are incurred submission of Biologics License Application (BLA) in the U.S., and re-dosing study (EMBARK) is ongoing • Investigational anti-Aβ protofibrils antibody BAN2401: Pivotal Phase Ⅲ study (Clarity AD), re-dosing study, and Phase Ⅲ Opportunities study (AHEAD 3-45) in people with preclinical AD are ongoing 1. Increase in the global number of people with dementia as the • In fiscal 2020, a total of 6 projects are scheduled for clinical population ages studies 2. Enactment of the Basic Law for Dementia in Japan 2. Expertise acquired over 35 years of medicine creation in this 3. Realization of early diagnosis and early intervention with area improved diagnostic technologies 3. Progress in the “partnership model,” a global strategic alliance that enables acceleration of development, increase of probability of success, and streamlining of R&D and commercialization expenses Threats 1. Competing products entering the market 2. Development of treatments other than drugs that directly stimulate and activate the brain 3. Increasing pressure to lower drug prices as governments promote policies to reduce healthcare expenditure 4. Delay in development of medicines due to pandemic Environment Surrounding Dementia ■ What is Dementia? Symptoms such as “getting hard to remember new ●Types of dementia things” or “can’t remember the name of my acquaintances” become more prominent with aging. Others Alzheimer’s However, this “forgetting” is due to aging of the brain. By 15% disease 50% contrast, dementia is completely different from “forgetting” due to aging, and refers to a symptom or condition that occurs due to the death of brain cells resulting from various causes and diseases, or an extreme worsening Vascular of cognitive functions. There are various types of dementia dementia. While symptoms of Alzheimer’s disease (AD), 15% the most prevalent type of dementia, are mainly related to memory impairment (core symptoms), behavioral and psychological symptoms (BPSD), such as delusions and hallucinations, violence, wandering and depression are Dementia with Lewy bodies 20% also observed. In addition to AD, dementia with Lewy Source: Guide to Understand Dementia with Lewy Bodies, bodies and vascular dementia are well-known, and as Editorial supervisor: Kenji Kosaka (Kodansya Ltd., 2014) Japanese title: Rebi-Shotai Gata Ninchisho Ga Yoku Wakaru Hon the disease progress, comprehension and judgement abilities of people living with dementia deteriorate, which may impair social life and daily living. ■ Current Situation of Dementia: Increase in the Number of People with Dementia and Costs Related to Dementia As the aging of the global population gathers pace, the number of people with dementia is expected to continue an upward trend. In 2018, the number of people with dementia was estimated to be 50 million worldwide. It is estimated that this number will reach 82 million by 2030, and 152 million by 2050. The population living with dementia is expected to increase mainly in Asian countries. 23 ●Estimated number of people with dementia worldwide＊1 ●Estimated number of people with dementia by region＊3 (million) m: million Company Introduction 150 152 million Low income countries＊2 (3%) 100 82 Middle income million 67.2m 2050 countries＊2 (65%) 50 50 29.9m 2050 million 15.8m 18.6m 2050 38.5m 2030 High income 2050 15.8m 2030 countries＊2 7.0m 2030 13.4m 2030 (32%) 9.4m 2015 10.5m 2015 22.9m 2015 4.0m 2015 0 Management Strategies 2018 2030 2050 Americas Africa Europe Asia ＊1 W  orld Alzheimer Report 2018 ＊2 H  igh income countries are defined as those with a GNI (Gross National Income) per capita of $12,736 or more, Middle income countries are defined as those with a GNI per capita of more than $1,046 but less than $12,736 and Low income countries are defined as those with a GNI per capita of $1,045 or less (World Alzheimer Report 2015) ＊3 W  orld Alzheimer Report 2015 The costs associated with dementia are estimated to people who are associated with them, may fear reach approximately 90 trillion JPY in 2015 and 220 dementia including AD, or experience a feeling of trillion JPY in 2030, including the costs of medical care, denying the onset of the disease. There are also cases nursing care, and family care. In addition to medical in which people postpone going to see the doctor expenses, the cost of care (social care, family care, etc.) despite the presence of symptoms, so that appropriate Value Creation Activities is very high, however, understanding of the disease is medical intervention is not provided. still insufficient. People with dementia, their families, or ●Estimated cost for dementia 817.9 billion USD (approx. 90 trillion JPY) Low income countries Informal care cost 604 billion USD (approx. 66 trillion JPY) 20.4 10.4 69.2 Middle income countries 22.6 19.4 58.0 Financial Base Medical cost Social care cost 19.0 43.1 37.9 High income countries 2010 2015 0% 50% 100% ＊H  igh income countries are defined as those with a GNI (Gross National Income) per capita of $12,736 or more, Middle income countries are defined as those with a GNI per capita of more than $1,046 but less than $12,736 and Low income countries are defined as those with a GNI per capita of $1,045 or less (World Alzheimer Report 2015) ■ Limitations of Current Dementia Treatments and Efficacy Expected for Next-generation Dementia Treatments Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Regarding dementia treatments, symptomatic treatments Illustration of Treatment Efficacy Expected for Next-Generation Alzheimer’s Disease Treatment including our in-house developed “Aricept®” have over 20 years of history in the market, and their efficacy and Next-Generation Alzheimer’s disease treatment safety have been established; however, their limitations have also become clear. Worsening of cognitive functions Mild cognitive Cognitive function is unavoidable after a certain period of administration, and impairment (MCI) Existing treatments Mild there is no effect of radically slowing down or stopping Alzheimer’s disease the progression of the disease. Therefore, development Moderate Alzheimer’s disease of potential next-generation dementia treatment, which Severe Typical progress of could potentially delay the onset of dementia or suppress Alzheimer’s disease Alzheimer’s disease the worsening of cognitive functions over a longer period Age of time, is highly anticipated. In the U.S., it is estimated that a treatment introduced (5.7 million people), and total costs to all payers would Appendix in 2025 that delays the onset of AD, which accounts for decrease by 33% (367 billion USD) compared to the the majority of dementia, by five years, would decrease current trajectory. Similarly, in Japan, if a new the number of people living with the disease by 42% intervention method that delays the onset of disease by 24 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 5 years is introduced, it is ●Impact of a treatment that delays onset by five years on total costs, 2015-2050 (U.S.) estimated that the medical 1,200 (Billions of USD) and nursing care costs in 1,000 fiscal 2025 will decrease by approximately 1.9 trillion 800 JPY in a single year (medical 600 expenses of approximately 1 trillion JPY and nursing 400 care cost of approximately 200 0.9 trillion JPY). The next-generation 0 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 dementia treatments could ■Current trajector 226 267 340 451 596 767 942 1,101 contribute not only by ■Delayed onset 226 267 340 368 417 509 622 734 ■Savings 0 0 0 83 180 259 320 367 suppressing the decline of cognitive function of people Source : Alzheimer’s Association. Changing the Trajectory of Alzheimer’s Disease: How a treatment by 2025 saves lives and dollars Fig6. All cost figures are reported in 2015 USD. with dementia, but also by controlling costs such as medical expenses and nursing extending the healthy life period. This would be of great care costs, and reducing the disease burden by benefit to society. ■ Challenging Path Toward Creation of Next-Generation Dementia Treatment No drug has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug experimental scenario using animal models. Hence, it Administration (FDA) for the treatment of dementia since has been extremely challenging to develop next2003. 146 agents under development between 1998 and generation dementia treatments*. Consequently, it was 2017 did not prove successful. This suggests that necessary to understand the progression of the disease medicine creation in the dementia area is very challenging. by developing biomarkers that accurately reflect It is extremely difficult to reproduce high-order brain changes in the brain of AD, to begin with. functions such as cognitive function that are unique to ＊T  reatments that have the effect of suppressing recurrence rates of the disease or delaying its humans, and it is difficult to create an applicable progression Research and Development along with the Continuous Disease Pathology of Alzheimer’s Disease (AD Continuum) ■ What is AD Continuum? In AD, a peptide called amyloid beta (Aβ) aggregates in neuron accumulates in the cells, after which neuronal and accumulates in the brain, 10 to 20 years before cell death is caused. This is the Aβ hypothesis, which symptoms such as memory impairment appear. It is Eisai’s research for next-generation AD treatments is thought that, triggered by the aggregation and based upon. The current AD treatments are intended accumulation of Aβ in the brain, a tau protein that exists for those with clinical symptoms. By contrast, the People with no pathological Preclinical AD MCI due to AD Mild AD Moderate AD Severe AD changes Amyloid Plaque A T Tauopathy (p-tau＊1, Tau PET) (I) Neuroinflammation (sTREM2＊2, YKL40＊3, TSPO＊4 PET) Definition based on biomarker panel Synaptic dysfunction (NfL＊5, Neurogranin) N Neurodegeneration (t-tau＊6, NfL, vMRI＊7) ＊T  his figure is created based on the lecture at the 39th Annual Meeting of the Japanese Neuroscience Society by Dr. Makoto Higuchi, National Institute of Quantum and Radiological Science and Technology (Radiological Science and Development Directorate) ＊1 Phosphorylated tau ＊2 Soluble triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 ＊3 Chitinase-3-like protein 1 ＊4 18kDa translocator protein ＊5 Neurofilament light chain ＊6 Total tau ＊7 Volumetric MRI 25 next-generation dementia treatments based on the Aβ brain and the understanding of AD Continuum are hypothesis target early AD (mild cognitive impairment progressing. In particular, utilizing Aβ (A), tau (T), due to AD [MCI due to AD] and mild AD) where Aβ neuroinflammation (I), and neurodegeneration (N) as Company Introduction accumulation in the brain is observed, and preclinical biomarkers has made it possible to evaluate AD where earlier cognitive impairment has not been neuropathological changes that characterize the confirmed. pathology of AD. On the other hand, the development of various ＊ Physiological indicators on the presence or absence of disease and the progression biomarkers* for detecting pathological changes in the ■ Investigational Anti-Aβ Antibody Aducanumab Investigational aducanumab is an anti-amyloid completed in July 2020. The consultation with antibody licensed-in from Neurimmune AG authorities in Japan and Europe for new drug Management Strategies (Switzerland) and developed by Biogen Inc. Eisai application are steadily ongoing. In March 2020, the exercised its option rights for co-development EMBARK study, a re-dosing study of aducanumab and co-commercialization in October 2017. A Biological for participants of previous studies, was initiated. License Application (BLA) to the FDA for AD was Value Creation Activities Progress of BLA Filing for Aducanumab The Phase Ⅲ studies (EMERGE and ENGAGE) of aducanumab in people with early AD (MCI due to AD and mild AD) were discontinued in March 2019. Then, in consultation with the FDA, a larger-scale data set containing additional data from the EMERGE and ENGAGE studies, which became available after the pre-specified futility analysis, went under the final analysis. As a result, the EMERGE study showed reductions of amyloid in the brain and reduction of clinical decline in the high-dose group of aducanumab (primary endpoint was CDR-SB [Clinical Dementia Rating-Sum of Boxes]). In the ENGAGE study, although it did not meet its primary endpoint, the data from the subset of ENGAGE that received high doses of aducanumab support the findings from the EMERGE study, by confirming reductions of brain amyloid and clinical decline. We concluded that the difference between the results predicted by the futility analysis announced in March 2019 and the final results was largely due to the increase in the number of subjects receiving high-dose aducanumab due to the revision of the protocol during the clinical studies. Furthermore, the improvement of pathological conditions was also indicated by the biomarkers related Financial Base to tau and neurodegeneration other than Aβ. ●Reduction of brain amyloid (EMERGE) ●Reduction of clinical decline in cognitive function and activities of daily living (EMERGE) 0.05 % Reduction vs Placebo Adjusted mean change from baseline（±SE） 0.00 p-value -0.05 Low dose High dose ＊＊＊ (N=543) (N=547) Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Reduction -0.10 ＊＊＊ -14% -23% CDR-SB 0.117 0.010 ＊＊＊ -0.15 3% -15% MMSE -0.20 0.690 0.062 -0.25 Placebo -14% -27% ADAS-Cog13 Low Dose 0.167 0.010 High Dose ＊＊＊ -0.30 -16% -40% baseline Week 26 Week 78 ADCS-ADL-MCI Placebo 157 128 74 0.156 0.001 Low Dose 157 125 79 High Dose 171 136 87 Nominal p values: ＊＊＊P<0.001 vs. placebo Appendix 26 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 ●Reduction of brain amyloid (ENGAGE) ●Reduction of clinical decline in cognitive function and activities of daily living (ENGAGE) 0.05 % Reduction vs Placebo p-value （ ±SE ） 0.00 -0.05 ＊＊＊ Low dose High dose （N=547） （N=555） Adjusted mean change from baseline Reduction ＊＊＊ -0.10 -12% 2% CDR-SB ＊＊＊ 0.236 0.825 -0.15 -6% 3% -0.20 MMSE 0.488 0.796 -0.25 Placebo ＊＊＊ -11% -12% Low Dose ADAS-Cog13 High Dose 0.248 0.245 -0.30 baseline Week 26 Week 78 -18% -18% ADCS-ADL-MCI Placebo 203 164 104 0.135 0.152 Low Dose 198 166 116 High Dose 181 149 97 Nominal p values: ＊＊＊P<0.001 vs. placebo ■ Investigational Anti-Aβ Protofibril Antibody BAN2401 Investigational BAN2401 is an anti-Aβ protofibril 201 Open-Label antibody obtained through collaborative research with Extension (OLE) study BioArctic AB (Sweden), and has the unique features of (Open-label continuous binding and reducing Aβ protofibrils which are thought to be the most toxic in the formulations of Aβ. administration study) is also ongoing. Clarity AD Following the discussion with regulatory authorities Furthermore, in based on the results of Phase Ⅱ study (Study 201) that collaboration with Alzheimer’s Clinical Trials showed suppression of clinical decline as well as doseConsortium (ACTC), a network of 35 major clinical trial dependent reduction of Aβ accumulation in the brain, facilities in the U.S., a Phase Ⅲ study (AHEAD 3-45 a single pivotal Phase Ⅲ study (Clarity AD) is required study) in people with normal clinical symptoms and for a filing for BAN2401, and is currently underway. pre-clinical levels of brain amyloid accumulation, which This Phase Ⅲ study is targeted to people with early is an even earlier stage than early AD, was initiated in AD, and the results of the primary endpoint are July 2020. anticipated in the second quarter of fiscal 2022. The Potential Disease Modifying Effect Suggested at the time of initiation of BAN2401 201 OLE Study Study 201 (18 month core study) demonstrated that a clinical decline was suppressed and the accumulation of Aβ plaques in the brain was reduced by BAN2401. At the time of initiation of the OLE study, the degree of brain Aβ accumulation of the participants was measured. In the BAN2401 administration group, Brain amyloid reduction at the end of core study persisted for an average of two years after administration of BAN2401 was discontinued. Also, regarding the disease progression, the difference between the placebo group and the BAN2401 administration group at the end of Study 201 (18 month core study) was maintained for an average of two years following the discontinuation of BAN2401 administration. ●Effects of reduction of accumulated brain amyloid persisted ●Maintained difference in clinical decline 0.2 4 Treatment Discontinuation Treatment Discontinuation 0.1 3 0.0 Maintained diﬀerence Worsening -0.1 in clinical Improvement 2 -0.2 decline -0.3 1 Diﬀerence in -0.4 clinical symptoms Maintained the level -0.5 of brain Aβ 0 Core baseline 18 months OLE baseline Core baseline 18 months OLE baseline Modelled data plotted Modelled data plotted ■Placebo ■10mg/kg biweekly at 2 years off BAN2401 ■Placebo ■10mg/kg biweekly at 2 years off BAN2401 27 Our Understanding of Aβ Hypothesis Based on the Latest Findings Company Introduction Amyloid ① BAN2401＊1, 2 ① Aducanumab＊1 (anti-Aβ protofibrils antibody) （anti-Aβ antibody） ② ④ ➡ Association ⬅ Dissociation Management Strategies ③ ＊1 C  o-development with Biogen Inc. Neurodegeneration Tau ＊2 Investigational antibody for AD produced as the BIIB076＊3 result of a strategic research alliance between Eisai and BioArctic AB E2814 (anti-tau antibody) ＊3 B  eing developed by Biogen Inc. Eisai has an option to jointly develop and (anti-tau antibody) commercialize with Biogen Inc. ① The Study 201 of BAN2401 and the studies of aducanumab (EMERGE, ENGAGE, and Phase Ⅰb study [PRIME]) demonstrated that removal of Aβ aggregates resulted in reduction of clinical decline and slowed the decline in activities Value Creation Activities of daily living. From the facts thereof, we have a strong belief in the Aβ hypothesis and we are confident that these results represent a breakthrough in medicine creation in AD area. ② Antibodies targeting aggregates have been shown to remove Aβ aggregates with higher efficiency compared to antiAβ monomer antibodies or BACE inhibitors. The speed of lowering brain Aβ monomer level, breaking the balance, and dissociating Aβ aggregates of BACE inhibitors is slow. ③ In order to understand the overall Aβ hypothesis, it is important to evaluate firstly amyloid and tau biomarkers, and biomarkers for neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration additionally, in a continuous progression of AD (AD Continuum) using the biomarker panel. ④ There are various forms of Aβ aggregates, and among them, many studies have reported that soluble aggregates such as protofibrils have the highest toxicity. It is considered that treatment focused on soluble Aβ aggregates is important. Fig12 ■ Investigational Anti-tau Antibody “E2814” Financial Base Investigational E2814 is an anti-tau antibody and it is expected to prevent further accumulation developed in research collaboration with University of neurofibrils in the brain and suppress disease College London (U.K.). The major component of progression. A PhaseⅠstudy is currently ongoing. neurofibrils, which is one of the pathological changes Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital in AD, is tau protein that is present in neuron. It is ●Intracellular action of E2814 known that the severity of cognitive impairment in AD well correlates with the spread of neurofibrils. E2814 Seed X targets tau seed (tau transmission species), which Monomer is known to propagate to different areas of the brain Antibody to prevent tau Aggregates seeding and spreading: as the disease progresses, and cause tau lesions, =Tau E2814 Appendix 28 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Discontinuation of the development of investigational BACE inhibitor elenbecestat The Phase Ⅲ studies (MISSION AD) of the oral β-site-amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme (BACE) inhibitor, elenbecestat, which were conducted in people with early AD, were discontinued in September 2019. The decision was made based on the results of a safety review conducted by the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), which recommended discontinuation of these studies due to an unfavorable risk-benefit ratio.We are currently conducting followup of subjects who participated in the study. Detailed data of these studies will be presented at the AD-related conference. ■ Series of AD-associated Pipeline: Classification by Biomarker Panel Eisai possesses an industry-leading R&D pipeline in are scheduled for clinical studies, and multiple the dementia area. In fiscal 2020, a total of 6 projects projects are underway for preclinical studies. Non-clinical PhaseⅠ PhaseⅡ Phase Ⅲ Submission Anti-Aβ antibody Aducanumab＊1 Under review in the U.S. A Anti-Aβ protofibrils antibody BAN2401＊1, 2 Early AD: Clarity AD ongoing Preclinical AD: AHEAD 3-45＊3 initiated in July 2020 T Anti-tau antibody PhaseⅠongoing E2814＊4 (I) Immuno-Dementia＊5 Project Drug creation based on immune mechanisms in the brain through discovering target which modulates microglia by leveraging human genetics Synapse regenerant Under preparation for PhaseⅠ E2511 N Synapse modulator EphA4 Project＊6 Non-clinical research is ongoing aimed at maintenance of memory through synapse stabilization Orexin receptor antagonist ISWRD＊7 associated with DayvigoTM AD/dementia: PhaseⅡfinished＊8 Beyond PDE9 inhibitor Dementia with Lewy bodies: AT(I)N PhaseⅡ/Ⅲ ongoing E2027 pathology Collaborative research with Keio University Drug creation based on protective mechanism of brain ongoing utilizing reverse ＊9 translation by leveraging multiomics analysis of clinical samples EKID ＊1 C o-development with Biogen Inc. ＊2 Antibody for Alzheimer’s disease produced as the result of a strategic research alliance between Eisai and BioArctic ＊3 A single preclinical AD study in collaboration with Alzheimer’s Clinical Trials Consortium (ACTC) ＊4 C o-research with University College London (UCL), U.K. ＊5 Research at G2D2 (Eisai Center for Genetics Guided Dementia Discovery) ＊6 Research at KAN Research Institute ＊7 Irregular sleep-wake rhythm disorder ＊8 Core study of Phase Ⅱ has been finished. ＊9 Project aiming to identify and verify novel drug discovery target candidates linked to the development of next-generation treatments and preventative medicines for dementia at Eisai-Keio Innovation Lab for Dementia (EKID) has been selected by Japan Agency for Medical Research and Development (AMED) for the Cyclic Innovation for Clinical Empowerment (CiCLE) program. Eisai believes that improving the various symptoms which are involved in the regulation of sleep and experienced by people with dementia is also wakefulness. It is indicated for the treatment of adults important, and is developing treatments by various with insomnia, characterized by difficulties with sleep approaches. onset and/or sleep maintenance in the U.S., and for the Recent studies have revealed that Aβ excretion treatment of insomnia in Japan. Currently, development from the brain is promoted during sleep. At the same is underway for the indication of irregular sleep-wake time, it is thought that sleep disorders may trigger Aβ rhythm disorder (ISWRD) associated with AD. accumulation in the brain, leading to AD. Eisai has Furthermore, the development of investigational launched lemborexant (product name: DayvigoTM), an E2027, a PDE9 inhibitor targeting dementia with Lewy antagonist that competitively binds to orexin receptors bodies, is ongoing. 29 ■ Projects in Preclinical Stages ●Approach to Nerve Activation Company Introduction There are more than 100 billion neurons in the human for the EphA4 project, a synapse modifier that we are brain, and neurons form a neural network via sites conducting research on at KAN Research Institute. called synapses. It is thought that in the brain of people with dementia, the dysfunction of synapse occurs and neural networks are reduced. Eisai is also working on projects to restore synaptic function and reactivate neurons in the brain. The synaptic regenerating agent investigational Loss Restore Neuron Neuron E2511 is a drug candidate designed to activate Network Network Management Strategies damaged cholinergic neurons and promote synapse Before Treatment After Treatment remodeling and neural networks reconstruction. Preparation is ongoing to initiate PhaseⅠstudy in fiscal 2020. Preclinical studies are currently ongoing ●Research Focused on Immuno-Dementia at G2D2, a New Research Facility At G2D2 (Eisai Center for Genetics Guided Dementia and tau. Studies of genes involved in the onset and Discovery), our exploratory research facility in progression of AD suggest that modulation of the Cambridge, Massachusetts, we have engaged in drug immune function of microglia, the cells that control Value Creation Activities discovery research focusing on immunedementia immune functions in the central nervous system, is a to expand Eisai’s dementia pipeline beyond Aβ high risk factor for AD. ●Collaboration with Keio University Targeting Brain Homeostasis System It is known that the brain has numerous protective the Eisai-Keio Innovation Lab for Dementia (EKID) to mechanisms. Specifically, there are mechanisms to advance joint research with the aim of creating a new remove accumulated proteins such as Aβ and others, drug discovery target potentially to cure dementia remove foreign substances, and repair damaged through the homeostasis maintaining system of the neurons. Eisai and Keio University have established brain, one of the protective mechanisms. ■ Development of New Diagnostic Method Financial Base While the essential diagnostic requirement of dementia development of a new dementia diagnostic method is memory loss, some of the diseases do not have through blood test, aiming for the practical application memory impairment as the core symptom. Currently, of a test method for diagnosing people with earlythere are no diagnostic criteria that are highly stage AD who are targeted for the next-generation recommended by the Japanese Neurological Society dementia treatment with a test method with less (https://www.neurology-jp.org/guidelinem/degl/sinkei_ pain. HISCL™ Series, an automated immunoassay degl_2010_02.pdf). system developed by Sysmex Corporation, has Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Accumulation of Aβ in the brain in the diagnosis made it possible to accurately quantify Aβ in plasma, of AD is currently confirmed by amyloid positron which was considered Full-automated immunoassay emission tomography (PET) or cerebrospinal fluid to be difficult to system HISCLTM Series (CSF) test. In addition to amyloid PET, tau PET is measure. It has been being put to practical use, but there are issues such strongly suggested that as insufficient number of facilities and large costs. In measuring the plasma addition to Aβ and tau, the accuracy of diagnosis of Aβ1-42/Aβ1-40 ratio disease progression by CSF test has been improved using HISCL™ Series by the progress of research on various biomarkers for may help to understand neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. the amyloid pathology in Since February 2016, Eisai has been collaborating the brain. with Sysmex Corporation on research and Appendix 30 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital Initiatives for Dementia Ecosystem Aim to Realize Further Innovation, Not Only in the Medical Field, But Also in Society Keisuke Naito Corporate Officer President, Dementia Total Inclusive Ecosystem Business Unit Chief Digital Officer Q What is Dementia Ecosystem? A. Although an ecosystem generally means an companies. The goal of the dementia ecosystem is that ecological system, we are building a new business Eisai becomes a platformer to provide solutions through model, which is composed of platformers, partners and services and contents of partner companies in various members as if itself is an ecosystem, to move beyond sectors with a medicine creation value chain rooted in conventional business model of pharmaceutical the true feelings of patients and their families. Q How do you deal with social issues regarding dementia? A. Various research has found that life style reform, of next-generation dementia treatment in the medical such as regular exercise and balanced diet, may domain but also changing society, can be materialized. reduce the risk of lower brain performance in recent To achieve this goal, we have established a new years. However, there is difficulty in getting people to department named Dementia Total Inclusive make a habit of implementing preventive action and Ecosystem (abbreviated as DTIE), which is responsible checking cognitive function, since there are not many for dementia ecosystem, in April 2018. people who are implementing and Eliminate Chasms by the Dementia Platform understanding preventive actions and checking Chasm Little awareness or Provide contents co-developed with influencers through to promote perception of disease awareness campaign for people in their 40s and 50s in particular cognitive function by Preventive behaviors are not Recommend detailed activity plan including exercise, diet and sleep themselves, based on an Chasm performed through to make preventive action a common practice in-house survey. So we Cognitive function Chasm Make a habit of checking brain performance by check-ups are not performed are expanding our target from the medical domain Chasm Convenient diagnostic Spread of , tools are not widely used which has the same algorithm with to the daily living domain to eliminate this chasm Not enough Effectively use resources by sharing and encourage resources for PET, availability of PET and CSF test between Chasm CSF examinations medical facilities through consumers to make Chasm Regional Promote collaboration between behavioral changes in cooperation system specialists and primary care (millions of people) not well developed doctors through daily living as well. As a 66 44 13 1.4 0.7-0.8 result of these actions, Common Common UnderDissemination of Monitoring of we believe that standing practice of practice of preventive cognitive convenient Biomarker diagnosis administration/ of disease diagnostic tools side effect innovation, which is not Men and actions check-ups women in the only maximizing the value 40-79 age range Daily living domain Medical domain 31 Q What is the meaning behind the department name “Dementia Total Inclusive Ecosystem (DTIE)”? A. Novelty in naming was the first priority, since the dementia. This is the way we came up with the idea of Company Introduction department would prepare for the launch of nextnaming the department “Dementia Total Inclusive generation dementia treatment and the spreading of Ecosystem.” Ecosystem is an ecological system that is awareness among the public that we were naturally formed without any deliberate. Therefore, the implementing initiatives with a new approach as no one name symbolizes our aim for social system, which is to has ever done before. We believe that ensuring “Leaving allow everyone to access and receive benefits, not no one behind” and promoting “inclusive” society creating the ecosystem itself. Also, the name DTIE mentioned in the Sustainable Development Goals (also shows our aim to connect with all stakeholders, since known as SDGs) by the United Nations may apply to “TIE” means to bond something together. Management Strategies Q What is the mission of DTIE? A. One of the major missions of DTIE is preparation to launch next-generation dementia treatment. At the same time, Eisai strives to contribute to the dementia area in the long run, whether there are treatments or not. Consequently, Eisai’s commitment to making a contribution to the dementia area will never stop, even if the development or launch of next-generation dementia treatments has some kind of issues. It is also important for us to contribute to patients through ways other than development of treatments, utilizing the experience that we have gained through commercial activity of Aricept®. Value Creation Activities Q What was behind the idea that it was important to contribute through ways other than just treatment, even though Eisai is a pharmaceutical company? A. We believe that we have been establishing a position sites in the U.S.) before. Results of a clinical study are as a pioneer in the field of dementia since the completely unpredictable until they are confirmed at the development of Aricept®. At the same time, we have end, although a huge investment is required for research learned that dementia is not solved with treatment and development for new treatment. Pharmaceutical alone. Contributions through tools and solutions other companies have no choice but to put all their efforts into than treatments are expected to come into the market developing investigational projects on the assumption of from now on. We have to prepare for digital success. Thus, we need to prepare other ways of Financial Base transformation as mega platformers, such as GAFA business to contribute to people in need or to monetize, (Google, Amazon, Facebook, and Apple) newly enter other than selling treatments, considering the major the healthcare business with an enormous quantity of impact that the success or failure of projects can have data. I learned a lot from the failure of the clinical study on companies. Again, Eisai’s mission is to realize a new in the investigational project for MORAb-003 when I way of making a contribution to patients by seeking a worked at Epochal Precision Anti-Cancer Therapeutics cutting-edge approach other than treatments to remain (EPAT, formerly Morphotek, Inc., one of Eisai’s research as a pioneer in the field of dementia. Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Q What are the achievements so far since DTIE was established? A. We are focusing on preparing biomarkers to is a global standard as a tool to check brain diagnose continuous AD disease progression through performance, since it is in practical use in more than amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) imaging 55 countries already, including the U.S., and is applied and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination, taking into to over 100 languages/dialects. It is very meaningful account the potential paradigm shift in diagnosis of AD that we could introduce it in Japan. associated with the launch of next-generation Furthermore, we are preparing the dementia dementia treatments. At the same time, cognitive platform “Easiit” for practical use, which general users’ function check-up is a key to establishing the dementia personal health records directly link to. General users ecosystem. We have entered into a business alliance or their family who installed the app would provide agreement for exclusive development and information of daily living, such as data on sleeping, Appendix commercialization of a cognitive function test Cogstate diet, exercise and brain performance score, through Brief Battery developed by Cogstate Ltd. (Australia) “NouKNOWTM” to “Easiit.” General users would receive and launched as “NouKNOWTM” for brain performance appropriate advice on prediction/prevention from the testing (non-clinical use) in Japan in March 2020. This algorithm based on a diverse data set of dementia 32 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 through the app. Needless to say, compliance with diagnosis of disease through interviews eventually, to related rules and regulations, such as the Personal further contribute to people with dementia and medical Information Protection Law, and complete support in staff. In July 2020, we started providing smartphone both tangible and intangible aspects are very app “Easiit App” to encourage behavior alteration by important. The whole idea with “Easiit” is to expand its collecting lifelog data from daily life by co-development function to medical use, which is able to visualize with DeNA Group (Tokyo), our alliance partner. With treatment effect with input from electronic medical the beginning of provision of the “Easiit App,” the Eisai records, and realize optimal therapy and efficient Dementia Platform “Easiit” has commenced. NouKNOWTM “NouKNOWTM” is conducted through a simple card test using a PC or tablet device to quantitatively measure brain performance in four tests evaluating psychomotor function, attention, learning and memory, and working memory. Users can self-assess independently and in a short time frame (approx. 15 minutes), enabling regular assessments in instances such as daily life and health checkups. On the results screen, a score (brain performance index [BPI]) — as a measurement of quantified brain performance aspects such as memorization, cognition, and decision — appears along with lifestyle advice for maintaining brain performance. We started the sales for corporate bodies such as local governments and companies, and we have received many inquiries. NouKNOWTM (Only available in Japanese) ▶ https://nouknow.jp/ “Easiit App” (co-development and provision with DeNA Group) “Easiit App” is designed to support building of habits that are considered good for brain performance in daily life. A menu of individualized recommendations on diet, based on users’ footsteps, diet, sleep, and weight records (lifelog) is updated on a weekly basis and displayed. Individualized scoring is conducted based on actions and habits which are good for brain performance. For diet record in particular, easy diet management is made possible as the “Easiit App” evaluates users’ meals via photo upload for calorie intake and eleven The app supports a healthy routine. essential nutrients, and displays this information in Increase your score and help maintain performance! relation to an age-based standard for calorie and Analyzes calorie and nutrient intake. Eisai plans to equip the “Easiit App” nutrient intake with a linkage to the brain performance self-check tool “NouKNOWTM” and a new function is planned for use in families. This app is now free of charge and the high function edition with various additional Proposes a Quantifies customized menu contents and continuous individual data visualization for you good habits for on a weekly basis brain performance is to be launched for a charge. Easiit (Only available in Japanese) ▶ https://www.easiit.com/app 33 Community Network Building that Enables Dementia Patients to Live with Peace of Mind Since 2010, the Company has been promoting the 2020). The Company proactively participates in the Company Introduction conclusion of regional collaborative agreements with promotion of the understanding of dementia, its early local governments, medical associations, and discovery and treatment, and other community-building pharmaceutical associations, etc., throughout Japan efforts that allow dementia patients to live with peace of (167 organizations in 44 prefectures as of March 31, mind. Message from Bunkyo-city, Tokyo, collaborating with Eisai under Regional Collaborative Agreement Ms. Kiyomi Shidehara, Dementia area support promotion member, Elderly Welfare Division We concluded a community development with dementia, such as a project to make the Management Strategies partnership agreement to promote local dementia number of missing people due to dementia zero in support initiatives with Eisai Co., Ltd. in June 2015, Bunkyo-ward. whose head office is located in Bunkyo-ward and is We will continuously promote understanding and promoting initiatives to support local communities awareness of dementia to further develop the for dementia, in addition to conduct research and community, where people with dementia and their development for dementia treatments. families can live with peace of mind in collaboration We have been working together to disseminate the with Eisai Co., Ltd. initiatives rooted in the community to support people Value Creation Activities Case Example: Bungotakada City, Oita Prefecture We undertook the building of a community network reminiscing where participants talked about their that enables local residents to acquire a grasp of past memories, lectures on oral care, and cooking their cognitive function level as well as the state of classes where participants thought of their own their health, and consult healthcare professionals at menu and procured needed ingredients. an early stage. In collaboration with the local government and medical association, salons (meeting places) were set up at 15 locations for about 300 people. Health checkups to confirm such Financial Base matters as cognitive function and frailty levels were held at the salons. Participants suspected of having mild dementia were asked to visit a specialist hospital for further checks. Activities useful for maintaining good health were also held at salons. They included brain exercise classes, a place for Brain exercise class (September 2019) Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Dementia Cafe The dementia cafe (Orange Cafe) is a place where participate each time a salon is held, proactively dementia patients, their families and people from the interacting with a variety of individuals. community can gather freely. Orange Cafes are regularly held at the Company’s Head Office (Tokyo), the Naito Museum of Pharmaceutical Science and Industry (Gifu Prefecture), and the Tsukuba Research Laboratories (Ibaraki Prefecture). In addition to spending an enjoyable time, people who visit the cafe can make new friends, exchange information, and consult healthcare and nursing care professionals. At the same Appendix time, they can also participate in brain activation exercises, led by nursing preventive exercise instructors, enjoy musical entertainment as part of music therapy, and other offerings. The Company’s employees Brain activation exercise (January 2020) 34 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Intellectual Capital Progress of Innovative Medicine Creation in Oncology Area 16 types of cancer 12million people Number of patients with cancer globally to whom Eisai may be able to contribute through our products and projects under development ■ SWOT Analysis Strengths Weaknesses 1. Capability to develop in-house products based on experience 1.Insufficient variety of products for specific cancer types and knowledge of medicine creation with human biology 2.Initiatives to provide innovative treatment methods aiming for evidence as a pillar the curing of cancer are still in non-clinical stage 2.Capability in research and development based on cuttingedge organic synthesis chemistry, which was utilized in the development of Halaven® 3.Contribution to patients by establishing standard of care Opportunities through steady progress in development of combination therapy 1.Expansion of oncology market along with creation of highof Lenvima® and KEYTRUDA® value-added agents and economic growth in developing/ 4.Fulfilling unmet medical needs through strategic partnership emerging countries that enables creation of new value 2.Transformation of treatment system along with innovation in 5.Progress in the development of projects following Halaven and ® technology for diagnosis and artificial intelligence (AI) Lenvima® targeting cancer microenvironment that is existingtherapy-resistant and immunosuppressive, and cancer driver genes, such as E7386, MORAb-202, E7130, and H3B-6545 Threats 1.Authority’s approvals for competitive treatments 2.Innovative competitive treatments entering the market 3.Increasing pressure to lower drug prices to reduce healthcare expenditure 4.Delay in development of medicines due to pandemic ■ Lenvima : Progress of Partnership Model ® ●Revenue of Lenvima® (Billions of yen) 1.Steady progress of collaboration and expansion of revenue 158.0B JPY Eisai and Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. ■Americas ■China 141% YoY agreed upon a global strategic collaboration for ■EMEA ■Japan Lenvima® in March 2018. The co-commercialization is ■Asia/Latin America currently progressing smoothly in 18 countries as of 111.9B JPY June 2020 and revenue forecast of over 150 billion is 179% YoY expected in fiscal 2020. 101.0 Since collaboration started, Eisai has recognized accumulated total of 1,625 million USD payment from 68.0 62.6B JPY Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. including up-front, one-time option, and milestone payment. 19.0 37.5 Besides, in fiscal 2017, Eisai has received 450 million 13.3 3.1 17.0 USD as reimbursement of research and development 13.1 10.0 expenditure, separately from milestone payment. 12.7 15.0 8.0 4.0 4.8 6.0 fiscal 2018 results fiscal 2019 results fiscal 2020 forecast ●Recognition of payments under agreement with Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. Maximum of up to 5.76 billion USD in total (approx. 611.0 billion JPY＊) ▶ One-time payment: 950 million USD (approx. 101.0 billion JPY) ・Upfront payment: 300 million USD (approx. 32.0 billion JPY) ・One-time option payments associated with Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. exercising certain option rights: 650 million USD (approx. 69.0 billion JPY) ▶ Reimbursement for R&D payment: 450 million USD (approx. 48.0 billion JPY) The deposits will be withdrawn as Eisai’s share of the R&D expenses concerning Lenvima® occurs, and then booked as the reversal of R&D expenses. ▶ Milestone payments: Maximum of up to 4.36 billion USD in total (approx. 462.0 billion JPY) ・Clinical and regulatory milestones: Up to 385 million USD (approx. 41.0 billion JPY) regulatory approval of indications in hepatocellular carcinoma or renal cell carcinoma, etc. ・Milestones associated with sales of Lenvima : Maximum of up to 3.97 billion USD (approx. 421.0 billion JPY) ® ＊1 USD=106 JPY 35 ●Recognized planned milestone payments One-time payment Clinical and regulatory milestone Sales-based milestone (Total 950 million USD) (Maximum of up to 385 million USD) (Maximum of up to 3.97 billion USD) Company Introduction Approval of hepatocellular carcinoma When revenue of 500 million Up-front payment 300 million USD indication in Japan 25 million USD USD was achieved in fiscal 50 million USD (Fiscal 2017) (Fiscal 2017) 2018 Approval of hepatocellular carcinoma When revenue of 800 million One-time option payment 325 million USD indication in the U.S. 125 million USD USD was achieved from January 150 million USD (Fiscal 2018) (Fiscal 2018) to December 2019 Approval of hepatocellular carcinoma When revenue of 750 million One-time option payment 200 million USD indication in Europe 50 million USD USD was achieved in fiscal 150 million USD (Fiscal 2019) (Fiscal 2018) 2019 Approval of reimbursement for hepatocellular When revenue of 1 billion carcinoma indication in Europe 25 million USD USD was achieved in fiscal 200 million USD (Fiscal 2018) 2019 Management Strategies Approval of hepatocellular carcinoma indication in China 25 million USD (Fiscal 2018) Total receipts 1,625 million USD Received 450 million USD in fiscal 2017, as a reimbursement for research and development expenses 2. Obtained first approval for the combination therapy of Lenvima® and KEYTRUDA® for the treatment of endometrial carcinoma＊1 In September 2019, the first combination therapy of Center of Excellence. Project Orbis provides a Lenvima® and KEYTRUDA® was approved and framework for concurrent submission and review of Value Creation Activities launched in the U.S. for the treatment of endometrial oncology drugs among its international partners. Under carcinoma.This is the first new treatment option in this project, the FDA, the Australian Therapeutic Goods approximately 50 years since the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (TGA) and Health Canada collaboratively Administration (FDA) last approved existing treatment. reviewed applications for two oncology drugs, allowing This is an accelerated approval reviewed for three for simultaneous decisions in all three countries. months under the FDA’s Real-Time Oncology Review ＊1 Advanced endometrial carcinoma that is not microsatellite instability high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient (dMMR), who have disease progression following prior (RTOR＊2) pilot program. systemic therapy and are not candidates for curative surgery or radiation ＊2 The FDA’s Real-Time Oncology Review (RTOR) pilot program aims to improve the In addition, this review was the first case conducted efficiency of the review process for applications to ensure that treatments are available to patients as early as possible. RTOR allows the FDA to review much of under Project Orbis, an initiative of the FDA Oncology the data earlier, before the applicant formally submits the complete application. 3. Clinical studies aimed at obtaining approvals for additional indications are steadily ongoing (LEAP study) Financial Base Large-scale later stage clinical studies for combination combination with TACE＊. Eisai is aiming for this therapy of Lenvima and KEYTRUDA are ongoing with ® ® combination therapy to be a core therapy by obtaining approximately 8,200 patients with 13 types of cancer. In indication in multiple types of cancer. Furthermore, we addition to 13 studies, which were originally planned at plan to accelerate development, once promising data for the time of signing the agreement for strategic partnership earlier submission is observed in basket trial, a study with Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., further PhaseⅡstage targeting multiple types of cancer. expansion of target indication is underway, such as ＊ Transcatheter Arterial Chemoembolization: A therapy that selectively obstructs blood circulation to induce necrosis in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) by injecting Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital initiating a new study for hepatocellular carcinoma in embolization material into the hepatic artery that supplies nutrient blood to tumor ●Approved indications for Lenvima and further expansion of target indications in combination with KEYTRUDA ® ® Approved 14 clinical studies for additional indications indications in combination with KEYTRUDA ® Thyroid cancer 1L Renal cell Endometrial Endometrial Monotherapy carcinoma 1L carcinoma 1L carcinoma 2L Approved in over 65 countries Hepatocellular Melanoma 1L Melanoma 2L Renal cell carcinoma 2L carcinoma 1L In combination with everolimus Non-small cell lung Non-small cell lung Approved in over 55 countries cancer 1L Non-small cell lung Non-squamous cell carcinoma cancer 1L cancer 2L Combination with chemotherapy PD-L1 positive Hepatocellular carcinoma 1L Monotherapy Urothelial Head and neck Head and neck Appendix Approved in over 60 countries carcinoma 1L cancer 1L cancer 2L Endometrial carcinoma Hepatocellular Basket trial in multiple cancer types In combination with KEYTRUDA ® carcinoma 1L Triple-negative breast cancer, gastric caner, ovarian cancer, Combination with TACE colorectal cancer, glioblastoma, and biliary tract cancer Approved in the U.S., Australia, Canada, and others 1L: First line, 2L: Second line 36 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Major mechanism of efficacy of anti-PD-1 antibody enhanced by Lenvima® (Non-clinical studies) ® Studies showed that antitumor activity of the anti-PD-1 antibody was enhanced with Lenvima by reducing tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) and increasing activated cytotoxic T cells, which attack cancer cells. ■Self-protection of cancer cells against ■The mechanism of tumor associated macrophages cytotoxic T cells Anti-PD-1 antibody Tumor associated PD-1 PD-1 macrophages PD-L1 PD-L1 Cytotoxic Cancer Weakened T cells Weakened Inhibits Cancer cells attack cells attack Cytotoxic action T cells To protect themselves, cancer cells inhibit the action of Tumor associated macrophages are cells that cancer cells activate cytotoxic T cells attacking cancer cells through the binding to protect themselves and inhibit the attack of cytotoxic T cells between PD-1 and PD-L1 ■The mechanism of Lenvima® ■The work of anti-PD-1 antibody Anti-PD-1 antibody Tumor associated Anti-PD-1 antibody PD-1 macrophages PD-1 PD-L1 PD-L1 Attack Inhibits Attack more strongly action Cancer Cytotoxic Cancer Cytotoxic cells T cells cells T cells Lenvima® The anti-PD-1 antibody releases the brake on the cytotoxic Lenvima® activates cytotoxic T cells by inhibiting the action of T cells by inhibiting the binding between PD-1and PD-L1, tumor associated macrophages, which results in attacking the which results in attacking the cancer cells cancer cells more strongly Honored with PSJ Award for Drug Research and Development “Drug discovery research of novel anti-tumor agent Lenvima® targeting VEGF and FGF receptors” was honored with The Pharmaceutical Society of Japan (PSJ) Award for Drug Research and Development 2020. The PSJ Award for Drug Research and Development is one of a series of awards presented by the PSJ and is dedicated to researchers who have conducted outstanding research work that has contributed to medicine through the innovative development of a pharmaceutical drug or applicable technology related to the pharmaceutical sciences. Award recipients are evaluated based on the ingenuity of the research itself as well as the effectiveness and safety of the related pharmaceutical products or the innovativeness of the related medical treatment or treatment technology. ■ Drug Creation Strategy Based on Progression of Cancer (Cancer Continuum) and Gene Mutation The progression of cancer is classified as precancerous precision medicine suitable for each patient. condition/ultra-early cancer, early cancer, and advanced In January 2020, Eisai entered into a joint research cancer. At each stage, cancer gene alteration that and development agreement with Personal Genome correspond to canceration, proliferation, infiltration or Diagnostics Inc. (U.S.) for cancer genetics panel test. In recurrence, metastasis, treatment resistance and so on, this joint research and development, we utilize liquid exists. Next-generation drug discovery research biopsy to create a cancer gene panel test kit that strategy is aimed at curing cancer by grasping these enables comprehensive analysis of alterations in more alterations through liquid biopsy (a biological test using than 500 cancer genes, and utilizes them for drug blood as a sample), leading to the development of discovery. 1. Drug discovery for precancerous condition/ultra-early cancer stage Induction of neoantigen＊1 H3 Biomedicine Inc. (H3B), our precision medicine neoantigens in specific cancer cells through antibodyresearch and development subsidiary based in Boston, drug conjugate (ADC) using splicing modulator, and U.S., and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (U.S.) are increase the reactivity of immuno-checkpoint inhibitors. collaborating in research to advance novel therapeutics ＊1 A mutant antigen born along with cancer cell-specific genetic information and editing abnormalities. It is not expressed in normal cells, but only found in cancer cells. The more ＊2 leveraging H3B’s RNA splicing platform. The two neoantigens cancer cells contain, the more immunogenicity is observed, and the greater the likelihood of becoming a target of immune cell attacks. companies are conducting research to induce ＊2 Molecular editing to remove unnecessary parts from genetic information 37 ●Drug creation strategy based on progression of cancer (Cancer Continuum) and gene mutation Company Introduction Precancerous condition/ultra-early cancer Early cancer Advanced cancer Liquid Canceration/proliferation/gene alteration associated with infiltration Recurrence/metastasis/gene alteration associated with treatment resistance biopsy Induction of neoantigen (Splicing modulator) Enhance response to tumor immunity Modulation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway (E7386) Targeting cell population that has initial gene mutation in canceration Tumor vessel remodeling, tumor stroma improvement Targeting cancer microenvironment that is immunosuppressive (MORAb-202, liposomal formulation of eribulin, and E7130) ERα inhibitor targeting existing-therapy-resistance ERα(H3B-6545) Management Strategies by covalent inhibition Establish as standard of therapy Lenvima® and KEYTRUDA® by leveraging immunomodulatory activity of Lenvima® Aim at curing cancer by understanding individual cancer evolution from “precancerous condition/ultra-early cancer” stage to “advanced cancer” stage by creation of precision medicine WNT/beta-catenin inhibitor investigational E7386＊ Beta-catenin has long been known to be a factor that by blocking transcription through inhibiting proteinrapidly accelerates the malignancy of cancer. Due to protein interactions of CBP and β-catenin. PhaseⅠ Value Creation Activities the high difficulty of drug discovery, which requires study is ongoing for this agent. Abnormalities in WNT/β drug design to inhibit protein-protein interactions, it -catenin signaling pathways have been observed in was made a part of the drug discovery target known various types of cancer. Since this abnormality is as Cancer Big 4, along with K-RAS variants, MYC, observed particularly from the early stage of occurrence and p53 variants. By utilizing the drug discovery of hepatocellular carcinoma, E7386 is expected to be a chemical capability accumulated through experience treatment for early hepatocellular carcinoma. Also, in to date, Eisai successfully developed an oral agent, non-clinical studies, a combination effect of Lenvima® and investigational E7386, which inhibits WNT-signalKEYTRUDA® has been confirmed, and a PhaseⅠtrial in dependent canceration and cancer cell proliferation, combination with Lenvima® is ongoing. ＊ Co-development with PRISM BioLab Co., Ltd. 2. Drug discovery for early to advanced cancer Financial Base Platform originated from in-house developed Halaven® Halaven® (generic name: eribulin) is an in-house microenvironment, and PhaseⅠstudy is ongoing. This microtubule dynamics inhibitor, which was developed agent is expected to show efficacy in cancers such as as a result of Eisai’s remarkable capability in synthetic ovarian cancer that overexpresses folate receptor α, and chemistry. The origin of medicine creation of Halaven® in tumor microenvironment, and to demonstrate antiis halichondrin B, which showed strong antitumor tumor activity. substances, extracted from Halichondria okadai of In addition to MORAb-202, we have a platform Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital marine organism. Development of new drugs is originated from eribulin, that is targeted at existingunderway utilizing assets obtained from development of therapy-resistance and tumor immunosuppressive this innovative product, Halaven . ® cancer microenvironments. It includes a liposomal MORAb-202, which conjugated eribulin to an antibody formulation designed to increase the accumulation of via a suitable linker, is Eisai’s unique ADC, which cancer by encapsulating eribulin in lipids, and conjugated the in-house developed anti-folate receptor α investigational E7130, a total synthetic medium antibody, farletuzumab and eribulin that acts to the tumor molecular compound halichondrin B, and so on. Selective estrogen receptor alpha covalent antagonist investigational H3B-6545 Investigational H3B-6545 is an oral ER receptorα Investigational H3B-6545 has a new drug profile covalent antagonist developed by H3B, and Phase Ⅱ different from existing ones that covalently binds to study is ongoing in this agent. Hormone receptor both wild-type and mutant ERα, to inhibit downstream positive breast cancer accounts for about 70% of all signals and suppress the growth of breast cancer Appendix breast cancers. Through the long-term usage of cells. Therefore, this agent is expected to become an aromatase inhibitors, one of the hormone treatments, agent that can be administrated by the patients with a drug-resistant ERα gene mutations occurs in about hormone receptor positives for a longer period. 30% of hormone-positive breast cancer. 38 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Manufactured Capital Social and Relationship Capital Quality Assurance and Stable Supply 7.5 billion Number of medicine tablets manufactured at 9 global sites in a year Fulfill Our Mission and Responsibility to Consistently Supply High Quality Products for Patients around the World Hiroyuki Kato (Left) Senior Vice President Chief Clinical Quality Officer Chief Product Quality Officer Global Product Emergency Management (referred to as Kato (Quality) in the text) Yoshiteru Kato (Right) Senior Vice President President, Eisai Demand Chain Systems (referred to as Kato (Production) in the text) Let me ask you about supply chain management in Eisai. How do you handle growing medical needs? Kato (Production): We have 9 medicine production products are outsourced to Eisai. Business is getting sites globally. By maximizing the characteristics and more complicated. In order to achieve a stable supply of technical strengths of the region where the site is high quality products under such circumstances, close located, we are building a supply chain that delivers cooperation at each stage of the supply chain is high quality medicines to patients around the world in a important regardless of whether the producer is Eisai or stable manner. Our major products such as Lenvima® a CMO. We believe this cooperation can be realized at a are having approvals applied for in more countries higher level by deep understanding of the true feelings of immediately after or almost at the same time as when patients. In addition, in order to deliver our products to they are launched in Japan, the U.S. and Europe. By patients around the world, we need more and more utilizing not only our own production sites but also efforts to respond to the increasing GMP regulatory manufacturing contractors (CMOs), we aim to deliver requirements of national authorities. At the Kawashima medicines to patients as quickly as possible. When Industrial Complex (Gifu Prefecture), we recently had selecting CMOs to do business with, we confirm not inspections by authorities from several countries in a only whether it is a company that can provide GMP＊ short period of time and conformity, quality, and a stable supply system, but also made an all-out effort to whether they share our commitment to quality and the respond properly. idea of “patient first.” ＊S tandards for manufacturing control and quality control. Kato (Quality): The variety of products Eisai handles is In order to manufacture and steadily increasing. So we select the appropriate insell medicines, it is necessary to comply with the GMP set house site or CMO for each product at each stage of by each country in which the raw material procurement, drug substance medicines are sold, and to be approved by the national manufacturing, formulation, packaging, and so on. Some authorities. What is your specific method for maintaining a high quality of products? Kato (Quality): Ensuring the integrity (consistency and promotes regular training for employees who handle accuracy) of data related to manufacturing and quality important data, automation of calculation and recording control is an essential requirement to maintain product of important data, and establishment of appropriate quality. In order to strengthen data integrity, Eisai segregation of duties. There is a separation of 39 governance between production and quality continue delivering high quality medicines to patients. management. Company Introduction Kato (Quality): The production department and the Kato (Production): On behalf of patients, the quality quality department are the closest and the most department strictly checks the products manufactured important partners for achieving a meaningful wholeheartedly by us, the production department. By contribution to the well-being of patients. separating governance, we believe that we can What are your counter-measures in relation to various risk factors such as Brexit, Management Strategies natural disasters, COVID-19, and so on? Kato (Production): It is our responsibility to ensure certain that we can contribute to patients’ well-being stable production of medicines and ensure delivery to under the new order. patients under any circumstances, so we have formulated a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) and Kato (Production): We have been systematically regularly review it. With BCP, we aim to minimize responding to Brexit from an early stage. Using the damage in the event of a disaster or an emergency and warehouse in Antwerp (Belgium) as a transportation to immediately undertake activities for business base in the EU, we have established a quality assurance Value Creation Activities continuity. We maintain a system that ensures system in the EU centered on Eisai GmbH, a German continuous product supply, such as backup subsidiary of Eisai. In addition, in order to increase the manufacturing systems. inventory of all products for EU to more than 6 Kato (Quality): Even under the COVID-19 pandemic, months, our production we are able to continue manufacturing with minimal site at Hatfield (U.K.) has impact. We believe that this is a manifestation of the increased production by strong will of our employees around the world who are operating 24 hours a day. involved in manufacturing and quality assurance, in We believe that we can addition to responding to BCP and implementing daily continue to supply actions to minimize their own infection risk in order to products without Financial Base contribute to patients’ well-being. In addition, taking this confusion even after the pandemic as an opportunity, we will once again transition period of Brexit. examine the ideal form of logistics and make it more Lastly, please tell us your thoughts on quality assurance and stable supply. Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Kato (Quality): Eisai has a policy called “Eisai Quality Kato (Production): We frequently have chances to Policy” that is the basis of all business activities. In our receive words of thanks directly from patients and their manufacturing and quality assurance departments, we families through Socialization＊, such as “The thoughts keep the concept of “the quality of every single tablet, of Eisai’s employees who make medicines help us,” “I capsule and ampoule that we produce is integral to the want to thank you all. It is thanks to medicine that my life of patients” in mind at every single moment we work. daughter has continued to grow and stayed healthy,” In the case of a major quality issue, the existing “This medicine keeps children alive.” We also listen to relationship of trust with the patient or family can be the message “The most horrifying event would be immediately impaired. In order to maintain and improve discontinuation of this medicine’s supply.” We pledge this relationship of trust, we believe that it is important for that we will never betray the trust that people place in each staff member involved in manufacturing and quality use, and will consistently manufacture high quality to continue their efforts with “Eisai Quality Policy” in mind. medicines and deliver them to patients. Appendix ＊ Activities that involve spending time with patients and their families and sharing true feelings. Please refer to pages 5-8. For the details of “initiatives against counterfeit medicines,” please visit our website at ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/atm/product-security.html 40 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Marketing Activities 69 countries The number of countries where we conduct marketing activities ■ Marketing activities looking at regional characteristics Based on the “hhc” corporate philosophy, the Company ●Number of Medical Representatives (MRs)＊ aims to elucidate the true needs that are latent in patients, their families, and medical personnel, and to Asia and capture questions raised in the clinical field regarding Latin America Approx. 780 disease state, evaluation, treatment, risk, prevention, (Approx. 18%) Japan Approx. 1,340 etc., which will then lead to the meeting of unmet EMEA Approx. 385 Number of Medical (Approx. 32%) Representatives medical needs by proposing solutions in cooperation (Approx. 9%) Approx. 4,250 with each business and partner company. Americas Approximately 4,250 medical representatives (MRs) in China Approx. 1,175 Approx. 570 (Approx. 28%) (Approx. 13%) the Company are conducting marketing tailored to local characteristics for patients around the world through Socialization in the field of medical care. ＊T  he numbers of employees as of March 2020 ■ Japan (Billions of yen) Patients with cancer and neurological disorders tend to be concentrated in acute care hospitals which provide advanced medical care. Because communication skills 291.1 296.2 2,911 301.1 300 are necessary for MRs to share their thoughts with 272.0 280.0 medical professionals with ample knowledge and propose prescriptions, field trainers assigned to each 200 focus area are working hard on talent development. Due to the busier schedule of doctors and the stricter security of hospitals, restrictions on visits to medical institutions have been tightened. Information 100 gathering by digital channels is rapidly being common. Therefore, we established the Digital Market Strategy Department, and are working on the construction of a 0 fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal forecast for fiscal next-generation marketing scheme in parallel with 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ■Aricept® ■Pariet® ■Lenvima® ■Halaven® ■Fycompa® 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 improving the skills of MRs. We are going to realize ■Humira® ■Lyrica® ■Others ■OTC and others ■Generics more effective multi-channel promotion by identifying ＊F  ull year forecast of fiscal 2020 for Lyrica® is not disclosed. ＊ Generic business was fully transferred to Nichi-Iko Pharmaceutical the true needs of medical personnel by separation of Co., Ltd. in April 2019. the roles of MRs and digital channels to increase commercial effect and efficiency, instead of simply replacing the MR function with digital contents. We are aiming at sustainable growth especially with in-house developed anticancer agents Lenvima® and anti-insomnia drug DayvigoTM. 41 ■ Americas (North America) (Billions of yen) In-house developed anti-cancer agent Lenvima® 300 Company Introduction achieved dramatic growth and led an increase in revenue in fiscal 2019. In-house developed new anti-insomnia drug DayvigoTM was launched in June 2020. Eisai is 200 implementing marketing/promotional activities utilizing 154.0 digital tools, such as sending e-mails and holding 116.5 113.9 127.9 97.9 webinars to medical personnel, in addition to 100 conventional marketing activity, in which MRs visit medical facilities to provide information on the products. Eisai aims to further promote digital marketing activity to 0 fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal forecast for fiscal Management Strategies 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 establish the structure, which will make it possible to stay ■Aricept® ■AcipHex® ■Aloxi® ■Halaven® ■Fycompa® ■Lenvima® ■Others connected with medical personnel even in an unexpected situation where marketing activities are restricted. ■ China (Billions of yen) 80.0 Although long-listed products, such as Methycobal® and 77.0 Aricept® have supported the growth of business for a 66.3 long time, in-house developed new products, such as 56.2 49.3 Lenvima®, Halaven® and Fycompa® have been launched 50 Value Creation Activities and supported the growth since fiscal 2018. We aim to continuously grow by being flexible with changes brought by rapid expansion of online healthcare business with further expansion of new products, market development in inland areas and regional small cities/hospitals, and an 0 fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal forecast for fiscal 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 up-to-date business model with full-fledged digital ■Aricept ■Pariet ■Methycobal ■Fycompa ■Halaven ® ® ® ® ® ■Stronger Neo-Minophagen C® and Glycyron Tablets® ■Lenvima® ■Others technology. ■ EMEA (Europe, the Middle-East, Africa, and Oceania) (Billions of yen) 56.0 53.7 Managers spend most of their time coaching MRs 50 49.8 Financial Base focused on initiatives to improve productivity. MRs 44.3 improve their marketing skills through the coaching and 37.8 strive to achieve better performance through mutual communication with medical personnel. Furthermore, in the regions where Eisai implements business through collaboration with partners, such as the Middle-East, Africa, Central and Eastern Europe, and Southern Africa, 0 Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal forecast for fiscal our in-house marketing team provides the educational 2010 2011 2012 2013 ■Aricept® ■Pariet® ■Halaven® ■Fycompa® 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 program to partners, so that partners can learn high ■Lenvima® ■3 antiepileptic agents total ■Others quality information. ■ Asia and Latin America (Primarily South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, India, ASEAN, Central and South America) Asia is the first region where Eisai expanded its business (Billions of yen) outside Japan in the late 1960s, since when 50 487 48.7 46.6 47.0 42.6 approximately half a century has elapsed. The subsidiary company in Thailand marked its 50th anniversary in 35.3 2019, and it has expanded the territory to cover Vietnam, Myanmar, Cambodia, and Laos through collaboration with partners. In addition to the provision of information by MRs, the company hold the event called “Eisai Day” Appendix annually where talk shows and events by physicians and 0 fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal forecast for fiscal pharmacists are provided for patients, their families, and 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ■Aricept® ■Pariet® ■Methycobal® ■Humira® ■Halaven® 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 healthcare providers, as well as the general public. ■Fycompa® ■Lenvima® ■Others 42 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Social and Relationship Capital Strategic Partnerships Number of partnerships 55 Aim to generate societal innovation and maximize contribution to patients, together with partners Kazumasa Nagayama Corporate Officer, Chief Strategy Officer Q Can you discuss the objectives of Eisai’s partnership strategy? A. In order to deliver innovative medicines and solutions of potential next-generation dementia treatments is to patients and their families as early as possible, we steadily progressing, and the development of believe that partnerships with companies and research combination therapy of Lenvima® (lenvatinib), an ininstitutes who share strengths in the areas or fields we house developed anticancer agent, and KEYTRUDA® focus on can potentially help us achieve goals that we (pembrolizumab), an anti-PD-1 therapy developed by would not be able to achieve on our own. Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., is Investing large amounts of resources over the years progressing faster in a broad range of cancer types is often required to develop new medicines; therefore, than the original plan and will help maximize the value of we believe that partnerships are very important for us to Lenvima®. continuously develop innovative medicines and provide As regards the development of solutions, we entered solutions that fulfill patients’ unmet needs. into a business alliance agreement with Cogstate Ltd. Our collaboration with Biogen Inc. (U.S.), which (Australia) in August 2019, as well as launching began in 2014 and the collaboration with Merck & Co., “NouKNOWTM,” a digital tool for self-assessment of Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. (known as MSD outside brain health, on March 31, 2020 in Japan. the U.S. and Canada), which began in 2018 will bring All of these partnerships have helped us create value significant impact in the areas of Alzheimer’s disease that we could not have achieved on our own, and we and oncology, respectively, which we are focused on. aim to transform medical innovation into societal Thanks to these partnerships, the global development innovation through our partnership model. Q How would you evaluate the progress of the partnership strategy so far? A. While there are certainly some challenges in the Furthermore, the launch readiness for a potential first process of building partnerships and working together therapy to realize clinical decline in Alzheimer’s disease with the partners, I believe the results have exceeded is also progressing. I believe this has proven to be a our expectations. successful example of the partnership model. As regards the development of potential nextIn the collaboration with Merck & Co., Inc., generation dementia treatments, while many major Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., co-development of pharmaceutical companies have discontinued the combination therapy of Lenvima® and KEYTRUDA® development, with regard to aducanumab, which we has progressed in multiple types of cancers, and this co-develop with Biogen Inc., Biogen has completed the may dramatically expand the scope of patient Biologics License Application (BLA) to the U.S. Food contribution that Lenvima® can make. and Drug Administration (FDA) in July 2020. Q What are the efforts you have put in place to operate partnerships between the companies? A. In partnerships with Biogen Inc. and Merck & Co., focusing on development, manufacturing, and Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., our CEO closely commercialization functions, as well as regularly holding communicates with each company’s CEO on a regular in-depth discussions. basis. In addition, the decision-making process has I feel that identifying the departments that should dramatically improved by establishing committees work together, in accordance with the differences in the 43 organizational structure among the companies, has discussions, a mutual trust can be built. worked effectively in helping us make quick decisions. It is obvious that working in close communication While there may be a variety of issues to discuss and building trust is essential to operate partnerships Company Introduction between the companies in project that are currently in smoothly. However, the actual process of resolving progress, if we go back to the common goal of “serving difficulties and producing positive results together with the best interests of our patients” and carry on the partners has helped us to acquire valuable expertise. Q What do you have in mind for any new potential partnerships? A. To realize our corporate philosophy “hhc” and the patients, we will continue to invest in companies who medium-term business plan, ‘EWAY 2025,’ we are possess technologies that will be a foundation of drug constantly seeking partners who have strengths in discovery and diagnostics related to neurology and Management Strategies areas we do not have, and have common interests oncology drugs, as well as solutions, such as digital addressing issues that we believe need to be solved. technologies, other than drug development. We continue to build our global investment business We will continue to invest to build upon Eisai’s by recently establishing the Corporate Venture ecosystem that focuses on making a contribution to Investment (CVI) department in Tokyo in May 2019, as patients’ well-being. Various approaches will be well as Eisai Innovation, Inc. in the U.S. in August 2019. considered, including intervention at an earlier stage of Our focus is not on pursuing profits from investments, the disease, prediction of the progress of the clinical but on incorporating external innovations into our condition, and related services. We aim to contribute to business. the creation of societal innovation and increase the Value Creation Activities Since we seek synergy between in-house research positive contribution that we make to patients. and development and the provision of solutions to Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A.’s Statement on Collaboration with Eisai We value our collaboration with Eisai as an excellent example of what can be achieved when two companies work together toward a common goal — in this case, to improve outcomes for patients with cancer. With extensive oncology experience across both companies, we have initiated a broad clinical development program evaluating the combination of KEYTRUDA® plus Lenvima® across many types of cancer, including several registrational Phase Ⅲ trials. Our joint efforts have already resulted Financial Base in the first FDA approval for the combination in 2019, addressing a significant unmet medical need for certain patients with endometrial carcinoma. We look forward to pursuing additional indications Rick Hartz for the KEYTRUDA® plus Lenvima® combination in the coming years and are excited by its potential Vice President, to help even more patients. Commercial Development Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Biogen Inc.’s Statement on Collaboration with Eisai Biogen Inc. and Eisai share a commitment to science and a common vision to deliver breakthrough therapies for patients and families affected by Alzheimer’s disease. This historic collaboration has allowed us to leverage the complementary forces of our organizations to share risk and to create potentially more value together than each company alone. The commitment both companies share to address the urgency in Alzheimer’s disease is exemplified by the rapport between the CEOs and the attention and leadership they provide to this collaboration. It requires time and effort to make this collaboration manageable and, despite the time zone challenges, our joint teams are dedicated to Satbir Kaur bridging the complexities. The success of this partnership comes from the trust and mutual Vice President, understanding our teams have built and the shared underlying passion to make a difference for Head of Alliance Management Alzheimer’s patients. We are optimistic about aducanumab, which promises to become the first and Integration Appendix therapy to reduce the clinical decline in Alzheimer’s disease, and which has completed the regulatory filling in the U.S. Looking ahead, we are committed to advancing our portfolio of potential Alzheimer’s therapies and the co-promotion of Multiple Sclerosis treatments. 44 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Financial Capital Financial Strategy 18.6% ROE of fiscal 2019 Aiming to Continuously Maximize Shareholder Value Based on “Mediumto Long-Term ROE Management,” “Sustainable and Stable Shareholder Returns” and “Value-Creative Investment Criteria for Growth” Financial strategy map＊1 for sustainable maximization of shareholder value Eisai has set out a financial strategy map as its CFO policy to continuously maximize shareholder value. This strategy consists of three key themes: “ROE management,” “Dividend policy,” and “Value-Creative Investment Criteria (VCIC).” Investor Relations Financial strategies Dividend policy ROE management Value-Creative Investment • Signaling effect＊2 • Margin: Partnerships/ Criteria : VCIC FAM＊4/M&A/Tax policy • NPV & IRR • Catering effect＊3 • Balance sheet management • Turnover: CCC＊5/GCMS＊6 • Risk-Adjusted Hurdle Rate • Financial leverage (RAHR) Optimal capital structure Cost of equity Optimal dividend policy based on an optimal Trade-off theory ＊7 Pecking order theory capital structure Credit rating: Single A level Cost of equity: 8% KPI＝8% DOE model Net DER: -0.3 to 0.3 Equity spread Reduction of cost of equity through PBR＝PER×ROE IR activities Maximization of shareholder value ＊1 Source based on the following reference: Financial and Accounting Literacy to Enhance Corporate Value (Nikkei Publishing Inc., 2016) ＊2 Signaling effect: Potential impact on stock price by showing management’s belief in the achievement of revenue forecast through dividend policy ＊3 Catering effect: Potential impact on stock price by meeting the expectation of shareholders’ preference for dividend ＊4 FAM: Fixed Asset Monetization ＊5 CCC: Cash Conversion Cycle ＊6 GCMS: Global Cash Management System ＊7 Trade-off theory: Idea to pursue optimal capital structure for debt finance and equity finance to use for balancing the costs and benefits ■ ROE Management —Target a positive equity spread over the mediumto long-term Eisai has been working to improve its mediumto long-term ROE since the beginning of the 2000s. Eisai aims to avoid short-termism and achieve ROE above cost of equity over the mediumto long-term (e.g. 10-year average). In other words, Eisai aims to create a “positive equity spread (ROE – Cost of shareholders’ equity).” Cost of shareholders’ equity is the return demanded by shareholders and Eisai has conservatively assumed a cost of shareholders’ equity of 8%. Eisai is generating a historical 10-year average ROE of 11.1% and a positive equity spread of 3.1%. 45 ●Trends in ROE by fiscal year and mediumto long-term value creation (%) Historical 10-year average ROE (11.1％) ■ROE(%) 20 18.6 Company Introduction ーMargin (%) ーTurnover (times) 16.4 Cost of equity (8%) ーFinancial leverage (times) 15 14.3 10.9 9.4 10.4 10 7.7 8.8 7.6 6.8 5 0 (Fiscal year) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Management Strategies Equity spread: ROE – Cost of equity (CoE) Historical 10-year equity spread The key indicator of shareholder value creation Historical 10-year average ROE: 11.1% − CoE 8% = 3.1% based on residual income model ＊ ＊Results up to fiscal 2012 were calculated pursuant to generally accepted E  isai conservatively assumes cost of equity of 8% accounting principles in Japan (J-GAAP), while results from fiscal 2013 to 2019 were calculated pursuant to International Financial Reporting Standards (risk-free rate of 2% + risk premium of 6%) (IFRS). ＊ “CFO policy” CHUOKEIZAI-SHA (2020) Financial Turnover leverage Margin Improve asset Utilize financial Improve the ratio of ＝ × × efficiency by leverage while Value Creation Activities ROE operating profit controlling working controlling Net DER by efficient capital, converting with target of operation fixed assets -0.3 to 0.3 for financial integrity into cash Results for Fiscal 2019 18.6 % 17.5% ＊1 0.6 times ＊2 1.6 times ＊3 ＊1 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent/Revenue ＊2 Revenue/Total assets ＊3 Total assets/Equity attributable to owners of the parent Under the DuPont method, ROE can be analyzed by three elements consisting of margin (ratio of profit to revenue), turnover (total assets turnover ratio) and financial leverage. Eisai is focusing on optimizing each of these three elements. Financial Base Increase margins Eisai has focused on expanding high-profit global brands discovered and developed in-house, such as Lenvima®, Halaven®, and Fycompa®. Eisai is aiming to improve margin by effective operation through utilizing partnerships and emphasizing selection and concentration for priority projects. Improve turnover Eisai has managed the cash conversion cycle (CCC) to control working capital and ●Number of strategically held stocks Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital strived to improve asset efficiency through steps including selling assets 32 35 encompassing investment securities and streamlining inventory. The Corporate 30 25 Governance Code, which was revised in June 2018, calls for the validation of benefits 25 21 20 and risks of strategically held shares. Before the revision of the Code, Eisai had sold 15 strategically held shares. In fiscal 2019, Eisai sold strategically held shares in 6 stocks 10 5 (all shares of 5 stocks among the 6) and part of 3 deemed holding shares. 0 fiscal fiscal fiscal 2017 2018 2019 Use financial leverage Eisai has pursued an optimal capital structure while maintaining financial integrity. For maintaining a single A level credit rating as a general rule, we have set the KPIs of Net DER＊1 of -0.3 to 0.3, a ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent of 50%-60% and Net Debt/EBITDA＊2 of 0 to 3 years. By undertaking business activities based on financial discipline, we are steadily reducing interest-bearing debt, and we secured net cash position as of the end of fiscal 2019. Net DER was -0.29, the ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent was 63.8% and Net Debt/EBITDA was -1.20 years. We have secured sufficient financial integrity and liquidity on hand to absorb the Appendix impact of COVID-19. ＊1 Net debt equity ratio (Net DER) = (Interest-bearing debt (borrowings) Cash and cash equivalents Time deposits exceeding three months – Investment securities held by the parent company) / Equity attributable to owners of the parent ＊2 E  BITDA: Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amotization 46 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 ■ Dividend Policy Eisai returns profits to all shareholders in a stable and sustainable manner based on factors such as a strong balance sheet and comprehensive consideration of consolidated financial results, dividend on equity (DOE, ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent) and free cash flow＊1, as well as consideration of the signaling effect. We strive for an “optimal dividend policy based on an optimal capital structure” that depends on long-term balance sheet management, rather than a dividend payout ratio based on short-term performance. As a main KPI for dividends, from the perspective of balance sheet management, Eisai has adopted DOE, which indicates the ratio of dividends to consolidated net assets. In principle, Eisai strives to maintain dividends within the range of free cash flow over multiple years. Eisai maintains a healthy balance sheet under present conditions. Therefore, Eisai increased dividends to 160 yen in fiscal 2019 and intend to keep it in fiscal 2020＊2 with an intention to balance stable dividend payment and investment for corporate growth. Acquisition of treasury stock will be carried out appropriately after factors such as the market environment, theoretical share price, and capital efficiency (ROE) are taken into account. ＊1 F ree cash flow =“Net cash from operating activities”-“Capital expenditures (cash basis) ” # # Expenditures from purchases of financial assets and proceeds from sale and redemption of financial assets are included in the formula used to calculate capital expenditures on IFRS. ＊2 D  ividends per share subject to approval of Board of Directors ●Trends in free cash flow and dividends —Dividends within the range of free cash flow over multiple years— ■Free cash flow (Billions of yen) ■Dividends (annual total amount) 150 136.7 100.3 100 87.3 85.1 81.2 81.7 71.4 68.2 61.3 54.5 50 42.7 42.7 42.8 42.8 42.8 42.9 42.9 42.9 43.0 45.9 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal) ＊R  esults up to end of fiscal 2012 were calculated pursuant to J-GAAP, while results from end of fiscal 2013 and onward were calculated pursuant to IFRS. ＊D  ividends per share subject to approval of Board of Directors (reported on the timing of occurrence) ●Strong balance sheet —Dividend sustainability by maintaining optimal capital structure— (Billions of yen) (%) 700 678.1 70 628.1 598.7 573.7 584.6 593.6 600 60 526.3 64% 0.49 469.4 59% 57% 57% 59% 500 54% 57% 50 404.2 416.8 400 41% 47% 40 300 39% 0.38 30 200 0.27 20 100 0.08 10 0 0 0.00 -0.06 -0.11 -0.32 -0.29 (100) -0.27 -10 (200) -20 End of End of End of End of End of End of End of End of End of End of fiscal 2010 fiscal 2011 fiscal 2012 fiscal 2013 fiscal 2014 fiscal 2015 fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 fiscal 2019 ■Equity attributable to owners of the parent ■Net interest-bearing debt＊1 ■ Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent ■ Net debt equity ratio (Net DER)＊2 ＊Results up to end of fiscal 2012 were calculated pursuant to J-GAAP, while results from end of fiscal 2013 and onward were calculated pursuant to IFRS. ＊1 N  et interest-bearing debt = Interest-bearing debt (borrowings) Cash and cash equivalents Time deposits exceeding three months, etc. Investment securities held by the parent company# # Investment securities held by the parent company are included in the formula under IFRS. ＊2 N  et debt equity ratio (Net DER) = (Interest-bearing debt (borrowings) Cash and cash equivalents Time deposits exceeding three months – Investment securities held by the parent company) / Equity attributable to owners of the parent ■ Eisai’s Funding Policy Eisai’s funding policy is based on the pecking order theory. Eisai prioritizes cash on hand over debt, and equity financing is the last option. As an efficient funding measure, Eisai adopts a Global Cash Management System (GCMS) for the effective cash utilization among group companies. 47 ■ VCIC (Value-Creative Investment Criteria) Prioritization and selection of investments will become even more important for companies to achieve growth. Company Introduction Therefore, Eisai has determined Value-Creative Investment Criteria (VCIC) for its strategic investments to ensure value creation. When making investments, we use Net Present Value (NPV) and the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) spread using a risk-adjusted hurdle rate as KPIs. In principle, we naturally select only those investments with a positive NPV and set a certain spread for IRR to assure value creation. In setting hurdle rates, we factor in all risk elements, such as the particular investment project, the investee country and liquidity. We have approximately 200 types of hurdle rates and apply the risk-adjusted hurdle rate appropriate for each respective investment project. The Corporate Governance Code, which was revised in June 2018, calls for the allocation of management resources in consideration of cost of shareholders’ equity. Eisai has introduced VCIC in 2013 to ensure corporate value creation. Management Strategies Formula of risk-adjusted hurdle rate Risk-adjusted hurdle rate = Risk free rate + β × Risk premium (+ liquidity premium) Risk free rate: 10 year average yield of 10 year government bond β: Defined by investment categories (risk profile) KPIs for finance under medium-term business plan ‘EWAY 2025’ Value Creation Activities Under the medium-term business plan ‘EWAY 2025,’ KPI Fiscal 2020 targets＊1 we aim to attain ROE at the 10% or more and an equity ROE 10% or more spread at the 2% or more for fiscal 2020 as the midpoint of the plan. For fiscal 2025, which is the final Equity spread＊2 2% or more year of the plan, we are mindful of attaining ROE at the DOE＊3 8% level 15% level on the back of dramatic growth spurred by Ratio of equity attributable contributions of flagship drugs in the neurology area 50-60% to owners of the parent and oncology area. We achieved all the numerical Net DER＊4 -0.3 to 0.3 targets in fiscal 2019 ahead of schedule. With DOE as a KPI in addition to enhancements of Fiscal 2025 target＊1: 15% level ROE Financial Base ＊D ividends per share subject to approval of Board of Directors growth drivers, we will pursue an optimal dividend ＊1 N umerical targets as of March 2016 when mid-term business plan was formulated policy based on an optimal capital structure and work ＊2 E quity spread = ROE Cost of equity. Eisai conservatively assumes cost of equity of 8% to maximize shareholder value. ＊3 D OE = Dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent ＊4 N et DER: Net Debt Equity Ratio = (Interest-bearing debts (borrowings) Cash and cash equivalents Time deposits exceeding 3 months, etc. Investment securities held by the parent company)/Equity attributable to owners of the parent Aim to enhance mediumto long-term corporate value Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital We believe that promoting an understanding of our cost of equity and are non-financial information is essential for realizing the committed to promoting objectives of our engagement, which is to have our engagement based on corporate value assessed from the perspective of the idea of “IR is not a mediumto long-term corporate value creation. This cost center and non-financial information covers areas such as contributes to corporate value creation.” intellectual capital centering on our pipeline and Eisai’s activities for years were recognized and the patents; human capital that handles our operations; Company was selected by the US financial our initiatives for improving access to medicines; and information magazine “Institutional Investor” as “Most our corporate governance. To attain this objective, Honored Company” and has been ranked first place Eisai’s IR team holds a total of approximately 800 overall in the Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals dialogues with investors and analysts on an annual sector of “The All-Japan Executive Team” with the Appendix basis. Among these, the CFO holds approximately first place in “Best CEOs” and “Best CFOs” 200 dialogues every year, including with overseas respectively in the sector. investors. The CFO and IR team strive to reduce 48 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Financial Capital Consolidated Financial Highlights in the Last 10 Years Achieved Record High Operating Profit and Profit for the Year by Lenvima®’s Expanding Contribution to Patients ＊1 Results up to fiscal 2013 were calculated pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in Japan (J-GAAP), while results after fiscal 2014 were calculated pursuant to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Revenue＊1 Decline trend in revenue continued due to loss (Billions of yen) of exclusivity of our major products, Aricept®, 768.9 719.0 treatment for Alzheimer’s disease and Pariet®/ 695.6 648.0 642.8 AcipHex®, protonpump inhibitor. At the same 600.4 600.1 time, newly launched in-house products, such 573.7 548.5 547.9 539.1 as Lenvima® (anticancer agent) Halaven® (anticancer agent), and Fycompa® (antiepileptic agent) are steadily growing. In addition, Eisai recorded the amount recognized in revenue from Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. (U.S. Merck) associated with strategic collaboration. As a result, Eisai achieved fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal forecast for fiscal 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 increase in revenue for three consecutive Revenue of Aricept Revenue of Pariet Revenue of Lenvima , Halaven , Fycompa years in fiscal 2019. ® ® ® ® ® Payments recognized from Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. (Forecast for fiscal 2020 is not disclosed) Others ＊1 Cost of Sales and Cost of Sales Ratio to Revenue Cost of sales ratio kept increasing due to Cost of Sales Cost of Sales Ratio to Revenue (Billions of yen, %) change in product mix caused by revenue 188.2 193.6 194.5 195.9 201.3 184.5 decline of Aricept® and Pariet®/AcipHex® whose 173.4 174.1 175.7 171.5 167.8 35.3 35.5 36.3 cost of sales ratios are relatively low. However, 31.3 33.5 26.8 30.3 28.7 expansion of in-house products with low cost of 25.3 23.9 21.8 sales ratios and recording the payments recognized from Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. associated with strategic collaboration on revenue resulted in the fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal forecast for fiscal 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 decrease in cost of sales ratio since fiscal 2017. R&D Expenses and R&D Expenses Ratio to Revenue＊1 Eisai continued to invest in R&D proactively (Billions of yen, %) towards future growth, even in the period of 191.3 203.7 revenue decrease. R&D expenses remained over 120 billion yen level, which accounted for 158.5 165.5 19 to 24% of revenue for the past 10 years. 46.4 63.5 145.0 136.0 18.9 Moreover, Eisai achieved significantly 130.5 131.9 125.1 144.8 120.4 122.3 18.8 139.6 140.1 effective investment in R&D by utilizing 117.2 partnerships. Results for substantial R&D 29.8 29.3 expenses in fiscal 2019 was 203.7 billion yen 25.2 26.4 24.1 18.9 19.3 21.0 21.7 22.3 and R&D expenses ratio was 29.3% including 21.7 23.3 22.5 20.1 23.0 the reimbursement from partners. fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal forecast for fiscal 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 R&D expenses Reimbursement from partners (Forecast for fiscal 2020 is not disclosed) R&D expenses ratio to revenue R&D expenses ratio to revenue (Including reimbursement from partners) Operating Profit and Operating Profit Ratio to Revenue＊1 We achieved record high operating income Operating Profit Operating Profit Ratio to Revenue (Billions of yen, %) due to the expanded contribution of Lenvima® 125.5 to patients and the recognition of payments 113.1 95.7 from Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. 86.2 88.0 70.5 71.1 77.2 in association with strategic collaboration for 59.1 18.0 14.7 14.8 51.9 12.9 13.4 Lenvima® in fiscal 2019. We plan to make 12.3 11.8 28.3 12.2 9.5 11.0 aggressive investments in R&D and SG&A 5.2 expenses, while Lenvima® is expected to fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal forecast for fiscal 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 expand its contribution to patients in fiscal 2020. Free Cash Flow (FCF)＊1, 2, 3 136.7 (Billions of yen) Eisai maintained FCF, exceeding the Free Cash Flow Annual dividend payment amount of annual dividend payment by 100.3 managing working capital and selling assets, 85.1 71.4 81.2 81.7 even when revenue declined continuously. 66.4 68.2 54.5 61.3 Payments recognized from Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. since fiscal 2017 42.7 42.7 42.7 42.8 42.8 42.9 42.9 42.9 43.0 45.9 contributes to securing FCF. ＊2 Free cash flow =“Net cash from operating activities”-“Capital fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 expenditures (cash basis)#” # Expenditures from purchases of financial assets and proceeds from sale and redemption of financial assets are included in the formula used to calculate capital expenditures on IFRS. ＊3 Dividends per share subject to approval of Board of Directors 49 (reported on the timing of occurrence) (Unit: Billion yen) (Reference data) (Unit: Billion yen) fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal Financial Indicators fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal Company Introduction Financial Indicators (IFRS) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (J-GAAP) 2010 2011 2012 2013 〈Income Statement Items〉 〈Income Statement Items〉 Revenue 599.5 548.5 547.9 539.1 600.1 642.8 695.6 Net sales 768.9 648.0 573.7 600.4 Cost of sales 194.7 193.6 194.5 195.9 201.3 184.5 175.7 Cost of sales 167.8 173.4 174.1 188.2 Ratio to revenue (%) 32.5 35.3 35.5 36.3 33.5 28.7 25.3 21.8 26.8 30.3 31.3 Gross profit 404.8 354.9 353.5 343.2 398.8 458.3 519.9 Gross profit 601.1 474.6 399.6 412.2 Ratio to revenue (%) 67.5 64.7 64.5 63.7 66.5 71.3 74.7 78.2 73.2 69.7 68.7 Research and development expenses 136.3 131.9 122.3 117.2 139.6 144.8 140.1 Research and development expenses 145.0 125.1 120.4 130.5 Ratio to revenue (%) 22.7 24.1 22.3 21.7 23.3 22.5 20.1 18.9 19.3 21.0 21.7 Selling, general and Management Strategies administrative expenses 203.3 194.5 192.8 174.9 183.9 228.2 256.3 Selling, general and administrative expenses 343.0 253.7 208.7 210.5 Ratio to revenue (%) 33.9 35.5 35.2 32.5 30.6 35.5 36.8 Other income 4.1 1.0 17.7 13.6 3.0 2.6 6.4 44.6 39.1 36.4 35.1 Ratio to revenue (%) 0.7 0.2 3.2 2.5 0.5 0.4 0.9 Other expenses 2.8 1.1 4.1 5.6 1.1 1.7 4.4 Ratio to revenue (%) 0.5 0.2 0.7 1.0 0.2 0.3 0.6 Operating profit 66.4 28.3 51.9 59.1 77.2 86.2 125.5 Operating income 113.1 95.7 70.5 71.1 Ratio to revenue (%) 11.1 5.2 9.5 11.0 12.9 13.4 18.0 14.7 14.8 12.3 11.8 Profit for the year 38.5 43.5 55.0 42.2 54.4 66.5 122.5 Ordinary income 105.2 90.0 65.6 64.9 Ratio to revenue (%) 6.4 7.9 10.0 7.8 9.1 10.3 17.6 13.7 13.9 11.4 10.8 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 38.3 43.3 54.9 39.4 51.8 63.4 121.8 Net income 67.4 58.5 48.3 33.0 Value Creation Activities Ratio to revenue (%) 6.4 7.9 10.0 7.3 8.6 9.9 17.5 8.8 9.0 8.4 5.5 Comprehensive income for the year 84.5 114.2 16.5 36.8 53.8 79.5 96.2 〈Cash Flow Statement Items〉 〈Cash Flow Statement Items〉 Net cash from operating Net cash from operating 91.3 76.0 95.6 75.9 149.6 103.7 102.8 activities 123.2 90.6 73.2 85.7 activities Net cash from investing Net cash from investing 20.9 (18.8) (6.7) (28.6) 17.0 (7.9) (27.6) activities (58.8) (2.6) 21.7 26.2 activities Net cash from financing Net cash from financing (115.1) (59.7) (72.9) (35.4) (81.9) (79.2) (103.5) activities (68.0) (78.0) (81.8) (114.8) activities Free cash flow 87.3 61.3 81.2 81.7 136.7 85.1 68.2 Free cash flow 100.3 71.4 54.5 66.4 Financial Base 〈Financial Position Items〉 〈Balance Sheet Items〉 Total assets 973.8 1,053.8 974.0 1,030.8 1,049.0 1,071.5 1,062.1 Total assets 1,046.3 1,004.7 990.2 945.5 Equity attributable to owners 526.3 598.7 573.7 584.6 593.6 628.1 678.1 Shareholder’s equity 404.2 416.8 469.4 506.8 of the parent Non-controlling interests 3.1 3.3 3.2 18.0 20.5 23.9 24.5 Total liabilities 444.4 451.8 397.2 428.2 434.9 419.5 359.5 Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Return on equity attributable to 7.6 7.7 9.4 6.8 8.8 10.4 18.6 Return on equity (ROE) (%) 16.4 14.3 10.9 6.8 owners of the parent (ROE) (%) Return on sales ratio (%) 6.4 7.9 10.0 7.8 9.1 10.3 17.6 Return on sales ratio (%) 8.8 9.0 8.4 5.5 Leverage (times) 1.9 1.8 1.7 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.6 Leverage (times) 2.6 2.4 2.1 1.9 Total assets turnover ratio Total assets turnover ratio 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.6 0.6 (no. of times) 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.6 (no. of times) Ratio of equity attributable to 54.0 56.8 58.9 56.7 56.6 58.6 63.8 Shareholders’ equity ratio (%) 38.6 41.5 47.4 53.6 owners of the parent (%) Net debt equity ratio Net debt equity ratio (Net DER) 0.08 0.00 (0.06) (0.11) (0.27) (0.32) (0.29) (times) 0.49 0.38 0.27 0.14 (Net DER)(times)＊1 Dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent (DOE)(%)＊2 8.5 7.6 7.3 7.4 7.3 7.0 7.0 Dividend on equity (DOE) (%) 10.4 10.4 9.6 8.8 Dividend payout ratio (DPR) Dividend payout ratio (DPR) 111.8 99.0 78.0 109.0 82.8 67.8 37.6 (%) 63.4 73.1 88.6 129.8 (%) Earnings per share (basic) Earnings per share (EPS) 134.13 151.57 192.23 137.63 181.18 221.34 425.01 (yen) 236.52 205.33 169.38 115.56 (EPS) (yen) Appendix Dividend per share (DPS) Dividend per share (DPS) 150 150 150 150 150 150 160 (yen) 150 150 150 150 (yen) ＊1 Net debt equity ratio (Net DER) = (Interest-bearing debt (Bonds and borrowings) – Cash and cash equivalents – Time deposits exceeding three months, etc. – Investment securities held by the parent company# ) / Equity attributable to owners of the parent # Investment securities held by the parent company are included in the formula used to calculate liabilities ratio. ＊2 Dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent (DOE) = Dividend payout ratio (DPR) x Return on equity attributable to owners of the parent (ROE) 50 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 CFO Dialogue: Challenge for ESG, Making Invisible Value Visible Ryohei Yanagi (Left) Manami Konno (Right) Executive Vice President ABeam Consulting Ltd. Chief Financial Officer P&T Digital Business Unit FMC Sector Manager 1. Growing Interest in ESG Yanagi: In global capital markets, ESG investment is by closely linking visions, management strategies and now increasing rapidly. The asset balance is about 31 business plans with ESG, but also to promote external trillion USD (about 3,350 trillion JPY), and about 35% of disclosure and dialogue in order to appeal on the basis of the capital on the market is currently said to be ESG such characteristics. On the other hand, companies’ related. Although Europe is ahead of Japan in this area, initiatives related to ESG sometimes do not directly link the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF), which ESG to corporate visions, management strategies, and manages public pensions, has signed up to the Principles business plans. I regret that there are some disclosures of for Responsible Investment (PRI) and has adopted the only qualitative ESG, and settings of key performance ESG index. Since then, the direction has changed indicators (KPIs) with little relation to the corporate vision. dramatically and ESG-related investment balances have grown rapidly by 115% over the past two years. With the Yanagi: Face-to-face engagement between companies increasing importance of non-financial information, the and investors is also important in order to spread amount of ESG investing assets and the number of understanding of the fact that a significant portion of investors has increased. If investors are interested in corporate value is composed of non-financial information Japanese companies with high potential ESG values, it is and that it must become tangible. Overseas institutional highly probable that the corporate value itself will be investors have fiduciary responsibility and do not make greatly improved as well. If the value of ESG and noninefficient investment decisions. In an investor survey I financial capital of a Japanese company that have not conducted in 2020, about three quarters of investors in been realized at present is evaluated, the Price Bookthe world answered that they would like Japanese value Ratio (PBR) of Japanese companies will have the companies to explain the relationship between ESG and chance to approximately double, as has been seen in the corporate value. To that end, Eisai’s IR team holds 800 U.K. based on the change in PBR over the past 10 years. one-on-one meetings with domestic and foreign investors annually. There are many short-term related interviews, Ms. Konno: ABeam Consulting Ltd. places priority on such as about short-term figures and press release ESG-related information among non-financial information. commentary, but recently they have changed to have ESG is the source of future corporate value and is the core more ESG focused interviews. In the last five years, the of attractiveness for stakeholders to companies. percentage of ESG focused interviews appears to have Companies need to not only realize business management increased to over 30% from around 5%. 51 2. Value Relevance Model Yanagi: In order to realize ●Global investor survey 2020 Company Introduction Survey period: January 14-February 28, 2020 the value of ESG and nonSurvey targets: 144 major institutional investors globally (75 domestic, 69 overseas) financial information, and What do you think about Japanese companies’ ESG (non-financials) link it to corporate value, it and its disclosure (by integrated report)? is necessary to A. J-companies should unconditionally tout ESG. B. J-companies should outweigh ESG over capital efficiency (ROE<ESG). synchronize ESG and C. J-companies should explain value relevance (ROE&ESG). Return on Equity (ROE). D. J-companies should outweigh ROE over ESG (ROE>ESG). E. Disclosure of ESG is unnecessary. As CFO, I proposed a Total (n=144) Japanese (n=75) Non-Japanese (n=69) synchronization model A A A (IIRC-PBR Model) E 5% B E 4% B E 6% B Management Strategies 1% 1% 3% 1% 3% regarding financial capital 3% D and non-financial capital D 9% D 17% value relevance based on 25% Eisai’s corporate C C C philosophy “human health 74% 83% 65% care (hhc),” at the same time as the announcement Source: Monthly Capital Market (June 2020), Capital Markets Research Institute, partially reedited of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) framework in relating MVA to non-financial capital consisting of consideration of longer-term capital efficiency (ROE and intellectual capital, human capital, manufactured capital, Value Creation Activities equity spread) and sustainability (importance of nonsocial and relationship capital and natural capital, based financial capital). Technically, shareholders’ equity is the on the assumption that shareholder value equals longsum of the book value of shareholders’ equity (BV) and term total market capitalization and also equals BV plus market value added (MVA) that exceeds BV. The portion MVA. that exceeds PBR of 1X is related to ESG value, or From the ③ Residual Income Model (RIM), it is non-financial capital related. First, under the ① Intrinsic thought that MVA converges in the sum of present Value Model, I defined MVA as ESG/CSR value (cost of value of equity spread. Therefore, it can be considered capital reduction effects), customer value, human value, that future financial value creation based on equity and organizational value. spread over the long term does not conflict with nonIn contrast to this, the ② IIRC-PBR Model explains financial capital value such as ESG and MVA creation Financial Base the relevance of the six types of capital under the IIRC and is not mutually contradictory, and can be framework, by positioning BV as financial capital, and synchronized as part of stakeholder capitalism. ●IIRC-PBR model (Value relevance of the six types of capital that compose corporate value) —Net assets (book value on accounting basis) is related to financial capital and market value added (MVA) is related to non-financial capital— Non-financial capital including ESG＊1 increases long-term shareholder value Added value creation by non-financial capital indicated by PBR＊2 Neurology Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Trends in Eisai’s PBR (from the end of fiscal 2008 to end of fiscal 2019) (Times) Enhancement of non-financial capital Oncology 6 ➡ Continuous increase hhc ⇒ ESG ➡ SDGs ＊3 of shareholder value Contribution to patients’ value Conversion to 5 Intellectual Capital Contribution to employee value future equity spread＊4 Non-financial capital Potential Value Human Capital 4 Manufactured Capital 3 Social and Relationship Capital 2 Market Value Added (MVA) Natural Capital (self-created goodwill) 1 Appendix Net assets (book value on accounting basis) Financial Capital 0 End of fiscal 2008 End of fiscal 2019 ＊1 Environment, Social, and Governance ＊2 Price Book-value Ratio ＊3 Sustainable Development Goals ＊4 ROE-Cost of Equity (CoE) (Eisai conservatively assumes cost of equity of 8%) Source: CFO policy (CHUOKEIZAI-SHA, 2020), partially reedited 52 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 In conjunction with the non-financial capital and added recognized by investors, and that this should equity spread Value Relevance Model, the Intrinsic move into line with the relative strength of ROE over the Value Model, which relates non-financial capital to MVA, ultra-long term. However, short-termism destroys this the IIRC-PBR Model and the RIM, which implicates the balance. For example, an attempt to reduce R&D and relation between MVA and equity spread, are mutually personnel expenses in short term and buy back shares complementary through the creation of MVA. This is the extremely would undermine long-term sustainability. For ROESG model. that reason, I, as CFO, promote an ROESG In the RIM, it is proven mathematically that the management that aims to increase ROE in the long present value of residual income is a function of equity term, looking at the average of 10 years via investment spread (ROE). This suggests that the portion in R&D, and in human resources, with a long-term corresponding to PBR above 1X is the ESG valueperspective. ●Non-financial capital and equity spread value relevance model＊1 ① Intrinsic Value Model＊2 ② IIRC-PBR Model Shareholder Value Sustainable Value Reduction of Intellectual Capital Non-Financial Capital cost of equity (Value of ESG/CSR) Market Value Added (MVA) Human Capital Margin improvement Customer Value Manufactured Capital Book Value of Shareholders’ Equity (BV) Human Value Social and Relationship Capital Organizational Value Natural Capital Financial Capital (IIRC framework) ③ Residual Income Model(RIM) Sum of Present Value of Equity Spread (MVA) Residual Income （ ） ∞ ∑ Net income t − CoE × BV t-1 Equity Spead × BV Shareholder Value = BV + ( ROE − CoE ) × BV t =1 (1+CoE)t (Return on Equity attributable (Cost of Equity) to owners of the parent) ＊1 CFO policy (CHUOKEIZAI-SHA, 2020), partially reedited ＊2 Financial Strategies for Maximizing Corporate Value (Doyukan, 2009) Ms. Konno: In order for a company to gain a sustainable growth of the company, allocate and develop competitive advantage in the long term and sustainably, resources to strengthen human resources and knowledge it has been a priority to secure management resources with effect measurement, and prepare for risks that such and assets that competitors cannot possess, that is resources cannot be secured or strengthened in parallel. core capabilities and values that cannot be easily We believe that companies that respond appropriately to imitated. Therefore, many companies have traditionally these issues strategically sublimate human and intellectual promoted investment as the basis for improving capital to corporate value. competitiveness and profitability in visible assets such as facilities and their expansion, and disclosed the value. Yanagi: As we not operating on the same scale as the On the other hand, it is a well-known fact that the global mega-pharma companies, we are focusing elements showing corporate value are shifting from resources on the neurology area and oncology area in tangible, visible things to human capital, technology, order to meet unmet medical needs. New drug know-how, and intellectual property. From a bird’s eye development is a high-risk business that involves view of the entire value chain, it is becoming more and spending large amounts of resources over many years. more widely recognized that human resources and We therefore also use the partnership model. knowledge are the fundamental elements that support Our consolidated R&D budget in fiscal 2019 was a company’s competitive advantage and generate 140.1 billion JPY, but adding the 63.5 billion JPY from innovation. As a result, companies are taking various the share of expenses borne by our partners, a huge measures to secure and utilize human resources and amount of 203.7 billion JPY was invested in order to knowledge, but at the same time, investment in this accelerate development of new drugs. I think this is in invisible capital is becoming an important and difficult line with strengthening the means of implementation management issue. and revitalizing the global partnership for sustainable Because it is necessary to realize comprehensive development as called for in the United Nations’ business management from various aspects, companies Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). need to identify what capital investment is essential to the In addition, from the viewpoint of Eisai’s corporate 53 philosophy of “hhc,” improving access to medicines employees. We have received support from long-term (ATM) is one of our key areas of focus in the Social investors such as overseas pension funds for balancing component of ESG. We teamed up with the World both the positive contribution to patients and long-term Company Introduction Health Organization (WHO) and will continue to provide creation of corporate value in boosting ESG interest. diethylcarbamazine (DEC) tablets free of charge until lymphatic filariasis (LF), one of neglected tropical diseases Ms.Konno: That is a great project. I think it’s very (NTDs), is completely eliminated. The number of DEC wonderful and distinctive that Eisai not only continues tablets we provided by fiscal 2019 is 1.99 billion. activities that embody the corporate philosophy for a We have received some criticism that this damages long period of time, but also links them to long-term shareholder value, but if we calculate net present value creation of corporate value. In addition, I feel the fact (NPV) of the project, taking the enhancement of our that various other facts about ESG and qualitative brand value in emerging markets into account, the project information such as the corporate philosophy, the Management Strategies is creating value from a very long-term perspective. The details of efforts and results are established and mass production of DEC tablets in India where disclosed as a value creation story is a factor that gains production cost is small raises not only capacity utilization the support of stakeholders. at the plant but also the skills and motivation of plant 3. Quantitative Analysis of Non-Financial Value Ms. Konno: ABeam Consulting Ltd. believes that one to collect, accumulate, and analyze ESG information of the reasons why ESG has been taking time to be scattered inside and outside the company. captured as a management issue is the recognition wall of difficulty in quantitatively monitoring ESG-related Yanagi: I have long felt that quantifying and accurately Value Creation Activities information. One of the major issues is the difficulty in ascertaining the relationship between various ESG KPIs measuring cost-effectiveness, set KPIs, grasping the and corporate value was an issue, so I found the achievement rate, and integrating management goals, ABeam Digital ESG Platform concept very interesting due to such walls. Therefore, in order to solve this and decided to conduct joint research. I composed a problem and strengthen the competitiveness of model for empirical research on the delayed penetration Japanese companies, we envisioned the ABeam Digital effect of ESG on corporate value and was looking for a ESG Platform, which utilizes the latest digital technology partner to digitally process a large amount of ESG data. ●List of positive correlation of Eisai’s ESG related KPIs and PBR＊1(Logarithmic transformation) （Logarithmic transformation） Multiple regression analysis ＊2 : ln(PBRi)=α+β・ 1 ln(ROEi)+β・ 2 ln(ESG KPIi−t)+γi−t Financial Base Delayed penetration effect Regression Adjusted Number of data ESG KPI＊3 (years before correlation) coefficient＊4 t-statistic＊5 p-value R-squared＊6 observations Social and Relationship Number of dispensing pharmacies doing business with Eisai (non-cons.) 0 3.30 4.55 0.001 0.70 12 Human Percentage of handicapped employees (non-cons.) 10+ 3.35 4.25 0.003 0.72 11 p <0.01 Human Personnel cost (cons.) 5 1.38 4.40 0.003 0.75 10 Human Percentage of employees who underwent health checks (non-cons.) 10 38.57 3.26 0.012 0.61 11 Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Intellectual Number of prescription drugs approved (domestic) 4 0.25 3.13 0.017 0.61 10 Human Ratio of women in management (non-cons.) 7 0.24 2.96 0.018 0.56 11 Human Number of managers (non-cons.) 10+ 3.14 2.94 0.019 0.56 11 Social and Relationship Number of pharmacies＊7 doing business with Eisai (non-cons.) 4 0.48 2.93 0.019 0.56 11 Intellectual R&D costs (cons.) 10+ 0.82 2.90 0.020 0.55 11 p <0.05 Social and Relationship Number of inquiries to hhc Hotline＊8 (non-cons.) 5 1.08 2.88 0.021 0.55 11 Human Number of users of childcare leave program (non-cons.)＊9 9 0.33 2.89 0.023 0.57 10 Intellectual R&D costs (non-cons.) 10+ 0.88 2.78 0.024 0.53 11 Human Number of employees in EMEA＊10 9 0.33 2.75 0.025 0.53 11 Human Number of employees in Americas＊11 10 0.29 2.70 0.027 0.52 11 ＊ The table above shows selected KPIs with positive correlation with PBR indicated from Multiple regression analysis (Logarithmic transformation) with ESG KPIs with 10 or more number of data Appendix observations, adjusted R-squared 0.5 or above, t-statistic 2 or above and p-value 0.05 or less on 1088 samples. This analysis is supported by ABeam Consulting Ltd. ＊1: Price Book-value Ratio ＊2: α: A factor affecting PBR rise unexplainable by ROE nor ESG, β1: A value indicating the strength of the relationship between ROE and PBR, β2: A value indicating the strength of the relationship between ESG KPI and PBR, γi-t: Difference between PBR estimated by regression equation and actual PBR, i: targeted fiscal year ＊3: Key Performance Indicator about Environment, Social, Governance ＊4: A value indicating the strength of the relationship between explanatory variables (ROE, ESG KPI) and dependent variable (PBR) ＊5: A value indicating whether ROE or ESG KPI is statistically correlated with PBR or not ＊6: A number that shows the explanatory power of the whole regression model (shown above) ＊7: Including pharmacies selling foods ＊8: Contact for inquiries and opinions for Eisai ＊9: Item with more significant result is listed among those items with significant results. ＊10: Europe, Middle East, Africa, Russia, and Oceania ＊11: North America Source: CFO policy (CHUOKEIZAI-SHA, 2020), partially reedited 54 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Ms. Konno: ABeam Digital ESG Platform is designed expenses by 10% will improve PBR by 8.2% in 10 based on the concept of integrating non-financial areas years,” “Increase in female manager ratio by 10% (e.g. such as ESG with accounting/financial areas and utilizing 8% to 8.8%) will improve PBR by 2.4% in 7 years,” and them for sophisticated business management, “Increase in users of childcare system by 10% will information disclosure, and engagement with improve PBR by 3.3% in 9 years.” These results suggest stakeholders. An overview of Proof of Concept (PoC) was that each of Eisai’s ESG factors may create a corporate to analyze the correlation between non-financial data and value of 50 to 300 billion JPY with a 5-10 year delayed financial data on Yanagi CFO’s model, taking Eisai’s data penetration effect. In this way, we were able to as sample. We collected nearly 100 ESG KPIs covering a demonstrate that enriching Eisai’s human and intellectual period of around 10 years and analyzed the impact on capital will contribute to the well-being of patients in the PBR putting delayed penetration effect into consideration. mediumto long-term and sustainably increase As a result, many of the KPIs related to human capital, such as personnel cost, the ratio of women in management, percentage of handicapped employees, and percentage of employees who underwent health checks, were found to have positive correlations with PBR. It has also been proved that R&D costs have a positive correlation after more than 10 years. Yanagi: Yes. As a result of this empirical study that I designed, we have obtained positive evidence for the relationship between ESG and corporate value. For example, personnel expenses, which are investment for people composing the corporate value, will maximize the corporate value with a retardation effect after 5 years as human capital, and similarly, the ratio of female managers will increase PBR with female participation and the next generation follow-up after 7 years. R&D expenses, which are intellectual capital and sources of patient contribution which is the Company’s “Purpose” itself, will contribute to corporate value with a 10-year time lag. In terms of average sensitivity, we can interpret the results as “Increase in personnel expenses by 10% will improve PBR by 13.8% in 5 years,” “Increase in R&D Empirical Study about Eisai’s ESG and Corporate Value Sensitivity Analysis (Trial calculation of average value at 95% confidence interval) Increase in personnel expenses by 10% will improve PBR by 13.8% in 5 years Increase in R&D expenses by 10% will improve PBR by 8.2% in 10 years Increase in female manager ratio by 10% (e.g. 8% to 8.8%) will improve PBR by 2.4% in 7 years Increase in users of childcare system by 10% will improve PBR by 3.3% in 9 years Each KPI of Eisai’s ESG will create a corporate value of ¥50 to ¥300 billion level with a 5-10 year delayed penetration effect 55 ●ESG value-based P/L （Unit: Billion yen） Company Introduction Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Revenue 642.8 695.6 Cost of sales 184.5 175.7 Personnel expenses for production 13.6 14.2 Human capital Gross profit 471.9 534.1 R&D expenses 144.8 140.1 R&D expenses 144.8 140.1 Intellectual capital (of which, personnel expenses) （45.6） （46.4） Management Strategies SG&A expenses 228.2 256.3 Personnel expenses for sales 87.1 88.0 Human capital Other income & expenses 0.9 2.0 Conventional operating profit 86.2 125.5 ESG EBIT 331.6 367.8 ESG EBIT＝Operating profit＋R&D expenses＋Personnel expenses Value Creation Activities corporate value through ●ESG value-based B/S the delayed penetration (Unit : Billion yen, Times) effect. Although I have to Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 admit that there is no Conventional accounting value absolute answer, I feel 652.0 702.6 (Book value net assets) that we have gained further credibility through ESG value 1,190.6 1,649.4 (Market value added) ESG engagement with investors around the Corporate value 1,842.6 2,352.1 (Market value) world based on the Financial Base evidence of empirical (Ref.) PBR 2.8 3.4 research conducted as CFO this year. Based on the correlation of this empirical research, I by short-termed intention. Accounting operating profit in tried to quantify ESG partially by looking at human capital fiscal 2019 was 125.5 billion JPY, and ESG EBIT was and intellectual capital, and calculated pro forma “ESG 367.8 billion JPY if intangible values were added on. P/L and B/S based on corporate value” as a concept. I also have an idea of ESG value-based B/S based Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Let me talk about ESG value-based P/L first. In on IIRC-PBR Model. My assumption is that the normal P/L, operating profit, personnel expenses and corporate value is the sum of the net assets, which is R&D expenses are deducted from sales revenue as the accounting value, and the invisible value of ESG, expenses, and profits are compressed. However, if we which is also “self-created goodwill,” is based on the consider from the results that personnel expenses and simple current market value added. The value of Eisai’s R&D expenses will create value in the future ex-post ESG evaluated by the market at the end of fiscal 2019 and delayed integrated with Company’s “Purpose,” was 1,649.4 billion JPY. those costs are not expenses but “investment in The top materiality in the pharmaceutical industry is intangible assets.” Then we can say that personnel no doubt a new drug development. I additionally expenses and R&D expenses should be added back recognize the analysis result as very convincing with the based on corporate value creation theory. So, as CFO, statistical proof of the importance of the penetration I came across the idea of “ESG EBIT” which is pro effect of human capital on corporate value in addition to forma management accounting profit. It is no doubt intellectual capital such as the number of approved Appendix important that ESG EBIT exceed the cost of capital; I prescription drugs and R&D expenses. We organized feel that the increase of ESG EBIT as intrinsic profit the “Eisai’s Materiality Matrix” shown on page 4 of this leads to the creation of corporate value in the mediumintegrated report by prioritizing the most important to long-term, eliminating discretionary profit adjustment factors from the viewpoints of “impact on Eisai’s 56 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 business” and “long-term investors’ interests.” When we and infrastructure that fuses non-financial and financial plotted the KPIs that have produced significant results in aspects. We hope management action will lead to a the analysis this time on the same coordinate axes, we legitimate evaluation of corporate value if they watch found that they have a high affinity with the “Eisai’s non-financial data regularly, not only when external Materiality Matrix.” The qualitative classifications updated disclosure is made, and if they make business taking investor opinions into account with reference to decisions, engage with stakeholders, and disclose the Materiality Map of the Sustainability Accounting information based on non-financial data. Standards Board (SASB) and the quantitative evidence obtained in this study generally agree, and that has Yanagi: I agree. In response to the results of this certain implications. In particular, in addition to research, we have introduced a tool that analyzes the investment in human capital, the long-term delayed degree of association between diversity and corporate penetration effect of R&D expenses as the source of value in “Cockpit,” which is content that constitutes growth of pharmaceutical companies on PBR is highly ABeam Digital ESG Platform. We plan to automatically important. It will be an antithesis against short termism, link financial accounting data to “Cockpit” and enhance synchronizing with Eisai’s corporate philosophy “hhc” data analysis that will lead to enhanced ESG activities (ROESG model). We believe that we will be able to make and productivity in global bases in the future. The efforts with stronger support from investors in the longnumber of investors who recognize ESG as a material term and make a sustainable contribution to patients. for investment decisions will keep increasing from now I think this is one of the mechanisms of accountability in on. By getting a new perspective on the relationship the new era of stakeholder capitalism. between ESG and corporate value, which has been difficult to quantify so far, we would like to share Eisai’s Ms. Konno: We believe that companies should mediumto long-term corporate value with more combine quantitative data and digital analysis tools with investors. ESG initiatives to develop a management mechanism ●Analysis results (logarithmic basis) of significant Eisai’s ESG KPIs positively correlated with PBR against Eisai’s Materiality Matrix Increase job satisfaction and provide Innovative drug creation opportunities for career development R&D expenses (nonconsolidated) – 10+ years＊ ＊ Personnel costs (consolidated) – 5 years R&D expenses (consolidated) – 10+ years＊ Number of employees in Americas Very high (North America) – 10 years＊ Approved ethical drugs in Japan – 4 years＊ Number of employees in EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Russia, Oceania) – 10 years＊ Product safety info. management Long-term investors’ interest Number of “hhc hotline” inquiries Management position rate – 10+ years＊ – 5 years＊ Environment friendly business Promotion of diversity/ Healthcare support and Promotion based on compliance (reduction of green house gas (GHG) emissions, health & safety management for employees reduction of waste, and effective use of Client companies (dispending pharmacies) water resources) Female managers rate – 7 years＊ – 0＊ GHG emissions – 1 year＊ Number of employees using the childcare Client companies (pharmacies and others) High short-time work system – 9, 10 years＊ – 4 years＊ ＊Number of years until PBR affected (delayed penetration effect) Employment rate of people with disabilities – 10+ years＊ Employee health checkup rate – 10 years＊ Slightly high High Very high Impact on Eisai’s business Note: Extracted KPIs that have a significant positive relationship with PBR (consolidated) from multiple regression analysis results ESG KPIs significance level: 1% (logarithmic basis) with ESG KPIs (n=1088) and plotted on Materiality Matrix shown on Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Extracted ESG KPIs with 10 or more data observations, adjusted R2 of 0.5 or more, t-value of 2 or more, and p-value of 0.05 or less ESG KPIs significance level: 5% Source: CFO policy (CHUOKEIZAI-SHA, 2020), cooperation with ABeam Consulting Ltd. 57 Enhancement of Non-Financial Capital for Corporate Strategy Practicing ESG Management by Visualizing the Relationship between Non-Financial Capital and Financial Capital Company Introduction Eisai’s mission is to create social value by enhancing patient satisfaction, and economic value in the form of revenue and profit is generated as a result. We recognize that this is the very essence of ESG management required today. We believe that it is important to enhance corporate value by Pave the road to genuine ESG based management by clarifying enriching human capital by promoting corporate the relationship between ESG and corporate value philosophy and diversity, enhancing intellectual capital by Corporates need to realize proper management by making the relationship of investment in non-financial capital represented by ESG, and business value creation activities, corporate value expansion, and capital expansion clear. investing in R&D, and enhancing social and relationship capital by improving access to medicines. Utilizing Business activities/ Increase of capital various capital Value creation activities We conducted joint research with ABeam Consulting Enhancement Management Strategies Environment of corporate value Ltd. as to the relationship between non-financial capital, Improvement of Improvement of performance employee satisfaction and productivity financial capital, and improvement of corporate value Expansion of shareholder base Lower capital cost that many stakeholders have requested proof of. We Increase of Increase loyalty are also making efforts to realize ESG management Social Governance market value added while utilizing the digital tool “Cockpit.” Source: ABeam Consulting Ltd. Examining the Relationship between Human Capital and Financial Capital 1. C  orrelation analysis between various indicators related 2. C  omparison with other companies in the same to human capital and financial indicators such as industry based on disclosed information revenue, operating profit, Pharma EBIT＊, ROE, and PBR Value Creation Activities ●Correlation between Average years of employment and Revenue ＊ Operating profit+R&D expenses ●Correlation between Female manager ratio and Operating profit 1991 1992 1993 1994 2014 2019 ●Correlation between Female manager ratio and Operating profit per employee Financial Base ●Correlation between Mid-career hiring ratio and Operating profit 1991 1992 1993 1994 2015 2019 Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Comparing with other companies in the same industry, we obtained the result that the years of employment can also be ●Correlation between Number of male users of childcare leave program and ROE an important factor for enhancing the corporate value, indicating a positive impact on our company. At the same 1991 1992 1993 1994 time, it was also suggested that a further increase in the ratio of female managers could further enhance corporate value. 2014 2019 If the disclosure of quantitative indicators related to ESG is improved in each company due to the growing interest from stakeholders, it is expected that the accuracy of analysis will be improved and a new perspective will be obtained. A possibility is indicated that enhancement of It was indicated that the enhancement of non-financial capital diversity through active participation of women and will lead to sustainable enhancement of corporate value in Appendix mid-career recruitment, and establishment of a working ESG’s quantitative analysis efforts. We will continue to analyze environment that facilitates male participation in the relationship between various types of non-financial capital childcare, may lead to sustainable corporate value and financial capital, and place it as a material for formulating enhancement. strategies that will contribute to patients and sustainably enhance corporate value in the mediumto long-term. 58 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 SWOT Analysis (ESG) Enhancing non-financial capital to meet the long-term growth expectations of stakeholders S Eisai’s characteristics S trengths E ● Rated “A,” the highest rating in the CDP Climate Change Report 2019 Reference P61 ● Received approval from “Science Based Targets (SBT) Initiative” for targets of 30% reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction in May 2019 Reference P62 ● Agreed with Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in June 2019 Reference P62-63 ● Establishment of “Sustainability Advisory Board” Reference P61 S ● Acceleration of Access to Medicines ● Provided treatments in 28 countries at price zero and eliminated lymphatic filariasis (LF) in 17 countries ● Affordable pricing policies in developing and emerging countries Explanation about tiered pricing program from MR to a doctor (India) Reference P65-68 ● Deep engagement of global employees Reference P69-72 G ● The Board of Directors has a majority of outside directors, and is chaired by an outside director Reference P73-82 ● Clear separation of the functions between the monitoring of management and the execution of business Reference P73-82 59 Company Introduction W Weaknesses 1 Slow business development in Africa Management Strategies Collaboration with international NGOs 2 Work style reforms are still underway Improve business efficiency by promoting digital transformation (DX) 3 Insufficient digital talents Promote the recruitment of talented people and build partnerships with companies Value Creation Activities in digital business area O Surrounding environment Opportunities 1 Population growth in emerging countries and improving purchasing power 2 Increasing disease due to climate change Financial Base 3 Progress of aging population 4 Development of manufacturing technology with low environmental impact Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital 5 Enriched human resources in line with business globalization T Threats 1 Disruption of production due to climate change 2 Increase in natural disasters Appendix 3 Increase of immigration and terrorism due to shrinking habitable area 60 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Social and Relationship Capital Initiatives for Achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)/ESG Indices A LIST in CDP report 2019 Proactively Work toward the Solution of Global Environment and Social Issues under Well-Established Governance Eisai aims to enhance corporate value by creating social value. The origin of this idea is “human health care (hhc),” which is Eisai’s corporate philosophy. Eisai’s corporate activities rely on the idea that economic value is created as a result of social value creation. We believe that the continuous realization of “hhc” is a mission for all Eisai employees. We are working on this realization, recognizing that it is important to contribute to the unmet medical needs of the world through our business activities and continue to create value for society. As part of these efforts, the CEO, other executives in charge of ESG (Environment, Society, and Governance), and employees gather together and hold a “Sustainability Advisory Board” to discuss sustainability, and receive advice from external advisors once a year. We discussed actions for climate change and human rights in addition to Access to Medicines (ATM) in the Board in fiscal 2019. Eisai will continue to strive for further sustainability. ●Access to Medicines (ATM) Enhancement of Eisai’s corporate value Elimination of lymphatic filariasis (LF), Initiatives for global healthcare ◉Continuous realization of “hhc” ●Human Rights Initiatives for human rights due diligence ●Environment ●Initiatives for SDGs Initiatives for a low carbon society, Endorsement of Task Force on Climate-related ●Adherence to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Corporate philosophy “hhc” ＊● stands for factor of social value creation ■ Rated “A” in the CDP＊1 Climate Change Report 2019 Eisai conducts business operations seeking coClimate Change Report 2019, based on the evaluation existence with the global environment. Based on the of answers to the CDP Climate Change Questionnaire. Eisai Network Companies (ENW) Environmental In fiscal 2019, 8,400 companies responded worldwide, Protection Policy, all employees recognize the of which 180 were companies with an “A” rating and 38 importance of environmental protection and incorporate were Japanese companies. The A list companies are an environmental perspective in working to solve social recognized as taking advanced approaches to climate issues. In promoting business expansion into countries change issues, and are expected to continue to across the world, Eisai will fulfill its corporate social demonstrate global leadership to respond to responsibility by focusing on reducing environmental environmental risks and contribute the building of a impact at each stage of business. sustainable economy. We were rated “A,” the highest rating in the CDP Expanding use of renewable energy＊2 ●Trend of renewable energy introduction ratio We are working to switch to renewable energy in (%) 28.0 production sites and R&D sites that consume the most 30 energy group-wide. In fiscal 2019, we switched to 22.2 renewable energy with green electricity certificate at the 20 Vizag Plant in India, and at the Suzhou and Benxi Plants in China. In fiscal 2020, we aim to achieve the renewable energy ratio target by switching the energy 10 usage of the headquarters building group and part of 3.8 0.6 0.6 the Tsukuba Research Laboratory. 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (fiscal year) 61 Initiatives for a low-carbon society Reduce CO2 emissions by 30% from fiscal 2016 by fiscal 2030 We are promoting initiatives for the formation of a low carbon society to help solve the problem of climate change. As one of the initiatives, we set the greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction target by fiscal 2030 based on scientific Company Introduction grounds and received the approval from “Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)”＊3 in May 2019. We are making efforts to decrease CO2 emissions by 40,000t globally to realize low carbon society. ＊1 C DP (former name: Carbon Disclosure Project) is an NGO founded in London in 2001. It sends inquiries to the world’s top companies on behalf of institutional investors with assets under management of 96 trillion USD, analyzes and evaluates the answers, and then represents the results to investors, governments and companies. The information from CDP is considered to be a key factor for ESG investment. ＊2 Energy that is always present in the natural world, such as sunlight, wind power, and geothermal energy, that “is not exhausted,” “is present everywhere,” and “does not emit CO2.” ＊3 SBTi helps companies set reduction targets to keep average global temperature rises below 1.5 degrees Celsius since the Industrial Revolution. CDP, United Nations Global Compact, World Resources Institute (WRI), and World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Japan jointly established SBTi in 2015. ■ Improving Resilience to Climate-Related Risks Analysis of Impact of Climate Change Based on TCFD Frameworks Management Strategies Eisai tried scenario analysis from October 2019 to March degrees Celsius since the Industrial Revolution in 2100, 2020 in accordance with the Final Report and one with a strict climate change policy that limits the “Recommendations by the Task Force on Climate temperature rise in 2100 to within 1.5 degrees Celsius, we Change Disclosure” released by the Financial Stability executed financial impact analysis of physical risks and Board (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related Financial transition risks due to climate change, and did mapping Disclosures (TCFD) in 2017. Setting two scenarios, one on the three axes of magnitude of financial impact, with large GHG emissions and a temperature rise of 4 probability of occurrence, and timing of occurrence. Value Creation Activities Obstacles to the operation of domestic and overseas locations due to Financial impact due to climate change typhoons, heavy rain, floods, etc. Production Necessity of backup system for business sites vulnerable to natural disasters Impact on production activities due to power outages due to natural disasters (A) Additional spending demands on rising health risks and lower access to medicines Delays in procurement items due to typhoons, heavy rain, floods, etc., and due to climate change obstacles to transportation (B) Rising raw material prices due to natural disasters Physical risk Procurement Difficulty in obtaining raw materials due to climate change and temperature Operating (C) Loss due to production trouble due to natural disasters rise, quality deterioration, and purchase price increase cost (D) Transition costs to environmentally friendly packaging Stable Insufficient supply of necessary medicines to meet growing healthcare needs (E) Rising raw material, logistics, and energy costs associated with rising carbon prices supply during natural disasters (F) Increase in insurance premiums due to an increase in natural disasters, contributions, etc. Delay in restoration of local infrastructure and resources due to natural Regions disasters Developing Increased health risks due to climate change, reduced access to medicines countries Aggravation of poverty Revenue (G) Decrease in sales due to operation and logistics obstacles due to natural disasters Financial Base Higher production and logistics costs due to higher prices for fuel, electricity, etc. (H) Investment for production backup system due to increase in natural disasters Cost increases at our own and suppliers’ factories due to stricter ( I ) Fixed asset loss due to natural disasters Assets Transition risk Regulation environmental regulations (energy use limits, water use limits, etc.) , (J) Capital investment due to stricter regulations obstacles to operations Risk of non-attainment of GHG reduction at suppliers Risk of raw material shortage due to tightening regulations in the materials supply industry (K) Deterioration of reputation due to insufficient GHG emission reduction measures Market Rising demand for conversion to environmentally friendly raw materials and products Access to (L) Deterioration of reputation due to inability to supply necessary medicines during Increasing demand for GHG emission reduction (reputation risk when capital natural disasters Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Reputation measures are insufficient) ■Operating cost ■Revenue (K) Insufficient GHG emission reduction measures ■Assets -t erm ce ng ■Access to capital g en to lo r e m u f em Medi eo n Tim know n U m/ (H) Investment for production r -te ort (J) Capital investment Sh (D) Environmentally (A) Lower access (B) Rising raw (L) Inability to supply necessary backup system (E) Rising carbon to medicines (F) Increase Financial impact friendly packaging (G) Production/ medicines material prices prices Appendix (F) Contributions of insurance premium (C) Production distribution obstacles (I) Fixed asset loss trouble Small Middle Large Probability 62 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 As a result, we detected that the largest physical risk that the continuous rise in raw material prices due to is the decline in access to medicines in developing the continuous rise in carbon prices would also have a countries and the need for additional cost spending large impact. In addition, we evaluated that the required for improvement. The second is the loss due replacement cost would be large if we were forced to to production failures and damage to fixed assets due change the packaging due to increasing environmental to natural disasters and the amount of continuous demands, including a certain period of time needed for investment in the production backup system. We also the change as cost. evaluated that the decrease in sales by the stagnation To manage these risks, in addition to accelerating of product supply due to the suspension of production the initiatives already underway, we establish a mediumand logistics was significant. to long-term roadmap for setting and achieving higher In terms of transition risk, we evaluated that the goals. We also accelerate the implementation and the decline in reputation in case GHG reductions were disclosure of long-term and sustainable initiatives and inadequate would have an extremely large impact, and measures. Initiatives for physical risks Initiatives for transition risks Verify the cost-effectiveness of reduction measures Acceleration of initiatives for further improvement of and formulate concrete action plans for the entire value access to medicines and cooperation with external Access to Medicines agencies Science Based chain globally Promote development of new drugs for infectious Targets (SBT) Clarification of required management resources (ATM) achievement plan Disclosure of easy-to-understand information on GHG diseases emissions, reduction targets, and results in addition to Initiatives for unique business models maintaining CDP evaluation Strengthening of BCP at each business site, detailed disaster risk diagnosis, and promotion of hardware Confirm emission status of major suppliers and Resilience against measures Supply chain reduction measures for GHG reduction in the supply natural disasters Ensuring employee safety and strengthening BCP at chain to achieve SBT high-risk business sites Environmentally Early consideration of the priority of switching targets Supply chain resilience enhancement by identifying Supply chain high-risk suppliers or procured items friendly containers Selection of alternative materials and technologies and packaging ■ Activities Based on Human Rights Policy Eisai believes that it is essential for all business activities Charter of Business Conduct, which was defined to to be conducted on the basis of respect for human promote respect for human rights as a company-wide rights, and that this is the foundation of our business initiative in March 2019. We are promoting activities to activities. The importance of respect for human rights is fulfill our corporate responsibility for respecting human clearly stated in The Eisai network companies (ENW) rights in line with this Charter. Human rights due diligence (Initiatives for human rights issues) Stakeholders Priority Issues Actions P rovision of DEC tablets and disease awareness activities to countries with widespread lymphatic filariasis (LF) Patients and other Improvement of Access to Participation in Access Accelerated, a global initiative of the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers’ consumers Medicines (ATM)＊1 Associations (IFPMA) to improve access to prevention, diagnosis and treatment of non-communicable diseases in low and middle income countries A cceleration of stay/ P ut “Eisai Health Declaration” into effect to promote 100% consultation rate of health checkups, eliminate smoking at all improve health activities business sites and improve health literacy Employees ＊2 Support for balancing Established a “Return to Work Support Program” to create an environment in which employees who suffer from illness such treatment and work as cancer can work while fighting illness. Issued “Guidance for Balancing Treatment and Work” H  uman rights respect and F ormed and started a cross-organizational sustainable procurement project in order to conduct a sustainability assessment Business partners proper working environment that includes consideration of human rights, occupational safety, and the environment of our business partners in supply chain Adopted system by EcoVadis as suppliers’ sustainability evaluation method ＊1 Please refer to pages 65-68 ＊2 Please refer to pages 69-72 Internal activities to disseminate respect for human rights In order for the respect for human rights to become established as a corporate culture, it is necessary for top management to understand it. Eisai held a training lecture for the Board of Directors and Corporate Officers from an outside expert about responsibility for respecting human rights being required by the international community. In addition, we made every effort to make respect for human rights penetrate the Company by holding training for domestic ENW employees (held 29 times, 6,220 people participated), level-specific training for new employees and organizational managers, and e-learning about business and human rights. 63 Scope of data : ■Eisai Group (Eisai Co., Ltd. and Group companies in and outside Japan) ■Eisai Co., Ltd. ■Eisai Group in Japan (Eisai Co., Ltd. and Group companies in Japan) (Data for subsidiaries and businesses transferred is included until the date the transfer was completed) ESG Indices ▲ Items for improvement in future Corporate Governance and Compliance Indices Period FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Company Introduction 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% Ratio of outside directors to directors At fiscal year end 7/11 7/11 7/11 7/11 7/11 7/11 7/11 7/11 7/11 7/11 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% Ratio of female directors to directors At fiscal year end 1/11 1/11 1/11 1/11 1/11 1/11 1/11 1/11 1/11 1/11 0% 0% 0% 4.3% 9.1% 8.0% 14.8% 11.1% 13.8% 10.0% Ratio of female corporate officers to corporate officers At fiscal year end 0/27 0/18 0/18 1/23 2/22 2/25 4/27 3/27 4/29 3/30 Average age of corporate officers At fiscal year end 54.8 52.9 52.9 53.0 53.1 53.6 52.9 52.9 53.2 54.2 Number of times Number of times offered Annually 70 84 120 65 56 47 62 65 92 172 compliance training Number of executive training courses Annually 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 2 offered Total participants (approx.) Annually 6,000 6,000 8,500 5,800 5,000 4,600 5,800 4,800 6,200 7,200 Submission rate of ENW compliance oath At fiscal year end － － － － － 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Number of times offered Annually 23 15 28 23 28 30 34 34 34 29 Management Strategies Number of times human rights training offered Participants Annually 16,370 5,096 3,123 2,452 2,405 5,001 5,457 5,477 5,686 6,220 Involvement with Society Period FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of regional agreements Annually － － － 3 20 34 31 43 21 15 Cumulative quantity of DEC tablets supplied (billion tablets) Annually － － － 0.01 0.28 0.60 0.97 1.35 1.66 1.99 Involvement with Employees Period FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total 11,560 10,730 10,495 10,419 10,183 9,877 10,452 10,456 10,683 10,998 Japan 5,636 5,472 5,320 5,200 4,712 4,523 5,009 4,914 4,888 4,593 Americas (North America) 2,559 1,843 1,815 1,763 1,719 1,290 1,296 1,240 1,261 1,682 Number of employees At fiscal year end by region EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Russia and Oceania) 1,015 873 831 811 893 913 983 1,022 1,046 1,113 China 1,407 1,498 1,454 1,559 1,607 1,875 1,909 1,906 2,069 2,087 Asia and Latin America 943 1,044 1,075 1,086 1,252 1,276 1,255 1,374 1,419 1,523 Value Creation Activities Total 4,415 4,305 4,163 4,130 3,583 3,577 3,508 3,436 3,411 3,212 ＊1 Number of employees of Male At fiscal year end 3,393 3,331 3,228 3,202 2,845 2,838 2,775 2,708 2,679 2,479 ＊1 Eisai Co., Ltd. 1,022 974 935 928 738 739 733 728 732 733 Female ＊1 23.1% 22.6% 22.5% 22.5% 20.6% 20.7% 20.9% 21.2% 21.5% 22.8% Total 1,392 1,376 1,369 1,370 1,282 1,292 1,206 1,228 1,250 1,203 ＊2 Number of managers ▲ Female 42 43 53 59 61 65 72 86 100 116 ＊2 ▲ Total At fiscal year end 3.0% 3.1% 3.9% 4.3% 4.8% 5.0% 6.0% 7.0% 8.0% 9.6% ＊2 Ratio of women in management Newly appointed 3.6% 6.5% 16.3% 17.4% 15.4% 11.6% 17.6% 21.3% 23.9% 23.1% ＊2 managers 2/56 3/46 8/49 8/46 6/39 5/43 9/51 13/61 17/71 15/65 Average age At fiscal year end 42.3 42.8 43.4 42.5 43.7 44.1 44.8 45.3 45.3 45.0 ＊1 Total 18.5 19.0 19.5 20 19.4 19.9 20.4 20.8 21.2 19.9 ＊1 Average years of employment Male At fiscal year end 19.3 19.7 20.1 20.7 20.3 20.8 21.4 21.9 22.3 21.3 ＊1 Female 16.1 16.8 17.3 17.8 15.9 16.2 16.9 16.9 17.3 15.4 ＊1 Financial Base Turnover rate (self-directed retirement) Annually 1.5% 2.4% 1.7% 1.8% 1.4% 2.6% 3.1% 2.5% 2.2% 2.1% ＊1,3 Total turnover rate Annually 2.5% 4.8% 2.8% 14.2% 1.9% 3.0% 3.8% 3.4% 11.4% 7.5% ＊1,4 Total Annually 70 76 78 78 90 95 89 97 105 91 ＊1,5 Number of users of childcare leave program ▲ Male Annually 1 0 1 1 1 2 0 5 6 8 ＊1,5 Female Annually 69 76 77 77 89 93 89 92 99 83 ＊1,5 Number of users of spousal maternity leave program Annually － － － － － － － － 58 78 ＊1,6 Number of users of short working hours program for childcare Annually 80 79 82 86 73 93 80 75 90 69 ＊1 Personal development expenses (thousands of yen)(per employee) Annually 192 157 162 177 176 198 210 214 221 259 ＊1,7 Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Percentage of handicapped employees Annually 2.02% 2.03% 2.37% 2.39% 2.56% 2.53% 2.65% 2.84% 2.88% 2.62% 40.8% 28.3% 50.0% 36.9% 14.3% 33.3% 38.2% 44.3% 36.3％ 39.8％ Female rate in the annual hired (Female/Total) Annually ＊1 42/103 17/60 14/28 31/84 2/14 35/105 21/55 31/70 33/91 74/186 Total Annually 98 56 21 76 3 100 39 43 57 97 ＊1,8 Number of hired new graduates Male Annually 57 39 12 46 2 66 20 23 32 50 ＊1,8 Female Annually 41 17 9 30 1 34 19 20 25 47 ＊1,8 Average monthly overtime hours 13h 11h 10 h 10h 12h 9h 8h 9h 10h 11h Annually (per non-management employee) 3m 1m 27m 46m 11m 11m 34m 44m 28m 10m Number of work-related accidents ▲ Annually 35 31 42 16 9 16 23 19 17 11 Frequency of work-related injuries that Employee Annually 0.44 0.27 0.19 0.10 0 0 0.10 0.10 0.20 0.15 resulted in more than 4 days of work lost (per million hours of actual work) Contractor Annually 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ▲ Employee Annually 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 Number of work-related fatalities Contractor Annually 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of cases of work-related ▲ Employee Annually 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 occupational illness Contractor Annually 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Average days of paid holidays taken ▲ Annually 13.7 13.9 12.7 12.3 12.1 12.1 12.4 12.9 13.5 12.5 Appendix (per non-management employee) ＊1 Based on the number of fulltime Eisai Co., Ltd. employees including employees dispatched to Eisai Network Companies (ENW) ＊2 Based on the number of employees disclosed in Annual Securities Report (Eisai Co., Ltd. employees include those dispatched from ENW and exclude the ones to ENW) ＊3 Self-directed retirement only, not including mandatory retirement due to age, voluntary retirement, etc. ＊4 Covering all types of retirement such as self-directed retirement, mandatory retirement due to age, voluntary retirement, etc. ＊5 Childcare leave program Entitlement: Workers who have served the company for 1 year or more and requested childcare leave for child/children under the age of 3 Period: By the day of the employee’s request before the child/children reach the age of 3 ＊6 Spousal maternity leave program (Commenced in April 2018) Entitlement: Workers whose partner gave birth Period: Up to 5 days of special paid holidays ＊7 Personal development expenses include training, studying abroad, participation in academic conferences ＊8 Not including employees who joined the company midway For further details of ESG indices, please refer to Eisai’s Corporate Website. ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/management/pdf/esg_index.pdf 64 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Social and Relationship Capital Improving Access to Medicines (ATM) 28 countries 1.99 billion tablets Number of countries supplied with lymphatic filariasis treatment DEC tablets and volume supplied (as of March 2020) “We want to deliver as many necessary medicines as possible and nurture hope in as many people as possible.” Putting This Wish into Mind, Eisai is Engaged in Activities for Improving ATM in Developing and Emerging Countries. ■ Contributing the Achievement of SDGs through the Initiatives for ATM Eisai is engaged in activities for improving ATM with the emerging countries is a long-term investment that will aim of ensuring that people in developing and emerging support the health of the people living in these countries countries receive the medicines they need. ATM is a and ultimately lead to the future growth of these nations basic need for all people regardless of nationality, as a whole. Eisai utilizes many methods including supply economic disparities or social standing. Today, of products at affordable prices as well as public-private approximately 2 billion＊ people around the world do not partnerships, as it continues to implement various ATM have adequate access to medicines, most of whom are initiatives through its unique business models. the poor in developing and emerging countries who also lack proper information about health and diseases. ＊ Source: Access to Medicine Index Eisai believes that improving ATM in developing and ▶ https://accesstomedicinefoundation.org/ ■E  fforts to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis: Supplying DEC Tablets and Implementing Awareness-Raising Activities Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a neglected tropical disease (NTD) transmitted to humans via carrier mosquitoes. It is estimated that approximately 893 million people worldwide, mainly those in developing countries, are exposed to the risk of LF. The World Health Organization (WHO) conducts mass drug administrations (MDAs) in endemic areas in order to eliminate LF. Eisai is committed to supplying diethylcarbamazine (DEC) tablets, one of the three types of LF medicines used in the MDAs, to LF endemic countries that need DEC until LF is eliminated in these countries. In 2013, Eisai obtained WHO prequalification for DEC tablets and commenced production at its Vizag Plant in India. Since then, Eisai has provided 1.99 billion DEC Eisai employees at Vizag Plant socializing with LF patient tablets to 28 endemic countries through the WHO’s elimination program (as of March 2020). Furthermore, to support the smooth implementation of the WHO’s MDA ●Cumulative quantity of DEC tablets supplied and the number of patients whose well-being has been contributed to programs, Eisai is engaging in initiatives to raise public (100 million tablets) (100 million people) awareness of LF in endemic areas. In order to eliminate 19.9 LF as early as possible, staff members of Eisai’s local Cumulative quantity of tablets supplied Number of patients helped 16.6 subsidiaries cooperate with the relevant representatives 8.0 15 13.5 in endemic countries, prepare and distribute leaflets in 6.7 the local languages on the prevention and treatment of 9.7 5.4 10 5 LF, and support implementation of MDA in endemic 3.9 6.0 countries. For example, since 2015, during MDA 5 2.4 programs by Ministry of Public Health and NGOs for LF 2.8 0.1 1.1 elimination in Indonesia, Eisai staff members have 0.1 0 0 socialized with LF patients, held workshops, and raised End of End of End of End of End of End of End of fiscal 2013 fiscal 2014 fiscal 2015 fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 fiscal 2019 awareness about LF in collaboration with students from ＊ The number of patients helped is an estimated value, which is converted from the the Faculty of Medicine as well as the Master’s Program cumulative quantity of tablets supplied based on the assumption that an average of 2.5 tablets is taken per capita in accordance with the WHO’s definitions. of Public Health in Gadjah Mada University. 65 ■ Introduction of Eisai’s Efforts to Improve Access to Medicines in the Encyclopedia Britannica’s Digital Library “School Edition” for Elementary and Junior High School Children Company Introduction Encyclopedia Britannica has been known as the world standard in knowledge since 1768. Britannica Japan’s “School Edition” is a digital library consisting of abundant multimedia contents based on the encyclopedia. This library supports Japanese elementary and junior high school children’s research for study and discussion. Eisai’s initiatives to improve access to medicines have been introduced as an example of a company engaged in “support for Management Strategies providing medicines in developing countries” under the discussion theme of “What kind of international cooperation activities should Japan do in particular?” in the “Let’s deepen our thinking together!” column. This is the first time that the efforts of a pharmaceutical company have been featured in the “School Edition.” The article highlighted Eisai’s mission and long-term initiatives to contribute to patients around the world, in addition to the effects of Eisai’s specific activities such as the free provision of DEC tablets for LF, local Value Creation Activities activities for raising awareness, and support for mass Source: Britannica School Edition, Copyright: Britannica Japan Co., Ltd. drug administration. ■ 10 years of Progress toward LF Elimination In November 2010, Eisai agreed to provide the WHO with a total of 2.2 billion DEC tablets free of charge by 2020. In 2012, Eisai was the only Japanese company to participate in the “London Declaration,” the largest public-private partnership in the field of global health to Financial Base eliminate 10 NTDs. Eisai started the development of DEC tablets in 2010 and received prequalification from the WHO in 2013. Since obtaining prequalification, Eisai has been combined efforts of donor company drug production manufacturing and supplying the DEC tablets from its facilities, including Eisai’s Vizag Plant, as well as various Vizag Plant in India. Eisai announced that it would NTDs elimination partners. continue to provide DEC tablets to endemic countries Eisai has created a short animation to commemorate Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital that need DEC until LF is eliminated in these countries, the 10th anniversary of LF elimination activities in at the 5th Anniversary event of the London Declaration collaboration with global partners. Eisai will continue to in April 2017. In addition, to commemorate the 5th collaborate with partners to contribute to LF patients and Anniversary of the London Declaration, efforts by donor their families. Eisai will also introduce information about companies were officially acknowledged in the form of international cooperation activities and the challenges a Guinness World Record for “Most medication that need to be overcome in an easy to understand way. donated in 24 hours.” The total number of treatments Please watch the animation about Eisai’s LF elimination activities in 10 years was 207 million. This was accomplished thanks to the ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/movie/index.html ■ R&D Initiatives for Improving Global Health Eisai proactively undertakes research on pharmaceuticals people become incapacitated due to disease and for treating NTDs and for the three major infectious become even poorer, and international efforts are called Appendix diseases (HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria). upon to tackle this significant global health issue. In These diseases strike people with low incomes in response, Eisai is currently conducting various projects developing countries, causing them to leave work. This aimed at developing new treatments for Chagas in turn leads to a negative cycle of poverty in which disease, mycetoma, filariasis, and leishmaniasis as well 66 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 as malaria and tuberculosis. Undertaking research cooperation with the international non-governmental activities for these diseases requires specific expertise, organization Association for Aid and Relief, Japan (AAR technologies and clinical study experience, in addition Japan), Eisai has been implementing awareness to networks with clinical facilities in endemic regions. activities about knowledge on mycetoma and the For these reasons, Eisai is actively engaged in external importance of early treatment, as well as initiatives that collaborations such as partnerships with global research promote patients’ early diagnosis and treatment at organizations, and is participating in international medical institutions in Sudan, which is one of the consortiums to share compound libraries, as Eisai countries where the disease is most prevalent. Eisai seeks to develop new drugs for NTDs and the three also commissioned AAR Japan to conduct patients’ major infectious diseases. Eisai aims to develop new medical awareness survey. drugs for fungal mycetoma, a highly neglected disease Malaria, which infects approximately 230 million for which there is no effective treatment. people and kills more than 400 thousand people per Currently, Eisai is conducting a PhaseⅡ/Ⅲ study of year, is still a serious infectious disease. In recent years, its in-house developed antifungal agent fosravuconazole resistance to existing drugs has been reported, and the (E1224) in partnership with the Drugs for Neglected development of new drugs has become an urgent task. Diseases initiative (DNDi) in Sudan. Mycetoma is Eisai is pursuing a PhaseⅠstudy with the aim of transmitted through pricks in the skin and causes large developing a new drug against malaria in partnership with lesions that can spread to other parts of the body and the University of Kentucky in the United States and the cause severe disability. Since February 2019, in Swiss non-profit Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV). ●NTDs / Infectious diseases research project portfolio (as of July 2020) Early research stage Non-clinical Clinical Chagas vaccine (using Eisai’s Chagas vaccine (using Eisai’s E1224 Chagas Disease project Chagas disease immunostimulant E6020) ① immunostimulant E6020) ③ (Phase Ⅱ study) ④ Screening of novel compounds ② Neglected Tropical Leishmaniasis Diseases (NTDs) Filariasis AWZ1066S ⑤ E1224 Eumycetoma project Mycetoma (Phase Ⅱ/Ⅲ study) ⑥ Inhibitor of Plasmodium BRD5018 ⑩ SJ733 (PhaseⅠstudy) ⑮ DHODH ⑦ Screening of novel E1511 ⑪ compounds for malaria ⑧ Malaria vaccine (using Eisai’s TLR9 antagonist 3 Major Malaria immunostimulant E6020) ⑨ for cerebral malaria ⑫ Infectious Novel compound for artemisinin Diseases resistant malaria ⑬ SJ733 (IV) ⑭ Inhibitor of Mycobacterium Tuberculosis tryptophan synthase ⑯ R&D Consortium for NTDs and WIPO Re:Search ⑰ NTD Drug Discovery Booster ⑱ 3 major infectious diseases Macrofilaricide Drug Accelerator ⑲ TB Drug Accelerator ⑳ R&D Consortium for Pandemic and COVID-19 Therapeutics Accelerator ㉑ AMR Screening Consortium ㉒ Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) ■Main partners of the projects ⑭, ⑮ University of Kentucky (U.S.), Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV) (Switzerland) ①, ⑨, ⑫ Fundação Oswaldo Cruz (Fiocruz) (Brazil) ⑯ Broad Institute (U.S.), Colorado State University (U.S.), University of Chicago (U.S.) ②, ④, ⑥,⑱ Drugs for Neglected Disease initiative (DNDi ) (Switzerland) ⑰ World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) (Switzerland), BIO Ventures for Global Health （BVGH) ③ Sabin Vaccine Institute (U.S.) (U.S.) ⑤, ⑬ Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine (U.K.), University of Liverpool (U.K.) ⑲, ⑳, ㉑ Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (U.S.) ⑦, ⑩ Broad Institute (U.S.), Medicines for Malaria Venture（MMV） (Switzerland) ㉒ Global Antibiotic Research and Development Partnership (GARDP) (Switzerland) ⑧, ⑪ Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV) (Switzerland) Please visit the following link for details on projects ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/atm/research.html ■ Pricing Policy that Emphasizes Affordability Eisai has formulated various flexible pricing policies that to purchase Eisai’s products at affordable prices. enable patients in developing and emerging countries Regarding Fycompa®, antiepileptic agent, and Aricept®, 67 a treatment for Alzheimer’s disease, we introduced a cost subsidies, free examinations, and disease unique system in India, where in the past many patients management support for patients. In addition, Eisai has have had to pay the full cost of medical expenses introduced tiered pricing, with the “Patient Access Company Introduction out-of-pocket. The treatments are provided for free to Program” for the anticancer agent Lenvima® in 8 Asian patients for a certain period of time, and a full-scale countries. In this model, co-payment is set at several administration of the treatment is implemented once tiers in accordance with the income level and health efficacy is confirmed. For antiepileptic agent Zonegran®, insurance availability of the patients, ranging from the we have started a patient support program “Livefree” full price to free of charge, depending on the for patients who need financial support for long-term conditions. During the four-year period, Lenvima® was treatment in India in 2017. In this program, we provide supplied to approximately 2,400 patients cumulatively various types of support and tools such as treatment via tiered pricing. Management Strategies ■ Enhancement of Corporate Value and Solutions to Social Issues through Initiatives for Improving ATM Input Output Outcome Intellectual capital Social and Relationship capital ●Accumulation of knowledge ●Economic growth in from drug creation activities ●Supply of LF treatment DEC developing and emerging over many years tablets free of charge countries due to improvement of health Human capital and welfare, and increase ●Employees’ strong motivation ●Activities for raising awareness in middle-income class ●Enhancement in the value of Value Creation Activities to contribute to patients’ of lymphatic filariasis well-being supported by the Eisai’s corporate brand hhc philosophy ●Supply of products based on Human capital Production capital affordable and tiered pricing ●Improvement in employees’ skills and motivation ●Utilization of the Vizag Plant strategies in India for low-cost Financial capital production ●Reduced cost of manufacturing due to Social and Relationship capital increased operation rate ●Partnership with the WHO or at the Vizag Plant international research institutions ●(Very long-term perspective) Profits created through Financial capital businesses in developing ●Strong balance sheet and emerging countries Financial Base For the purpose of facilitating the improvement of ATM, positive internal outcomes. Eisai believes that efforts to Eisai utilizes many different types of capital as input and improve ATM will increase capital to an extent that is converts them into many different forms of output greater than the amount of input, through the creation (products and services), such as DEC tablets, through of added value. Eisai’s initiatives for improving ATM go business activities. As a result, we pursue the creation beyond the framework of CSR activities and aim at of positive outcomes such as the improvement of creating long-term value. Supplying DEC tablets free of Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital health, welfare and economic growth by increasing the charge will initially be a loss and thus negatively affect size of the middle-income populations in developing profits and ROE in the short term. However, from a very countries and emerging countries. Eisai also seeks to long-term perspective, we estimate that it will boost our enhance the value of its corporate brand, improve net present value (NPV) to a positive level through the employees’ skills and motivation, and reduce costs by creation of the outcomes described above. increasing the operation rate of the Vizag Plant as ■ Highly Evaluated Eisai’s Initiatives for Improving ATM The Access to Medicine Foundation, an international In addition, Eisai has non-profit organization which analyses how the world’s been selected for the MSCI largest pharmaceutical companies are addressing Japan ESG Select Leaders access to medicine, biennially researches and publishes Index as a company with Appendix the Access to Medicine Index. In 2018, Eisai was ranked outstanding ESG ratings, and has maintained an AA 8th, rising three places in the ranking from 11th in 2016. ranking in the ESG Index for 7 consecutive years since Among Eisai’s activities, Eisai’s continued commitment to 2014. In this Index, the area of Access to Health Care combat NTDs was selected as the best practice. was highlighted as one of Eisai’s strengths. 68 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Strategy for Talent Innovation 83 points Employees’ empathy toward Corporate Mission and Vision exceeded all industries’ average Result from Employee Engagement Survey “wevox” in May 2020 Eisai’s strategy is to develop human resources who cultivate confidence and pride through proactive and challenging work, and voluntarily contribute to creation of new value with empathy toward corporate philosophy. We renewed the definition of global human resources who work on the global stage. We would like to form a borderless group of talents who can actively engage with people regardless of time difference or location, build trust, and continue to create innovation while adapting to changes. Toward this end, we will further promote reforms to create a better work environment so that diverse human resources can work actively, and realize a flexible work style. ■H  iring and Training Digital Talent in ‘EWAY 2025’ FUTURE Under the current medium-term business plan ‘EWAY ●The number of mid-career recruitment 2025,’ we are promoting drug creation using digital technology which we call “5D (Data Driven Drug 100 89 Discovery and Development) drug creation,” 80 establishment of a dementia ecosystem platform, and 60 enhancement of the link between daily living domain and medical domain using digital technology. In ‘EWAY 40 34 27 FUTURE,’ the latter part of the 10-year business plan 20 16 ‘EWAY 2025,’ the digital transformation will be in full0 scale operation. We focus on fostering leaders who fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 fiscal 2019 promote digital transformation, and increasing the digital literacy of employees. In addition, we will promote mid-career recruitment of digital talent such as data scientists and engineers, to prepare for the creation of new business models. Voice of a Mid-Career Employee with Expertise in the Digital Field Q Why did you decide to join Eisai? A. Generating innovation through data science was one of the hottest areas in the IT industry in 2016, when I joined Eisai. At that time, I had responsibility for setting up a data science team. While gaining such experiences, I started to have a strong desire to “help people with the power of data,” then I found Eisai. I decided to join the company since I felt empathy toward Eisai’s vision of “contribute to patients’ well-being with data.” Keishi Akada Q What is your impression of the Company since you have joined? hDAC 5D Integration Unit A. I felt the strong determination of the company to bring innovation with big data and AI. I had opportunities to experience many challenging projects, including one that was recognized and led to the invaluable experience of receiving an award directly from the CEO. Q What do you hope to achieve at Eisai? A. The pharmaceutical industry is facing the necessity to achieve discontinuous growth, utilizing data to create new drugs. This situation is the same as what I had expected before joining the company, and I am reaffirming my determination to realize self-innovation, and innovation in drug discovery, as well as innovation at Eisai. 69 ●The number of employees in management who are in their 30s ■F  air Opportunities and Rewards or younger We offer various programs to support employees’ Company Introduction professional growth at every age and career stage. 206 Employees can improve their abilities by actively taking 196 advantage of such opportunities to achieve results. The remuneration and appointment system ensures that 181 employees who have made substantial achievements are fairly rewarded regardless of their age. As a result, the number of employees in management who are in their 30s or younger is increasing every year. fiscal 2018 fiscal 2019 fiscal 2020 Management Strategies ■P  rogress of Work Style Reform We position the objectives of work style reform as management employee are around 10 hours. We also “realizing work styles that allow employees to maximize manage working hours of managers and employees their independence, and increase productivity by with deemed working hours and discretionary labor by improving engagement and maximizing output.” To do monitoring “health management time,” which was so, we are promoting various initiatives. We are creating introduced with the aim of securing employees’ health an environment which enables employees to adopt work appropriately. The initiatives to eliminate long overtime styles that balance both life and work, in which each work are making steady progress. employee’s life events and diverse values are accepted. As our efforts to comply with the Act on the Value Creation Activities We also have introduced systems that offer a wider Arrangement of Related Acts to Promote Work Style choice of work styles from the perspective of supporting Reform, which came into effect in 2019, we have employees to maximize their performance by balancing implemented the following measures; work and childcare, nursing care, and illness. 1) R  evision of the “36 Agreement” to set the number For the details of positive work environment, please visit our website at of hours below the maximum time specified by law ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/employee/environment/index.html and unify it across all business establishments On the other hand, we are taking extremely seriously 2) E  stablishment of “interval hours” the fact that the Company underwent certification of a Furthermore, as a next step in work style reform that work-related accident in February 2019. In response to goes beyond just reducing overtime work, we are this, we have been pro-actively making efforts to considering a new work style making full use of digital Financial Base eliminate long working hours, in line with the technology. This will include how the ideal office organizational or individual situations since March 2019. environment should be, based on the lessons learned Currently, average monthly overtime hours per nonfrom the situations caused by COVID-19. ■P  romoting Diversity in Human Resources (Acceleration of Diversity) Eisai believes that diversity is a source of innovation, and Group. Moreover, we are running the “Global Challenge Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital has developed a climate that allows employees with a Program” in the pharmaceutical business division in wide range of values to carry out activities regardless of Japan, for selected employees who wish to work in an their nationality, gender, age or other characteristics, international setting in the future, to develop intercultural since the “Eisai Diversity Declaration” was issued in 2012. skills. Sharing of global values, and facilitation of participation and advancement of female employees in ●The number of participants in “Global Challenge Program” the workplace in Japan, were addressed as issues in (cumulative) promoting diversity. 95 100 As regards sharing of global values, we are fostering 78 a sense of unity and human resource development 80 across countries through the “E-GOLD program” led by 60 52 the CEO, and the “E-ACE program” led by the CTO 40 (Chief Talent Officer), which are selective development Appendix 24 programs to develop global leaders across the regions 20 and functions, and the international employee exchange 0 program of “Global Mobility Program” within the Eisai fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 fiscal 2019 70 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Voice of an Employee with Foreign Nationality Q Why did you decide to join Eisai? A. I chose to work in the pharmaceutical industry since I wanted to take part in improving access to medicine. Attracted to the company’s strong determination to contribute to patients by creating medicine from scratch and proving them free of charge, and the ability to execute projects, I decided to join Eisai. Q What is your impression of the Company since you have joined? A. My workplace has a culture that encourages challenges and allows a new Wei Wang employee to take on important tasks. I learned a great deal while feeling nervous in Sustainability Department the first year at Eisai, such as when I was assigned as a contact point for the diethylcarbamazine (DEC) tablets provision program, I held telephone conferences with colleagues in India and the U.K., and gave a presentation at a conference in front of executives including the CEO, and external advisors. I would like to contribute to the elimination of LF, by working closely with the World Health Organization (WHO) and internal personnel to steadily deliver DEC tablets to those who are in need. Q What do you hope to achieve at Eisai? A. I have learned from my current assignments that issues of access to medicine cannot be solved fundamentally just by the provision of medicine. Under the ownership of the governments of each country, maintenance of the environment of local areas and disease awareness are also essential. In the future, I would like to contribute to the development of developing countries through improving sustainable healthcare standards, by formulating strategies that meet the needs of those countries. Voice of an Employee who Applied for Talent Development Programs Q Which talent development program did you use? A. I used “Job Challenge,” which was recruited for internally. As a medical representative (MR), I was taking pride in handling our global products, and started to have a strong interest in overseas business through an opportunity to take part in the “Global Challenge Program” at our Thai subsidiary. This experience led to me moving from being an MR to taking up my current duties as a result of internal transfer. Kiyoto Miyamori Q Has your motivation changed through participation in the program? Asia and Latin America Region Department A. Through the internal training program at our Thai subsidiary, I saw treatment disparities in Asian countries, and started to have a strong desire to solve this, which prompted me to apply for “Job Challenge.” This has led to me having great motivation for my current duties. I feel joy when working to realize “hhc” through engaging in a wide range of duties from business management to business development. Q What do you hope to achieve at Eisai? A. I am currently in charge of management operations in countries in the Asia and Latin America Region (ALA), mainly South Korea and Malaysia. By expanding new products in the market and realizing affordable pricing, I would like to take initiatives to achieve a further contribution to patients’ well-being. 71 As regards the facilitation of the working on the mid-career recruitment of female participation and advancement of managers and manager candidates. As a result, the female employees in the ratio of women in management positions has steadily Company Introduction workplace, we have been risen from 3.1% at the end of March 2012 to 10.4% in continuously working to encourage April 2020, and we have achieved the target of 10% set female employees to take on in April 2016. challenges to become leaders or ●Ratio of female employees in management (as of April 1, each year＊) managers. Such initiatives include (%) participation in mentoring programs with external 12 mentors and selective leader development program, or 9.3 10.4 10 holding seminars by inviting various female role models 8.0 8 from outside. We are also actively working to support all 6.9 6.1 Management Strategies employees who are participating in childcare, including 6 male employees, by holding seminars regarding “Iku4 bosses” (managers who willingly let their subordinates 2 participate in childcare regardless of gender), promoting 0 awareness of the childcare leave system among fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 fiscal 2019 fiscal 2020 managers, and so on. In addition, we are actively ＊ Calculated based on the number of employees disclosed in the Securities Report ■E  mployee Engagement In order to create a work environment in which all vision,” the score was 83, which was 9 points higher Value Creation Activities employees work proactively, voluntarily challenging than all-industry average, and it was confirmed that the themselves with a high level of engagement, we management policies and strategies based on the “hhc” conduct an engagement survey “wevox,” a tool philosophy have achieved high penetration among the developed and operated by Atrae, Inc., as an index to employees. By contrast, the score of the survey item of grasp the issues and areas for improvement. “workload” was 59, which was 5 points lower than the In the results of “wevox” conducted in May 2020, the all-industry average, which has driven the Company to total engagement score was 74, which was 3 points try to understand the current situation and to make higher than the all-industry average. In particular, in the efforts to accelerate work style reform. survey item of “empathy for corporate mission and Financial Base ■ Initiatives to Support Employees’ Health and Life after Retirement (1) H ealth-focused management and company-wide prohibition of smoking In view of protecting the health of our employees, Eisai 2019, we issued the Eisai Health Declaration, and we and the Eisai Health Insurance Society have established are aiming to achieve no smoking at all offices by the Collaborative Health Project, and support October 2020 as key strategies with improvement of employees’ health in cooperation with occupational employees’ healthcare literacy. Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital health physicians, medical staff and other relevant parties. The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry selected Eisai as an outstanding Health and Productivity Management Organization in the large enterprise category (White 500) because Eisai had been practicing initiatives in line with local health issues and initiatives to improve health for the third consecutive year. In June (2) Enhancement of pension management To support the stable living of employees after The fund announced the acceptance of the retirement, our pension plan is managed by the Eisai Japanese version of the Stewardship Code＊1 in Corporate Pension Fund, which is independent of our February 2018 and signed the PRI＊2 in December 2019, company, in an organization consisting of the and has been executing ESG investment. Appendix representatives of the company and labor union, while ＊1 P rinciples of behavior required of institutional investors to fulfill their responsibility as an monitoring the asset balance for the pursuit of stable asset management trustee ＊2 Principles for Responsible Investment assets and profits. 72 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Corporate Governance System In 2004 Adoption of company with a nomination committee, etc., system Eisai has Pursued the Best Corporate Governance Practices and has Remained Committed to the Improvement of Governance. ●Corporate Governance System General Meeting of Shareholders Board of Directors (11 members: 7 outside, 4 inside; Chair: outside director) Management oversight Audit by Committee Audit Committee hhc Governance Appropriate reporting Nomination Compensation (5 members: 3 outside, 2 inside; Committee Committee Committee＊ Chair: outside director) (3 members: all outside) (3 members: all outside) (7 members: all outside) Monitoring/ and proposal Management Board of Directors Secretariat Audit Department verification Report Operational Representative Corporate Officer and CEO division Accounting Corporate officer responsible Corporate officers Auditor for internal control Internal Audit Corporate Internal Audit Department Individual divisions/ Subsidiaries inside and outside Japan Development and operation of the internal control system Nomination Compensation Outside Directors Board of Directors Audit Committee Committee Committee Meeting＊ Number of meetings held in fiscal 2019 12 times 9 times 13 times 8 times 8 times Attendance in fiscal 2019 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% ＊ In fiscal 2020, the Outside Directors Meeting was renamed the “hhc Governance Committee,” which is clearly positioned as a committee within the Board of Directors. ■ Main Agenda Items of the Board of Directors The annual agenda of the Board of Directors is decided matters to be resolved and reports based on laws, based on the issues discussed by the hhc Governance regulations, and the Articles of Incorporation. Committee and the issues extracted by the Board Multiple risk related issues were discussed in fiscal of Directors evaluation in the previous year, such as 2019 as shown below. Analysis of results Evaluation of (approval and effectiveness of the disapproval for the Consideration of Board of Directors proposals) from General measures to deal with Shareholders Meeting large-scale share purchases that may damage corporate value Resolution and report regarding governance Resolutions based on laws, Report necessary for Examination of regulations, the resolution by the disclosure contents and the Articles of Incorporation Board of Directors Capital policy including such as “Business cross-holding shares Resolution of business plan risks” in Annual Approval of financial statements Securities Report Dividend decision Appointment of Corporate Officers Report regarding risk Review of Issues related to risks related matters medium-term business Business execution plan ‘EWAY 2025’ report focused on risks Current status and and Risk mapping issues regarding R&D of dementia treatments and anticancer targets 73 ■ Features of Eisai’s Corporate Governance ❶ Clear Separation of the Functions between Oversight of Management and the Execution of Business Company Introduction The central aspect of the Company’s corporate to develop and operate, and devote its attention to governance is the clear separation of the oversight of management. Corporate officers secure autonomy by management and the execution of business by fully developing and operating the internal controls within the utilizing the fact that it is a company with a nomination scope of their responsibilities and increase the speed committee, etc., system. The Board of Directors, and flexibility of business execution. CEO is the only chaired and made up the majority by outside directors individual to concurrently serve as a corporate officer specifies rules on internal control for corporate officers and a director. ❷ Corporate Governance System Centered on Outside Directors Management Strategies The Company has established and is operating a broad discussion of corporate governance, including mechanism to enhance sustained, autonomous engagement with stakeholders and consideration of a corporate governance centered on outside directors, succession plan, etc., and (4) corporate governance including (1) a system of electing neutral and evaluations that drive the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) independent outside directors by a Nomination cycle of the Board of Directors and each committee. Committee, (2) operating the Board of Directors, etc., We will continue to work to enhance the content of through the leadership of a chair who is an outside each of those efforts. director, (3) an hhc Governance Committee for Value Creation Activities ■ hhc Governance Committee In fiscal 2020, the Outside Directors Meeting was renamed the “hhc Governance Committee” and charged with the task of taking steps to further enhance the Company’s corporate governance with a clear positioning as a committee organization under the Board of Directors. The Composition and Roles of the hhc Governance Committee are as follows. 1 The hhc Governance Committee consists of all of the outside directors. 2 The hhc Governance Committee works to improve the management oversight function of the Board of Directors by proactively engaging in dialogues with stakeholders and using the findings from those dialogues to enrich discussions by the Board of Directors. 3 The hhc Governance Committee shares information and provides advice, etc., regarding the Representative Financial Base Corporate Officer and CEO’s proposal for plans to nurture candidates to fill the role of Representative Corporate Officer and CEO in the future. The hhc Governance Committee rationally ensures the fairness of the CEO selection process on the Board of Directors by involving outside directors in the process. 4 The hhc Governance Committee evaluates the effectiveness of the management oversight function of the Board of Directors on an annual basis. If any issues emerge in the operations of the Board of Directors, etc., the hhc Governance Committee proposes relevant improvements to the Board of Directors. 5 The hhc Governance Committee carries out broad discussions on the Company’s corporate governance and Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital business matters and works to make continuing improvements to the Company’s corporate governance. 6 The hhc Governance Committee reports to the Board of Directors or notifies the corporate officers as necessary about the items it has discussed. The activities of Outside Directors Meeting in fiscal 2019 are as follows. ❶ Dialogues with Stakeholders • T he Outside Directors Meeting held an opinion exchange between outside directors and approximately 50 institutional investors, etc. (October 2019). •O  utside directors visited individual institutional investors (April, May, November, and December 2019). •O  utside directors visited KAN Research Institute and the sales office in Kobe to share information and hold discussions with young and middle-ranking employees (February 2020). ❷ CEO Succession • T he Outside Directors Meeting shared information on and discussed the succession plan (September 2019 and March 2020). ❸ Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors • T he Outside Directors Meeting conducted a corporate governance evaluation (a Self-review of the Corporate Governance Guidelines and Appendix the Internal Control Regulations, as well as a Board of Directors evaluation by individual directors) (April 2020). ❹ Others • T he Outside Directors Meeting discussed Board of Directors agenda items (July 2019). • T he Outside Directors Meeting shared information on various issues related to the selection of directors by the Nomination Committee (July 2019). • T he Outside Directors Meeting discussed items to be resolved and reported at meetings of the Board of Directors (December 2019). • T he Outside Directors Meeting discussed ways of enhancing corporate governance (December 2019 to April 2020). 74 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 ■ Dialogue with Outside Directors and Investors Eisai has conducted meetings between institutional discussion. The Board of Directors uses the findings investors and outside directors in Japan and overseas. and knowledge that come out of these dialogues As it did last fiscal year, the Company held an opinion to enhance their discussions and provide better exchange between outside directors and over 50 management oversight. institutional investors, etc., in fiscal 2019. Based on the requests from institutional investors in the questionnaire following last year’s exchange, this year’s gathering included an approximately 2-hour Q-and-A session as well as a discussion. Outside directors also made a total of 12 visits to 9 different companies to share information and exchange opinions with institutional investors. Open, frank exchanges of opinion on the Company’s corporate governance-related efforts and the status of outside director activities took place in small-group dialogues, bringing a variety of perspectives together in fruitful Summary of the Q-and-A Session “Opinion Exchange between Institutional Investors, etc., and Outside Directors” Q: What kinds of discussions are taking place about corporate governance? A: <<Member of the Audit Committee>> We are discussing the importance of fortifying risk management. We will make improvements for corporate officers to report to the Board of Directors with a greater focus on risk. A: <<Chair of the Nomination Committee>> We are looking at the Board’s composition and discussing the diversity and numbers of the outside directors on the Board. For example, if we need outside directors with experience at IT companies or not, what we want to gain from differences in nationality in the Board, and so on. Q: What kinds of discussions are taking place about the CEO succession plan? A: <<Chair of the Board of Directors>> We believe that keeping outside directors involved in discussions on the succession plan will help make the process of selecting the next CEO a fair one, by the Company giving us numerous opportunities to connect with candidates and letting us make comments on their performance and personality. A: <<Chair of the Audit Committee>> Our current CEO has led the Company with strong leadership for more than 30 years. For the Company to continue improving its corporate value, it will need to go more than simply selecting the right next CEO, to building the optimal top-management framework, building a team of corporate officers with the right composition and with appropriate duties. A: <<Chair of the Nomination Committee>> The ultimate responsibility for reaching a resolution on the selection of the CEO rests with the Board of Directors, as the CEO is a corporate officer. All of the Company’s directors share information on the succession plan twice a year, and the Company’s outside directors meet with the CEO for succession-related discussions at the Outside Directors Meeting. ■ Succession Plan ❶ View Regarding Selection of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) The Company positions the selection of the CEO as one of the most important decisions to be made by the Board of Directors. The CEO’s duty is to exhibit strong leadership while also nurturing the next CEO. The Company believes that having outside directors participate in this process with such recognition and having them offer advice, etc., increases the objectivity of the CEO’s proposal of successor candidates. It rationally ensures the fairness of the CEO selection process as the Board of Directors. ❷ Procedures Regarding CEO Selection Even after becoming a company with a nomination committee, etc., system in 2004, discussions had been repeated under a consistently optimal corporate governance system regarding the CEO succession process. In fiscal 2016, with consideration given to the previous background, discussions were held at an Outside Directors Meeting on ideal information sharing by the Board of Directors in relation to a succession plan formulated by the CEO and preparations for unexpected situations, and succession procedures, etc., were set out as rules. The outline of the procedures are as follows. 1. Sharing of Information on the Succession Plan • Information on the succession plan proposed by the CEO is shared 2 times a year at the Outside Directors Meeting. 75 • The CEO and inside directors also participate in this Outside Directors Meeting, and information on the succession plan is shared among all directors. 2. Discussion on the Succession Plan Company Introduction • The criteria for evaluating candidates are expected to change in accordance with the business environment, etc. For this reason, criteria will be set appropriately when the CEO proposes candidates. • The CEO evaluates candidates on the criteria that have been set, and presents evaluation results in the succession plan. •O  utside directors provide advice on the succession plan. The CEO considers the advice provided by outside directors, and reflects it in the succession plan as appropriate. ❸ Preparations for Unexpected Situations Circumstances, such as unforeseen accidents, that necessitate the sudden selection of a new CEO by the Board of Management Strategies Directors are also possible. Contingency plans for such unexpected situations are also confirmed when considering the aforementioned succession plan. ■ Execution of Board of Directors Evaluation The effectiveness of the Board of Directors’ operations, etc., at every meeting of the Board of management oversight function is evaluated each year Directors. Aiming to “guarantee the suitability of the at the hhc Governance Committee. If any issues related Board of Directors evaluation,” a mechanism to improve to the operation of the Board of Directors, etc., are and guarantee the Board of Directors evaluation identified, a request and proposal for improvement are through an outside organization was adopted in fiscal Value Creation Activities submitted to the Board of Directors and operational 2017. This examination, evaluation, improvement divisions. The Board of Directors evaluation is based proposal, and inspection, etc., of evaluation results by on evaluations by individual directors. In fiscal 2019, an outside organization take place once every 3 years the Company introduced a framework that enables and fiscal 2020 corresponds to the third year of the each director to evaluate and record the discussions, cycle. ■ Fiscal 2019 Corporate Governance Evaluation Results With regard to the Corporate Governance Guidelines officers, etc., are executing their duties appropriately to and Internal Control Regulations, no evidence was improve corporate governance. Financial Base found of any operation, etc., that deviates from the Some of the major issues identified in fiscal 2019 rules. It was confirmed that the directors and corporate evaluation are listed below. In order to fulfill its responsibility for providing a management oversight function, one of its key roles, the Board of Directors will work to understand mediumto long-term management issues, monitor changes in the business environment surrounding Company management, select appropriate agenda items such as ways of going beyond defensive risk management through more aggressive approaches, and enhance the Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital efficiency of meeting operations. As part of the effort to provide the information that outside directors need to exercise their oversight function, opportunities for outside directors and corporate officers to engage in closer communication and deepen their mutual understanding will be provided. The Outside Directors Meeting’s wide-ranging roles, functions, and operations pertaining to corporate governance, such as (1) dialoguing with institutional investors, (2) discussing the CEO succession plan, and (3) performing Board of Directors evaluations, will be organized and optimized, and approaches to making further enhancements to the Company’s corporate governance will be discussed. The Board of Directors will oversee response to the disclosed “Risk Factors.” To facilitate that oversight process, the Board of Directors will receive sufficient reports on efforts in and progress on digital transformation—a key element in achieving the ‘EWAY 2025’ goals—this fiscal year. For the further information regarding the corporate governance review, please refer to pages 52-58 of the Notice of Convocation of the 108th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders: ▶ https://www.eisai.com/ir/stock/meeting/pdf/einv108_all.pdf Appendix 76 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Board of Directors Outside Directors Meeting Outside organization Analysis, etc., of past corporate Proposals for system governance evaluations revisions, etc. Consideration of revising the Board of Directors evaluation system Report (advice, etc.) Decision to revise the Board of Directors evaluation system Implementation Calculation Evaluation by each director Board of Directors evaluation Review of Corporate Governance Guidelines and regulations related to internal control Attendance at Outside Directors Deliberation/ Meetings consideration Compilation of corporate Inspection/analysis of the governance evaluations evaluation process and compiled results Determination of corporate Analysis of the governance evaluation Evaluation results, evaluation process proposal of issues, etc. and evaluation results Evaluation report (Results of verification related to the suitability of the evaluation process and evaluation results) ■ Activities of Nomination Committee The Company had previously set relatively short terms for basic approach to outside director terms and amend its its outside directors, seeing the element of independence internal regulations to enable flexible responses. as the most crucial factor for selection. In the interest of Aiming to better the Company’s corporate ensuring the continuity of discussions and operations governance structure, the Nomination Committee will on the Board of Directors and committees, however, continue to perform mediumto long-term simulations both the Nomination Committee and the Outside of terms for outside directors, discuss the composition Directors Meeting discussed extending the terms for and diversity of the Board of Directors, etc., and select the Company’s outside directors. The discussions director candidates with the right qualities for enhancing prompted the Company to make partial revisions to its the Board’s functions. ●Skill matrix of outside directors in fiscal 2020 ●Attributes of the outside directors who were/are in office since 2000 Corporate Finance & Academic Others 2 Legal Gender & Name management accounting background expertise nationality experience expertise (discipline) Finance and accounting experts Persons with Yasuhiko Katoh ◦ experience in 5 corporate Daiken Tsunoda ◦ management Legal ◦ ◦ 13 Bruce Aronson ◦ (Corporate Governance) (Foreign Nationality) experts 7 Shuzo Kaihori ◦ Academic experts Ryuichi Murata ◦ 9 Hideyo Uchiyama ◦ ◦ Of the 36 outside directors, 4 are women and 6 are foreigners. Yumiko Miwa ◦ ◦ (ESG, Corporate Governance) (Female) ■ Activities of Audit Committee The Audit Committee conducts activities in accordance disclosure, (2) auditing internal control in the promotional with an audit plan formulated each fiscal year. This activities of overseas subsidiaries, and (3) auditing the fiscal year’s audit plan included audits of the execution Business Continuity Plan (BCP) for the pharmaceutical of duties by directors and corporate officers, audits of supply chain. business reports and annexed detailed statements, and Our efforts for internal audit activities were highly audits of financial statements, etc., as items stipulated evaluated, and we received the 33rd “IIA Japan by laws and regulations. In terms of theme-based Chairman’s Award” of the Institute of Internal Auditors in audits, which we specify every fiscal year, we focused September 2019. on (1) auditing internal control related to information 77 ■ Activities of Compensation Committee The Compensation Committee has the authority performance targets and the individual performance Company Introduction to determine the content of compensation, etc. of targets of each corporate officer for the performanceindividual directors and corporate officers of the based compensation of corporate officers. The Company. It determines (1) policy concerning decisions Committee confirmed that, in fiscal 2020, it would on the content of compensation of individual directors continue to discuss certain issues that have come and corporate officers, (2) the content of compensation to light in relation to the compensation system for of individual directors and corporate officers, and (3) the corporate officers. evaluation of the level of attainment of Company-wide Management Strategies Compensation paid to corporate officers Base compensation ・Base compensation is a fixed amount by position. Bonuses ・Bonuses are paid within the range of 0-225% of the base amount of bonus by position according to the degree of attainment of Company-wide performance objectives and the performance objectives of individual corporate officers. Stock-based ・Stock-based compensation is granted within the range of 0-150% compensation of the base number of shares granted by position according to the degree of attainment of Company-wide performance objectives. Value Creation Activities Fixed compensation Performance-based compensation Base compensation Bonuses Stock-based compensation (60%) (30%) (10%) ●Process of determining performance-based compensation Base amount of bonus Degree of attainment of Degree of attainment of Bonuses ＝ by position × Company-wide × individual performance performance objectives＊ objectives Payout rate: 0-225% Evaluation: 0-150% Evaluation: 0-150% Financial Base Stock-based Degree of attainment of Base number of shares compensation ＝ granted by position × Company-wide performance objectives＊ Payout rate: 0-150% Evaluation: 0-150% ＊Consolidated revenue, consolidated operating profit, consolidated profit for the year (attributable to the parent company), and consolidated ROE ■T  he Independent Committee of Outside Directors and the “Policy for Protection of the Company’s Corporate Value and Common Interests of Shareholders” Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital The Independent Committee of Outside Directors acquisition rights prior to the board of directors with this considers the maintenance, revision, and abolition of Policy. The results of the exercise of voting rights on the “Policy for Protection of the Company’s Corporate proposals for the selection of directors at the Ordinary Value and Common Interests of Shareholders” General Meeting of Shareholders indicated that in (hereinafter “the Policy”) after gathering and discussing fiscal 2019, as has been the case in past years, some the necessary information, such as examples of shareholders opposed the idea of continuing the Policy activism and corporate acquisition as well as the without putting it to a vote at the General Meeting of latest information and trends pertaining to takeover Shareholders. However, the results also showed that defense measures every year. In the Company’s case, some of the shareholders who had voted in opposition from the perspective of the management team, the the previous year were now in favor of the idea—the mechanism of the Policy makes it harder to issue stock efforts and approaches of the Independent Committee acquisition rights (imposition of so-called takeover of Outside Directors, evidently, have gotten through to Appendix defense measures) because Independent Committee the shareholders to some extent. of Outside Directors decides to issue or not issue stock For the reason that the Independent Committee of Outside Directors has judged continuation of the Policy to be appropriate, please refer to pages 68-69 of the Notice of Convocation of the 108th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders: ▶ https://www.eisai.com/ir/stock/meeting/pdf/einv108_all.pdf 78 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Interview with an Outside Director (Chair of the Board of Directors) Yasuhiko Katoh ●コーポレートガバナンス体制 Position: Chair of the Board of Directors, Chair of the hhc Governance Committee, Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors Concurrent positions: Special Advisor, Mitsui E&S Holdings Co., Ltd. Q Please tell us about the outcomes of the Board of Directors in fiscal 2019 and the recognition of challenges in relation to fiscal 2020. A. The important roles of the Board of Directors in a “business risks” in the securities report. The Board of company with a nomination committee, etc. are to Directors actively requests executive officers to report inspect the appropriateness and efficiency of decisionon risks, and the quarterly business execution reports making processes by corporate officers and to assess submitted by the executive officers are also concisely business performance and ensure management compiled focusing on risks and countermeasures. This adequacy and transparency. In the Board of Directors, has helped with making risks visible and establishing directors with diverse backgrounds make remarks habits of sound risk management. based on their experience and expertise, and very As activities of outside directors following fiscal 2018, active discussions take place. I make various efforts to we engaged in an exchange of opinions with over 50 encourage directors to engage in active discussion. institutional investors and made individual visits in fiscal I can summarize the activities and outcomes of the 2019. We also engaged with employees by visiting Board of Directors in fiscal 2019 as “strived to exert the research institutes, production sites, and the front line of management supervision function, which is an marketing. important role of the Board of Directors, by picking up The challenges for the Board of Directors in relation mediumto long-term management issues and risks to fiscal 2020 include supervision of digital and adding them to the agenda.” The agenda of the transformation (DX), an essential initiative to achieve Board of Directors was also set with a focus on themes ‘EWAY 2025,’ understanding and responding to related to risks. Those were, for example, based on the environmental changes surrounding management reports on the current status and issues on the including measures after COVID-19, and promotion of development of dementia treatments and anticancer proactive risk management. The outside directors will agents including the competitive environment, and continue to exercise leadership to enhance corporate reports and discussions on disclosure items such as value and meet the expectations of all stakeholders. Q Please tell us how the “hhc Governance Committee” was established, about its role, and about future initiatives. A. Eisai has been evaluated as being a front-runner in investors, and employees. corporate governance. I think one of our key features is At the same time, since the establishment of “Japan’s that we have the “Outside Directors Meeting.” The Corporate Governance Code” by Tokyo Stock Meeting started as an opportunity to foster mutual Exchange, Inc. (TSE), companies in Japan are working understanding among outside directors in 2008. Since to enhance their corporate governance with a sense of then, the Meeting has played an important role in speed. Seeingt that, outside directors discussed how continuous enhancement of our corporate governance. we can maintain a solid advantage in this field and Examples include information sharing and discussion continuously meet the expectations of our stakeholders. regarding the CEO succession plan, summarizing Then we decided to rename the “Outside Directors corporate governance evaluation results, and Meeting” as “hhc Governance Committee” and clearly engagement with stakeholders such as patients, positioned it as a committee within the Board of 79 Directors as a component of the governance system. shareholders, capturing discussions regarding We aim to further enhance the governance framework corporate governance that is globally deployed in a Company Introduction and operation. prompt manner, and carrying out broad discussions on The “hhc Governance Committee” works to enhance the Company’s corporate governance and business. corporate value while listening to the voices of ●The framework of the hhc Governance Committee Board of Directors (11 members: 7 outside, 4 inside; Chair: outside director) Management Strategies Nomination Committee Strengthen oversight (3 members: all outside) functions hhc Governance Audit Committee Corporate Committee Ensures the fairness and (5 members: 3 outside, 2 inside) governance (7 members: all outside) rationality of the selection of evaluations Representative Corporate Officer and CEO by the Board of Directors Compensation Committee (3 members: all outside) Dialogue Shareholders (institutional investors) Value Creation Activities Patients and their families Employees Stakeholders Q What do you think the role of Eisai will be in the “New Normal” after COVID-19? A. Eisai’s corporate philosophy is to give first thought to prevent dementia, and information on what to do to patients and their families. So the most important thing prevent dementia and how to deal with it when Financial Base is that, even under COVID-19, we keep patients who diagnosed. We aim to introduce this platform and need our drugs free from inconvenience and anxieties. establish an ecosystem based on collaboration with What is important for us is to adequately manufacture partners such as pharmaceutical companies, and the supply of safe, high-quality drugs, and not to administrative offices, medical institutions, care facilities, disrupt the supply route nor stop the production sites. companies developing diagnostics, IT companies, Also, it is very important to minimize delays in R&D and private insurance agencies, and so on. clinical trials, and not to delay processes directed To realize these goals, it is necessary to utilize AI and Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital towards new drug approvals. In addition, we ought to IoT. Eisai is actively promoting DX. COVID-19 has contribute to the development of drugs and vaccines elucidated the necessity of changes in society and for COVID-19. organizations, such as work style reform. We Eisai not only delivers treatments for illness, but is recognized the necessity of implementing DX companyalso actively engaged in prevention and prediction of wide with a sense of speed not only in the field of diseases. One example is the establishment of the dementia but also in all the departments in Eisai. The “Dementia Ecosystem.” With this, we provide tools to Board of Directors will closely monitor the ongoing understand and habituate appropriate actions to status of activities. Appendix 80 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Interview with an Outside Director (New Director) Yumiko Miwa Position: Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the hhc Governance Committee, Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors ●コーポレートガバナンス体制 Concurrent positions: Professor, School of Commerce, Meiji University Part-time Lecturer, College of Commerce, Nihon University Member, Fund Management Committee, National Federation of Mutual Aid Associations for Municipal Personnel Q Please tell us how you come to serve as an outside director of Eisai. A. When a research society of corporate governance director of Eisai. We mainly discussed how Japanese was launched in the Meiji Institute for Global Affairs corporate governance should be, what was the ideal (MIGA) in 2012, I was serving as a co-chairperson (the way of separating supervision and execution while other chair was Mr. Sumitaka Fujita, Chairman of Japan Japanese companies were having difficulty while Association for Chief Financial Officers). Board members transitioning to become companies with a nominating of Japanese companies, lawyers, CPAs, and committee, etc., and how Japanese corporate researchers participated in the research society to seek governance was viewed by institutional investors. I the ideal way of Japanese corporate governance. There assume that Mr. Aronson recommended me for the I met Mr. Bruce Aronson, who is currently an outside position of Eisai’s outside director. Q Please tell us about your aspirations as a new outside director. A. In 1996, I took up a post to teach “Institutional become even more important in the future. So I think investors theory,” at Meiji University, which was a rare that the positioning of Board of Directors as a creator of subject in Japanese universities at that time. Foreign Social Value that goes beyond the role of a supervisor institutional investors came to be qualified to become is very important. I consider my role to be an outside asset managers of Japanese pension funds in the mid director who contributes to the creation of the 1990s. This course was arranged by the Faculty of Company’s Social Value. I would like to contribute to Commerce of Meiji University, foreseeing the coming management supervision and Social Value creation era of widespread activity by institutional investors in from the perspective of a woman and a researcher, and Japan. also contribute to dialogue with institutional investors, I have conducted research about the influence of individual investors, and ESG. institutional investors on corporate governance in the The corporate philosophy of “human health care U.S. since 1991 when I was enrolled in a master’s (hhc)” is a way of knowledge creation through program at graduate school. Nearly 30 years have Socialization with patients, their families, and our passed since then. We have seen big changes in employees. The creation of opportunities for corporate governance in Japan, such as exercise of Socialization between self and others can be applied to voting rights by institutional investors, and initiatives for engagement with various stakeholders. I understand engagement. My recent research focus is on ESG engagement with stakeholders as an interaction to investment by institutional investors. further enhance corporate value and would like to The impression of Eisai I had from outside was that it contribute to its activation. had a strong leadership structure and good corporate As a female outside director, I have a strong interest governance. The Company recently conducted direct in the realization of diversity. The society in the 1950s engagement between outside directors and institutional when the United States had overwhelming economic investors, and that made me recognize Eisai as a top power was really homogeneous in the sense that only runner. Dialogue with stakeholders and engagement will white males were allowed to participate. In that society, 81 where the maximum income tax rate was as high as economic growth is slow. We have achieved economic Company Introduction 90%, a uniform image of white, middle-income people growth at the expense of the global environment and was dominant. We can easily understand the safe living. Issues that were not related to economic homogeneousness by looking at members of Boards of growth have been postponed or abandoned. We are Directors at the time. The background behind this was now facing severe realities that this attitude has brought that there was no full-fledged price competition for upon us. I think this lies behind the increasing American companies. importance of ESG. Then American manufacturing industry dropped out We need value creation unmeasurable on the criteria of its No. 1 position in less than 20 years, since price of economic growth, which is measured with money. competition was in full swing, and Japan came to take Value is created through engaging with people with Management Strategies over this position. Ironically, in a period of low economic diverse values. Institutional investors require companies growth, the labor force liquidation and “work style to recognize long-term risks, and companies have to be reform” has advanced, promoting the advancement of prepared for ESG related issues such as disclosure in women into society. Under such circumstances, integrated reports and specification of ESG materiality. I diversity has been receiving attention also in Japan, think we also need to understand what underlies things, some time after it began to be focused on in the what you might call a knowledge creation from diverse Western countries. I think this is because knowledge values. creation based on diverse values is needed when Value Creation Activities Q What do you think the role of Eisai will be in the “New Normal” after COVID-19? A. In connection with the values created by diversity public entities from the point of view that the shares are that I mentioned earlier, we have recognized problems held by the general public. that growth in money cannot solve under COVID-19. As a public entity, Eisai needs to focus more on ESG Reflecting this awareness, overseas institutional issues than ever. Due to the spread of COVID-19, investors and NGOs are showing greater concern on employment is being discussed worldwide. As we are a issues of climate change, business, and human rights global company, I think we need to consider than ever before. employment and strengthening initiatives of employees’ Stocks of listed companies are traded in the engagement globally. As a pharmaceutical company, Financial Base secondary market, so anonymous individuals will we have announced that we are participating in a global become shareholders. Since there is an individual who cooperation system for the development of a vaccine is the ultimate source of funds behind institutional for COVID-19. I believe Eisai will play an extremely large investors, someone who is anonymous is a shareholder role in this global movement. in this sense, too. So we can say that companies are Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Personal history April 1988 Joined Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. April 1996 Full-time Assistant, School of Commerce, Meiji University April 1997 Full-time Lecturer, School of Commerce, Meiji University April 2000 Assistant Professor, School of Commerce, Meiji University April 2002 Member, Fund Management Committee, Pension Fund Association for Local Government Officials October 2005 Professor, School of Commerce, Meiji University (current) April 2006 Visiting Professor, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, University of Michigan April 2013 Part-time Lecturer, College of Economics, Rikkyo University April 2020 Part-time Lecturer, College of Commerce, Nihon University (current) April 2020 Member, Fund Management Committee, National Federation of Mutual Aid Associations for Municipal Personnel (current) Appendix 82 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Compliance, Risk Management, and Internal Audit 17 Languages Number of languages into which the Compliance Handbook has been translated Eisai designates a Chief Compliance Officer, who is concurrently the corporate officer responsible for internal control, oversees the Corporate Compliance and Risk Management Department and promotes compliance and risk management. Regarding internal audit, the corporate officer responsible for internal audit oversees the Internal Audit Department and promote audits from a position independent of the business execution division. 1. Compliance Promotion Eisai promotes its compliance program, which consists of delivering the message of top management, developing the Code of Conduct and other relevant rules, conducting educational activities, establishing a training system, as well as providing consultation services, by defining compliance as “the observance of the highest legal and ethical standards” and positioning it at the core of management activities. Based on a lesson from an international cartel for synthetic bulk vitamin E products, Eisai started to promote full-fledged compliance in fiscal 2000. These compliance promotion programs periodically undergo objective reviews by a Compliance Committee that consists of outside experts such as lawyers and consultants from Japan and overseas. ❶E  stablishment of Code of Conduct and Other Relevant Rules, and Awareness Activities for Cultivating Compliance Awareness Eisai has been publishing a Compliance Handbook, which outlines the Eisai Network Companies (ENW) Charter of Business Conduct and the Code of Conduct, to cultivate compliance awareness. For all officers and employees in all Eisai network companies, this handbook is available in 17 languages. In addition, various training programs are continuously held utilizing different formats, such as a compliance workshop for Corporate Officers, e-learning, and workshops utilizing special training materials in each department. The Compliance Handbook in 17 languages A campaign was held by members of the Compliance Risk Management department to improve the credibility of Compliance Counter and enhance compliance awareness among employees through visiting 14 major sites and ENW in Japan in December 2019. ❷U  se of Compliance Counter The Compliance Counter serves as a point of contact for the whistle-blowing system in ENW. This counter is set up at each ENW company and it is available for ENW employees to directly contact the Compliances Counter at Eisai Headquarters. The Compliance Counter also provides resources, such as contact with independent lawyers and outside contact operated by the ombudsperson who handles issues at workplaces or works to improve the environment for compliance promotion. The Compliance Counter accepts not only whistle-blowing reports but also all sorts of consultations such as interpretation of laws and rules as well as daily activities regarding compliance. In fiscal 2019, more than 500 inquiries were received at the Compliance Counter at Eisai Headquarters. 83 Certified as a Consumer Affairs Agency’s Whistleblowing Compliance Management System The Eisai Headquarters Compliance Counter has been certified Company Introduction as a “Whistleblowing Compliance Management System” set up by the Consumer Affairs Agency in April 2020. This certification is the self-evaluating system of the whistleblowing system in accordance with the Consumer Affairs Agency “Guidelines for Private Business Operators regarding the maintenance and operation of the whistle-blowing system based on the Whistleblower Protection Act.” The company self-evaluates and submits the results to the Consumer Affairs Agency and, after its deliberation, obtains the certification. Compliance is becoming more and more important, and the importance of the whistleblowing system Management Strategies is increasing. This registration gives all ENW executives and employees increased confidence in the whistleblowing system (the Compliance Counter), and they are working to promote corporate activities with an emphasis on compliance. 2. Risk Management Promotion In accordance with the Companies Act, Eisai’s Board of Directors formulated the “Rules for Preparing Necessary Systems for Ensuring the Suitability in the Performance of Duties by Corporate Officers.” These rules stipulate that all corporate officers should identify and evaluate the risks in their duties and establish, develop, and operate the Value Creation Activities internal control systems. Regarding risk management, Eisai defines risks as “the threat or probability that an action or event will adversely affect the achievement of corporate and/or organizational objectives.” In order to avoid risks or keep risks within acceptable levels, Eisai has developed the “ENW Internal Control Policy” and is carrying out various initiatives including establishment, development, and operation of internal control systems throughout ENW. ❶P  romoting Risk Management System and Risk Response At the Risk Management Committee, critical risks are managed in a united way by the Corporate Officer responsible for internal control, acting as chair. Also, Eisai quickly detects its own potential similar risks through continuous monitoring of external corporate scandals and responds to risks promptly by risk avoidance and elicitation prevention activity. Financial Base ●Eisai’s Risk Management System <Board of Directors> • Establishment of Rules for Preparing Necessary Systems for Ensuring the Suitability in the Performance of Duties by Corporate Officers • Oversight of the establishment, maintenance, and operation of internal control by corporate officers Report Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Corporate officer in charge of internal control Risk Management Committee Corporate Compliance and (Chair: Corporate officer in charge of internal control) Secretariat Risk Management Department • Centrally manage risk information • Proposals to/support for corporate officers (Provision of internal and external risk information) Corporate officer Corporate officer Corporate officer Establishment, maintenance, and operation of internal control Department in charge of risk management Support for establishment, Appendix Person responsible for/person in charge maintenance, and of promotion of CSA＊ operation of internal control Individual departments (promotion of CSA) and organizations ＊Control Self-Assessment 84 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 ❷C  SA (Control Self-Assessment) One of the tools used by Eisai for risk management is CSA. In CSA activity, all department managers in ENW identify and evaluate risks in their own structure every year, and work to address the identified risks. In addition, Eisai enhances the effectiveness of risk management by developing an understanding of critical risks and following up of risk response status by corporate officers. 3. Internal Audit Activities Based on International Standards Eisai implements internal audits focusing on the themes selected by the internal audit departments in each region on a risk basis. The results of internal audits assessed independently and objectively are reported to the Board of Directors and to the Audit Committee. To assure high-quality audits that conform to global standards, the Corporate Internal Audit Department undergoes an assessment by an external assessment committee composed of outside experts in accordance with the standards of The Institute of Internal Auditors (an international professional association for internal auditors based in the U.S.). “IIA Japan Chairman’s Award” of the Institute of Internal Auditors was granted Eisai received the 33rd “IIA Japan Chairman’s Award” of the Institute of Internal Auditors for its efforts related to internal audit activities in September 2019. The following initiatives were highly evaluated: emphasis on contribution for achieving the corporate objectives, implementation of audit with full consideration of business operation risks and socially focused matters and selecting the theme for audit, emphasis on cause analysis of problems, and implementation of regular internal and external evaluations for continuous audit quality improvement. 4. Risk Factors Risks and uncertainties that could cause significant fluctuations in the results of the Group or have a material effect on investment decisions are outlined below. However, these do not cover all of the risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, and it is possible that they will be affected in the future by other factors that cannot be foreseen, or are not deemed to be important, at this point in time. The Group’s Executive Board and other decision-making bodies regularly discuss the risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, and consider measures to turn these risks and uncertainties into opportunities, or to mitigate them. The results of such consideration are reported to the Board of Directors, which in turn discusses them. Accordingly, the risks and uncertainties indicated below do not only include the input from the Executive Board, but also reflect the discussions of the Board of Directors. (1) Corporate Philosophy (3) P harmaceutical Research and Development, Production, and Sales Activities Management based on the Corporate Philosophy Insufficient permeation of the Corporate Philosophy throughout New drug development Side effects the Group, stagnation of the implementation of management Product quality and stable supply Intellectual property aimed at implementing the Philosophy, and other factors that hinder the full increase of benefit to patients and their families may Litigation and other proceedings Data reliability have significant impact Trend to contain medical costs (2) Business Strategy (4) Others Establishment of AD franchise Maximization of the value of Lenvima® Succession Information security Partnership model COVID-19 Climate change Digital transformation Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Any delays in efforts to execute our important business strategies or factors that hinder the achievement 85 (1) Corporate Philosophy (3) P  harmaceutical Research and Development, Production, Management based on the Corporate Philosophy and Sales Activities The Company has adopted the Corporate Philosophy of giving first thought to New drug development patients and their families, and to increasing the benefits health care provides. The Group is developing candidates for the next-generation AD treatments Company Introduction These aims are stipulated in our Articles of Incorporation as well and have been and many other new drugs. In regard to candidates for the next-generation AD shared with stakeholders. Collectively, they constitute our “Purpose.” We believe treatments, the Group is taking the lead in the Phase Ⅲ trial of BAN2401. In that the increased benefit to patients and their families resulting from achievement addition, the Group’s partner Biogen Inc. was taking the lead in the Phase Ⅲ trials of these aims will lead to improved performance of the Group and increased of aducanumab. corporate value in the long term. The strategic intent of the medium-term business Drug development requires a long period of time and a large investment of plan ‘EWAY 2025’ is also dependent on the Corporate Philosophy of “hhc,” and the capital. Development of a drug candidate substance may be discontinued due to powerful motivation generated by understanding the true needs of patients is the shortcomings in its effectiveness or safety profile. For example, on September 13, source of the Group’s innovation. In addition, we view the importance of promoting 2019, Biogen Inc. and the Company announced that the Phase Ⅲ trials to verify the information management/provision, etc., needed to promote further the the efficacy and safety of elenbecestat for early-stage AD would be discontinued. research and development of new drugs, produce and sell high-quality products, Moreover, even if clinical trials yield expected results, it is possible that the and achieve safe use of pharmaceuticals, on a foundation of controls, aimed at new drug approval may not be granted as a result of a stringent regulatory process creating patient value, as “Integrity.” This Philosophy is also the building block of of a country. Currently, Biogen Inc. completed the submission of a Biologics our ESG efforts, such as provision of a lymphatic filariasis treatment free of charge, License Application (BLA) for the approval of aducanumab in the United States. improvement of access to medicines, and building of a community that coexists Further, due to the delay or discontinuation of development of a new drug or other with dementia. reasons, revenue expected of a new drug may not be realized. Management Strategies Accordingly, insufficient permeation of the Corporate Philosophy throughout the Group, stagnation of the implementation of management aimed at implementing Side effects the Philosophy, and other factors that hinder the full increase of benefit to patients Even when pharmaceuticals have been approved and sold, subsequent data and and their families may have significant impact not only on the Group’s business events may cause the benefit and risk profile of the pharmaceuticals to differ from performance, but also on the improvement of corporate value, including nonthat of the time when they were approved. Changes to product package inserts, financial value. suspension of sales, recall of products, or implementation of other measures in response to the discovery and collection of serious side effects, may significantly (2) Business Strategy impact business performance. Establishment of AD franchise The Group has established a Safety Executive Committee consisting of the The Group has established maximization of the value of next-generation safety administrators, etc., of all regions, and a Global Safety Board consisting of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) treatments as one of the most important strategies in the persons responsible for medical evaluation of safety for each product, etc., as the medium-term business plan ‘EWAY 2025.’ However, considering the patients a structure for scientific evaluation of information on all adverse events and safety to whom the treatment would be directed, it is possible that it will not be possible related to products, and to report on such to the regulatory authorities. The Group to provide next-generation AD treatments to patients in a broad manner by using has established a global product safety monitoring structure with these structures conventional sales and promotion strategies. In short, it may not be possible to at the center, and are working to thoroughly ensure proper use of products. Value Creation Activities obtain the anticipated future revenue without the permeation of education on the illness that is aligned with the patient journey of Alzheimer’s patients, from new Product quality and stable supply recognition of the illness to diagnosis, treatment, and subsequent daily living, It is necessary to provide patients with high-quality pharmaceutical products in establishment of diagnosis methods that utilize cognitive function testing, positron a stable manner, but if there are concerns regarding product quality in relation emission tomography (PET), and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), etc., establishment of to the raw materials used in products, the manufacturing process, or other a follow-up structure to ensure safety, and the establishment of an AD franchise, factors, or if suspension of supply of those raw materials, technical problems in or in other words, an ecosystem that takes into consideration the fostering of a the manufacturing process, or serious disasters, etc., causing plant operation to culture that measures cognitive function in society in general. stop, result in the supply chain being cut off, not only is it possible that the health of patients may be adversely affected, but it is also possible that product recalls, Maximization of the value of Lenvima® suspension of sales, or other events may impact business performance. The Group and Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. are conducting trials of The Group conducts quality assurance activities that make it possible to combination therapy using anticancer agent Lenvima® and the anti-PD-1 antibody provide high-quality pharmaceuticals that can be used without worry, and KEYTRUDA® for 13 indications for 7 types of cancer. However, it is possible that implements manufacturing control and quality control that comply with the GMP we will not be able to achieve the sales plan for Lenvima® due to changes in global standards (standards related to manufacturing control and quality control). positioning resulting from unanticipated trial results for competing products or In regard to manufacturing subcontractors as well, we conduct activities such approval timing, preventing the acquisition of approval of additional indications for as dispatching technicians to inspect manufacturing sites, in addition to periodic Lenvima® at the originally expected timing, and weakening the competitiveness of GMP audits. Further, we are working to ensure quality at the distribution stage. In Financial Base the product. One-time payments for certain option rights, development milestones, addition, the Group has its own plants in major regions around the world, and has and sales milestones, etc., have been set in the revenue obtained through the established a structure under which products can be supplied in a timely manner Lenvima® partnership model, and if they are not achieved due to a failure to from each plant. Moreover, we have established a Business Continuity Plan (BCP), achieve sales targets or acquire approval, it may not be possible to obtain the and are striving to maintain a structure that ensures stable supply even in the case revenue anticipated for the future. of a serious disaster, etc. Partnership model Intellectual property The Group considers partnerships to be an effective means of improving efficiency Ordinarily, it is possible for generic manufacturers to launch generic products and productivity. Partnerships may be established with the aim of accelerating new upon the expiration of the patent and data protection period of the originator drug. drug development through utilization of the latest science and technology, or with However, if an acquired patent cannot be properly protected due to dismissal of the aim of efficient resource usage and maximization of business value in each a patent application or as a result of an invalidation trial after the patent has been Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital region. issued, generic products and biosimilar products may enter the market earlier than If there are differences of opinion with partners in pharmaceutical research expected, which could potentially lead to a decrease in revenue. For example, an and development, production, and sales activities that utilize partnerships, the invalidation trial has been requested regarding the Japanese method-of-use patent aforementioned activities may be delayed or become inefficient. It is also possible for the pain treatment agent Lyrica® (being jointly promoted with Pfizer Inc.) that is that unanticipated partnership expenses will be generated, thereby reducing scheduled to expire in 2022. the planned and anticipated profits, or otherwise hindering the maximization of In addition, there are some countries, such as the United States, in which drug business value. In addition, in the event of differences in interpretation of contracts, applications for generics and biosimilar products can be submitted even during the it is possible that such differences will develop into litigation or mediation between patent period. In such countries, it is possible that there will be patent infringement the Group and partners, ultimately leading to dissolution of the partnership. In lawsuits against companies that submit drug applications for generics or biosimilar such cases, business performance may be significantly affected, including the products. Depending on the results of such patent infringement lawsuits, it is prevention of the creation of new drugs or achievement of revenue in the future as possible that generics or biosimilar products will be placed on the market prior expected. to the end of the patent period, thereby significantly and rapidly shrinking the Group’s share of the market in that country. For example, in 2018, a federal court Digital transformation of appeals in the United States finalized the ruling that the patent for the antiemetic The Group has established the goal of becoming a Medico Societal Innovator as Aloxi® was invalid, and generic versions were placed on the market. In addition, if a a major theme in the medium-term business plan ‘EWAY 2025,’ in an aim to substance patent that protects the Group’s pharmaceuticals is judged to be invalid, convert from a value chain model to an ecosystem platform model. As the “Fourth the product’s market value in that country may be lost, resulting in a significant Industrial Revolution” moves steadily forward, one of our important issues will be impact on the Group’s business performance. to achieve a digital transformation aimed at causing a paradigm shift in all aspects, Meanwhile, although the Group always uses caution to avoid infringing upon from drug discovery to providing patients with medicines, through the use of AI. the intellectual property rights of third parties, in the unlikely event that the Group’s Appendix The Company assigned a Chief Digital Officer and will accelerate the Group-wide business activities do violate the intellectual property rights of a third party, it is digital strategy. possible that the third party will request termination of those business activities or The changes in the business environment caused by the recent outbreak of demand compensation for damage. a novel coronavirus (COVID-19) make the need for a digital transformation clear. Any delays in efforts to achieve it or factors that hinder the achievement may have Litigation and other proceedings significant impact not only on the Group’s business performance, but also on the In the ordinary course of the Group’s business activities, the Group is and may be, improvement of corporate value, including non-financial value. from time to time, involved in litigations, arbitrations or any other legal, regulatory, 86 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 or administrative proceedings in connection with various matters, including organization by selecting candidates for positions, helping those potential future product liability and other product-related matters (e.g., personal injury), consumer leaders develop their skills, monitoring the progress of retention measures, and protection, regulation of trade, securities law, data protection, breach of contract, carrying out other relevant tasks. violation of laws and regulations and environmental regulation that arise through claims, investigations, or other actions by third parties, including governments. Information security Litigation and other legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable. Although the The Group, whose digital-platform strategy, 5D (Data Driven Drug Discovery & Group believes that its defenses and counterclaims in matters in which it is or Development) strategy, Eisai Data Lake vision, and other forward-looking initiatives may become a defendant are substantial, it could in the future be the subject of are ushering business forward, now has more and more opportunities to utilize judgments or enter into settlements, and such developments could have a material elements of the IT infrastructure such as AI, big data, and the cloud. As business adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations or in cyberspace makes strides forward, however, the Group is also confronting reputation. progressively sophisticated cyber attacks and grappling with increasingly serious For example, with regard to the proton pump inhibitor “Pariet®/Aciphex®,” security threats. The current circumstances thus elevate the possibility of a cyber claims for personal injury have been filed against the Group as well as other claims attack triggering a suspension of business or other outcome that would impact against other manufacturers of other types of proton pump inhibitors. Cases filed business activity. As a result, the need for an even stronger information-security in U.S. federal courts have been consolidated as a multi-district litigation in the framework is growing. U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. The number of pending lawsuits Considering the personal information, undisclosed information, and other types is expected to fluctuate significantly because certain lawsuits against the Group of important information in its possession, the Group could also see its credibility may be consolidated with other lawsuits that have been brought in federal and and competitive advantages suffer if a data breach were to result in a leak of state courts in the United States involving multiple plaintiffs against multiple sensitive information. In recent years, the corporate community is also dealing with pharmaceutical companies claiming that they have been diagnosed with various the growing need to respond appropriately to global demands for the protection injuries following treatment with various types of proton pump inhibitors and of personal information. The Group is also fully aware that leaks of unreleased because certain lawsuits may be settled or dismissed, or additional lawsuits may structural formulas for projects in the drug discovery phase would have a negative be filed. It is not currently possible to estimate potential liability in connection with impact on the processes for filing and acquiring patents. For the Group, a loss of claims concerning “Pariet®/Aciphex®.” credibility in the public eye or competitive advantages in the business sphere could have a major impact on business results. Data reliability To prevent cyber-attacks and other threats from interfering with important One of the most critical concerns for a pharmaceutical company is ensuring business, as well as safeguard against leaks of personal or confidential the integrity of its researchand production-related data (the completeness, information, etc., the Group’s newly appointed “Chief Information Security Officer” consistency, and accuracy of the data), which establishes a basis for the safety and (CISO) leads the effort to bolster the Group’s security framework, establish reliability of the company’s products. If the Company cannot guarantee the integrity regulations on information management, etc., and work to ensure that all officers of those key data sets, it could find itself grappling with delays and stoppages in and employees fully recognize the importance of information management in new drug development, product recalls, suspensions of product sales, and other their day-to-day business activities. Through these and other similar measures, circumstances with the potential to devastate business performance. the Group is enhancing governance over and implementing measures for global The Group has thus created a Data Integrity Promotion Committee and a Data information security on an ongoing basis. Integrity Planning and Coordination organization, set up a systematic framework for the recording, verification, approval, and storage of data, and established and COVID-19 operated, etc., an appropriate internal-control structure, all of which help the Group Since beginning to spread in early 2020, the novel coronavirus infection meet integrity needs. Not only does the Group’s approach strengthen the integrity (COVID-19) has become a global pandemic in a matter of several months and of data that corroborates product quality and data on clinical trials, both key may impact the Group’s business activity in a variety of ways. The outbreak has concerns, but it also includes ongoing training programs for employees—in Japan the potential to affect numerous areas. R&D, for example, may see delays in the and overseas as well—whose responsibilities involve working with important data. registration of patients for clinical trials and slower progress in actual testing processes. COVID-19 could also disrupt the Group’s production activities, as Trend to contain medical costs suspensions of plant operations (both within the Group and at its suppliers) and Governments around the world are exploring and implementing a variety of other developments have the potential to interfere with supply chains and thereby measures to contain drug costs in hopes of controlling rising medical expenses. endanger stable product supplies. Another area that stands to feel the effects of In Japan, for example, the government has taken steps to reduce the prices for the pandemic is sales, as medical representatives may find themselves unable prescription drugs and promote the use of generic drugs. Meanwhile, the Chinese to collect information from and provide information to medical professionals in a authorities have slashed drug prices under a price negotiation system and moved timely, appropriate fashion. to encourage the use of generic pharmaceuticals via a centralized bulk-buy The Company has thus established a Crisis Countermeasure Team to handle program. Similar developments are occurring in Europe as well. In some cases, a the Company’s response to the COVID-19 outbreak. Working with its subsidiaries product that has already secured new-drug approval may not be eligible for health around the world, the Company is also gathering accurate information, working to insurance reimbursement at the expected price. The promotion of these types of keep its employees safe, and actively encouraging the use of ICT technologies and policies and the implementation of new measures may prevent the Group from other resources in hopes of minimizing the disease’s impact on business activity. earning the revenue that it originally anticipated for certain products. The Group’s plants, which consistently stock the necessary inventory levels for While it continues to track changes in governmental systems and policy trends ensuring stable product supplies, are also adapting frameworks and operating worldwide, the Group is exploring ways not only to ensure that its new drugs are under the predetermined Business Continuity Plan (BCP). effective and safe but also to demonstrate that they offer unique forms of value, such as the ability to alleviate nursing-care needs and address the severity of Climate change target diseases. Together with the entire pharmaceuticals industry, the Group is The Group recognizes that climate change is a crucial issue with a substantial also appealing to governmental organizations and other relevant parties to ensure impact on corporate activities. Climate change has the potential to make natural that drug prices reflect those levels of quality and value. disasters like large-scale typhoons, heavy rainfalls, and floods more and more common, which could interfere with operations at the Group’s manufacturing sites (4) Others and other locations around the world, delay the procurement of raw materials, etc., Succession and rupture transportation channels. These types of obstacles may have a negative For over 30 years, the Group’s current Representative Corporate Officer and effect on stable product supplies. Measures to facilitate the shift to a low-carbon CEO has used his strong leadership skills to help the Group develop its business society, such as the implementation of carbon taxes and stricter environmental activities and grow on a global scale. regulations, may also elevate costs at Group locations worldwide and the Group’s Looking forward, it will be important for the Representative Corporate Officer procurement sources. and CEO to take a planned, systematic approach to helping potential successors The Group announced its endorsement of the Task Force on Climate-Related hone the abilities that they will need to thrive as future company leaders. The Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in June 2019 and launched a cross-organization Group will also need to prepare as thoroughly as possible for any disruptions that project that now uses the TCFD framework to perform scenario analyses on the may occur and ensure that the Board of Directors selects the future Representative long-term effects of climate change. Corporate Officer and CEO from an objective, fair perspective. Failing to take these types of vital steps, however, may impede the Group in its quest to fulfill its Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Corporate Philosophy and deal a serious blow to Group management. The Group records goodwill and intangible assets obtained as a result of merger The Board of Directors, recognizing the selection of the Representative and acquisition and the licensing-in of products and pipelines. If the fair values Corporate Officer and CEO as one of the most important decisions it makes as an of these types of assets fall below the corresponding carrying amounts due to official body, has thus established rules and procedures relating to the Group’s deviations in plans and actual performance, market changes, or other factors, the succession plan. The Group’s independent outside directors also play a role in Group needs to book impairment losses accordingly. Such circumstances may the processes for nurturing promising candidates for the position, among other have a negative impact on the Group’s financial results and financial positions. initiatives, thereby serving a supervisory function for succession. Specifically, the For example, the Group’s goodwill (168.7 billion JPY as of the end of fiscal Outside Directors Meeting receives a proposal for a succession plan from the 2019) is mainly allocated to the Americas pharmaceutical business. Fair values Representative Corporate Officer and CEO twice a year, shares information on the are calculated using a variety of assumptions such as projected cash flows and succession plan with all directors, and engages in discussions on the proposal. growth rates for the Americas pharmaceutical business, determined based on In addition to pursuing the above initiatives for ensuring an optimal succession management-approved business plans. These assumptions are affected by factors process for the Representative Corporate Officer and CEO, the Group also engages ranging from the possibility of future approvals and additional indications for new in succession planning on a yearly basis to facilitate the transfer of leadership drugs, the timing of those changes, and post-marketing drug prices to sales for corporate officer posts and other important positions across the company volume, competing products, and interest-rate fluctuation. 87 Corporate Executives (As of June 30, 2020) Company Introduction Directors Director, Representative Corporate Officer and CEO Member of the Nomination Committee, Chair of the Chair of the Audit Committee, Member of the hhc Governance Haruo Naito Compensation Committee, Member of the hhc Governance Committee and Member of the Independent Committee of Committee and Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors Chair of the Board of Directors, Chair of the hhc Governance Outside Directors Hideyo Uchiyama Committee and Member of the Independent Committee of Bruce Aronson Outside Directors Member of the Audit Committee Yasuhiko Katoh Yutaka Tsuchiya Hideki Hayashi Member of the Audit Committee Chair of the Nomination Committee, Member of the Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the hhc Governance Hirokazu Kanai Management Strategies Compensation Committee, Member of the hhc Governance Committee and Member of the Independent Committee of Committee and Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the hhc Governance Outside Directors Yumiko Miwa Committee and Chair of the Independent Committee of Outside Shuzo Kaihori Directors Daiken Tsunoda Member of the Nomination Committee, Member of the Compensation Committee, Member of the hhc Governance Committee and Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors Ryuichi Murata Corporate Officers Representative Corporate Officer and CEO Senior Vice President Vice President Value Creation Activities Haruo Naito President, Americas Region Executive Vice President, Integrity, Eisai Inc. President, Eisai Inc. Alexander Scott Representative Corporate Officer, COO and Industry Affairs Tatsuyuki Yasuno Industry Affairs Vice President China Business Senior Vice President Chief Compliance Officer Data Integrity President, Eisai China Holdings Ltd. Internal Control Yasushi Okada President, Eisai China Inc. Chief Information Security Officer Yanhui Feng Mitsuaki Tanaka Executive Vice President General Counsel Senior Vice President Vice President Intellectual Property President, Eisai Demand Chain Systems President, Asia and Latin America Region Kenta Takahashi Yoshiteru Kato API Solutions Shohei Kanazawa Executive Vice President Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer Chief Government Relations Officer Vice President Ryohei Yanagi Global Value & Access Head of Medicine Development Center Financial Base Masatomi Akana Akiko Nakahama Senior Vice President Global Safety Officer Vice President Vice President Edward Stewart Geary Chief Medicine Creation Officer, Oncology Business Group Chief Strategy Officer Chief Discovery Officer, Oncology Business Group Kazumasa Nagayama Senior Vice President Takashi Owa President, EMEA Region Vice President Chairman & CEO, Eisai Europe Ltd. Vice President Chief Talent Officer Gary Hendler Chief Clinical Officer, Neurology Business Group Yosuke Akita Lynn Kramer Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital Senior Vice President Vice President President, Oncology Business Group Vice President Chief Data Officer Terushige Iike Chief IR Officer Head of Tsukuba Research Laboratories Stakeholder Communications Kappei Tsukahara Senior Vice President Sayoko Sasaki President, Neurology Business Group Vice President Chairman, Eisai Inc. Vice President Head of Medical Headquarters Ivan Cheung Internal Audit Hiroyuki Murayama Junichi Asatani Senior Vice President Vice President President, Eisai Japan Vice President President, Dementia Total Inclusive Ecosystem Business Unit Hidenori Yabune Chief Discovery Officer, Neurology Business Group Chief Digital Officer Teiji Kimura Keisuke Naito Senior Vice President Chief Clinical Quality Officer Vice President Vice President Chief Product Quality Officer General Affairs, Environmental and Safety Affairs President, Consumer hhc Business Division Global Product Emergency Management Japan Subsidiaries Eriko Naito Hiroyuki Kato Masayuki Miyajima Appendix 88 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Major Products Product lineup mainly consisting of two major focus areas (Neurology and Oncology) Neurology Area Revenue in fiscal 2019 ¥183.3 billion (103% YoY, Composition of consolidated revenue 26.3%) Fycompa® (generic name: perampanel) In-house Antiepileptic agent Revenue in fiscal 2019 ¥25.3 billion (131% YoY) An AMPA receptor antagonist discovered and developed inhouse by Eisai, Fycompa® has been approved in more than 60 countries such as Japan, the U.S., and countries in Europe and Asia for the adjunctive treatment of both partial-onset seizures and primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. It obtained the approvals for an additional indication for monotherapy of partial-onset seizures and an additional indication for partial-onset seizures in pediatric patients aged 4 years and older, as well as a new fine granule formulation in Japan in January 2020. Revenue is currently increasing worldwide. DayvigoTM (generic name: lemborexant) In-house Aricept® (generic name: donepezil) In-house Anti-insomnia drug Treatment for Alzheimer’s disease/dementia with Lewy bodies Launched in the U.S. in June 2020, in Japan in July 2020 Revenue in fiscal 2019 ¥34.9 billion (87% YoY) Dayvigo is an in-house TM A dementia treatment discovered developed dual orexin receptor and developed in-house by Eisai antagonist, which inhibits orexin that is believed to slow the overall neurotransmission regulating progression of symptoms associated sleep-wake rhythm by binding with Alzheimer’s disease by inhibiting competitively to the two acetylcholinesterase enzyme which subtypes of orexin receptors. It breaks down the neurotransmitter acts on the orexin neurotransmitter system and is believed to acetylcholine. Currently approved in more than 100 countries facilitate sleep onset, sleep maintenance, and better waking worldwide. The agent received additional approval for an by regulating sleep-wake rhythm. Launched for the treatment indication for the treatment of dementia with Lewy bodies in of adults with insomnia, characterized by difficulties with sleep Japan, the Philippines and Thailand. onset and/or sleep maintenance in the U.S., for the treatment of insomnia in Japan. Methycobal® (generic name: mecobalamin) In-house Lyrica® (generic name: pregabalin) In-license Peripheral neuropathy treatment Pain treatment Revenue in fiscal 2019 ¥38.0 billion (97% YoY) Revenue in fiscal 2019 (Co-promotion income) ¥28.6 billion (101% YoY) A mecobalamin (Vitamin B12 A pain treatment originally developed by Pfizer Inc. (U.S.). coenzyme) product originally Currently approved in more than 100 countries and regions discovered and developed globally＊. Co-promoted in Japan by Pfizer Japan Inc. and by Eisai. Restores damaged Eisai Co., Ltd., with both peripheral nerves and is widely companies working to used for the treatment of provide information on its peripheral neuropathy in Japan proper use. and other Asian countries. Revenue is successfully increasing in Japan. ＊A  s of December 2019 Oncology Area Revenue in fiscal 2019 ¥165.9 billion (137% YoY, Composition of consolidated revenue 23.9%) Lenvima® (generic name: lenvatinib) In-house Halaven® (generic name: eribulin) In-house Anticancer agent/molecular targeted medicine Anticancer agent/microtubule dynamics inhibitor Revenue in fiscal 2019 ¥111.9 billion (179% YoY) Revenue in fiscal 2019 ¥40.2 billion (97% YoY) A selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) with a novel binding An anticancer agent discovered and developed in-house by mode originally discovered and developed in-house by Eisai. Eisai. A synthetic analog of halichondrin B derived from the Approved as a treatment for refractory thyroid cancer in marine sponge Halichondria okadai. over 65 countries, renal cell carcinoma (RCC) in combination Shows an antitumor effect by arresting with everolimus in over 55 the cell cycle through inhibition of the countries and hepatocellular growth of microtubules. Approved in carcinoma in over 60 more than 75 countries for the treatment countries worldwide (product of breast cancer. Approved in over 65 name for treatment of RCC in countries for use in the treatment of Europe: Kisplyx®). Revenue liposarcoma (soft tissue sarcoma in is successfully increasing Japan). worldwide. 89 Others Pariet® (generic name: rabeprazole) In-house Humira® (generic name: adalimumab) In-license Company Introduction Proton-pump inhibitor Fully human anti-TNF-α monoclonal antibody Revenue in fiscal 2019 ¥24.1 billion (87% YoY) Revenue in fiscal 2019 ¥61.4 billion (103% YoY) A proton-pump inhibitor originally discovered and developed A treatment for autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid in-house by Eisai. Indicated for the treatment of gastric arthritis. In Japan, the agent is manufactured and marketed by and duodenal ulcers, reflux esophagitis and eradication of AbbVie GK and marketed by Eisai. AbbVie GK and Eisai are Helicobacter pylori infections, etc. Approved in more than 100 co-promoting the agent for the indications in areas other than countries worldwide. gastrointestinal disease, while AbbVie GK and EA Pharma Revenue is increasing in Co. Ltd., are co-promoting the agent for indications in the Asia, although decreasing gastrointestinal disease area. in Japan due to intensifying Revenue is increasing competition and the expansion in Japan, mainly due to of generics. the success of promotion Management Strategies leveraging the strengths of having a wide range of indications. ■ Consumer Healthcare Business Revenue in fiscal 2019 ¥24.9 billion (Composition of consolidated revenue 3.6%) ●Revenue of prescription drug business, consumer healthcare Chocola BB® Products Revenue in fiscal 2019 ¥15.5 billion (101% YoY) business and others Including the signature product Other business Prescription Chocola BB® Plus, a Vitamin B2 ¥118.4 billion drug business Value Creation Activities preparation for rough skin and (17.0%) ¥552.4 billion stomatitis, a variety of products (79.4%) such as third-class OTC drugs, designated quasi-drugs and food with nutrient function claims Consolidated Neurology area are available. Chocola BB® Plus: Chocola BB® Royal 2: Consumer revenue in In fiscal 2019, revenue Third-class OTC drug Designated quasi-drug healthcare business fiscal 2019 ¥183.3 billion ¥24.9 billion ¥695.6 (26.3%) increased due to the launch of new and updated products billion as well as growth of Chocola BB® tablets from the effect of (3.6%) television commercials. Other Oncology area  ttps://www.chocola.com/index.html Chocola.com▶ h (Only available in Japanese) ¥203.2 billion ¥165.9 billion (29.2%) (23.9%) ●Revenue of major brands (Billions of yen) Financial Base ●Revenue of other major products 300.0 (Billions of yen) 60.0 250.0 50.0 200.0 Initiatives to Enhance Non-Financial Capital 40.0 150.0 30.0 100.0 20.0 10.0 50.0 0.0 l2 l2 l2 l2 l2 l2 l201 6 01 011 01 01 01 01 ca l2 0 2 3 4 5 fis ca l2 017 ca 0.0 ca ca ca ca ca ca fis ca 018 fis fis fis fis fis fis fis fis fo r l2 019 l2 fis ec ca as l 2 t fo 01 0 02 r 0 Methycobal® Fycompa® Lyrica® BELVIQ ® ca l2 Appendix fis ca l2 01 011 2 fis fis ca ca l2 013 fis ca l2 014 ca l2 01 Halaven® Humira® Aloxi® Chocola BB ® series fis fis ca l2 015 6 fis fis fis fis ca ca ca l2 l2 01 017 8 fo fis ec r ca as l2 01 l 2 t fo 9 02 r 0 Aricept® Pariet® Lenvima® ＊R  evenue of Lyrica® is an alliance income from co-promotion. ＊A  major brand is an extremely popular medicine which achieved annual revenue of at least 100 ＊W  e returned an exclusive license for commercialization of Aloxi® in June 2018. billion JPY or which is expected to. ＊W  e did not disclose fiscal 2020 forecast for global revenue of Methycobal®, Lyrica®, and Humira®. 90 Eisai Integrated Report 2020 Status of Shares (As of March 31, 2020) Issued 296,566,949 shares (including 9,903,184 shares of treasury stock) Number of shareholders 53,282 Transfer agent Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation ●Principal shareholders Percentage held (Notes) Number of shares held 1 Numbers of shares are rounded down to the nearest thousand. Shareholders of all shareholder (in thousands) 2 Indicates the top 10 shareholders in terms of percentage of the total number of voting rights (%) outstanding shares (excluding treasury stock). The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 35,394 12.36 3 The 9,903,000 shares (3.34%) of treasury stock are not included in this table as they do not have voting rights. 4 Although the following Large Shareholding Report (revised report) was received before Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 32,611 11.38 the end of the fiscal year, in cases in which it is impossible to make confirmation with the shareholder registry for the end of the fiscal year, or in which the number of State Street Bank and Trust Company 505001 20,639 7.20 shares held is not ranked among the top 10, it is not included in the table. Further, the holding percentage enclosed in parentheses is the percentage of the total number of Nippon Life Insurance Company 12,281 4.28 outstanding shares (rounded down), including treasury stock. (1) Including the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc., all 4 companies jointly held Saitama Resona Bank, Limited 6,800 2.37 16,113,000 shares (5.43%) as of July 13, 2015 (July 21, 2015, Revised Report) (2) Including the Wellington Management Company, LLP, all 2 companies jointly held Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 7) 6,284 2.19 27,087,000 shares (9.13%) as of July 31, 2015 (August 7, 2015, Revised Report) (3) Including BlackRock Japan Co., Ltd., all 11 companies jointly held 18,308,000 shares Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. as trustee for (6.17%) as of August 15, 2017 (August 21, 2017, Revised Report) Mizuho Bank, Ltd. Retirement Benefit Trust Account 5,437 1.89 (4) Including Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited, all 3 companies jointly held re-entrusted by Mizuho Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. 15,967,000 shares (5.38%) as of December 14, 2018 (December 21, 2018, Revised Report) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 5) 4,876 1.70 (5) Including Nomura Securities Co., Ltd., all 2 companies jointly held 17,993,000 shares (6.07%) as of September 13, 2019 (September 20, 2019, Revised Report) JP Morgan Chase Bank 385151 4,623 1.61 (6) Including Mizuho Bank, Ltd., all 2 companies jointly held 15,777,000 shares (5.32%) as of January 15, 2020 (January 22, 2020, Revised Report) The Naito Foundation 4,207 1.46 Total 133,154 46.49 ●Trends in ratio by shareholder type （％） 0 20 40 60 80 100 Fiscal 2018 44.6 28.7 12.6 7.0 3.4 3.7 Fiscal 2019 44.9 30.7 12.6 6.9 3.3 1.6 ■Financial institutions (Institutional Investors, etc.) ■Foreign entities, etc. ■Individuals, other ■Other companies ■Treasury stock ■Financial instruments traders (securities companies) ●Stock price trends (from April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2020)＊ 400 ー Eisai’s stock price ー Average of pharmaceutical industry ー TOPIX 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Highest 3,425 yen 3,385 yen 4,405 yen 4,675 yen 9,756 yen 9,024 yen 7,338 yen 7,148 yen 11,490 yen 9,433 yen Lowest 2,743 yen 2,832 yen 3,070 yen 3,600 yen 3,800 yen 6,633 yen 5,366 yen 5,402 yen 6,040 yen 5,205 yen Closing price 2,984 yen 3,290 yen 4,200 yen 4,018 yen 8,535 yen 6,770 yen 5,764 yen 6,781 yen 6,213 yen 7,931 yen ＊ The April 1, 2010, closing prices of Eisai’s stock price, Average of pharmaceutical industry, and TOPIX respectively represent the 100 shown in the line graph. ●TSR (Total Shareholder Return, %)＊1 Holding period 1 year 3 years 5 years 10 years Eisai 94.0 139.4 278.4 283.1 Nikkei Stock Average＊2 89.5 118.1 187.8 200.4 TOPIX＊3 90.8 113.1 175.2 178.4 ＊1 T  SR is based on investment conducted at the closing price on March 31, 2010 ＊2 Source: Nikkei 225 Total Return Index https://indexes.nikkei.co.jp/en/nkave/index/profile?idx=nk225tr ＊3 Source: JAPAN EXCHANGE GROUP Monthly Statistics Report https://www.jpx.co.jp/english/markets/statistics-equities/monthly/index.html Please refer to the Notice of Resolution of the 108th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders for the status of shares ▶ https://www.eisai.com/ir/stock/meeting/index.html 91 Corporate Information Corporate Data (As of March 31, 2020) Corporate Name Head Office Address Stock Exchange Listings Annual Shareholders’ Eisai Co., Ltd. 4-6-10, Koishikawa, Bunkyo-ku, Eisai common stock is listed on the Meeting Tokyo 112-8088, Japan Tokyo Stock Exchange. (Securities Held in June Date Founded Code Number: 4523) December 6, 1941 Paid-in Capital Independent Public ¥44,986 million Date for Settlement of Accountants Accounts Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC March 31 ■ Period Covered This Integrated Report covers business performance from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020. Some sections may include information on activities as recent as fiscal 2020. ■ Reporting Organizations Eisai Co., Ltd. and domestic and overseas consolidated subsidiaries ■ Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors Materials and information provided in this Integrated Report may contain “forward-looking statements” based on current expectations, forecasts, estimates, business goals and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from these statements. Moreover, the target values contained in this report merely express medium-term strategies, intended directions and visions and are not an official earnings forecast. For the official earnings forecast, please refer to the annual financial report (Consolidated Financial Statement) in accordance with the rules set by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Factors that could have a material impact on the future outlook include, but are not limited to, changes in the economic environment and competitive pressures surrounding Eisai’s business environment, revisions to laws and regulations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, uncertainties associated with new drug development, and infringements of intellectual property rights by third parties. Although this report contains information on pharmaceuticals (including those under development), the content is not intended for advertising or medical advice purposes. In addition, further details about business risks stated above are described in the Annual Security Report. This English Report was translated from the original Japanese version. In the event of any inconsistency between the statements in the two versions, the statements in the Japanese version shall prevail. We maintained proper social distance in interviews and dialogs for this Integrated Report 2020. ■ Note to Description •Generic names for drugs are given omitting the base or hydrate. ■ Notes to Icons on Each Page •Pages that are strongly related to the 6 types of capital which comprise Eisai’s corporate value (intellectual capital, human capital, manufactured capital, social and relationship capital, natural capital and financial capital) are marked with corresponding icons. •Pages that are strongly related to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are marked with SDGs icons. On the Issuance of the Integrated Report 2020 We prepared this integrated report on the theme of aware of the difficulties and “sustainable growth of the Company by enhancing the long way to go before the non-financial capital.” We would like the readers to total elimination. The situation understand that our corporate activities do not confine is the same with the initiative ESG matters to a limited range of issues, but place for COVID-19. Issues about importance on connecting them to corporate value global health are not issues creation activities as a management strategy. where a single company can In 30 years after the company announced the concept bring solutions, but essentially of “Eisai Innovation” which is the origin of “hhc,” all Eisai need partnership with reliable Sayoko Sasaki Corporate Officer employees put importance on the time needed to partners, as promoted by the Chief IR Officer understand the true feelings of the patient, and motivation SDGs. We are committed to Stakeholder Communications to respond to these feelings has been the source of continuing all related activities growth for the Company. We are confident that the as a long term investment. investment in human capital and intellectual capital based We are at the forefront of the creation of nexton the philosophy of “hhc” realizes both value creation for generation Alzheimer’s disease treatments, and we are patients and the Company’s growth. working to deliver them to people with dementia as soon The year 2020 is the 10th year for the partnership with as possible. With the rapid aging of the population, the World Health Organization (WHO) aiming at the dementia is a global public health issue of high social elimination of lymphatic filariasis (LF) after the signing of a priority, and we aim to realize not only Medical Innovation joint statement in November 2010. Our but also Societal Innovation. diethylcarbamazine (DEC) tablets, treatments for LF, are We hope this integrated report will help you understand distributed in 28 countries. We have seen steady progress that our initiatives for ESG are paving the way to mediumwith the elimination in of LF 17 countries, but are keenly to long-term enhancement of corporate value. Investor Relations For further Eisai Co., Ltd. information 4-6-10, Koishikawa, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 112-8088, Japan TEL : 0120-745-040 92 Eisai Integrated Report 2020
