Society ● Diversity ● Environment ● Governance & Compliance ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE Sustainability Report 2019 CONTENT 04 OUR RESPONSIBILITY Foreword 05 Strategy and Goals 06 Organization and Management 08 38 GRI-REPORT General Disclosures 39 11 Organizational Profile Strategy Ethics and Integrity 39 41 41 SUSTAINABILITY MAGAZINE Governance 42 Public Value Highlights 12 Stakeholder Engagement 42 “Don’t hate me. Celebrate me!“ 18 Reporting Practice 44 Painting Pictures in the Mind 26 Clean Shoot! 32 Economic 46 Economic Performance 46 Anti-Corruption and Antitrust Law 46 Environmental 48 Social 52 Employees 52 Diversity 56 Anti-Discrimination 58 Product Responsibility 59 Media-specific Disclosures 63 65 FURTHER INFORMATION Report Profile 66 GRI Content Index 68 Assurance 76 2 Ta b l e o f c o n t e n t s SUSTAINABILITY MAGAZINE 12 PUBLIC VALUE HIGHLIGHTS — Page 12 „DON’T HATE ME. CELEBRATE ME!“ — Page 18 PICTURES IN YOUR MIND — Page 26 CLEAN SHOOT! — Page 32 38 REPORT GRI General Economic Environmental Social Media-specific Disclosures Disclosures GRIs: GRIs: GRIs: GRIs: GRIs: 102-1 – 102-13, 201-1 – 201-2, 103-1 – 103-3, 103-1 – 103-3, 401-1, 103-1 – 103-3, M4, 102-14, 102-16, 103-1 – 103-3, 302-1 – 302-3, 403-3, 404-1, M6, M7 102-18, 205-1 – 205-3, 305-1 – 305-4, 405-1, 406-1, 102-40 – 102-44, 206-1 306-2, 307-1 415-1, 416-2, 102-45 – 102-56 417-2 – 417-3, 418-1, 419-1 2 Sustainability Magazine OUR RESPON SIBILITY FOREWORD GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Dear Sir or Madam, As a media company, we have a very particular social responsibility and we take it very seriously. This is why we are committed to freedom of opinion and the promotion of democracy, to diversity and equal opportunities, to climate and environmental protection, and to governance and compliance. We feel that the need for global sustainable development and a fundamental transformation of the economy and society has become even greater with the COVID-19 pandemic. In respect of working life as well, many employees are currently asking themselves the question: How do we want to work together? Going forward, “new work” will become an even more important topic. There needs to be some (“Integrating Sustainability”), the next step entails tying clarity about the conditions in which our and future sustainability aspects even more strongly to generations want to live and work together in the future. ProSiebenSat.1’s corporate strategy. As a company, we want to operate inclusively, sustainably, and in an envirIn May of this year, we on the Executive Board adopted onmentally and socially responsible manner. As a media our company’s sustainability goals. This resolution group, it is essential that we depict – and above all represents a further milestone that was proceeded by promote – a culturally diverse and democratic society. the development of a holistic sustainability strategy. We This also forms part of our sense of identity. also laid the organizational groundwork for the impleConsequently, we have not only set ourselves the target mentation of this strategy throughout the Group by of becoming a climate-neutral company by 2030. We creating a Corporate Sustainability Office. This puts us also intend to take an even stronger stance on issues in a very good position to systematically develop the that are relevant to social policy, stand up for equal sustainability performance and key non-financial figures opportunities and gender equality, and continue to of ProSiebenSat.1 and to respond even more appropriprofessionalize our diversity management policy. ately to the interests of our various stakeholders. These include particularly our employees, shareholders, viewTo further underline our commitment to sustainability ers and users, and business partners. and the corporate responsibility of ProSiebenSat.1, in January 2020 we signed the United Nations (UN) Global >> Compact. We therefore explicitly commit to its ten prinAS A COMPANY, WE WANT ciples in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environment and climate, and anti-corruption. In this TO OPERATE INCLUSIVELY, report, we draw on specific examples and interesting reports to show you how we are putting our intentions SUSTAINABLY, AND IN AN into practice and continually integrating sustainability ENVIRONMENTALLY AND into our business processes and models. SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE Christine Scheffler MANNER. Member of the Executive Board and Chief Human Resources Officer ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE We have set ourselves ambitious targets for the future. As indicated by the title of this Sustainability Report Our Responsibility 5 STRATEGY AND GOALS GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker At the end of 2018, ProSiebenSat.1 developed a Groupcorporate strategy and to strengthen the Group’s integwide sustainability strategy entitled “We love to rated approach towards economic, environmental, and sustain”. it was presented internally in 2019, adopted social performance. It also included the reevaluation of by the board and has been implemented gradually ever current sustainability activities and their alignment to since. The objective of the strategic process was to tie the new strategy. sustainability aspects more strongly to ProSiebenSat.1’s SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY “WE LOVE TO SUSTAIN” RATE STRATE RPO GY CO SOCIETY DIVERSITY VISION MISSION SDGs ENVIRONMENT SU ST GY AIN TE ABILITY STRA STRATEGIC PROCESS Our sustainability strategy is based on the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). They call on all enterAnalysis of current situation and sector benchprises to use their creativity and aptitude for innovation marking to overcome the challenges of sustainable development. Reviewing the materiality analysis and surveying The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) define stakeholders global priorities and sustainable development goals for Defining priorities and selecting relevant UN 2030 and aim to mobilize global efforts to achieve a Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) common set of goals and targets. The SDGs call for Formulating the sustainability strategy global action by governments, business, and civil society (approach, action areas and principles, key to end poverty and create a life of dignity and opportuntopics) ity for all within the confines of the planet. Defining sustainability goals, strategic measures, and KPIs 6 Our Responsibility ProSiebenSat.1 Group also wants to contribute to this academia in more than 160 countries – demonstrates global transformation. We have classified the following that we are willing to help shaping this vision and six goals as particularly relevant to our business activitstrengthening our commitment to sustainability. It also ies and their contribution to the SDGs in the context of requires us to report annually on the progress achieved strategic development: in implementing the principles and activities to promote sustainable development (communication on progress). RELEVANT UN GOALS FOR SUSTAINABLE Report profile, page 66 DEVELOPMENT (SDGS) As well as implementing the sustainability strategy in the Group and putting the defined measures into action, there was also a focus on specifying and configuring the sustainability goals in 2019 and the first half of 2020. The current goals along with the corresponding road map were adopted by the Sustainability Board in April 2020 and resolved by the Executive Board in May. They include the development and implementation of Because of the strategic process, we have transferred a Group-wide set of climate protection measures by our sustainability management to four action areas in means of which the Group aims to achieve climate neutwhich we group our activities by topic area and formurality by 2030. In addition, the Group intends to implelate separate guidelines each. ment a targeted diversity management, improve inclusion at the company, and encourage employee involveSince January 2020, ProSiebenSat.1 has also been a ment in volunteer work. As a media company, we want signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact to incorporate our sustainability goals in an improved and is thus explicitly committed to its ten principles in and more targeted way in our programming with our the areas of human rights, labor standards, environment TV channels as well as in the influencer marketing of and climate, and preventing corruption. The United Studio71, one of the world’s leading multi-platform Nations Global Compact is the world’s biggest and most networks and providers of digital content and web important initiative for responsible corporate productions. We therefore want to focus increasingly on governance. Based on ten universal principles and the socio-politically relevant issues in terms of media and SDGs, it pursues the vision of an inclusive and sustaincontent and address these issues with the young target able global economy. By joining the Global Compact, group. ProSiebenSat.1 – alongside over 13,000 other companies and organizations from civil society, politics, and ACTION AREAS AND PRINCIPLES Society Diversity Environment Governance & Compliance Our Responsibility 7 ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT GRI 102-18 Governance structure At the time this report was published, non-financial In January 2020, a separate sustainability department aspects, sustainability performance indicators, and ESG (the Corporate Sustainability Office) headed by the Chief (environment, social, governance) information belonged Sustainability Officer was also established. The Corporto Christine Scheffler’s Executive Board department. ate Sustainability Office is responsible for the coordinaDuring the reporting period, they were assigned to the tion, implementation, and communication of sustainabarea of responsibility of the Deputy CEO/Group General ility activities and for stakeholder dialog. Counsel. In implementing the sustainability strategy, the Group has also taken various measures to expand the sustainability organization and enhance the governance “In the Corporate Sustainability Office, structures. our goal is to implement sustainability as an integral management concept in all In 2019, a Sustainability Board was set up. It forms a Group divisions of ProSiebenSat.1. centralized and interdisciplinary body for managing, Sustainable management as the basis for monitoring, and developing the sustainability strategy. all our business decisions should form The Sustainability Board is consisting of managers and part of our sense of identity. We have set specialists from relevant central functions and operatourselves ambitious goals as part of our ing divisions as well as a works council representative. In sustainability strategy, with the United 2019 it was chaired by the Deputy CEO, but since March Nations Sustainable Development Goals 2020, it has been chaired by Executive Board member as guidance. We know that we can do and Chief Human Resources Officer Christine Scheffler. even better – and we are working on this The Sustainability Board met three times in 2019. In with full commitment. Our approach is to May 2019, the sustainability strategy and the Board’s get started and continuously keep charter were discussed and adopted. At the meeting in developing. Sociopolitical discussion and July, key topics included the UN Global Compact and dialog with relevant stakeholders is the sustainable marketing model Media4Sustainability. important, as only together can we At the meeting in October, guests were invited, and addiachieve our global goals.” tional project ideas were presented. Annette Kümmel, Chief Sustainability Officer of ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE Organizationally speaking, the Compliance Management System (CMS) also covers certain topic areas for SUSTAINABILITY ORGANIZATION Executive Board Sustainability Board Corporate Sustainability Office Consolidation of sustainability Steering Committee activities and responsibility for the strategic approach with Managers and specialists from Christine Scheffler relevant central functions and operating divisions as well as representatives of the European Employee Board (EEB) 8 Our Responsibility COMPLIANCE ORGANIZATION Executive Board Compliance Board Internal Audit Head of unit Head of unit Head of unit Head of unit Chief Compliance Officer UCO UCO UCO UCO Subject Matter Experts Anti-corruption Antitrust law Data protection Media law sustainability at ProSiebenSat.1 – such as prevention of implementation of appropriate risk mitigation meascorruption offenses and violations of antitrust law and ures. Unit Compliance Officers (UCOs) are also appointhe safeguarding of data protection and compliance with ted for Group companies and are responsible for the the provisions of the Interstate Broadcasting Agreement CMS at their asset. under media law. A major aim is to anchor integrity and lawful conduct in the thoughts and actions of all employees on a lasting basis and hereby prevent violations “We stand for openness and honesty. of laws and regulations from the outset. The Executive However, we are not only concerned with Board of ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE has overall responscompliance, but also with responsible ibility for CMS as the parent company of ProSiebenSat.1 behavior – especially in everyday life Group. The Compliance Board and the Group Chief when handling data or intellectual Compliance Officer (CCO) assist the Executive Board in property, as well as in competition or the implementing, monitoring and improving the CMS. The protection of minors.“ CCO is responsible for implementing the CMS in the Group, carries out risk analyses and training, and Moritz Graf von Merveldt, advises the Executive Board on the development and Chief Compliance Officer of ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE Our Responsibility 9 Since 2011, the Group has placed its public value activ“Broadcasting must live up to its ities in a larger social context and underscored their responsibilities – this has always been relevance for the Group by establishing an Advisory part of ProSiebenSat.1’s DNA. And on top Board. The body with interdisciplinary members chaired of this, ProSiebenSat.1 as a commercial by Bavaria’s former minister president Dr. Edmund enterprise has also succeeded in putting Stoiber advises ProSiebenSat.1 Group on relevant social, its global responsibility into practice in a ethical, and media-policy issues and provides impetus strategy and targeted measures. The especially on topics such as education and culture. This Advisory Board has supported this includes communicating political information and development right from the start. I am encouraging political participation, especially among impressed by how fast and thoroughly the young viewer groups. In 2019, the Advisory Board met company is acting on this.” three times, including one extraordinary meeting regarding ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s activities in the run Dr. Edmund Stoiber, up to the European election, which the Advisory Board Chairman of the Advisory Board of ProSiebenSat.1 Media considered particularly relevant in the context of the SE Group’s public value measures. In addition to the Advisory Board members, these meetings were attended by members of the Executive Board and other decisionmakers in the Group. 10 Our Responsibility SUSTAIN ABILITY MAGAZINE PUBLIC VALUE HIGHLIGHTS 12 Sustainability Magazine OUR PROGRAMME WE REACH MILLIONS OF VIEWERS EVERY DAY WITH OUR TV AND DIGITAL OFFERINGS. AS A MEDIA COMPANY, WE ARE AWARE OF OUR RESPONSIBILITY AND USE THIS ENORMOUS REACH TO DRAW VIEWERS’ ATTENTION TO SOCIALLY RELEVANT TOPICS WITH THEMED FILMS AND CAMPAIGNS. 1 2 “Disgusting.” “When I see her stupid face, I feel sick.” “A human pig.” Hate comments, offensive and insulting remarks, and abusive posts: When “Germany‘s next Topmodel” airs on ProSieben, the candidates do not only receive acclaim. For the show’s 15th season, ProSieben cooperated with the “Alliance Against Cyberbullying” to launch the “It will be hard, it will be bitter, and for some anti-cyberbullying campaign “Share people nearly impossible to believe.” These Respect. Not Hate.”, which can be seen on words began the fictitious exhibition MänTV and online, for more respect on social nerwelten (“Men’s Worlds”) with which Joko media. and Klaas called attention to violence against women. They thus devoted the 15 minutes of airtime that they won in the show “Joko und Klaas gegen ProSieben” to a topic that is part of many women’s everyday lives – and which nevertheless, even in times of the “me too” debate, remains a societal taboo. However, the reactions in the press and above all on social media show that we need to talk about it. The topic was discussed online in more than 20,000 tweets using the hashtag #Männerwelten.  outube.com/watch? y v=uc0P2k7zIb4 y  outube.com/watch? v=vczD8Yo7cko Sustainability Magazine 13 3 Because every vote counts: As part of the “Go vote!” mobilization campaign, ProSiebenSat.1, with the aid of influencers and well-known faces from its stations, called attention to the European election in May 2019. In the week preceding the election, various shows on the Group’s stations, such as “taff,” the SAT.1 breakfast show, and “Galileo,” also provided comprehensive information focusing on Europe. Over 11 million people were reached through traditional TV alone – among them just under 3 million young and, above all, first-time voters under youtube.com/watch? the age of 29. v= CT 3gQyNMRoM 4 How crystal meth can change and destroy people – ProSieben looked at this topic in the adaption of “9 Tage wach”: In the drugs drama, Jannik Schümann plays a crystal meth addict. The film was based on the bestselling autobiography of the same name by actor and author Eric Stehfest, who collaborated on the screenplay. The film performed strongly among viewers aged between 14 and 39 with a market share of 13.6% . After the film, ProSieben also showed the documentary “Dropout – die Doku mit Eric Stehfest.” 14 Sustainability Magazine CORONA MEASURES AS A MEDIA COMPANY, OUR RESPONSIBILITY IN THE CURRENT CRISIS LIES ABOVE ALL IN PROVIDING OUR VIEWERS WITH NEWS AND INFORMATION: PROSIEBENSAT.1 HAS THEREFORE SET UP SPECIAL FORMATS, CAMPAIGNS AND PROJECTS WITHIN A VERY SHORT TIME TO PROVIDE INFORMATION AND HELP. » Improvising in response to current events is routine in the world of news. At the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic, however, the exceptional situation became the “new normal.” The ProSiebenSat.1 stations responded to the viewers’ increased need for information with IT’S ABOUT THE increasingly frequent news reports, special broadcasts arranged at short notice, and new key topics – and the ESSENCE OF OUR news teams put in a top performance. WORK: JOURNALISTIC “This situation is a particular challenge,” says Sven ACTIVITY. Pietsch, Chief Editor at SevenOne Entertainment. “Both SVEN PIETSCH due to the quantity of work and due to the enduring disruption, because things change very often and very Chief Editor quickly.” This way of working is extremely demanding, at Seven One Entertainment he says. “But it’s about the essence of our work: journalistic activity.” Especially in a time in which there are numerous conspiracy theories going around, it is important to reliably provide viewers with credible information. “As a private media company, we are obliged to classify facts and to inform. We take this responsibility very seriously.” Nevertheless, important messages may also be presented in an entertaining way. For example, when Joko & Klaas stage a conspiracy quiz show, “Galileo” provides its viewers with facts and knowledge from A to Z, or the SAT.1 breakfast show delivers the essential news into Germany’s living rooms every morning. “In the time of coronavirus, the enthusiasm and conviction with which our colleagues in the editorial teams do their jobs are once again plain to see. That’s really great.” And an important contribution to society. Sustainability Magazine 15 1 News shows like “ProSieben Spezial: Coroguests in the studio were the Bavarian Minna-Update. Live.” and “ BILD Corona Spezial” ister President Dr. Markus Söder, doctor and on SAT.1 informed viewers regularly about biochemist Prof. Alexander Kekulé, businessthe latest events. The stations’ magazine man Frank Thelen, and child and youth psyshows, including “Galileo,” “taff” and “akte.” chotherapist Beate Leinberger. Vice Chanalso address topics relating to coronavirus. cellor Olaf Scholz took part in the broadcast In the special broadcast “ProSieben LIVE : via live link. Deutschland fragt zu Corona,” viewers were able to put their questions to experts: The p  rosieben.de/tv/prosieben-livedeutschland-fragt-zu-corona 2 In the corona aid TV spots #wirbleibenzuhause, #wirsagendanke and #wirhaltendurch, well-known faces from the stations urge viewers to follow the government’s protective measures. In addition, the websites prosieben.de/coronahilfe and sat1.de/coronahilfe provide information on how individuals can help under the motto “With each other. For each other.” p rosieben.de/coronahilfe s at1.de/news/corona/coronahilfe 16 Sustainability Magazine 3 #wirmachenmasken: The ProSieben science magazine show “Galileo” took the initiative to reduce the risk of infection with COVID -19 in social work with children. The “Galileo makes a difference!” campaign collected donations of around EUR 29,000 and over 4,000 community masks for children’s social institutions. galileo.tv/corona/maskenspende 4 Famous women from various industries are raising awareness of domestic violence, which has sadly increased in significance in times of quarantine, with the “silence makes you defenseless” campaign. They include model Stefanie Giesinger, actor Katy Karrenbauer, and television presenter Marlene Lufen. The campaign, produced for the aid organization WEISSER RING e.V., comprises TV spots, digital advertising, influencer mobilization and a fundraising campaign with merchandise on the campaign website www.schweigenmachtschutzlos.de. Sustainability Magazine 17 “DON’T HATE ME. CELEBRATE ME!“ 18 Sustainability Magazine “QUEEN OF DRAGS”, AIRED ON PROSIEBEN IN 2019, IS THE FIRST PRIME TIME DRAG QUEEN SHOW ON GERMAN TELEVISION. THIS IS A TV FORMAT THAT MAKES CLEAR ONCE AGAIN THAT TELEVISION HAS THE OPPORTUNITY AND THE PRIVILEGE TO MOVE PEOPLE – AS A REFLECTION OF A PLURALISTIC SOCIETY, WHICH STILL HAS SOME CATCHING UP TO DO WHEN IT COMES TO TOLERANCE, EVEN IN THE 21ST CENTURY; AS A CLEAR SIGNAL AGAINST HATE SPEECH AND DISCRIMINATION; AND AS A CREATIVE SOURCE OF INSPIRATION FOR NEW THINGS. WHAT THIS NEEDS IS COURAGE ON THE PART OF MAKERS AND AUDIENCES, A SHOW CONCEPT THAT ENTERTAINS AND INFORMS, AND A FOCUS ON DIVERSITY AND RESPECT. Prejudice is a tricky subject. It stereotypes, simplifies. It is widespread and persistent. It is part of everyday life. We often nurture and combat at it in equal measure. Everyone is prejudiced, except yourself – or maybe you are? Episode 1 of “Queen of Drags”: A look at the large “Glam Space” behind the show’s stage. In the hectic preparations for the show, drag queen Katy Bähm spills a tin of glitter powder – starting an argument with rival Aria Addams. A catfight over a bit of glitter? It’s fellow competitor Candy Crash who defuses the situation in seconds, with a wink: “I was sure there would be major drama between us drag queens. But not over glitter.” Moments like these have stuck in the memory for Christiane Heinemann. As Managing Director of Redseven Entertainment, the production company behind “Queen of Drags,” she was on set for filming in Los Angeles in late summer 2019. “It quickly became clear to us that all viewers have stereotypes in their minds. But we have the chance to use the show to Sustainability Magazine 19 INFO The first season of “Queen of Drags” achieved a market share of up to 11.4% (adults aged 14 to 49) and 15 million video views What does “drag” mean? on all platforms (for the duration of the season plus one catch-up week). Young viewers are particularly interested in the topic: On average, 17.2% of 14to 29-year-olds watch the weekly There are various theories about the origin of shows. the term “drag”: It could be an acronym for “dressed resembling a girl.” Alternatively, the term could come from the theater scene of the reveal what lies behind these stereotypes. late 19th century, when “to drag” referred to Therefore, we depict prejudices to a certain long skirts being dragged along the ground. In extent, in order to break them down in the Germany, the Anglicism “drag” began replacing next moment, and to show that there is often the German term “transvestism” from the beginmuch more behind the facade than people ning of the 1990s. In contrast to transvestism, think.” drag highlights the political intentions. “Drag queens” usually refers to people who identify Some viewers thought they already knew as male, when they put on clothing and roles everything about drag before the end of the that, according to the heterosexual norm, are first show. While the episode aired in Novemmeant for the other gender, and significantly ber 2019, the Internet quickly revealed its overdo it. By extremely exaggerating the genugliest side. Deeply entrenched prejudices der norms and roles shown in their optics and were expressed in homophobic hate combehavior, drag queens call these very norms ments: “Can you take this stupid fairy ball into question. Drag queens are therefore part off the schedules?” one user commented on of a community grouped under the acronym Facebook. “Disgusting freak show,” wrote LGBTIQ * (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, another. “Now these mentally ill fags are intersex, queer). The term as a whole and in its getting airtime.” Even the ProSieben viewer constituent parts stands for people who depart editorial team was swamped with hate-filled from the heterosexual norm due to their gender comments: “How can you show this brainless identity, sexual orientation, or physical body. shit with (…) idiots who don’t know what they are?” 20 Sustainability Magazine It’s social media storms like this that highlight the necessity and intention of the new ProSieben show “Queen of Drags”: The show seeks to educate and entertain. Over six episodes, ten drag artists compete for the title of best drag queen. The cameras follow them as they live together in the villa and practice for the shows, which have a different theme every week. Their performances are judged by a panel comprising Heidi Klum, Bill Kaulitz, and Conchita Wurst. “We are giving the drag artists a platform, telling their deeply personal stories, shining a light on their backgrounds – and have the amazing show elements at the end of every episode,” says Heinemann, explaining the mix of documentary, reality TV, and talent show. Things aren’t always what they seem at first glance – the show does not eschew this idea as » such: “Who says that entertainment cannot also be education?” The team from Redseven and ProSieben followed this approach consistently from the very first concept phase. THANKS TO THE “Above all, it required courage. We wanted to bring the LARGE REACH drag queens out of their niche and allow them to shine in prime time,” says Elisabeth Sofeso, the broadcaster’s THAT THE BEST Executive Producer of “Queen of Drags.” “It’s a good fit for us, for ProSieben, because it is new, different, and BROADCAST SLOT courageous.” The top priority is to make the drag show OF THE DAY GIVES world of the stage, which is as extravagant and colorful as expected, relevant, and, as Sofeso puts it, “enduringly US, WE CAN TARGET profound, by giving the people behind the characters THE FOCUS ON NEW ISSUES THAT MIGHT PLAY OUT OUTSIDE THE REAL LIVES OF SOME VIEWERS. CHRISTIANE HEINEMANN Managing Director Redseven Entertainment We are Family: Jury member Heidi Klum with Bill Kaulitz (right) In addition to her role as Managing visiting the Drag Queen Villa. Director, ProSieben’s former head of entertainment also produces shows of her own. Together with Executive Producers Alex Koch and Susan Schadwinkel and their colleagues at ProSieben, she helped to develop the “Queen of Drags” concept. Sustainability Magazine 21 » WHO SAYS THAT ENTERTAINMENT CANNOT ALSO BE EDUCATION? CHRISTIANE HEINEMANN Managing Director Redseven Entertainment space to tell their very emotional and personal stories. We wanted to depict our protagonists in all their facets as well as give them the big stage they deserve.” This ProSieben show is not the first time that drag culture has been part of German public life. Drag queens, such as Olivia Jones and Lilo Wanders, have long been part of the TV landscape in Germany. “But the topic remained on the margins, which is why we wanted to make the impressive world of drag queens tangible for audiences,” says Sofeso. What people think they know is often limited to reductive stereotypes: Team meeting on set: show participant Kathy Bähm, “Lots of people think it’s Stephan Hahn (Executive Producer ProSieben), Isabella ‘just’ gay men who dress as women. However, a Soric (Consumer Engagemenet Manager MAC Cosmetics drag queen is not automatically homosexual. And Germany) and Christiane Heinemann (from left to right). drag queens don’t want to be women. It’s a sophisticated and multifaceted art form. We thus thought about how to get viewers interested in this topic in an entertaining way. The main show in prime time is intended to show what it means to be a drag queen, why our candidates have chosen this path, and how they live. Hardly anyone knows that there is much more behind it than a bit of fun and fancy dress – namely a culture all of its own, which involves messages that are relevant to society and deserves serious respect.” 22 Sustainability Magazine » WE WANTED TO DEPICT OUR PROTAGONISTS IN ALL THEIR FACETS AS WELL AS GIVE THEM THE BIG STAGE THEY DESERVE ELISABETH SOFESO Executive Producer Content Creation ProSieben As Executive Producer at ProSieben, Elisabeth, known as Lizi, is responsible for the content of the format. She acts as an interface between the broadcaster and producers and has accompanied “Queen of Drags” together with Executive Producer Stephan Hahn from the initial idea right through to broadcast. Lizi has worked closely with judge Heidi Klum on “Germany’s next Topmodel” for years: “Heidi is a big fan of the drag scene and was, like for GNTM , heavily involved in the development of the show.” the street holding hands with a man,” says Aria Addams. Vava Vilde adds: “We can encourage others! I am on this show not just for myself, but for an entire community, and to shed light on things that receive too little attention.” Sofeso has long thought about the day that episode was filmed. “Even today, in a globalized world, respect and tolerance cannot be taken for granted. Unfortunately, the question of where you come from, who you love, or what you look like plays a role all too often. And as long as that is the case, we want to educate the public, in the hope that shows like ‘Queen of Drags’ will reach people The drag queens present these messages and cause them to reflect.” It is becoming clear on social themselves in episode 4, talk about their media that the show has been a help towards this goal. motivation to participate in the show, probIn line with queen Catherrine Leclery’s motto “don’t hate lems with their sexuality, and experiences me, celebrate me!” hate comments have dropped into of marginalization and discrimination. Often the background, crowded out by the oncoming “lovesin tears. And all united in the purpose of edutorm”: “My dad just googled ‘drag queen’ for the first cation. “A lot of bad things happen to us. time. In this way, you have motivated at least one viewer Friends have been beaten up, spat at, threatto learn about and get interested in the topic,” wrote ened. Where I live, I could never walk down one Twitter user. Another wrote: “ten gay men are preSustainability Magazine 23 » WE CAN ENCOURAGE OTHERS! I AM ON THIS SHOW NOT JUST FOR MYSELF, BUT FOR AN ENTIRE COMMUNITY, AND TO SHED LIGHT ON THINGS THAT RECEIVE TOO LITTLE ATTENTION. Vava Vilde Drag Queen 24 Sustainability Magazine sented in #QueenofDrags as multi-dimensional human beings with strengths, weaknesses, talents, and problems. (…) That’s a fucking big deal.” And: “Outing, homosexual partnerships, drag … I love that these issues are being talked about in prime time.” For Heinemann, too, the prime time slot does not automatically mean that the issue is already an accepted part of society. “The INFO online hate comments alone made it clear that there is still a lot that has to change. Diversity at But thanks to the large reach that the best ProSiebenSat.1 It’s all in the mix: ProSiebenSat.1 values the diversity of individual characteristics, experience, and expertise that its employees and managers contribute to the Company, and regards diversity as an important success factor for the Group’s development. It is part of our identity not only as a media group, but also as an employer, that we seek to create conditions in the personnel arena that promote diversity in the workforce and accommodate the individual interests of our employees. Against this backdrop, ProSiebenSat.1 Group signed the Diversity Charter (“Charta der Vielfalt”) back in 2014. This highlights our commitment to creating a working environment free from prejudice and exclusion. We hire employees at all hierarchical levels solely based on objective criteria and promote them based on their skills and expertise alone. Factors such as age, disability, ethnic background and broadcast slot of the day gives us, we can nationality, sex and gender identity, target the focus on new issues that might religion and ideology, and sexual oriplay out outside the real lives of some viewentation do not play a role. We draw ers. For example, we promote tolerance and further attention to the topic of openness, educate and take a stand against diversity with internal initiatives and prejudice, so that diversity does not just take campaigns, including for Diversity place on screen, but is also lived in reality.” Day and Pride Week. Since spring 2020, some employees have formed an LGBTIQ + group in order to raise awareness of the topic and establish a network for interested parties within the Company. Sustainability Magazine 25 Together at a distance: Usually, Linda Stark and Benedikt describe “The Masked Singer” together in Vienna. Because of the coronavirus protection measures, however, for the second season, they had to work in their respective home studios in Cologne (Benedikt) and Berlin (Linda). PICTURES IN YOUR MIND 26 Sustainability Magazine PROSIEBEN ENSURES THAT VISUALLY STUNNING SHOWS SUCH AS “THE MASKED SINGER,” WHICH IS ALL ABOUT OPTICS, BECOME JUST AS ENTERTAINING FOR BLIND AND VISUALLY IMPAIRED PEOPLE AS FOR ALL OTHER VIEWERS. A SPECIAL APP IS USED TO DESCRIBE EXACTLY WHAT IS CURRENTLY BEING SHOWN ON-SCREEN, CREATING ACCESSIBLE TELEVISION FOR EVERYONE. How long has ProSiebenSat.1 been offering audio description, and how did that come about? Jeannette Diem: Accessibility has been a topic within the broadcasting group since the early days. Back in 2000, we introduced the first subtitles, and in the course of the years, we have continued to expand our offerings for people with hearing impairment in terms of both quality and quantity. Last year, we subtitled an average of 22% of our shows for deaf people. But of course we would like to give all people with disabilities the opportunity to access our content, including blind people. In 2019, we therefore consulted with Last year, ProSieben was the first private associations of the blind. At this particular time, broadcaster to offer live audio description. our hit show “Germany’s next Topmodel” was One of the people responsible was Jeanbeing broadcast on ProSieben, and we were wonnette Diem, Senior Manager Content Acquidering: why not broadcast the final with audio sitions Dubbing & Material. She has been description for blind and visually impaired people? championing ProSiebenSat.1’s accessible offerings for years and is in charge of dubWas it easy to, just like that, put this plan bing shows as well as subtitles and audio into action? description. Why is accessible TV so relevant, and what makes the audio description Together with our partner AUDIO2, we rapidly of “The Masked Singer” particularly spefound a solution to provide audio description for cial? She spoke about this with Benedikt our blind and visually impaired audience via an Hahn, audio describer at AUDIO2, a provider app. This meant that ProSieben was the first priof accessible solutions for film and televivate station to offer live audio description last sion productions. year: for the grande finale of GNTM as well as for the entire first season of “The Masked Singer.” We continued to offer this service for the new seasons of both shows in 2020. It is very simple to use via the ProSieben Live Audio app. Sustainability Magazine 27 Benedikt, you and your colleagues from AUDIO2 provided the audio description for the first and second seasons of “The Masked Singer.” What makes working on this show so special? “The Masked Singer” is a lavishly produced live show, full of spectacular images, which of course has primarily to do with the flamboyant costumes. We describe them live for our blind and visually impaired audience, just like the pre-filmed intros and everything else happening in the show. The challenge is that we do not know what is going to happen before broadcast. Our job is to sense the perfect moment for a description during the live » show. What challenges did you have to overcome when providing audio description for “The Masked Singer”? THE MEDIA IS AN IMPORTANT PART Benedikt Hahn: It is always about describing both the general impression and the details, OF OUR SOCIETY. without cross-talking the singing or Matthias Opdenhövel’s important presenting parts. After IT OFFERS US all, the show clearly emphasizes the voices of NOT ONLY INFORthe celebrities, and everyone is trying to guess MATION BUT ALSO TOPICS OF CONVERSATION. INFO JEANNETTE DIEM What is Senior Manager Content audio description? Acquisitions Dubbing & Material at ProSiebenSat.1 Audio description means the description of images using sound, with the aim of improving audiovisual media as an experience for blind and visually impaired people. In breaks between dialog, specially trained audio describers audibly describe central elements of the plot, characters, body language, and facial expressions, without detracting from the atmosphere of a film or show. In the case of a planned audio description, for example for a film, an editor goes through the material together with a blind person, who is consulted as a reference, and For years, Jeannette and her colleagues produces a description that is then read by a have been advocating for the broadcastnarrator. In the case of a live audio description, ing group’s accessible offering. Nowadays, in contrast, the audio describers describe the ProSieben broadcasts an average of image as they are seeing it. 20 programs with subtitles on a daily basis. Since 2019, the station has also been offering live audio descriptions for its successful formats “Germany’s next Topmodel” and “The Masked Singer.” 28 Sustainability Magazine is the people behind the masks. Our descriptions are therefore minimal and carefully timed so as not to interrupt the show itself. We always have to weigh up what description could be necessary for blind or visually impaired people to obtain important information that they would miss otherwise. With our type of presentation, we are trying to provide lively descriptions for our listeners. This demands a great deal of concentration and is exhausting. Therefore, there are always two of us describing a live show, and we are taking turns. Do you prepare for the shows in a particular way? Benedikt Hahn: Not even we know which celebrities are hidden behind the masks, and of course we join in the guessing. In advance, we look closely at photos of the costumes, for instance, and think about how we can describe them for our audience in the best way possible. By focusing on certain details, we can give blind and visually impaired fans an idea of the costumes, for example the chameleon’s two-toned sequins or the myriad flowers on the hare’s dress. But most of our descriptions are created in the moment: we jump in at the deep end and describe the events as they happen. Why is it so important to offer audio description for major live shows? Jeannette Diem: The media is an important part of our society. It offers us not only informaApart from Linda and Benedikt, Alexandra Kloiber-Karner tion but also topics of conversation. We are also provides audio description for “The Masked Singer” on delighted that blind and visually impaired people a regular basis. can follow a visually stunning show like “The Masked Singer” with great interest and without major restrictions. The positive feedback motiBenedikt Hahn: I agree completely with Jeanvates me and my two again and again in creating nette. I think it’s great that this show, this TV accessible content. event, offers live audio description. We receive feedback on a regular basis from blind and visually impaired people. One of them recently told me that they actually one another: “Did you see ‘The Masked Singer’ yesterday?” They use these exact words, they are able to join in the conversation like all other viewers and they talk about the costumes. Without live audio description, “The Masked Singer” would be just another music show for this community. The costumes, the atmosphere, the intricate details – they would miss out on all of this. Instead, they can participate in the discussion about the pink monster or the fluff ball. More inclusion. More accessibility for all. That’s great! Sustainability Magazine 29 “The astronaut claps his hands; a security guard stands behind him, joined by another wearing sunglasses. They salute each other. […] A bald and bearded security guard presumably opens a fastener on the astronaut’s chin. He stands with his back to the audience. […]. Now the helmet, set with hundreds of rhinestones, is lifted. A head appears, covered in a white cap. This is also removed – the security guard is still at it, fiddling at the back of the astronaut’s head. And he is free! Close-cropped hair, blond hair. He kneels – still with his back to the audience – strokes his head … and it’s Max Mutzke!” Thanks to Benedict’s descriptions, blind and visually impaired viewers were made aware of every single detail when the astronaut in the 2019 final of “The Masked Singer” took off his mask. 30 Sustainability Magazine INFO Challenge – the first fully inclusive series In the “Challenge” reporting series, people with various disabilities produce reports for fellow people with disabilities. The show’s goal? To motivate people with disabilities to play an active role in society according to their abilities and to teach non-disabled people about In his home studio in Cologne, life with a disability. “Challenge” is a Benedikt described the high-end costumes of the second season show produced by Arbeitsgemeinschaft of “The Masked Singer.” Behinderung und Medien e.V. (abm) and is broadcast once a month on SAT.1 GOLD and Kabel Eins. » WITH OUR TYPE Moreover, abm, Bayerische Medien Technik GmbH (bmt) and Institut für Rundfunktechnik ( IRT ) have jointly developed and are implementing the OF PRESENTATION, pilot project “Television for All – Fully Inclusive with HbbTV ”. As part of the WE ARE TRYING TO collaboration between abm and PROVIDE LIVELY ProSiebenSat.1, abm’s media library was integrated into the SAT.1 GOLD and Kabel DESCRIPTIONS FOR Eins stations’ HbbTV offering this year. OUR LISTENERS. “Challenge” is now completely accessible, i.e. it is offered with subtitles, audio BENEDIKT HAHN description, a sign-language interpreter, and simple language and is therefore Audio Describer at AUDIO2 the first fully inclusive series! As an actor and audio describer, Benedikt is not only on screen or on stage across the country: He also lends his voice to foreign-language actors and characters, narrates programs, or is responsible for the audio description of major TV shows. Sustainability Magazine 31 Greater environmental protection in cinema, series and television productions this is what the film and television industry declared to on 19 February 2020 in Berlin and signed a joint industry declaration. CLEAN SHOOT! 32 Sustainability Magazine REDUCING CO 2 EMISSIONS, PROTECTING RESOURCES, KEEPING PLASTIC WASTE TO A MINIMUM: ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE PROTECTION IS AN INCREASINGLY IMPORTANT ASPECT OF FILM AND TELEVISION PRODUCTIONS. IN 2019, PROSIEBENSAT.1 LAUNCHED THE “CLEAN SHOOT!” PILOT INITIATIVE, AN EXTENSIVE PACKAGE OF MEASURES TO MAKE TV PRODUCTIONS GREENER. total CO 2 emissions and environmental pollution, we as media have a high profile that we can use to prompt a rethink in society and business. And we all must live up to this role model function.” As Executive Vice President Production Management at ProSiebenSat.1, Contemporary media reporting is Stefan Thul is responsible for the awash with images of the island of business management and adminisplastic in the Pacific Ocean, of the tration of all of the Group’s film and destruction of the Amazon rainfortelevision productions. He describes est, and of swaths of parched land his department as “the eye of a neeas one of many consequences of clidle”: “There are no productions on mate change. And because it is the our channels that do not cross our TV and media companies that are desk to be commissioned by us, be it sending these images around the ‘The Masked Singer’, ‘taff’ or ‘Jerks.’ globe, they have a special responsiIt was therefore only logical that the bility themselves, says Stefan Thul topic of ‘green productions’, i.e. ecofrom ProSiebenSat.1: “Even though logically sustainable productions, film and television production was initiated and rolled out centrally accounts for a small proportion of by us.” Sustainability Magazine 33 FOUR KEY ACTION AREAS The industry has been discussing climate and environmental protection since long before Greta Thunberg: “Both in our team and at conferences, our industry’s ecological footprint was repeatedly on the agenda. Eventually we said to ourselves: ‘It’s not rocket science, let’s just get on with it for ProSiebenSat.1’.” In June 2019, representatives from all areas of the broadcasting and production business came together. They were advised by the external sustainability expert Philipp Gassmann. » Half a year later, they had come up with an extensive package of measures with 14 targets for green productions called “Clean shoot!”. It centered on the action areas of reducing CO 2 emissions, protecting natural AS MEDIA HAVE resources, avoiding environmentally unfriendly substances and reducing plastic as well as waste in all proA HIGH PROFILE ductions. THAT WE CAN Thul goes into the details: “Our greatest potential savUSE TO PROMPT ings are in electricity consumption and travel for shoots A RETHINK IN and research. If, for example, we use LED technology for lighting, we can achieve energy savings of around 90% . SOCIETY AND With green electricity, we emit 90% less CO 2 compared BUSINESS. to the German electricity mix. And before every flight, we now check whether traveling by train or, even better, video conferences are an option. We will limit flights STEFAN THUL within Germany to the absolute minimum.” In addition, Executive Vice President the “Clean shoot!” package contains recommendations Production Management for waste separation and the use of materials for film ProSiebenSat.1 set constructions as well as a ban on disposable plastic tableware and bottles, to name just a few examples. 34 Sustainability Magazine 14 TARGETS In the “Clean shoot!” initiative, ProSiebenSat.1 has formulated 14 targets for ecologically sustainable television and film productions, including: Energie: All production Light: LED technology Travel/flights: Catering: Catering is sites, studios and makes energy savings Flights within Germany to promote regional offices are exclusively of up to 90% possible. are to be limited to the and ecological food, to use green electricity. Therefore, 90% of the necessary minimum. with a share of at least We will thus emit 90% calculated units are to Before every flight, it 50% . Moreover, a less CO 2 compared to be LED lamps. should be considered vegetarian alternative the German electricity whether traveling by must always be mix. train or video conferoffered. The aim is ences are good to reduce meat alternatives. consumption. Environmentally Plastic: Disposable Waste separation: unfriendly and toxic plastic tableware and Proper waste separation substances: disposable plastic (paper, glass, plastic, Styrofoam, PVC , bottles are not allowed. metal, organic waste) is isocyanate, solventDisposable plastic mandatory at all based paints, and – even in the office – is production sites and other environmentally generally to be avoided offices. harmful substances and replaced by more must be avoided. environmentally friendly solutions. Sustainability Magazine 35 WE WANT TO CREATE A JOINT MARKET MOVEMENT In January 2020, ProSiebenSat.1 sent the catalog of measures to around 100 producers, starting the oneyear pilot phase. Since then, the project has been successively expanded to all of the Group’s new German productions. The clear objective is to reduce the processes’ negative environmental impact as far as possible, in dialog with the entire film and television industry. “We want to create a joint market movement,” says Thul. “At the moment, the market is not yet in a state that allows us to implement every individual measure in every production. An example: Access to green electricity on shoots outside our own campus is simply not available yet. But the more we ask, the more we can achieve.” There has already been some initial success: For instance, one of the major studio service providers in Cologne now purchases green electricity at the urging of ProSiebenSat.1. Stefan Thul’s team is currently testing the practical implementation of the recommendations before they go into routine operation in the summer. They are also integrating a CO 2 calculator into TV calculations for a standardized calculation of emissions for all producers. This will create a reliable data base that documents the actual pollution level of individual projects. Only after the pilot phase does Thul intend to decide which measures are to become binding commission criteria for producers. What are currently recommendations will then be mandatory And how is “Clean shoot!” being received by producers? for contractors. “Our pilot project has fallen on fertile ground,” says Thul. “The great thing about our industry is that it has lots of enthusiastic people who by nature are open to new ideas. Many production companies, like our in-house subsidiary Redseven Entertainment, had already started their own research or initiatives with regard to ‘green productions’ and are delighted that they have now been given a detailed guideline with specific recommendations. It has been well received!” The extent to which the film and television industry is pulling together here, is also demonstrated in a joint industry declaration for sustainability in film and series production. On February 19, 2020, numerous industry representatives, among them Annette Kümmel, Chief Sustainability Officer at ProSiebenSat.1, signed this declaration at the invitation of the Minister of State for Culture and Media. The clear goal: To put sustainability more on the agenda, bringing ecologically, economically and socially responsible action to the fore. 36 Sustainability Magazine T H R E E Q U E S TI O N S F O R : Tobias Gramann, Production Manager at Redseven Entertainment Redseven Entertainment is one of the German production firms with an exemplary approach to environmental and climate protection. The subsidiary of Red Arrow Studios has been promoting “green shoots” for some time and has formulated its own internal guidelines. The Redseven Entertainment team has been pushing “green shoots” for some time, also thanks to Tobias Gramann, Tobias, at Redseven you are responproduction manager of the ProSiebensible for overarching topics like susSat.1 subsidiary. tainability. How are you making your productions greener? Before every production, there has always immediately shared our findings, combeen a big meeting in which we talk pared our concepts, and discovered that through and plan every aspect of the proboth sides had defined almost identical duction with the management and everyrecommendations. We then fine-tuned one involved. Since 2019, sustainability another couple of points so that, has been a fixed topic at these meetings. together, we came up with a really We examine the feasibility of every indidetailed and well-founded package. And vidual target of our own catalog of measwe are still in close contact with our “Clean ures with all services providers, from the shoot!” colleagues about our progress. caterer to the set builder and the lighting and sound engineer. In all this, prevention What effect is your green engagement is the top priority, be it the prevention of having on employee motivation and waste, air travel, or electricity consumppotential applicants? tion. However, it is also important to retrospectively measure your advances. We Our engagement is certainly creating a keep very precise documentation in order brand new incentive for the young gento benefit from our experiences in the eration, who are again increasingly optnext production. ing for careers in production. The topic is also popular among employees – simWhile Stefan Thul’s team launched ply because it is plain to see that we can the “Clean shoot!” campaign, Redall make a contribution to better enviseven defined its own measures for ronmental and climate protection ecological sustainability. How did that through more conscious action. come about? We each independently recognized the necessity of environmental and climate protection targets for our own activities. You could say that great pioneers think alike. When we found out, we of course Sustainability Magazine 37 GRI REPORT GENERAL DISCLOSURES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Europe. Our objective is to offer entertainment – whenever, wherever and on any device. With our 15 free GRI 102-1 Name of the organization and pay TV stations, we are able to reach GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and over 45 million TV households in Germany, Austria and services Switzerland. At the same time, around 36 million unique (Other disclosures: Organization and Group Structure in the users a month use the online offerings marketed by Annual Report 2019) ProSiebenSat.1. GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters GRI 102-4 Locations of operations Our family includes formats such as “The Masked (Other disclosures: Organization and Group Structure in the Singer,” “Germany’s next Topmodel” and “Joko & Klaas Annual Report 2019) gegen ProSieben” and superstars such as Heidi Klum GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form and Dwayne Johnson. Shows like “Bosch,” “Married at (Other disclosures: The ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE Share and First Sight” and “Queen of Drags” are in-house producOrganization and Group Structure in the Annual Report 2019) tions of our production and distribution network Red GRI 102-6 Markets served Arrow Studios. In addition, ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s (Other disclosures: Organization and Group Structure in the global digital studio Studio71 generated an average Annual Report 2019) of 9.9 billion video views a month with its web channels GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization in 2019 (previous year: 9.2 billion). (Other disclosures: Organization and Group Structure and Report on Economic Position: The Financial Year 2019 in the Our NuCom Group is a rapidly growing e-commerce Annual Report 2019) player with leading portfolio companies in the areas of consumer advice, online dating, experiences, and beauty GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other & lifestyle. workers (Other disclosures: Employees, page 52, Diversity, page 56) ProSiebenSat.1 Group has over 7,000 employees who GRI 102-9 Supply chain devote tremendous passion to entertaining and inspir(Disclosures: Organization and Group Structure and Group ing our viewers and customers every single day. Earnings in the Annual Report 2019) GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organizaProSiebenSat.1 Group concluded the 2019 financial year tion and its supply chain largely as it expected: Despite challenges in the TV (Disclosures: Significant Events and Changes in the Scope of advertising business, the Group increased its revenues Consolidation in the Annual Report 2019) by 3% to EUR 4,135 million (previous GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach year: EUR 4,009 million); the organic increase was 2%. (Disclosures: Environmental, page 48) The Group’s adjusted EBITDA declined as expected in GRI 102-12 External initiatives the year as a whole, decreasing by 14% (Disclosures: Sustainability at ProSiebenSat.1, page 6, to EUR 872 million (previous year: EUR 1,013 million). Governance, page 42, Stakeholder Engagement, page This reflects the decision announced by the Group to 42, Diversity, page 56, Management Declaration in the continue investing in the future of the entertainment Annual Report 2019, Projects) business and the growth of NuCom Group. Lower TV GRI 102-13 Membership of associations core advertising revenue also had an impact on adjusted (Disclosures: Stakeholder Engagement, page 42) EBITDA. Adjusted net income is essentially a result of the changes in adjusted EBITDA and the investment in ProSiebenSat.1 unites leading entertainment brands Joyn and, as expected, fell by 28% with an international production business and a rapidly or EUR 154 million to EUR 387 million (previous growing commerce portfolio under one roof. It is thereyear: EUR 541 million). fore one of the most diversified media companies in GRI Report 39 KEY FIGURES OF PROSIEBENSAT.1 GROUP in EUR m 2019 2018 Revenues 4,135 4,009 Revenue margin before income taxes (in %) 13.8 8.6 Total costs 3,592 3,710 Operating costs1 3,297 3,027 Consumption of programming assets 958 1,319 Adjusted EBITDA2 872 1,013 Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 21.1 25.3 EBITDA 838 570 Reconciling items3 –34 –443 Operating result (EBIT) 578 348 Adjusted EBIT 684 850 Financial result –6 –4 Result before income taxes 572 344 Adjusted net income4 387 541 Net income 412 250 Net income attributable to shareholders of ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE 413 248 Net income attributable to non-controlling interests –1 1 Adjusted earnings per share (in EUR) 1.71 2.36 Payments for the acquisition of programming assets 1,072 1,070 Free cash flow 207 –78 Cash flow from investing activities –294 –468 Free cash flow before M&A 339 244 12/31/2019 12/31/2018 Employees5 7,253 6,583 Programming assets 1,204 1,113 Equity 1,288 1,070 Equity ratio (in %) 19.5 16.5 Cash and cash equivalents 950 1,031 Financial debt 3,195 3,194 Leverage ratio6 2.6 2.1 Net financial debt 2,245 2,163 1 Total costs excl. expense adjustments, depreciation, amortization and impairments. 2 EBITDA before reconciling items. 3 Expense adjustments less income adjustments. 4 Net income attributable to shareholders of ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE before the amortization and impairments from purchase price allocations, adjusted for the reconciling items. These include valuation effects recognized in other financial result, valuation effects of put-options and earn-out liabilities, as well as valuation effects from interest rate hedging transactions. Moreover, the tax effects resulting from such adjustments are also adjusted. See Annual Report 2018 . 5 Full-time equivalent positions as of reporting date. 6 Ratio of net financial debt to adjusted EBITDA in the last twelve months. 40 GRI Report SEGMENTS OF PROSIEBENSAT.1 GROUP For ProSiebenSat.1, sustainability is not limited merely to environmental and climate protection. The Group ProSiebenSat.1 Group renamed its segments in the defines sustainable entrepreneurial activity as an integfirst quarter of 2020. Its reporting segments are rated approach for improving both its economic as well now SevenOne Entertainment Group (formerly as environmental and social performance. We are aware Entertainment), Red Arrow Studios (formerly of our corporate and social responsibility and see it as Content Production & Global Sales) and NuCom a comprehensive challenge. For us, success not only Group (formerly Commerce). means sustainably increasing ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s financial results. It also implies consistently enhancing the Group’s sustainability performance and key nonBUSINESS PERFORMANCE IN THE FIRST financial figures and harmonizing the interests of our QUARTER OF 2020 target groups, especially employees, shareholders, audiences, users and customers. As a business, we want Until the restrictions on public and economic life to operate inclusive, sustainable, and environmentally in response to COVID-19 began to make an impact and socially responsible. As a media group, we want to from mid-March, the first quarter of 2020 was going reflect and above all promote a tolerant and democratic well for ProSiebenSat.1 Group. Overall, the Group society. closed the quarter with a slight revenue increase of 1% to EUR 926 million (previous year: EUR 913 million). There was a minor 1% fall in ETHICS AND INTEGRITY organic revenues. The non-TV advertising business accounted for 52% of Group revenues in the first GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and quarter of the year (previous year: 48%); the digital norms of behavior share of consolidated revenues was 35% (previous (Other disclosures: Organization and Management, page 8, year: 30%). Governance, page 42, Anti-Discrimination, page 58, Product Governance, page 59) ProSiebenSat.1 Group has laid down basic guidelines and STRATEGY policies in its Code of Conduct. The stipulations therein define the general standards for conduct in business, GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker legal and ethical matters. They serve as a binding refer(Other disclosures: Foreword, page 5, Strategy and Goals, ence and regulatory framework for all members of the page 6) Executive Board, the management, and the employees of the Group for dealing with each other and with INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH external stakeholders. We are convinced that our business success also depends on the trust of our customers, business partners, and shareholders in our indel pendence and integrity. Adherence to high ethical standta nm en Ec on ards and our overall social commitment are therefore iro om Env ic just as crucial as compliance with all relevant laws. So ci al GRI Report 41 GOVERNANCE IMPORTANT STAKEHOLDER GROUPS GRI 102-18 Governance structure (Other disclosures: Organization and Management, page 8, Organization and Group Structure, Corporate Governance Media Employees Report and Management Declaration in the Annual Report 2019) The Executive Board and Supervisory Board of ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE believe that corporate governance is an essential component of responsible Capital market management and control that is geared towards longterm value creation. The German Corporate Governance Code (Deutscher Corporate Governance Kodex — DCGK) establishes a standard for transparent control and management of the company, which is particularly The media business is a people business. It is therefore aligned to the interests of the shareholders. essential that we retain our talented employees and bring well educated, gifted and creative people on board. For employees, it is increasingly important in this STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT context that we live up to our corporate responsibility and promote a sustainable company philosophy. In addiGRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups tion to the internal communication of sustainability GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements issues, ProSiebenSat.1 has been in regular dialog with (Disclosures: GRI Content Index, page 68 ) the sustainability working group since 2019, in which GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders employees from various companies and departments GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement have joined forces to promote even more sustainability GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised in their working environment and implement concrete measures in close coordination with the Corporate Continuous dialog with stakeholders makes an importSustainability Office. Employees, page 52 ant contribution for the development of ProSiebenSat.1 Group, its sustainability strategy, and the annual reportOur aim is to center all our decisions around the ing on key sustainability issues. The stakeholder groups consumers of our offerings. We want to excite our viewrelevant to ProSiebenSat.1 were last fundamentally evalers and users with content on all platforms. In Germany, uated as part of the “We love to sustain” sustainability the Group increased its stations’ combined audience strategy developed and published in 2018/2019. In share for the second time in a row in 2019, posting dialogue with our internal and external stakeholders, we growth of 0.4 percentage points compared to the previcontinuously check whether changes and adjustments ous year. Over the year as a whole, the Group achieved to the orientation and focus of sustainability managea market share of 28.2% among 14to 49-year-old viewment and the corresponding reporting are required. ers and thus the best annual market share since 2015. Society, for which we also bear responsibility as a Media-Specific Disclosures, page 63 company, is our overriding concern. In numerous roadshows and conferences, we inform investors and analysts about the business performance of ProSiebenSat.1 and the company outlook and answer questions from the capital market on ESG issues (environment, social, governance). We are in regular contact with our shareholders and, among other things, answer questions at the Annual General Meeting. The requirements for the disclosure of non-financial information are steadily increasing in terms of quantity and quality. The number of rating agencies and research houses that assess our sustainability performance in the economic, social and environmental fields also increased further in the reporting period. Our aim is to respond to the various inquiries promptly and comprehensively. 42 GRI Report ESG RATINGS, INDICES AND RANKINGS Climate Change Rating: AA Score: C Industry-adjusted Average performance: C score: 8.2 Company score: 30 Inclusion in Index Industry AVERAGE: 30 Rating: 4.7 Overall Score: 56 Subsector average: 2.5 Relative position: Industry average: 2.3 33 out of 91 Quality Score Environment: 2 No inclusion in indices Social: 3 Governance: 1 Rating: C#1 in MDAX Decile rank: 2 Scorecard for Corporate (High relative performance) Governance 2019 The ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE share is also part of the SELECTED MEMBERSHIPS DAX® 50 ESG launched in March 2020. This index tracks the performance of the 50 largest, most liquid German AGF Videoforschung market stocks that are particularly sustainable. The Arbeitsgemeinschaft Media-Analyse (agma) companies included in the index are evaluated according Arbeitsgemeinschaft Online Forschung (AGOF) to standardized ESG criteria on the basis of Global BITKOM Standards Screening. Bundesverband Digitale Wirtschaft (BVDW) European Group of Television Advertising (egta) As a listed group and one of the largest European media Filmförderungsanstalt (FFA) companies, ProSiebenSat.1 is particularly in the public FilmFernsehFonds Bayern (FFF Bayern) eye. Governmental Relations & Regulatory Affairs is the Freiwillige Selbstkontrolle Fernsehen (FSF) contact for external stakeholders from politics and reguFreiwillige Selbstkontrolle Multimedia-Dienstanlation. In national and international dialog with represbieter (FSM) entatives of governments, parliaments and authorities, Initiative D21 we bring our politically independent positions to the Initiative for a Competitive Online Marketplace discussion directly or via memberships in various asso(ICOMP) ciations and organizations. Verband Privater Medien (VAUNET) Vereinigung der bayerischen Wirtschaft (vbw) German Economic Council GRI Report 43 REPORTING PRACTICE In the combined non-financial report (NFR) for financial year 2019, ProSiebenSat.1 Group reports on the main GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated non-financial aspects with the corresponding informafinancial statements tion needed in order to understand the parent (Disclosures: List of Subsidiaries and Associated Companies in company’s and the Group’s business development, the Annual Report 2019) results and position and the effects of the business GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic activities in this regard. We used the standards of the boundaries Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as a basis when prepar(Other disclosures: Report Profile, page 66) ing the NFR. For financial year 2019, we identified four GRI 102-47 List of material topics non-financial aspects for ProSiebenSat.1 Group on which (Other disclosures: GRI Report, page 39) we make disclosures in the NFR in accordance with GRI 102-48 Restatements of information section 289c (3) of the German Commercial Code (HGB) (Disclosures: GRI Content Index, page 68) regarding the concepts followed, the due diligence GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting processes used, the results, and the related key figures. (Disclosures: GRI Content Index, page 68) GRI 102-50 Reporting period Although ProSiebenSat.1 Group as a media group does (Disclosures: Report Profile, page 66) not operate in a manufacturing sector with high resource consumption and energy intensity, we are GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report aware of our ecological responsibility as a company. (Disclosures: Report Profile, page 66) Together with our employees and in dialog with our GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle other stakeholders, we want to contribute to help mitig(Disclosures: Report Profile, page 66) ate climate change and to protect the environment, for GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding example through the careful and efficient use of natural the report resources and by reducing our energy consumption and (Disclosures: Contact and About, page 78) CO2 emissions. Nevertheless, we consider the environGRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with mental impact of our business activities to be limited the GRI Standards and have therefore not identified environmental matters (Disclosures: Report Profile, page 66, GRI Content Index, as a key non-financial aspect in accordance with section page 68) 289c (3) HGB. GRI 102-55 GRI content index (Disclosures: GRI Content Index, page 68) According to the GRI definition, aspects that report on GRI 102-56 External assurance the key economic, environmental and social impacts of (Disclosures: Report Profile, page 66, Assurance, page 76) the organization or that significantly influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders are classed In 2017, we conducted a materiality analysis due to the as material. Because this definition of materiality is first-time application of the CSR Directive Implementbroader than the one used in the NFR, the sustainability ation Act, which complied with both the statutory report covers additional topics, including the environrequirements and the definition of materiality according ment and climate protection. The topics reported to GRI, and have validated it every year since. include the result of the regular validation of the materiality analysis, the implementation and development of the ProSiebenSat.1 sustainability strategy, and the MATERIAL NON-FINANCIAL ASPECTS IN THE NON-FINANCIAL REPORT Respect for Anti-corruption and Employee-related matters Social matters human rights antitrust law Employee retention and people development Social responsibility Anti-corruption Employer branding and Anti-discrimination Product governance Antitrust law recruiting Diversity 44 GRI Report continuous dialog with internal and external stakeholder groups. They are also reflected in our sustainability management action areas. Strategy and Goals, page 6 MATERIAL TOPICS IN THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Economic Environmental Social Economic performance Energy Anti-corruption Emissions Antitrust law Waste Anti-discrimination Data protection Information security Media law (advertising guidelines, journalistic independence, protection of young people) Media-Specific Disclosures Dissemination of information Viewer interaction GRI Report 45 ECONOMIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ANTI-CORRUPTION AND ANTITRUST LAW GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks Management Approach Disclosures and opportunities due to climate change GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The Annual Report 2019 provides comprehensive informboundary ation on the economic performance of ProSiebenSat.1 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its Group. Together with the Sustainability Report, it components provides an holistic overview of the Group’s corporate GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management performance based on financial and non-financial approach information. ProSiebenSat.1 Group believes that sustained economic success in a competitive environment can only be DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND achieved by ensuring that all action taken is in compliDISTRIBUTED ance with the applicable laws. Therefore, preventing in EUR m 2019 2018 corruption and violations of antitrust law is highly relevRevenues 4,135 4,009 ant to business and represents an important success Gross profit 1,757 1,440 factor for achieving our corporate goals. In addition to Personnel expenses 707 679 the prevention of corruption, the Group’s compliance Wages and salaries 619 600 management system organizationally encompasses the Social security contributions and avoidance of antitrust violations as well as adherence expenses for pensions and other employee benefits 87 79 to the data protection processes and media law requireOther operating expenses –11 –14 ments of the German Interstate Broadcasting Treaty Other operating income 35 50 (Rundfunkstaatsvertrag). The major aim is to anchor Income taxes –161 –94 integrity and lawful conduct in the thoughts and actions Net result attributable to shareholders of of all employees on a lasting basis and hereby prevent ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE 413 248 violations of laws and regulations from the outset. Adjusted net income1 387 541 Organization and Management, page 8 Dividend payments 269 Cash flow from investing activities –1,396 –1,536 The Group has laid down basic guidelines and policies in its Code of Conduct. The stipulations therein define 1 Net income attributable to shareholders of ProSiebenSat.1 the general standards for conduct in business, legal and Media SE before the amortization and impairments from purchase price allocations, adjusted for the reconciling items. ethical matters. They serve as a binding reference and These include valuation effects recognized in other financial regulatory framework for all members of the Executive result, valuation effects of put-options and earn-out liabilities, Board, the management, and the employees of the as well as valuation effects from interest rate hedging transactions. Moreover, the tax effects resulting from such Group for dealing with each other and with external adjustments are also adjusted. stakeholders. Another central compliance instrument for ProSiebenSat.1 Group is the whistleblower system, At the Annual General Meeting on June 10, 2020, the which comprises internal and external reporting chanshareholders of ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE approved the nels. Anti-Discrimination, page 58 proposal of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board to carry forward all the distributable profit to the next accounting period due to the uncertain environment as a result of COVID-19 and thus to distribute no dividend for financial year 2019. We have not identified any financial implications or other significant risks and opportunities due to climate change for our business activities at present. 46 GRI Report Anti-Corruption ance risks. The classroom training is targeted at risk groups and is carried out by Legal Affairs, Group CompliGRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to ance, HR Law, Corporate Information Security, the Data corruption Protection Officer and the Youth Protection Officer for GRI 205-2 Communication and training about their individual areas. In addition, ProSiebenSat.1 Group anti-corruption policies and procedures offers all-day seminars for the managers of German GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and affiliated companies at its P7S1 Academy in order to actions taken give them a comprehensive overview of their rights and obligations and the relevant legal bases. Product 14 companies underwent a compliance check in 2016. Governance, page 59 As well as issues such as antitrust and media law and data protection, this check also examined risks related In 2019, as in the previous year, no investigations to corruption. The companies assessed included central became known against the Group, its subsidiaries or units such as ProSiebenSat.1 TV Deutschland and Sevenemployees of ProSiebenSat.1 Group with regard to One Media, which generate a high proportion of the corruption offenses. No fines or financial penalties were consolidated revenues. With regard to the main competimposed. ition and corruption issues, one of our key focal points is the advertising sales model owing to how financially important it is to the ProSiebenSat.1 business model. Anti-Competitive Behavior This risk assessment remains valid. GRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive In addition, ProSiebenSat.1 Group has implemented behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices training in the fields of antitrust law, anti-corruption, data protection and media law, which includes both In 2019, as in the previous year, no investigations online and classroom training. The online training, which became known against the Group, its subsidiaries or is offered in English and German on a twoto three-year employees of ProSiebenSat.1 Group with regard to anticycle and is mandatory for all employees, is intended trust violations. No fines or financial penalties were to provide a basic understanding of the main compliimposed. TRAINING ON COMPLIANCE RELATED TOPICS 2019 2018 Live Live WBT WBT Topic Sessions Attendees Sessions Attendees Media, copyright, advertising law, 9 247 10 164 German Unfair Competition Act 2,921 4,235 Compliance 13 250 7 121 Antitrust law 2,738 General Act on Equal Treatment – – 2,469 – – 1,884 (AGG), labor law Data protection 6 77 2,621 7 33 6,139 Information security 6 146 2,205 – – 2,465 Youth protection 6 84 536 6 38 473 Occupational health and safety 4 171 5,820 12 135 5,075 Tax law 9 79 – 5 37 – Management seminars 3 22 – 4 33 – GRI Report 47 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT APPROACH ProSiebenSat.1 has been recording the Group’s greenDISCLOSURES house gas emissions since 2015. We are continually working to improve the data quality of our carbon footGRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its print and to ensure that our Company’s measurement boundary data has the highest possible coverage rate. At our site GRI 103-2 The management approach and its in Unterföhring, we supplied our office buildings, components production studios and computer centers exclusively GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management with green electricity in 2019. ProSiebenSat.1 has approach successively expanded the environmentally friendly heating supply, and since 2019 has exclusively used Although ProSiebenSat.1 Group as a media group does geothermal energy in Unterföhring. We also use the not operate in a manufacturing sector with high waste heat from our computer centers in Unterföhring resource consumption and energy intensity, we are to heat the office buildings. The ongoing conversion to aware of our ecological responsibility as a company. energy-efficient LED lighting is standard. In the reportWorking with our employees and in dialog with our other ing period, the Group also adjusted its travel policy to stakeholders, we want to contribute to help mitigate urge its employees to reduce business trips to a climate change and to protect the environment, for minimum and instead to push up-to-date alternatives example through the careful and efficient use of natural such as video calls. If a digital meeting is not feasible, resources and by reducing our energy consumption and short-haul flights should be avoided where possible. CO2 emissions. Operational responsibility for recording More environmentally friendly solutions should be selecand consolidating environmental activity data lies with ted, such as Deutsche Bahn, whose long-distance trains the Corporate Procurement & Real Estate department are powered by electricity from renewable energy for the headquarters in Unterföhring and is decentralsources. In addition, the measures for waste separation ized for the ProSiebenSat.1 investments, where it rests and reduction are being optimized on an ongoing basis. with the respective management teams. The Corporate The canteens on the ProSiebenSat.1 campus have Communications central function and the Corporate already completely eliminated single-use plastics. Sustainability Office are responsible for CO2 reporting and determining other reported environmental performENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY MOBILITY ance indicators. SOLUTIONS We developed our first-ever holistic sustainability In recent years, ProSiebenSat.1 has increased the strategy for the Group in 2018, which we have been number of hybrid vehicles in its fleet and set up especifically implementing since the start of 2019. In this charging stations on the campus in Unterföhring. strategy, the environment is one of four key action The Group also negotiated framework agreements areas. Our aim is to be climate neutral by 2030. Primarwith car-sharing providers. There is also the option ily, we want to achieve this target by reducing our of leasing a job bicycle. We also offer our employees energy consumption. In the future, we also plan to offset job tickets for public transport at reduced prices. CO2 with our own climate protection projects and certiAround two thirds of the workforce in the DACH ficates. Extensive, Group-wide measures will be impleregion already commute by bus and train between mented successively from 2020. In this context, the road home and work. map includes measures relating to green productions and green events, travel management and the travel Since the start of 2020, the Company has been conductpolicy, vehicle fleet management and the company car ing a pilot project in the field of green productions under policy, and the disposal and recycling of waste. In addithe title “Clean shoot.” The aim is to reduce CO2 emistion, sustainability certification in accordance with the sions, protect natural resources, avoid environmentally LEED model (Leadership in Energy and Environmental unfriendly substances, and reduce plastic as well as Design) is planned for the new campus in Unterföhring, waste in all TV and film productions. In February 2020, currently under construction. Strategy and Goals, page 6 we also signed the joint declaration for the sustainable production of film and television productions in Germany. Clean Shoot! (Sustainability Magazine), page 32 48 GRI Report Thanks to our wide reach, we can shift focus onto WETTER.COM socially relevant and environmental issues and thus raise awareness of the sustainable use of natural In 2019, wetter.com, a subsidiary of ProSiebenSat.1 resources. Once a year, ProSieben’s logo therefore turns Group, stepped up its efforts for climate and envirfrom red to green for “Green Seven” week. The station onmental protection by offsetting CO2 emissions. uses its large reach to raise awareness of sustainability The weather website is thus supporting the protecamong young viewers in particular. The content is tion of the April Salumei rainforest in Papua New focused on environmental issues. In October 2019, “Save Guinea. wetter.com is also a member of the “Leadthe Oceans” week drew attention to the consequences ers for Climate Action” initiative. of the pollution of the oceans with plastic waste. The heart of “Green Seven 2019” was the 90-minute documentary “Save The Oceans – The Plastics Experiment.” In addition, the ProSieben magazine shows “taff” and ENERGY “Galileo” broadcast reports on the topic of plastic waste for a whole week starting on October 14. Projects GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization In addition, the first “Green Seven Summit” took place GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the in 2019, a three-day sustainability conference on Sylt organization sponsored by ProSiebenSat.1. Under a theme that transGRI 302-3 Energy intensity lates as “making waves for climate protection,” the event was held from September 29 to October 1, 2019, ProSiebenSat.1’s energy consumption mainly involves alongside the Mercedes-Benz Windsurf World Cup Sylt, the purchase of electricity and heat. The total energy and comprised an extensive framework program with consumption (incl. electricity) within the Group fell to panel discussions, keynote speeches, and workshops. approximately 41 GWh in the reporting period (previous The guests included Prof. Dr. Maja Göpel, Secretary year: approximately 45 GWh), primarily due to lower General of the German Advisory Council on Global heat consumption. Energy consumption outside the Change, and Prof. Dr. Karen Helen Wiltshire, ViceGroup is indicated indirectly in the carbon footprint Director of Alfred Wegener Institute Helmholtz Centre though the Scope 3 emissions. for Polar and Marine Research. TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION At the “Green Seven Summit,” ProSiebenSat.1 also in GWh unveiled its Media4Sustainability business model and Energy source 2019 2018 announced the cooperation with Media4Planet (M4P), Vehicle fleet 8.01 8.49 the first provider of sustainable advertising space in Fuel oil 0.16 0.20 support of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. M4P bundles media partners’ advertising space at favorable Diesel 0.00 0.00 conditions and sells it to sustainable enterprises, initiatNatural gas 0.00 0.63 ives, and projects. Most of the proceeds are to be used to support the climate protection campaign of the Electricity 19.96 19.81 United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) as well Heat 12.59 15.51 as other projects and NGOs. Total 40.72 44.64 The fuel consumption of company cars in Germany in 2019 amounted to 377 thousand liters of gasoline (previous year: 364 thousand liters) and 269 thousand liters of diesel (previous year: 313 thousand liters). This equates to energy consumption of 6.2 GWh (previous year: 8.3 GWh) and thus a decline of around 25% on the previous year. The total consumption of electricity at the headquarters in Unterföhring was around 16 GWh in 2019, as in the previous year. For the generation of heat, environmentally friendly geothermal energy was largely used rather than fuel oil or natural gas. In total, ProSiebenSat.1’s energy consumption for heating and GRI Report 49 cooling in Unterföhring amounted to around 7 GWh EMISSIONS (previous year: around 11 GWh) in the reporting period and was thus significantly below the previous year’s GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions figure. The decline must be viewed in the light of the GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emisdemolition work at the Unterföhring site and a warmer sions winter than in the previous year. GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ENERGY INTENSITY GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2019 2018 2017 Energy consumption in GWh 40.72 44.64 49.91 Our carbon footprint includes direct greenhouse gas Revenues in EUR m 4,135 4,009 4,078 emissions (Scope 1), indirect greenhouse gas emissions FTE 7,265 6,239 6,169 (Scope 2) and greenhouse gas emissions from upstream and downstream stages in the value chain (Scope 3). Detailed information on the reporting of greenhouse gas Energy consumption / 9.85 11.13 12.24 revenues in MWh/EUR m emissions can be found in the Accompanying Notes on the Energy consumption / FTE in 5.60 7.15 8.09 Carbon Footprint. MWh/FTE Scope 1: As it was the case in the previous year, the direct emissions are mainly generated by ProSiebenSat.1’s vehicle fleet. Scope 2: The significant year-on-year decrease in energy indirect emissions (market-based) is due to the purchase of green electricity at the Unterföhring site. Scope 3: Business trips and commuting are responsPROSIEBENSAT.1 GROUP’S CARBON FOOTPRINT1 Greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 equivalent) in metric tons 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Scope 1 – Direct greenhouse gas emissions 2,110 1,910 2,456 2,371 2,933 Vehicle fleet Fuel oil Diesel Scope 2 – Indirect greenhouse gas 10,557 2,882 11,804 10,460 12,478 4,035 12,058 3,471 11,384 2,800 emissions2 (location(market(location(market(location(market(location(market(location(marketbased) based) based) based) based) based) based) based) based) based) Electricity District heating and geothermal energy Scope 3 – Greenhouse gas emissions from upstream and downstream stages of the value chain 16,292 20,605 17,356 15,130 9,787 Fuels and energy-related activities not included in Scope 1 or 2 Waste from operating processes Employee commuting Business travel (plane, train, rental car and taxi) Total emissions from Scope 1, 2 and 28,959 21,284 34,319 32,975 29,883 23,847 29,559 20,973 24,104 15,520 3 (location(market(location(market(location(market(location(market(location(marketbased) based) based) based) based) based) based) based) based) based) 1 When calculating the carbon footprint, we were guided by the criteria and definitions of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Standards) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The data was collected on the basis of internal guidelines. In addition, we aligned the calculation of our carbon footprint and selected data on indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 3) to the following standards: the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol – Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, the Corporate Value Chain Accounting and Reporting Protocol of the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). All of ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s own sites and employees were included in the carbon footprint. 2 Energy consumption by the production studios and computer centers outside of the Unterföhring and Berlin sites is not included. 50 GRI Report ible for the majority of the reported greenhouse gas WASTE emissions from upstream and downstream stages in the value chain. GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Due to the “New Campus” construction project, the GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM waste generated at the Unterföhring site in the reportUPSTREAM AND DOWNSTREAM STAGES OF ing period increased to 4,028 metric tons (previous THE VALUE CHAIN (SCOPE 3) year: 2,724 metric tons). In the 2019 waste balance, in percent 3,228 metric tons (previous year: 1,745 metric tons) were 2019 2018 directly attributable to the upstream demolition work. Employee commuting 39.7 46.9 Any waste that cannot be reclaimed is disposed in an Business travel (plane, train, rental car, 47.9 41.3 taxi) environmentally responsible manner. When doing so, Fuels and energy-related activities not 12.1 11.6 ProSiebenSat.1 complies with the local regulations and included in Scope 1 or 2 classifies waste as hazardous or non-hazardous in Waste from operating processes 0.3 0.2 accordance with the relevant national legislation. The volume of hazardous waste (e.g. insulating material and construction materials containing asbestos) fell from GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY 734 to 46 metric tons in 2019 on account of the 2019 2018 2017 advanced demolition work. Municipal waste (domesticGreenhouse gas emissions in t 21,284 32,975 23,847 type waste produced by trade and industry) decreased Revenues in EUR m 4,135 4,009 4,078 to 122 metric tons (previous year: 305 metric tons), FTE 7,265 6,239 6,169 primarily likewise as a result of the said construction work. Greenhouse gas emissions / 5.15 8.23 5.85 revenues in t/EUR m GHG emissions / FTE in t/FTE 2.93 5.29 3.87 WASTE BALANCE FOR THE UNTERFÖHRING SITE in metric tons 2019 2018 Non-hazardous waste 3,982 1,990 Hazardous waste 46 734 Total 4,028 2,724 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations As in the previous year, no cases of non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations were identified for 2019. GRI Report 51 SOCIAL EMPLOYEES Employee issues and diversity management fall under the operational sphere of the HR department, which is led by the Chief Human Resources Officer. The Human Management Approach Disclosures Resources department supports the Executive Board, managers and employees with a business-oriented portGRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its folio of products, guidelines and processes in order to boundary make ProSiebenSat.1 Group attractive and successful in GRI 103-2 The management approach and its business in the long term. Besides quarterly reporting components on personnel risks as part of Group-wide risk manageGRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management ment, internal HR reporting plays an important role. In approach the HR organization, the HR Business Partners in particular are closely connected to the operating business The media industry is being transformed by the advance units and are thus made aware of specific employee of digitalization more rapidly and fundamentally than concerns. Teams of experts for all HR issues from many other industries. One of the most important keys recruitment, talent development, compensation & beneto our future success is therefore to transform our fits and labor law to administrative and process issues Group into a modern and digitally successful business. complete our HR work. Part of this transformation is adequate human resources management: It therefore forms part of our ProSiebenSat.1 Group attaches great importance to self-conception as an employer to create personnelwork-life-balance and has a broad range of offerings related conditions through our HR work that support in this area. It comprises various family services and this transformation process and cater to the individual social benefits as well as sports programs and healthy interests of our employees. With our overall offer, which meals on campus. Alongside flexible working hours, outincludes performance-based compensation, additional of-office work and the option to take a sabbatical, we company benefits, personal development opportunities also offer a work-life-training series. These measures and an attractive working environment, we want to are gender-neutral. We abide by the applicable laws on acquire, retain, and develop dedicated and qualified part-time work and also endeavor, within the limits of employees for ProSiebenSat.1 Group. The material operational possibility, always to find individual solutopics for us are therefore employee retention and tions for our employees according to their situation. people development, employer branding and recruitment, and diversity as well as its management. Diversity, page 56 EMPLOYEES IN FULL-TIME AND PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT BY GENDER (GRI 102-8) Employees by Headcount (HDC) as of December 31, 2019 2019 20181 Part-time Full-time Total Part-time Full-time Total Women 868 2,551 3,419 799 2,228 3,027 Men 407 3,124 3,531 380 2,832 3,212 1,275 5,675 6,950 1,179 5,060 6,239 1 Adjusted Not including international investments in the Content Production & Global Sales segment except Studio71. 52 GRI Report In the period under review, the Group’s average number ProSiebenSat.1 also offers support for employees who of employees (calculated on the basis of full-time equiwant to volunteer for social projects. Among our corporvalents) rose by 11% to 7,265 (previous year: 6,532). ate volunteering offerings, for example, we sponsor the While the average number of employees in the Enterstartsocial competition, which we co-founded in 2001. tainment segment hardly changed year-on-year (+ 1% to Around 500 experts from business, the public sector 3,659 employees), there was a 7% increase in workforce and social institutions throughout Germany support the in the Content Production & Global Sales segment to practical implementation of volunteer projects with vari1,477 employees and, in particular due to acquisitions, a ous emphases, such as migration, social justice and strong increase in employees in the Commerce segment education. In a four-month coaching phase, a total of by 40% to 2,129 employees. In Germany, Austria and 100 selected initiatives receive specialist advice, Switzerland, the Group had an average of 6,071 fullpersonal contacts and detailed feedback in order to time equivalents in the reporting period (previous year: develop and realize their ideas. In 2019, 25 of the most 5,458). As in the previous year, this amounts to 84% of compelling projects were again selected by an expert the Group as a whole. panel and invited to Berlin for the national prize-giving ceremony. Seven initiatives received monetary prizes totaling EUR 35,000 altogether, including a special EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT award from the German Chancellor. ProSiebenSat.1 AND REGION(GRI 102-8) employees once again volunteered as coaches in 2019, Employees by Headcount (HDC) as of December 31, 2019 contributing their expertise in various fields. Temporary Permanent 2019 2018 2019 2018 Germany 1,245 990 4,803 4,447 Employment Austria / Switzerland 24 18 505 509 US 0 0 219 158 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and UK 0 0 33 23 employee turnover Other 0 3 121 91 1,269 1,011 5,681 5,228 ProSiebenSat.1 Group offers innovative and forwardNot including international investments in the Content looking education concepts for talented young people in Production & Global Sales segment except Studio71. the media business and is thus continually socio-politically engaged in the field of vocational education. With COVID-19 our management traineeships, trainee programs, Chamber of Industry and Commerce apprenticeships and dual ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s priority is the health of its courses of study, there is a range of ways for talented employees. After the outbreak of the coronavirus young people to get started at ProSiebenSat.1 Group. crisis, a mandatory home-office rule was introduced In this way, we intend to create a strong foundation for all employees, so the employees have been of qualified young talents with an extensive internal working from home since mid-March. Only employnetwork and specific company and industry knowledge. ees working in business-critical infrastructure such In 2019, 183 young talents (previous year: 168) were as the Playout Center are exempt. Business trips trained at ProSiebenSat.1 Group; as in the previous year, were reduced to the necessary minimum, and live around three quarters were subsequently hired. productions were filmed without a studio audience. Washable and reusable masks are handed out to We take various measures to acquire the right talents employees on campus. In addition, a works agreefor ProSiebenSat.1 Group. Success depends on the one ment has been concluded on the maintenance of hand on the dissemination of content for all target operations during the pandemic, in which groups, such as our “Faces of ProSiebenSat.1” campaign. ProSiebenSat.1 pledges, among other things, to On the other hand, we believe it is important to address protect employees. A “COVID-19 Taskforce” was target groups that are critical to success, such as talents also formed, which together with Group Security, in the tech sector through campaigns like Occupational Health and Safety and the works “Connect.Code.Create.” By supporting initiatives such as council is working to implement the German Federal “Global Digital Women” and our own employer branding Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs’ SARS-CoV-2 events specifically for female target groups, we also Occupational Health and Safety Standard. want to position ourselves as an attractive employer for women. In addition, the careers page ( www.karriere.prosiebensat1.com/en) went live as the central platform after an extensive relaunch in 2019. By combining the GRI Report 53 careers page with the jobs portal, we have improved the NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES BY AGE GROUP, link between careers information and specific job opporGENDER AND REGION tunities. Employees by Headcount (HDC) New hires New hire rate Alongside sourcing channels such as social media, direct 2019 2018 2019 2018 approach and university partnerships, we also approach Age group new candidates via an employee recommendation program and by hosting regular events for schoolchil<30 years 907 722 53.9% 49.1% dren, such as “Girls’ Day,” with our partners. In total, 30-50 years 1,151 826 25.0% 19.8% Group Recruiting received around 31,300 applications >50 years 71 62 10.8% 10.2% in 2019 (previous year: around 33,700). In addition to 2,129 1,610 30.6% 25.8% application numbers, external employer rankings such Gender as Universum and Trendence are an important measure Women 1,105 780 32.3% 25.8% of the success of our HR marketing strategy in employer Men 1,024 830 29.0% 25.8% branding and recruitment. 2,129 1,610 30.6% 25.8% Region SELECTED EMPLOYER RANKINGS Germany 1,853 1,372 30.6% 25.2% Austria / Switzerland 84 117 15.9% 22.2% EMPLOYER BRANDING AWARD US 145 74 66.2% 46.8% HR Marketing & Recruitment — Global Player UK 16 12 48.5% 52.2% GOLD for careers page karriere.prosiebensat1.com Other 31 35 25.6% 37.2% 2,129 1,610 30.6% 25.8% UNIVERSUM Business Not including international investments in the Content Production & Global Sales segment except Studio71. 19th place (previous year: 20th place) Especially when undergoing a transformation process, UNIVERSUM we believe it is crucial to retain qualified and dedicated IT employees within the Company. The average duration of 32nd place (previous year: 32nd place) employment at ProSiebenSat.1 Group amounted to 5.7 years (previous year: 6.1 years). The turnover rate in the UNIVERSUM Group was 15.6% in financial year 2019 (previous year: Humanities / Social Sciences / Education 15.4%). The continuing relatively high fluctuation is due 5th place (previous year: 4th place) to the organizational restructuring of the Group. TRENDENCE SCHOOL STUDENT BAROMETER To calculate the turnover rate, the number of employees Total who left during the reporting period is divided by the 12th place (previous year: 10th place) number of employees on the reporting date of December 31. The reasons for leaving include terminations and severTRENDENCE YOUNG PROFESSIONALS ance agreements. Departures due to fixed-term contracts, Total the end of an apprenticeship, entering retirement and 52nd place (previous year: 50th place) death are not taken into account. TRENDENCE YOUNG PROFESSIONALS Media / advertising 2nd place (previous year: 2nd place) 54 GRI Report work, that their repeated incapacity is avoided, and that TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND their job is retained. REGION Employees by Headcount (HDC) Turnover rate Training and Education In percent 2019 2018 Age group GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per <30 years 18.5 20.3 employee 30-50 years 14.7 15.1 >50 years 14.0 5.6 Our employees are a key factor for the Company’s 15.6 15.4 success. To support its employees in today’s profesGender sional tasks and to prepare for future challenges, espeWomen 15.9 15.8 cially through digitalization, ProSiebenSat.1 Group invesMen 15.2 15.0 ted a total of EUR 4.5 million in its education and train15.6 15.4 ing programs in 2019 (previous year: EUR 3.5 million). Region Part of this was attributable to the courses offered by Germany 14.9 15.0 the P7S1 Academy, which offers the Group’s employees Austria / Switzerland 14.0 13.1 technical and personal training. In 2019, a total of 492 US 38.4 41.1 events (with 5,849 participants) were held in the P7S1 UK 18.2 17.4 Academy (previous year: 596 and 7,560), including 58 Other 11.6 8.5 manager training courses with 371 participants (previ15.6 15.4 ous year: 87 and 758). There is also an opportunity for self-improvement through job rotation, job shadowing Not including international investments in the Content or mentoring programs. Production & Global Sales segment except Studio71. TRAINING AND EDUCATION Occupational health and safety Employees by Headcount (HDC) Average hours 2019 2018 GRI 403-3 Employees with a high frequency or Women 8.6 12.0 high risk of work-related ill health Men 6.4 8.5 7.5 10.2 Most employees of ProSiebenSat.1 do not work in a Top Management 0.1 1.1 production environment. They are therefore only Senior Management 2.6 5.2 exposed to risks related to their occupation to a minor Middle Management 6.2 11.4 degree. However, we are aware of other potential health Team Lead 9.9 13.7 risks that could arise from work-related stress or a lack Not management level 7.3 9.7 of physical activity, for example. We bundle numerous 7.5 10.2 service offerings relating to occupational health Production 4.7 6.0 management in our work-life-program. We offer the Administration 10.2 13.3 opportunity for balance between work and life, for Sales 11.9 17.0 example with our sports program and individual health 7.5 10.2 advice (“Body Check”). Talks and work-life-training at the ProSiebenSat.1 Academy raise awareness of energy Core ProSiebenSat.1 Group companies (especially headquarters in and resources and provide tips, for example in the form Unterföhring). of time and stress management. There is also a company doctor at the Unterföhring Campus as well as In the field of Talent and Management Development, we the opportunity to book massages and osteopathic thersupport the development of employees at the headquarapy. Our occupational safety team makes regular workters in Unterföhring through individual offers such as place inspections and provides advice on ergonomics. job rotation, mentoring, 360 degree feedback, and Alongside flexible working hours, out-of-office work and coaching. We want to use our manager development the option to take a sabbatical, we also offer a workprograms to strengthen the performance and developlife training series that aims to strike a balance between ment of managers at all levels. This includes mandatory employees’ professional challenges and personal life training for first-time managers and seminars for goals. Through operational integration management, we managing directors. We also have an internal network ensure that sick employees overcome their incapacity to for female managers (“LeadingWomen@P7S1”). GRI Report 55 DIVERSITY LGBTIQ In ProSiebenSat.1’s view, an open-minded working Management Approach Disclosures climate with regard to sexual orientation and gender identity means that employees do not have GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its to hide an important part of their personality. boundary Applicants also see LGBTIQ engagement as an GRI 103-2 The management approach and its indicator of the openness of the corporate culture. components More information can be found in the Sustainability GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management Magazine, page 12. approach Social and economic trends are changing our working Diversity is aided in particular by the best possible world. Demographic development, globalization, chanbalance ratio of men and women in the workforce and in ging values, falling employment figures, a growing management positions. In 2019, 49.4% (previous year: proportion of women in the working population, and 48.8%) of employees in the Group were women. The more people from migrant backgrounds are the condifigure is slightly above the average proportion of women tions under which businesses are operating today. We in German companies, which according to the latest are convinced that diversity management will help us figures from the Federal Statistical Office was 48.1%. In react to these trends. We appreciate the diversity of the 2019, the proportion of female managers also increased workforce and want to be an attractive employer for from 32.5% to 34.8%. When filling management posiskilled workers and young talents. The aim is to align the tions in the Group, know-how and personal aptitude are processes and structures of organizations such that all equally important for men and women. In addition, we employees feel appreciated and motivated to live up to have integrated “gender equality” into the their potential. ProSiebenSat.1 sustainability strategy as a United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) that is Against this backdrop, ProSiebenSat.1 Group signed the particularly relevant to us. The internal and external Diversity Charter in 2014 and strives to follow the communication of this goal sends a clear signal to guidelines specified in it. Thereby, we emphasize our potential managers and to decision-makers at all commitment to creating a working environment free of management levels in the selection process. prejudice and exclusion that specifically promotes diversity among employees. Our internal guidelines also EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT stipulate that employees at all hierarchy levels must AND GENDER(GRI 102-8) be hired exclusively according to objective criteria and Employees by Headcount (HDC) as of December 31, 2019 promoted solely on the basis of their abilities. “Don’t Temporary Permanent hate me. Celebrate me!“ (Sustainability Magazine), page 18 2019 2018 2019 2018 Women 703 546 2,716 2,481 Other factors such as age, disability, ethnic background Men 566 465 2,965 2,747 and nationality, sex and gender identity, religion and Total 1,269 1,011 5,681 5,228 ideology, and sexual orientation and identity should not play a role. The average age of ProSiebenSat.1 Group Not including international investments in the Content employees as of December 31, 2019 was 36.8 years Production & Global Sales segment except Studio71. (previous year: 37.1 years). As of the end of 2019, people of 52 different nationalities were employed in the core companies of ProSiebenSat.1 Group. 56 GRI Report Diversity and equal opportunity DIVERSITY OF EMPLOYEES Employees by Headcount (HDC) as of December 31, 2019 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and in Percent employees 2019 2018 Top Management Women 29 11 DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE BODIES Men 71 89 as of December 31, 2019 in Percent Senior Management Women 17 17 Executive Supervisory Men 83 83 Board Board Middle Management Women 27 28 2019 2018 2019 2018 Men 73 72 Gender Team Lead Women 36 34 Women 0 20 33 33 Men 64 66 Men 100 80 67 67 Not management level Women 54 53 100 100 100 100 Men 46 47 Age group Top Management <30 years 0 0 <30 years 0 0 0 0 30-50 57 44 30-50 years 33 80 33 33 years >50 years 67 20 67 67 >50 years 43 56 100 100 100 100 Senior Management <30 years 0 0 30-50 61 69 years With Christine Scheffler’s appointment to the Executive Board >50 years 39 31 from March 2020, the proportion of women on the Executive Board as of the date the report was compiled was 33%. Middle Management <30 years 0 0 30-50 72 72 years >50 years 28 48 Team Lead <30 years 3 4 30-50 83 85 years >50 years 14 11 Not management level <30 years 22 21 30-50 66 68 years >50 years 12 12 Production Women 44 44 Men 56 56 Administration Women 59 56 Men 41 44 Sales Women 54 53 Men 46 47 Production <30 years 19 18 30-50 66 68 years >50 years 15 15 Administration <30 years 17 16 30-50 72 73 years >50 years 11 11 Sales <30 years 17 18 30-50 71 71 years >50 years 12 11 Core ProSiebenSat.1 Group companies (especially headquarters in Unterföhring). GRI Report 57 ANTI-DISCRIMINATION Moreover, based on a company agreement concluded in 2018, employees and third parties have the opportunity to report legal violations anonymously via an external Management Approach Disclosures Ombuds Office as part of the pre-existing reporting system with exclusively internal channels. The Ombuds GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Office accepts complaints and reports by telephone or boundary e-mail, checks their plausibility and then forwards them GRI 103-2 The management approach and its to Group Compliance. In the event of reports of serious components suspicions and after internal evaluation, the Chief GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management Compliance Officer promptly informs the management. approach ProSiebenSat.1 Group does not tolerate discrimination Non-Discrimination on the basis of age, disability, ethnic background and nationality, sex and gender identity, religion and ideoGRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and correctlogy, or sexual orientation and identity. The Group ive actions taken promotes a corporate culture that forbids any type of sexual violence or abuse of power. For years, we have In 2019, a total of four cases (previous year: seven) taken up a clear position against such behavior with were recorded in connection with sexual harassment our Code of Conduct. All employees are encouraged to and other discrimination. All procedures were concluded report discrimination or violations of other principles in the reporting period. set out in the Code of Conduct to the Company’s Compliance Officers, for example. In addition, we provide the workforce all over Germany with mandatory training on the General Act on Equal Treatment (AGG). Via the private media association VAUNET, we participate in the Themis advice center against sexual harassment and violence, which provides assistance for those affected in the film, television and theater industry. PROSIEBENSAT.1 GROUP’S WHISTLEBLOWER SYSTEM Whistleblower (internal or external) Internal reporting channel 58 GRI Report PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY The media law provisions of the CMS particularly deal with journalistic independence, the principles of the separation of advertising and programming, the requireManagement Approach Disclosures ments for product placement and protection of young people, and the prevention of surreptitious advertising GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its and broadcasting of legally prohibited advertising. A boundary number of individual topics also form part of the Code GRI 103-2 The management approach and its of Conduct. components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ProSiebenSat.1 Group is committed to differentiating between editorial reporting and broadcasts for We see product governance, with its central components advertising purposes. At relevant compliance events, of data protection and media law, not only as a legal the individuals responsible, such as TV editors, requirement but also as an important competitive factor receive training on bans and the consequences of with a lasting impact on trust in ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s violations. In justified individual cases in which the products, offerings and brands and thus also on the use of surreptitious advertising is suspected, an ad economic success of the Group. Data protection and hoc supervisory committee may take action. The media law provisions are covered by the compliance Group is also committed to following the provisions management system (CMS). of the German Interstate Broadcasting Agreement and the “Common Guidelines of the State Media For information on compliance training, please refer to the Authorities for advertising, for ensuring separation Anti-Corruption and Antitrust Law section. of advertising and programming, and for sponsorship on television and radio.” In particular, every ProSiebenSat.1 Group has implemented processes and employee must make sure that the ban on influenmeasures to protect personal data against misuse. The cing programming, the ban on surreptitious advertaim is to ensure compliance with data protection on DATA PROTECTION PROCESSES AT the basis of a risk-oriented data protection management PROSIEBENSAT.1 GROUP system and to protect personal and other sensitive data Performance of an initial risk from loss, destruction, unauthorized access, or unauanalysis including a compliance thorized use, processing, or disclosure. check in the context of introducing/ Data protection changing automated procedures for compliance processing personal data in order to INFORMATION SECURITY meet the requirements of data protection law (Articles 5, 6 GDPR). The sufficient security of business processes, IT, Process for legally compliant preparinfrastructure and critical information is a strategic Commissioned ation of agreements under data protection law in order to meet the factor for the competitiveness and continued existprocessing requirements of Articles 26, 28 ence of ProSiebenSat.1. The strategic goals of data GDPR. protection and information security comprise Process for legally compliant maximizing business continuity and minimizing Information to public disclosure of personal data to public authorities business losses, complying with laws and regulatory authorities. requirements (compliance), preventing and minimLegally compliant information and izing the effects of security breaches, taking processing of data subjects’ requests for the fulfillment of precautions for the authorized use of systems and articles: information, and avoiding damage and unauthorTransparent information (Articles ized processing. The Information Security Policy Information to be 12 et seq. GDPR) provided and rights of Rights of access (Article 15 GDPR) defines our fundamental guidelines for the use of Right to rectification and erasure the data subject ProSiebenSat.1 Group information. Fulfilling legal (Article 16 GDPR) requirements and regulations as well as complying Right to erasure (Article 17 GDPR) Data portability (Article 20 GDPR) with internal security rules are essential for Rights to object (Article 21 GDPR) ProSiebenSat.1 Group. Data protection and safeguarding the Company’s assets in the form of Process for legally compliant reportinformation are two of the most important factors ing of data breaches (= third parties Data breach notificafor ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s compliance objectives. tion unlawfully obtaining personal data) in accordance with Articles 33, 34 GDPR. GRI Report 59 ising and the labeling obligations are complied with. Youth protection officers at ProSiebenSat.1 Group are In addition, the content and scheduling of a tasked with making sure that all TV and online sponsored broadcast may not be influenced by the content for which the Group is responsible is offered sponsor such that the responsibility and editorial in an age-appropriate way. The aim is to make it diffiindependence of the broadcaster is impaired. cult for children and young people to access content that is inappropriate for their age group. The German ADVERTISING GUIDELINES Interstate Treaty on Youth Protection in the Media defines clear guidelines in this respect. The Group’s The ProSiebenSat.1 advertising guidelines on the Youth Protection Officers work independently of the separation of advertising and programming also management and are responsible for ensuring that contain specific explanations of placement bans for content that is inappropriate for children and young certain products and services. They provide people is broadcast only at the legally prescribed employees with binding guidelines as part of their broadcasting times. At the same time, they are employment contract. For the German stations, the expected to use technical means (e.g. PIN procedguidelines serve the preservation of journalistic ures) to ensure the protection of young people from credibility and safeguard the independence of the the dissemination of content on the Group’s websites content from third-party influences as the top-level that could potentially harm their development. To programming guidelines. For the TV stations in this end, the youth protection officers are involved Austria and Switzerland, the respective national in the production and purchasing of programs at an laws apply. early stage. They assess scripts in advance, support productions, and prepare expert reports. Within the Company they perform an advisory role, while To ensure journalistic independence and comply with externally they are available to viewers and users as fundamental media regulations, the Group formucontact persons for complaints, for example. Indelated guidelines which are binding for all of the pendently from the work of the youth protection Company’s program makers in Germany. The officers, TV and online editors receive regular train“Guidelines for Ensuring Journalistic Independence” ing on youth protection regulations. As well as specify the understanding of the journalistic prinproviding employee training and internal guidelines, ciples set forth in the Press Code of the German we support the protection of young people via variPress Council. In accordance with internal guidelines, ous organizations, such as the Voluntary Self-Regulajournalists and editors working for ProSiebenSat.1 tion of Television Association (Freiwillige SelbstkonGroup must follow the International Federation of trolle Fernsehen, FSF) and the Voluntary Self-MonitJournalists’ “Principles on the Conduct of Journaloring of Multimedia Service Providers Association ists”. According to these principles, they are essen(Freiwillige Selbstkontrolle Multimedia-Diensteanbitially free to report as they see fit independently eter, FSM). of social, economic or political interest groups. As a media company, political independence is of the utmost importance to us. Cash and non-cash donations to political parties are therefore not permitted unless the donation is approved by the Executive Board of ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE in advance. Generally, the guidelines stipulate that editorial content must not be influenced by private or commercial interests of third parties or by personal or economic interests of employees. Public Value Highlights, page 12, Media-Specific Disclosures, page 63 60 GRI Report YOUTH PROTECTION PROCESSES AT PROSIEBENSAT.1 GROUP Youth Protection Commission / State Media Authorities Broadcasting manageMedia policy Supervision ment programm planning Voluntary selfregulation association Media policy for television (FSF) Editorial departments Youth protection & Consulting production program consulting Audit Voluntary selfregulation association Program purchasing dit ea for multimedia (FSM) Cr Au tio n Approval of broadcasting time Special format for earlier and technical age registration broadcasting time Video content Free / Pay / VoD / Digital / Trailer / Commercials Public Policy Marketing and Labeling GRI 415-1 Political contributions GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling In 2019, as in the previous year, ProSiebenSat.1 Group GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning did not make any monetary donations or donations in marketing communications kind to political parties. In 2019, we identified five incidents (previous year: 0) of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes Customer Health and Safety concerning information on the labeling of products and services. No fines or financial penalties were imposed in GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the reporting period. the health and safety impacts of products and services ProSiebenSat.1 reports on publicly confirmed incidents of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes For 2019, we recorded a total of eleven violations (previconcerning information on the labeling of products and ous year: 17) of program principles and journalistic due services. No further information (e.g. compensation diligence as well as provisions for the protection of payments or warnings) is provided. minors and personal rights. No fines or financial penalties were imposed in the reporting period. In this respect, we identified a total of 21 incidents (previous year: 27) of integrity, GTC and advertising violProSiebenSat.1 reports on publicly confirmed incidents of ations with regard to the advertising of our own non-compliance concerning media law. No further informaproducts in 2019. No fines or financial penalties were tion (e.g. compensation payments or warnings) is provided. imposed in the reporting period. In this section, we report on publicly confirmed incidents of non-compliance with statutory regulations, but do not provide any disclosures regarding incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. GRI Report 61 Customer Privacy Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulabreaches of customer privacy and losses of tions in the social and economic area customer data In 2019, ProSiebenSat.1 identified a total of eleven violaIn 2019, there were eight cases (previous year: seven) tions (previous year: five) with compensation payments of substantiated complaints regarding the violation of of approximately EUR 5,000 for non-compliance with customers’ privacy at companies of ProSiebenSat.1 laws and regulations relating to the provision and use Group in Germany. Furthermore, there were twelve of products and services. No fines or financial penalties cases (previous year: seven) of data leaks, data theft, or were imposed in the reporting period. data loss that had to be reported in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). No fines or With regard to socioeconomic compliance, we report on financial penalties were imposed in the reporting period financial penalties but do not provide disclosures on nonas a result of data protection violations. financial penalties. Due to the small number of incidents, we are not reporting by complainant. 62 GRI Report MEDIA-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ProSiebenSat.1 Group can reach around 45 million TV commercials on the group’s entertainment platforms households with its stations in its TV markets in the GSA and was flanked by extensive reporting in magazines, region (Germany, Austria and Switzerland). In Germany, news and information formats in the run-up to the electhe Group increased its combined audience share tion. In addition, ProSiebenSat.1 Group wants to use its among 14to 49-year-olds by 0.4 percentage points to theme-based films to raise awareness of societal prob28.2% in 2019 (previous year: 27.8%). The Austrian lems and provoke thought. To this end, ProSiebenSat.1 broadcasting group ProSiebenSat.1 PULS 4 achieved a uses its expertise as an entertainment group in order to combined audience share of 28.4% among viewers aged present difficult topics such as organ donation or stalkbetween 12 and 49 years (previous year: 28.6%). In ing in an emotive manner and to make them accessSwitzerland, the ProSiebenSat.1 station’s audience share ible to a wide audience. Theme-based films such as “Die among 15to 49-year-olds in the full-year was on a par Ungehorsame” (“The Disobedient”), “Zwei Leben. Eine with the previous year at 17.7%. At the end of 2019, the Hoffnung” (“Two Lives. A hope”)and “Nackt. Das Netz digital offerings managed by SevenOne Media GmbH, vergisst nie” (“Naked. The Net never forgets”) have met ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s marketer, also had a monthly with a great audience response in the past and stimreach of around 36 million unique users (aged 16 and ulated discussion. In 2019, SAT.1 cooperated with the above) after around 34 million in the previous year. In police’s crime prevention units to raise awareness about addition, ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s global digital studio spiked drinks, stalking and intervening when others are Studio71 generated an average of 9.9 billion video views threatened. The thrillers “Lautlose Tropfen” (“Silent a month with its web channels in 2019 (previous year: Drops”), “Dein Leben gehört mir” (“Your Life belongs to 9.2 billion). me”)and “Ein ganz normaler Tag” (“A perfectly normal Day”) told the dramatic stories of three women, represWe want to offer viewers and users entertainment on enting victims whose stories often remain unheard. all screens with the right offers at the right time, no Public Value Highlights, page 12, Projects matter where. Moreover, the content distributed by the TV stations and digital platforms also contributes to pluralism and the diversity of information and helps to DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION shape the opinions of viewers and users. This is a great privilege but also a special responsibility for M4 ProSiebenSat.1 Group. As a media group, our reach gives us significant social and journalistic responsibility. ProSiebenSat.1 is committed to barrier-free access to its Considering this, we aim to continue our socio-political services. For this reason, we offer subtitled programengagement in the future and further increase the ming areas and audio description for deaf and hard of amount of informational and public value formats. We hearing people on our channels, among others, in order will try to focus on issues that are particularly relevant to improve the dissemination of information. Already to young people. In all our activities, we are committed in 2000, ProSieben introduced the first regular subtitle to a free and democratic order, which is based in particservice for the deaf on private television. Accessible ular on the fundamental right to freedom of opinion, and content is broadcast on nearly all of the Group’s observe the principles of editorial freedom and journalstations, and the amount is increasing all the time. In istic independence. addition, the first shows with live audio description were offered in 2019. Following the initiative for the German federal election in 2018, ProSiebenSat.1 launched “Go vote!” in May 2019, Moreover, the German Interstate Broadcasting Agreea campaign encouraging participation in the European ment of broadcasters of nationwide programs promotes Parliament election. Featuring famous faces from its the expansion of accessible offerings within the limits of stations as well as influencers, the call to action promptechnical and financial possibility. Individual states and ted notably the younger generation to exercise their the German government have published action plans to right to vote. The campaign centered on “Go vote!” implement the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons GRI Report 63 with Disabilities, which also aim to include more accessMEDIA LITERACY ible formats on television. The state media authorities regularly monitor the expansion. According to their M7 seventh monitoring, looking at the period from September 15 to December 15, 2019, the number of subtitled ProSiebenSat.1 is also committed to the promotion of shows on ProSiebenSat.1 stations rose by 11% from 3,105 media competence in its target groups, especially in to 3,458. The broadcast time increased by 14%. On averthe digital field. An example is the project #FemaleEmage, ProSiebenSat.1 broadcast around 22% of the shows powerment by Studio71. The digital studio of with special subtitles for the hearing impaired, an ProSiebenSat.1 initiated the international funding increase of four percentage points. program #FemaleEmpowerment in 2020, and will support ten selected female artists in building and growProSiebenSat.1 also cooperates with Arbeitsgemeinsching their own channels by the end of the year. The backaft Behinderung und Medien e.V. (abm), which is drop is the digital gender gap: In Germany, girls and responsible for extensive TV programming broadcast women are still outnumbered on YouTube, both in absothroughout Germany for the circumstances, concerns lute numbers and in terms of view numbers, as a recent and interests of people with disabilities. The Group has study by the Malisa Foundation shows. In April, the supported the initiative since 2000 with the magazine program of Sudio71 started with a Digital Kickoff Week, show “CHALLENGE,” which is broadcasted on kabel eins in which the participants were given a comprehensive and SAT.1 Gold on the first Saturday of every month. insight into the market, success criteria were estabIn a thirty-minute report, our fellow citizens with disablished and first analyses of the YouTube channels were ilities are encouraged to participate actively in social carried out. In addition, measures to increase reach life according to their own requirements. In addition, were discussed such as channel maintenance to “CHALLENGE” informs non-disabled people about life successful cross-promotional measures. This is followed with a disability, dismantles prejudices and promotes by the supervision period, during which the quantitative inclusive thinking. Pictures in Your Mind (Sustainability and qualitative development of the participants' chanMagazine), page 26, Projects nels is ensured at individual level by female mentors. VIEWER INTERACTION M6 TV viewers and users of our digital entertainment platforms are among the most important stakeholders. Direct interaction with them is therefore of great importance for ProSiebenSat.1. With individual research, close cooperation with the respective editorial teams and press representatives, the Audience Relations / Social Media department wants to guarantee optimum customer service and viewer retention. Its tasks also include community management for the Facebook pages of the stations and shows. In 2019, the department processed around 80,000 inquiries (previous year: around 68,000). Viewers’ feedback reveals moods, trends and opinions. In contrast to ratings, viewer contact allows qualitative aspects of broadcast program content to be evaluated directly and immediately. Stakeholder Engagement, page 42 64 GRI Report FURTHER INFOR MATION REPORT PROFILE GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries GRI 102-50 Reporting period GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI 102-56 External assurance The ProSiebenSat.1 2019 Sustainability Report summarREPORTING SCOPE AND DATA AVAILABILITY izes the key environmental, societal and social developments. In combination with the Annual Report 2019, it The organizational reporting scope for the disclosprovides a comprehensive description of ProSiebenSat.1 ures contained in the Sustainability Report in relaGroup’s performance on the basis of financial and nontion to concepts and key figures for our sustainfinancial information. The Sustainability Report essenability performance essentially includes all Group tially consists of the Sustainability Magazine and GRI companies and corresponds to the scope of consolReport and has been prepared in accordance with the idation of ProSiebenSat.1 Group, which is managed GRI Standards: core option. In addition, the Sustainabcentrally by ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE. The scope ility 2019 Report serves as the Communication on of consolidation is defined in accordance to the Progress (COP), which all companies participating in the control concept of IFRS 10. Exceptions and restricUN Global Compact are obliged to publish annually. tions with regard to the scope of reporting for the individual topics and data collection for key figures When defining the report content, we observed the prinare described below or are indicated accordingly in ciples of “stakeholder inclusiveness,” “sustainability the information on the individual topics. context”, “materiality”, and “completeness”. The sections “Our Responsibility” and “GRI Report” of the Sustainability Report were subjected to an independent In particular, parts of the international business in audit with limited assurance by EY (Ernst & Young) the Content Production & Global Sales segment, with Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft. Such audits are based the exception of Studio71, are not included in the on the relevant ISAE 3000 (Revised) standard. examination of the concepts or the data collection for the key non-financial figures relating to employThe Sustainability Report covers ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s ees. Thus, the talent & management development scope of consolidation as of the end of financial year and talent acquisition corporate functions are not 2019 and was published on June 25, 2020. The reporting implemented in this form at some individual investperiod covers financial year 2019 and, to remain up to ments due to the relatively small number of employdate, some events from the first half of 2020. In most ees. Due to contract manufacturing, the number of cases, the reference date for the key figures is Decememployees in the production sector is characterized ber 31, 2019. The financial data was taken unchanged by high volatility. from the 2019 Annual Report published on March 5, The information on ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s social 2020. The Sustainability Report also refers in particular responsibility, which particularly relates to the activto non-financial information already disclosed in the ities in the strategic action areas of society and Combined Separate Non-Financial Report in accordance diversity and in this report is mainly provided with with sections 315b, 315c and sections 289b to 289c of the media-specific disclosures in the Sustainability the German Commercial Code (HGB). The editorial deadMagazine and in the GRI Report, primarily relates line for the activities described in the report was to the Group’s business activities in German TV June 15, 2020. The report is prepared annually. The programming (Entertainment segment). previous ProSiebenSat.1 Sustainability Report was With the compliance management system (CMS), published on June 27, 2019. ProSiebenSat.1 Group covers significant legal areas relevant for non-financial reporting (anti-corruption, antitrust law, data protection, and media law) throughout the Group. The media law concepts relate only to selected Group companies due to different legal regulations in foreign countries and a lack of 66 Further Information relevance to many companies, for example in the financial reporting for a full financial year. production sector. These primarily include This carbon footprint does not include the energy ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE as the holding company and consumption and resulting CO2 emissions of our the companies in the Entertainment segment. For production studios and computer centers outside the reported key figures in connection with product sites in Unterföhring and Berlin due to a lack of data. governance and compliance, acquired companies are Further information on the reporting of greenhouse included in data collection no later than in the reportgas emissions can be found in the “Accompanying ing period in which they have been consolidated in Notes on the Carbon Footprint”. Further Information 67 GRI CONTENT INDEX This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. All of the standards applied refer to the version published by the GRI in 2016. The links to the Annual Report 2019 always relate to the start of the section that includes information on the relevant standard disclosures. Indicators that apply to the media section in accordance with the GRI are abbreviated as M. At the same time, the Content Index provides information on how we contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). SDGs that we consider particularly relevant in the context of our sustainability management are bold. UNIVERSAL STANDARDS ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Universal Standards Link Comment SDG GRI 102-1 Name of the organization Organizational Profile, page 39 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, Organizational Profile, page 39 and services Annual Report 2019 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Organizational Profile, page 39 GRI 102-4 Location of operations Organizational Profile, page 39 Annual Report 2019 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Organizational Profile, page 39 Annual Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 GRI 102-6 Markets served Organizational Profile, page 39 The ProSiebenSat.1 Group does not Annual Report 2019 publish any further information on revenues by market beyond the breakdown by segments and regions. GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization Organizational Profile, page 39 Annual Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and Organizational Profile, page 39 The ProSiebenSat.1 Group uses its 8, 9 other workers Employees, page 52 contractual partners’ employees or Diversity, page 56 staff bound by instructions only to a very minor extent in comparison to its overall workforce GRI 102-9 Supply chain Annual Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the Annual Report 2019 organization and its supply chain GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Environmental, page 48 approach GRI 102-12 External initiatives Strategy and Goals, page 6 Governance, page 42 Stakeholder Engagement, page 42 Diversity, page 56 Annual Report 2019 Projects GRI 102-13 Membership of associations Stakeholder Engagement, page 42 STRATEGY Universal Standards Link Comment SDG GRI 102-14 Statement from senior Foreword, page 5 decision-maker Strategy and Goals, page 6 Strategy, page 41 68 Further Information ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Universal Standards Link Comment SDG GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Organization and Management, 16 and norms of behavior page 8 Ethics and Integrity, page 41 Governance, page 42 Anti-Discrimination, page 58 Product Responsibility, page 59 GOVERNANCE Universal Standards Link Comment SDG GRI 102-18 Governance structure Organization and Management, page 8 Governance, page 42 Annual Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Universal Standards Link Comment SDG GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement, page 42 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining For all decisions that affect our 8 agreements employees, we work closely with the legal representation of the employees. Since 2015, there has also been a European Employee Board (EEB) at ProSiebenSat.1. The corresponding indicator is not yet reported at present. GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting Stakeholder Engagement, page stakeholders 42 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement, page engagement 42 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns Stakeholder Engagement, page raised 42 REPORTING PRACTICE Universal Standards Link Comment SDG GRI 102-45 Entities included in the Annual Report 2019 Detailed information on the consolidated financial assessment of greenhouse gas statements emissions can be found in the “Explanatory Notes on ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s Carbon Footprint” GRI 102-46 Defining report content and Reporting Practice, page 44 topic boundaries Report Profile, page 66 GRI 102-47 List of material topics Reporting Practice, page 44 GRI Report, page 39 GRI 102-48 Restatement of informations The report does not include any material restatements in comparison to the previous year. GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting There were no material changes in reporting in comparison to the previous year. GRI 102-50 Reporting period Report Profile, page 66 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report Report Profile, page 66 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Report Profile, page 66 Further Information 69 Universal Standards Link Comment SDG GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions Contact – Corporate regarding the report Communications Impressum, page 78 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in Report Profile, page 66 accordance with the GRI GRI Content Index, page 68 Standards GRI 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index, page 68 GRI 102-56 External assurance Report Profile, page 66 Assurance, page 76 70 Further Information TOPIC-SPECIFIC STANDARDS ECONOMIC – ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Topic-specific Standards Link Comment SDG GRI 201-1 Direct economic value Economic Performance, page 8, 9 generated and distributed 46 Annual Report 2019 GRI 201-2 Financial implications and Economic Performance, page 13 other risks and opportunities 46 due Annual Report 2019 to climate change ECONOMIC – ANTI-CORRUPTION AND ANTITRUST LAW Topic-specific Standards Link Comment SDG Management approach disclosures GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material Organization and Management, topic and its boundary page 8 Governance, page 42 Anti-Corruption and Antitrust Law, page 46 Anti-Discrimination, page 58 Annual Report 2019 GRI 103-2 Management approach and its Organization and Management, components page 8 Governance, page 42 Anti-Corruption and Antitrust Law, page 46 Anti-Discrimination, page 58 Annual Report 2019 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the Organization and Management, management approach page 8 Governance, page 42 Anti-Corruption and Antitrust Law, page 46 Anti-Discrimination, page 58 Annual Report 2019 Anti-corruption GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks Anti-Corruption and Antitrust 16 related to corruption Law, page 46 GRI 205-2 Communication and training Anti-Corruption and Antitrust 16 about anti-corruption policies Law, page 46 and procedures Product Responsibility, page 59 GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of Anti-Corruption and Antitrust 16 corruption and actions taken Law, page 46 Anti-competitive behavior GRI 206-1 Legal actions for antiAnti-Corruption and Antitrust 16 competitive behavior, antiLaw, page 46 trust, and monopoly practices ENVIRONMENTAL Topic-specific Standards Link Comment SDG Management approach disclosures GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material Strategy and Goals, page 6 topic and its boundary Sustainability Magazine, page 32 Environmental, page 48 Projects Further Information 71 Topic-specific Standards Link Comment SDG GRI 103-2 Management approach and its Strategy and Goals, page 6 components Sustainability Magazine, page 32 Environmental, page 48 Projects GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the Strategy and Goals, page 6 management approach Sustainability Magazine, page 32 Environmental, page 48 Projects Energy GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within Environmental, page 48 7, 8, the organization 12, 13 GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside Environmental, page 48 7, 8, of the organization 12, 13 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity Environmental, page 48 7, 8, 12, 13 Emissions GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Environmental, page 48 Detailed information on the 3, 12, emissions assessment of greenhouse gas 13, 14, emissions can be found in the 15 “Explanatory Notes on ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s Carbon Footprint” GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Environmental, page 48 Detailed information on the 3, 12, emissions assessment of greenhouse gas 13, 14, emissions can be found in the 15 “Explanatory Notes on ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s Carbon Footprint” GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Environmental, page 48 Detailed information on the 3, 12, emissions assessment of greenhouse gas 13, 14, emissions can be found in the 15 “Explanatory Notes on ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s Carbon Footprint” GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental, page 48 Detailed information on the 13, 14, assessment of greenhouse gas 15 emissions can be found in the “Explanatory Notes on ProSiebenSat.1 Group’s Carbon Footprint” Waste GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Environmental, page 48 3, 6, method 12, 15 Environmental Compliance GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with Environmental, page 48 16 environmental laws and regulations SOCIAL – EMPLOYEES Topic-specific Standards Link Comment SDG Management approach disclosures GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material Employees, page 52 topic and its boundary Diversity, page 56 Annual Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 GRI 103-2 Management approach and its Employees, page 52 components Diversity, page 56 Annual Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 72 Further Information Topic-specific Standards Link Comment SDG GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the Employees, page 52 management approach Diversity, page 56 Annual Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 Employment GRI 401-1 New employee hires and Employees, page 52 5, 8, employee turnover 10 Labor/management relations GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods Essentially, all companies at the 8 regarding operational Unterföhring location, the PULS 4 changes station in Vienna, ATV Privat TV GmbH & Co. KG in Vienna, the sales offices of SevenOne Media and SevenOne AdFactory, the Freiburg site of SilverTours GmbH and Sat.1 Norddeutschland are represented by an employee representative body. In addition, the European Employee Board (EEB) represents the Group's employees at European level. Since February 7, 2019, the Unterföhring joint operation has also had a representative body for severely disabled persons. The deadline for notification of operational changes is usually one month. Occupational Health and Safety GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence Employees, page 52 8 or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Training and education GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per Employees, page 52 4, 5, year per employee 8, 10 SOCIAL – DIVERSITY Topic-specific Standards Link Comment SDG Management approach disclosures GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material Sustainability Magazine, page topic and its boundary 18 Diversity, page 56 Annual Report 2019 GRI 103-2 Management approach and its Sustainability Magazine, page components 18 Diversity, page 56 Annual Report 2019 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the Sustainability Magazine, page management approach 18 Diversity, page 56 Annual Report 2019 Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance Diversity, page 56 5, 8, bodies and employees 10 SOCIAL – ANTI-DISCRIMINATION Topic-specific Standards Link Comment SDG Management approach disclosures GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material Anti-Discrimination, page 58 topic and its boundary Annual Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 GRI 103-2 Management approach and its Anti-Discrimination, page 58 components Annual Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 Further Information 73 Topic-specific Standards Link Comment SDG GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the Anti-Discrimination, page 58 management approach Annual Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 Non-discrimination GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination Anti-Discrimination, page 58 5, 8, and corrective actions taken 10 SOCIAL – PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Topic-specific Standards Link Comment SDG Management approach disclosures GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material Ethics and Integrity, page 41 topic and its boundary Governance, page 42 Sustainability Magazine, page 12 Anti-Corruption and Antitrust Law, page 46 Product Responsibility, page 59 Media-specific Disclosures, page 63 Annual Report 2019 GRI 103-2 Management approach and its Ethics and Integrity, page 41 components Governance, page 42 Sustainability Magazine, page 12 Anti-Corruption and Antitrust Law, page 46 Product Responsibility, page 59 Media-specific Disclosures, page 63 Annual Report 2019 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the Ethics and Integrity, page 41 management approach Governance, page 42 Sustainability Magazine, page 12 Anti-Corruption and Antitrust Law, page 46 Product Responsibility, page 59 Media-specific Disclosures, page 63 Annual Report 2019 Public policy GRI 415-1 Political contributions Product Responsibility, page 16 59 Customer Health and Safety GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance Product Responsibility, page 16 concerning the health and 59 safety impacts of products and services Marketing and Labeling GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance Product Responsibility, page 16 concerning product and 59 service information and labeling GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance Product Responsibility, page 16 concerning 59 marketing communications Customer privacy GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints Product Responsibility, page 16 concerning breaches of 59 customer privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic compliance 74 Further Information Topic-specific Standards Link Comment SDG GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and Product Responsibility, page 16 regulations in the social and 59 economic area OTHER ASPECTS Media-specific Standards Link Comment SDG Management approach disclosures GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material Sustainability Magazine, page topic and its boundary 12 Media-specific Disclosures, page 63 Projects GRI 103-2 Management approach and its Sustainability Magazine, page components 12 Media-specific Disclosures, page 63 Projects GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the Sustainability Magazine, page management approach 12 Media-specific Disclosures, page 63 Projects Indicators M4 Content dissemination Sustainability Magazine, page 26 Media-specific Disclosures, page 63 Projects M6 Audience interaction Stakeholder Engagement, page 42 Media-specific Disclosures, page 63 M7 Media literacy Media-specific Disclosures, page 63 Further Information 75 ASSURANCE Independent auditor's limited assurance report other professional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. The assurance engagement performed by Ernst & Young (EY) relates exclusively to the German PDF-version of Our audit firm applies the national statutory regulations the sections Our Responsibility and GRI Report in and professional pronouncements for quality control, in the Sustainability Report 2019 of ProSiebenSat.1 Media particular the by-laws regulating the rights and duties of SE. The following text is a translation of the original Wirtschaftsprüfer and vereidigte Buchprüfer in the exerGerman Independent Assurance Report. cise of their profession [Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer] as well as the IDW Standard on Quality Control 1: Requirements for Quality TO PROSIEBENSAT.1 MEDIA SE, Control in audit firms [IDW Qualitätssicherungsstandard UNTERFÖHRING 1: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis (IDW QS 1)]. We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the sections Our Responsibility and GRI Report in the Sustainability Report of ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE for AUDITOR'S RESPONSIBILITY the reporting period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 (hereafter the report). Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the information in the sections Our Our engagement exclusively relates to the German PDFResponsibility and GRI Report in the report based on version of the report. Our engagement did not include the assurance engagement we have performed. any prospective disclosures, prior year disclosures and links to other web pages. The report is published as a We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance PDF-version at sustainability-report2019.prosiebensat1.com. with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY Information , issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). This Standard The legal representatives of the Company are responsrequires that we plan and perform the assurance ible for the preparation of the report in accordance with engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global the sections Our Responsibility and GRI Report in Reporting Initiative (hereafter “GRI criteria”). the report of the Company for the reporting period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 has been prepared, This responsibility includes the selection and application in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI of appropriate methods to prepare the report as well criteria. In a limited assurance engagement the assuras making assumptions and estimates related to indiance procedures are less in extent than for a reasonable vidual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable in assurance engagement and therefore a substantially the circumstances. Furthermore, the legal representatlower level of assurance is obtained. The assurance ives are responsible for such internal controls that they procedures selected depend on the auditor's profeshave considered necessary to enable the preparation of sional judgment. a report that is free from – intended or unintended – material misstatement. Within the scope of our assurance engagement, which has been conducted between March and June 2020, we performed amongst others the following assurance and AUDITOR'S DECLARATION other procedures: RELATING TO INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL Inquiries of employees concerning the sustainability strategy, sustainability principles and sustainability We are independent from the Company in accordance management of ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE, with the provisions under German commercial law and Inquiries of employees responsible for the preparaprofessional requirements, and we have fulfilled our tion of the sections Our Responsibility and GRI 76 Further Information Report in order to assess the sustainability reportENGAGEMENT TERMS AND ing system, the data capture and compilation methLIABILITY ods as well as internal controls to the extent relevant for the limited assurance engagement, The “General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer Identification of likely risks of material misstatement and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften [German Public in the sections Our Responsibility and GRI Auditors and Public Audit Firms]” dated 1 January 2017 Report , are applicable to this engagement and also govern our Inspection of the relevant documentation of the relations with third parties in the context of this engagesystems and processes for compiling, aggregating ment ( www.de.ey.com/general-engagement-terms). In addiand validating sustainability data in the reporting tion, please refer to the liability provisions contained period and testing such documentation on a sample there in no.&#160;9 and to the exclusion of liability of basis, towards third parties. We assume no responsibility, liabInquiries and inspection of documents on a sample ility or other obligations towards third parties unless basis relating to the collection and reporting of selecwe have concluded a written agreement to the contrary ted sustainability data, with the respective third party or liability cannot effectAnalytical measures at group level and on the level ively be precluded. of selected sites regarding the quality of the reported data, We make express reference to the fact that we do not Critical review of the draft report to assess plausibilupdate the assurance report to reflect events or circumity and consistency. stances arising after it was issued unless required to do so by law. It is the sole responsibility of anyone taking note of the result of our assurance engagement ASSURANCE CONCLUSION summarized in this assurance report to decide whether and in what way this result is useful or suitable for Based on our assurance procedures performed and their purposes and to supplement, verify or update it by assurance evidence obtained, nothing has come to our means of their own review procedures. attention that causes us to believe that the sections Our Responsibility and GRI Report of the SustainabMunich, 23 June 2020 ility Report of ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 has not been Ernst & Young GmbH prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft GRI criteria. INTENDED USE OF THE ASSURANCE REPORT Richter We issue this report on the basis of the engagement Wirtschaftsprüferin agreed with ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE. The assurance (German Public Auditor) engagement has been performed for the purposes of the Company and the report is solely intended to inform the Company as to the results of the assurance engagement and must not be used for purposes other than those intended. The report is not intended to provide third parties with support in making (financial) decisions. Johne Wirtschaftsprüferin (German Public Auditor) Further Information 77 CONTACT AND IMPRINT C O N TA C T ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE Corporate Communications Medienallee 7 85774 Unterföhring, Germany Tel. +49 [89] 95 07 — 11 45 Fax +49 [89] 95 07 — 11 59 sustainability@prosiebensat1.com P U B L I S H E D BY ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE Medienallee 7 85774 Unterföhring, Germany Tel. +49 [89] 95 07 — 10 Fax +49 [89] 95 07 — 11 21 www.prosiebensat1.com HRB 219439 AG München C O N T E N T, D E S I G N A N D I M P L E M E N TAT I O N ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE Corporate Communications nexxar, Vienna www.nexxar.com PHOTO CREDITS Christine Scheffler: © ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE; Public Value Highlights: GNTM © ProSieben/ Martin Bauendahl; “9 Tage wach” © ProSieben/ Stephanie Kulbach; Galileo © ProSieben; Sven Pietsch © private; “Schweigen macht schutzlos“ © Weisser Ring/ Viktor Strasse; “Don’t hate me. Celebrate me!“: © ProSieben/ Sven Doornkaat; © ProSieben/ Martin Ehleben; © ProSiebenSat.1/ Manfred Jarisch; “Painting Pictures in the Mind“: © Benedikt Hahn; Jeannette Diem © private; © AUDIO2/ Patrick Romberger; © ProSiebenSat.1/ Julia Feldhagen; “Clean Shoot!“: Group photo © Bundesregierung/ Bolesch; Stefan Thul © ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE; Tobias Gramann © private P R O S I E B E N S A T. 1 G R O U P O N T H E I N T E R N E T This and other publications are available on the Internet, along with information about ProSiebenSat.1 Group, at www.ProSiebenSat1.com/en F O R WA R D L O O K I N G S TAT E M E N T S This report contains forward-looking statements regarding ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE and ProSiebenSat.1 Group. Such statements may be identified by the use of such terms as “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “assumes,” “pursues the goal,” and similar wording. Various factors, many of which are outside the control of ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE, could affect the Company’s business activities, success, business strategy and results. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts, and therefore incorporate known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that might cause actual results to differ from expectations. These forward-looking statements are based on current plans, goals, estimates and projections, and take account of knowledge only up to and including the date of preparation of this report. Given these risks, uncertainties and other important factors, ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE undertakes no obligation, and has no intent, to revise such forward-looking statements or update them to reflect future events and developments. Although every effort has been made to ensure that the provided information and facts are correct, and that the opinions and expectations reflected here are reasonable, ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE assumes no liability and offers no warranty as to the completeness, correctness, adequacy and/or accuracy of any information or opinions contained herein. 78 Contact And Imprint ProSiebenSat.1 Group Medienallee 7 85774 Unterföhring www.ProSiebenSat1.com
