Communication on Progress Stockholm, 2020-04-03 Statement by the CEO I am pleased to confirm that Investor reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Investor is committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and daily operations. In our Communication on Progress report, Investor documents the progress within Investor as well as our major holdings. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders, using our primary channels of communications. Johan Forssell President and CEO Investor AB Business Model Investor’s purpose We create value What we do Operating priorities We are an engaged long-term owner that actively supports the building 1. and development of best-in-class companies. Through substantial ownership and board participation, we drive the initiatives that we believe will create the most value for each individual company. Ultimately this creates value for our shareholders and for society at large. Our business is organized in three business areas; Listed Companies, Patricia Industries and Investments in EQT. Grow net asset value Listed Companies 69% of total adjusted assets 2. Operate efficiently Consists of our listed portfolio companies in which we are a significant minority owner. Patricia Industries 3. 23% of total adjusted assets P  ay a steadily rising dividend Consists of our wholly-owned and partner-owned companies, as well as financial investments. Investments in EQT 7% of total adjusted assets EQT is a leading investment organization. We invest in its funds and own 18.1 percent of the capital in EQT AB. Our core values Create value Administration Report – Business Model INVESTOR 2019 for people and society by building strong and sustainable businesses How we do it Created impact in 2019 Clear governance model Our model builds on clear roles and responsibilities between us as an owner, the companies' boards and managements. 40% total shareholder return Best-in-class boards We are often the largest owner and we leverage our network to find SEK 9.9 paid didvidend bn the best board and management candidates for our companies. of which approx. Strong industrial network We use our extensive professional network to identify and evaluate SEK 2.3 to our main owner, the Wallenberg bn attractive business opportunities. foundations whose purpose is to grant funding to scientific research in Sweden. Highly-skilled employees We focus on the long-term development of our employees and offer Investor AB opportunities to continuously learn and build skills. Strong financial flexibility Our strong balance sheet and cash flow allow us to support our 97% of employees are proud companies long-term, capture investment opportunities and pay to work at Investor –4% a steadily rising dividend. CO2e emission reduction from Investor AB compared to 2018 Value creation plans Our business teams, consisting The plans typically focus on: Our companies –9% of our board representatives, • Operational excellence investment managers and analysts, • Profitable growth develop value creation plans for • Corporate health CO2e emission reduction from each company, identifying strategic portfolio companies compared to 2018 key value drivers for the next three • Industrial structure to five years. • Innovation • Talent management 10% R&D spending in relation to • Sustainability total sales in our companies • Capital structure % 40 30 20 10 Contribute with Challenge 0 Care for People 1 year 5 years 10 years 20 years Heart and Mind and Improve ■ Total return, Investor B share ■ SIXRX, return index Return requirement 8-9 % % 40 INVESTOR 2019 Administration Report – Business Model 30 20 10 Targets and Outcome Investor is committed to generate an attractive long-term total return. Our return requirement is the long-term risk-free interest rate plus an equity risk premium, in total 8-9 percent annually. Our operating priorities are to grow our net asset value, operate efficiently and to pay a steadily rising dividend. OPERATING PRIORITIES Outcome Comment Our adjusted net asset value amounted to 1. % 35 SEK 485.0bn at year-end 2019 (372.0), 30 a change, with dividend added back, of 33 percent (–1). Grow our net asset value 25 20 15 To achieve attractive net asset value growth, 10 Investor owns high-quality companies 5 and is an engaged owner, supporting our 0 companies to achieve profitable growth. We –5 strive to allocate our capital wisely. 2017 2018 2019 ■ Adjusted NAV growth incl. dividend added back Return requirement 8-9% SEK m % Management costs amounted to 2. Operate efficiently 600 % 500 35 30 400 0.6 0.5 0.4 SEK 513m (478), corresponding to approximately 0.11 percent of our adjusted net asset value (0.13). 25 300 0.3 20 Investor maintains cost discipline to remain 200 15 0.2 efficient and to maximize operating cash 10 100 0.1 flow. 5 0 0.0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 –5 Management cost ■2017 2018 2019 Management cost/Adjusted net asset value ■ Tillväxt justerat substansvärde inkl. återlagd utdelning Avkastningskrav 8-9% Mkr % 600 0,6 SEK/share The Board of Directors proposes a SEK 3. 15 500 0,5 14.00 dividend per share (13.00), to be paid in two installments, SEK 10.00 per share 400 12 0,4 in May, 2020, and SEK 4.00 per share in Pay a steadily rising dividend 300 0,3 November, 2020. Based on this proposal, 9 on average our dividend has increased by 200 0,2 9 percent annually over the past five years Investor's dividend policy is to distribute a 6 and 13 percent over the past ten years. 100 0,1 large percentage of the dividends received 30 from Listed Companies, as well as to 0,0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 make a distribution from other net assets 0 corresponding to a yield in line with the 1) 2010■2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Förvaltningskostnader equity market. Thedividend 1) Proposed goal is to pay a steadily Förvaltningskostnader/Justerat substansvärde rising dividend. Kr/aktie 15 12 9 Administration Report – Targets and Outcome INVESTOR 2019 6 3 Sustainability is an integral part of our ownership model. Investor has set sustainability targets for our overall portfolio as well as for Investor as a company. Targets presented below relate to our portfolio of 22 companies within Listed Companies, Patricia Industries and EQT AB. Read more about Investor's sustainability targets as a company on page 12-13. SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS Outcome Comment Our companies In 2019, Investor engaged with all our 1. 22 portfolio companies regarding sus100% have a Code of Conduct tainability. The percentage of companies that are members of UN Global Compact Business Ethics & Governance increased to 95 percent compared to 83 percent in 2018. All portfolio com­ Governance and business ethics constitute the foundation for our sustainability 100% have an Anti-Corruption Policy panies have a Code of Conduct, AntiCorrup­tion Policy and Whistle­blowing approach. Investor's Sustainability Guidelines channel in place. 95 percent of the companies have a policy covering human (see page 12) set clear expectations for our companies to conduct their operations in a responsible and ethical manner. Investor 100% have a Whistleblowing channel rights. All companies have a Health and Safety Policy and measure and follow-up has zero tolerance for non-ethical business the number of recordable work-related injuries. behavior. 95% have signed the UN Global Compact Since 2016, greenhouse gas emissions 2. Climate & Resource Efficiency from our companies have decreased by 29 percent. The data includes our portfolio companies' scope 1 and 2 emissions. 41 percent of our companies Investor is committed to climate targets –29% have relevant reduction targets related to their products, services or value chains (the portfolio companies' scope 3 aligned with the Paris Agreement. ­Investor's target is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions emissions). In terms of resource efficiency from our portfolio by 50 percent by 2030. In and in addition to scope 3 targets, addition, all our companies shall have targets 59 percent of our companies have set to reduce emissions from their value chain, for specific resource efficiency targets. reduction of greenhouse gas example related to the use of their products. emissions from our portfolio compared to 2016 Portfolio Board of Directors In 2019, the average share of women in 3. 25% the boards was 24.9 percent compared to 24.7 percent in 2018. In 2019, the average Average share of women share of women in the management Diversity & Inclusion groups was 24.0 percent compared to 15 Number of nationalities 24.5 percent in 2018. The progress is not satisfactory and actions are being taken to Investor strives for diversity across all step by step reach the long-term targets. d ­ imensions: nationality, age, gender, 77 percent of our companies have targets education as well as differences in mindsets Portfolio Management Groups or commitments regarding diversity and and experiences.​We have targets at the portfolio level of 40/60 gender balance in board and management by 2030. In addition, 24% Average share of women 59 percent measured the perceived level of inclusion among employees. all our companies shall measure perceived level of inclusion among employees. 21 Number of nationalities INVESTOR 2019 Administration Report – Targets and Outcome Engaged Ownership Investor believes in engaged ownership and always takes a long-term investment perspective. Our ambition is for our companies to remain or become best-in-class, to outperform competition and reach their full potential. We work continuously We have strong ownership We act in the best to support our companies positions, exercise our interest of each company to remain or become influence through the from an industrial and best-in-class. boards, develop and drive long-term perspective. value creation plans and continuously follow-up on performance. Investment philosophy We believe in strong boards of limited in order to maximize long-term value. Investor's investment philosophy is size, which still allows for sufficient The plans typically focus on operational buy-to-build. We develop the companies breadth of capabilities, as this ensures a excellence, profitable growth, capital over time as long as we see further value high level of individual accountability and structure, industrial structure, creation potential. We are typically the strong dynamics. Most importantly, the innovation, sustainability, talent largest owner and actively support our board should have the experience and management and corporate health. companies in making attractive investcompetence necessary to support the We maintain a close and continuous ments. This means that we are willing company’s long-term ambitions. Investor dialog around value creation with the to sacrifice short-term profitability for expects the boards to engage in strategic companies’ chairpersons and CEOs. It longer-term value creation. However, our issues in order to ensure investments is critical that the owners, boards and long-term perspective is never an excuse in long-term attractive opportunities. management teams are aligned and that for weak short-term performance. We strive for strong alignment with the value creation plans are followed up If we arrive at the conclusion that a the chairperson and regularly invite periodically and thoroughly. certain company would be better off in a all chairpersons in our companies to a different ownership, or that it no longer “Chairs’ Circle” to discuss key trends and Execution is key offers attractive enough development share knowledge. The future of our companies depends on potential, we would actively drive a their capacity to drive change and their divestment process and try to maximize Our long-term willingness to invest for the long-term. the value for our shareholders. We firmly believe that to become or perspective is never an remain best-in-class, companies must Best-in-class boards have the ability to invest in research and We exercise our influence through excuse for weak shortdevelopment, regardless of pressure our representation on the companies’ term performance from external forces. We encourage boards. Our results ultimately depend collaboration, innovation, operational on the people in our organization and in excellence and relentless execution, so our network. Therefore, we spend much that the companies can be successful of our time identifying and developing Value creation plans and grow profitably over time. talent to ensure that the best people We have formed a business team for with different skills and perspectives each company we are engaged in. The Cash flow generation are appointed to the boards of our business teams consist of our board Over the past decade, we have companies. Our experience is that a wellrepresentatives, investment managers established strong cash flow generation functioning board is diverse in terms of and analysts. The business teams based on dividends from Listed age, gender, background and not least analyze the industries and benchmark Companies, distribution from Patricia in different mindsets and experiences. the companies’ performance versus Industries’ companies and net proceeds The board should include individuals their competitors. Based on the analysis, from Investments in EQT. This cash flow with relevant industrial, functional and we develop and constantly refine value allows us to finance investments in both geographic knowledge which is not too creation plans for each company. These existing and new companies and to pay a narrow or specific. plans identify strategic key value drivers steadily rising dividend. that the companies should focus on, Administration Report – Engaged Ownership INVESTOR 2019 Industries we invest in Investment criteria We own companies in industries we understand • strong market positions well, and in which we can use our experience, • sustainable and flexible business models network and financial expertise. This means that • strong and sound corporate cultures we invest in listed companies in the Nordics, and in unlisted companies both in the Nordics and in • exposure to growth markets North America, mainly within: • strong profitability and cash flow • engineering • continuous focus on innovation and R&D • healthcare • exposure to service and aftermarket sales • financial services • technology INVESTOR 2019 Administration Report – Engaged Ownership Sustainability Sustainability is fundamental to our business success and the success of our companies. Investor has a long tradition of being a responsible owner and company, and firmly believes that a sustainable business approach is a prerequisite for creating long-term value. Our approach companies to develop best-in-class Investor is a member of the UN Global Investor takes a business-driven businesses, they create value for their Compact and supports the ILO convenapproach to sustainability as we becustomers, for society, and in turn, for tions, Universal Declaration of Human lieve this is a prerequisite for creating us and our shareholders. Rights and the OECD Guidelines for long-term-value, both in our role as In 2019, Investor performed its ­Multinational Enterprises. a company as well as in our role as a ­second materiality assessment in order In our role as an owner we have also responsible owner. We define sustainto identify our most important sustaindeveloped a framework including Sustainability as the delivery of long-term value ability areas. We identified three focus ability Guidelines, a sustainability network in economic, environmental and social areas relating to our impact both as a for knowledge sharing and an approach terms. At an overall level our work is company and an owner: for monitoring sustainability issues and based on our Sustainability Policy, Code performance in the value creation plans of Conduct and clear roles and respon• Business Ethics & Governance for each portfolio company. We report sibilities. • Climate & Resource Efficiency on our sustainability performance once a It is in our role as an owner that we • Diversity & Inclusion year to the Investor Board of Directors. have the most impact, through the Investor's Sustainability Guidelines set ­capital we provide, our engaged owner­ Business Ethics & Governance clear expectations for Investor and our ship and through our representation on Investor has zero tolerance for noncompanies to conduct their operations in the boards. In addition, we create value ethical business behavior. We are cona responsible and ethical manner. Investor through the employment, innovations, vinced that good business ethics and as well as each of our companies have a products and services delivered by governance are key to build strong and Code of Conduct, Anti-corruption policy our companies. When we support our successful companies. and Whistleblowing channel in place. UN Sustainable Development Goals Investor is committed to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and contributes to a number of them. Read more at www.investorab.com Gender Equality Decent Work & Responsible Climate Action Peace, Justice & Partnership for the Goals SDG 5.5 Economic Growth Consumption & Production SDG 13 Strong Institutions SDG 17.16 Ensure full participation SDG 8.2 SDG 12.2 Take urgent action to combat SDG 16.5 Enhance the global in leadership and decisionInnovate and upgrade for Sustainable management climate change and its Substantially reduce partnership for sustainable making economic productivity and use of natural resources impacts corruption and bribery development Investor's Sustainability Guidelines 1. E  nsure that sustainability is integrated into the business 6. Analyze risks and opportunities and formulate relevant 2. Comply with local and national legislation in each country measurable targets of operation 7. Continuously improve social, environmental and 3. Regularly assess material sustainability topics and have economic impact with a special focus on innovation, an active dialog with stakeholders climate, diversity & inclusion 4. Sign and adhere to the UN Global Compact, commit 8. Have adequate processes and resources to manage to UN Sustainable Development Goals, support the ILO and monitor sustainability performance conventions, Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as 9. Have a secure reporting channel for whistleblowing well as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises in place 5. Have implemented policies and Code of Conduct that ad10. Transparently report on the sustainability development dress relevant sustainability areas including business ethics Administration Report – Sustainability INVESTOR 2019 Climate & Resource Efficiency Diversity & Inclusion Portfolio Companies The business community has a key role Investor strongly believes that diverse in taking action and coming up with new teams characterized by inclusion and innovative solutions to combat climate different perspectives stimulate innovachange and increasing resource effition and drive better decision-making. ciency. Investor is committed to climate Inclusive organizations maximize the targets aligned with the Paris Agreement power of all differences and realize the and has the target to halve its greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. As an full potential of all of their employees. We strive for diversity across all dimensions: 95% owner, we acknowledge our broader role national origin, age, gender, education as to accelerate the transition to a sustainwell as differences in perspectives and able low carbon economy. experiences. This builds stronger comThrough our board representatives panies and creates long-term value. we engage and follow up with our comInvestor drives this work through of our companies are members panies on their targets and measures to the nomination committees and board of UN Global Compact reduce their climate impact including representation. Investor's targets for carbon footprint of products and solu2030 are: tions. Investor annually follows up with the companies regarding water con• To reach a gender balance of 40/60 in the portfolio companies’ boards of sumption, waste and CO2e emissions. directors and executive management 10% Investor's targets are: groups from an overall portfolio per• To reduce CO2e emissions by 50 perspective. This means at least 40 percent by 2030 compared to 2016 for the cent of the underrepresented gender. overall portfolio (portfolio companies' • All companies measure the perceived scope 1 and 2). As of 2019, emissions level of inclusion among employees. have decreased by 29 percent. of our companies’ total revenues • To monitor and track that all our In 2019, the average proportion of were re-invested within research companies have targets to reduce women in the boards was 25 percent and development emissions from their value chain, for and 24 percent in the management example related to the use of their groups. There were 15 nationalities products (portfolio companies' scope represented in the boards and 21 in the 3). In 2019, 41 percent of the compamanagement groups. 77 percent of our nies had scope 3 targets and 59 percompanies have targets or commitments cent had resource efficiency targets. The same targets are applicable for regarding diversity and 59 percent measure the perceived level of inclusion among employees on a regular basis. –29% Investor as a company. In 2019, the The same targets are applicable for scope 1 and 2 emissions equaled Investor as a company. In 2019, the pro130 tonnes, a reduction of 10 percent portion of women in Investor's Extended compared to 2016. To reach our target, Management Group was 50 percent and reduction of CO2e emissions from Investor will continue to reduce emis48 percent in the overall organization. our companies compared to 2016 sions from our energy consumption and Investor is well diversified in terms company cars. We also work to reduce of age, gender and expertise. Through the impact from our operations by for employee surveys we follow up on Investor example managing waste in an enviengagement, motivation and inclusion. Key Activities 2019 ronmentally sound manner and more Read more on page 14 and 112. efficient traveling. Read more on page • Engaged with all our 22 companies 110-113. regarding sustainability Investor CO2e emissions, tonnes 2019 Diversity Investor, share of women 2019 • Investor Sustainability Network met four times Scope 1 emissions 18 Employees 48% Scope 2 emissions1) 112 Extended Management Group1) 50% • Initiated sustainability training Scope 3 emissions1) 356,970 Board of Directors2) 44% within Patricia Industries 1) M  ethod and description of Investor's scope 2 and 3 1) T  he share in Investor’s Management Group was 60%. • Investor identified long-term emissions are presented on page 113. 2) Investor’s  Board of Directors excluding the CEO. sustainability targets to be reached by 2030 INVESTOR 2019 Administration Report – Sustainability People at the Centre We are convinced that top quality individuals with different mindsets make all the difference. Investor's highly skilled employees and board representatives are at the center of our business model. We strive to create a sustainable, inclusive and attractive workplace, where people feel they can have positive impact. Our culture is our foundation a continuous approach for discussion on is to have a gender diverse slate of candiInvestor is a purpose-driven company goals and priorities, values, development dates and diverse interview panels. with a strong sense of pride in our long and feedback. Each individual has his or Investor has a zero tolerance p ­ olicy history. Over time, it has built a culture her own Personal Development Plan. It against any kind of harassment or which underlines the importance of is discussed frequently and the developdiscrimination and we have an external being curious, open to new ideas and ment planning is employee-driven, which whistleblowing channel. collaboration. means that the employee owns the plan. We continue to measure perceived Our core values that guide us in our Investor, on the other hand, provides inclusion and how our employees feel daily work are; Care for People, Contribstructured support and guidance. about their individual ability to make an ute with Heart and Mind, Challenge and We offer different opportunities to impact. Improve and Create Value. In 2019, we continuously learn and develop, includWe want to offer fair and market-­based continued the work to integrate our core ing internal and external trainings but compensation. When it comes to equal values. A strong and sound corporate also job rotations to portfolio companies. pay, we conduct an annual salary evalculture is a prerequisite to successfully The primary focus for professional deuation to ensure that we provide equal achieve our vision and goals. We convelopment and up-skilling is on-the-job compensation between men and women. tinuously develop our corporate culture training. We regularly organize activities based on our core values. to encourage a learning organization and Building for the future promote collaboration and sharing of As part of attracting future employees Growth and development knowledge. and strengthening our employer brand, We believe in supporting everyone to we offer students internships within our reach their full potential and make sure Diversity and inclusion different business areas. During 2019, everybody has a sense of growth and We believe building long-term success­ we welcomed eight talented interns to direction. Working at Investor means ful companies requires people with Investor. Over the years, we have built having the opportunity to make an different backgrounds, experiences and close relationships with selected univerimpact either within the investment perspectives. Also, we are convinced sities and frequently meet with students organization or as a specialist within that making use of the total available from different schools. our corporate functions. Being part of talent base builds stronger and more When joining Investor our new a small team within a specific area, leads dynamic teams. Our organization is well employees take part in an onboarding to a strong sense of team commitment diversified in terms of age, gender and program and are introduced to the and responsibility. expertise. different functions and business units, During the year we launched the We strive to expand our recruitment as well as our purpose and our values. framework Impact and Development, base and when recruiting, our ambition Core Values and Behaviors Care for People Challenge and Improve Contribute with Create Value Building strong and sustainable We firmly believe that there is Heart and Mind We strive to create value in businesses requires talented always room for improvement. Our success is driven by the everything we do, ultimately and motivated people. Our It is crucial for us as an engaged talent, expertise and passion generating returns for our collaborative, respectful owner as well as in our daily of our employees. Everyone shareholders and benefiting and transparent working work. We constantly challenge is expected to contribute and people and society. Creating environment is an instrumental ourselves and our companies create positive impact. value is the guiding principle part of our culture. to be innovative and to work for our priorities, decisions and smarter. • We foster an open, informed actions. • We treat each other with and transparent culture respect • We set high expectations • We contribute our views and • We always act in our • We encourage teamwork • We dare to question knowledge companies’ best interests • We embrace diversity & • We challenge old structures • We bring energy and passion • We all contribute to creating inclusion and ways of working into everything we do value • We develop ourselves and • We actively build relation• We create financial as well as help others to grow ships and networks non-financial value Administration Report – People at the Centre INVESTOR 2019 Our philosophy on remuneration – in short • Total remuneration should be competitive in order to attract the right person to the right place at the right time. • A substantial part of the total remuneration should be variable. • The remuneration should be linked to long-term shareholder returns. We encourage our employees to invest in Investor shares. • The remuneration principles should be transparent. • We apply the grandparent principle for any changes of an individual's remuneration. Collective bargaining agreement Investor mirrors the collective bargaining agreement for the banking community and offer our employees the same or better benefits. 50/50% women/men Age distribution1) Key indicators1) December 31 2019 Extended Number of employees Number of employees 89 Management Group Employees, women 48% 50 Managers, women 32% Extended Management Group, women 50% 48/52% 40 Extended Management Group, nationalities 2 Personnel turnover 15% 30 Average sick leave 2) 1.5% 20 Employees Stockholm 76 women/men 10 New York 10 Investor Amsterdam 2 Palo Alto 1 0 <30 30-50 >50 Age 1) Excluding excluding wholly-owned subsidiaries. Women Men 2) P  ercentage of total time. Data collected from HR and remuneration systems in the Stockholm office. Antal anställda 50 INVESTOR 2019 Administration Report – People at the Centre 40 Husqvarna 2% Electrolux 3% Patricia Industries Wärtsilä 3% Atlas Copco Saab 4% 22% Patricia Industries' Sobi 5% key focus is to invest in and develop wholly-owned companies with long-term growth potential. The Nasdaq vision 6% is to be a great home for great companies. In 2019, key priorities were to further develop the existing companies, including the most recently acquired subsidiaries, and completing the divestment of Aleris. Ericsson 6% ABB 17% Epiroc 7% Patricia Industries' key focus is to invest in and develop whollySEB 12% owned companies in the Nordics and North America. The 23% 115 AstraZeneca 14% aim is to exceed 90 percent ownership, with the companies’ management and board directors as co-owners, to ensure full alignment. of total adjusted assets SEK bn Patricia Industries operates from offices in Stockholm, New York and Palo Alto, and has a separate investment mandate and a specially appointed Board of Directors. The boards of Patricia Industries’ companies are typically Financial Finansiella directors from our network and composed of independent Investments 4% Grand Group <1% investeringar investment professionals 4% PatriciaGrand from <1%by an Group led Industries, Three Scandinavia 7% independent,Tre Skandinavien non-executive, 7%chairperson. Vectura 3% Vectura The portfolio also 3% Financial Investments, in which includes Piab 4% Piab 4%has not yet been defined. the investment horizon BraunAbility 5% Mölnlycke BraunAbility 5% Mölnlycke 54% Capital allocation 54% Sarnova 5% Sarnova 5% We focus on investing through our existing wholly-owned Laborie 7% companies, for example Laborie 7% to finance organic growth initiatives or add-on acquisitions. While the main priority is to further dePermobil 10% velop the existing companies, Permobil 10% we also look for new subsidiaries offering attractive long-term profitable growth opportunities, both in the Nordics and in North America. Performance 2019 Highlights For the major subsidiaries, pro forma organic sales growth amounted to 4 percent in constant currency, while EBITA grew • Based on estimated market values, the value of by 18 percent. Distributions from the companies to Patricia Patricia Industries, Ventures excluding 3% cash, increased by Industries amounted to SEK 5.7bn. Mölnlycke, Permobil, Piab 23 percent.Real Estate 3% and Three Scandinavia all made Ventures 3% distributions. These proceeds • Laborie and Piab Credit 4% announced important strategic strengthen the capacity to invest in existing and new subsidiaries. acquisitions. Midmarket Asia 8% Midmarket 20% Investments and divestments during the yearFullt • Mölnlycke, Permobil, Laborie and Piab made Private several Net divestments amounted to SEK 5.3bn, driveninvesterade by exit proimportant new product launches. Equity 63% Infrastructure ceeds from Aleris and3%the divestment of financialfonder investments • Infrastructure SEK 5.7bn was 19%distributed to Patricia Industries from Credit for approximately 3%3.4bn. At the end of the year, SEK 55%Laborie Mölnlycke, Permobil, Piab and Three Scandinavia. Real Estate 3% announced the USD 525m acquisition of Clinical Innovations. • Aleris was divested, with divestment proceeds Patricia Industries will contribute USD 450m in equity to Equity 13% amounting to SEK 2.0bn. Laborie to help finance the transaction. In addition, several • Financial Investments were divested for total subsidiaries, made important complementary acquisitions proceeds of SEK 3.4bn. during the year. For example, Piab announced the acquisition of TAWI Group right before year-end. • The boards were strengthened in several companies and Piab and Vectura appointed new CEOs. Going forward Near-term, we focus on mitigating the impact of the covid-19 outbreak in early 2020, with focus on employees, customers, supply chains and production. We will continue to focus on further developing our existing ­companies and drive continued profitable growth through organic and in-organic initiatives. Our ambition is also to find new subsidiaries in the Nordics and in North America. We will continue to divest financial investments and redeploy proceeds and resources to other companies in the portfolio. Patricia Industries INVESTOR 2019 Board members from Investor BraunAbility Noah Walley Grand Group Jenny Ashman Haquinius Laborie Yuriy Prilutskiy Mölnlycke Gunnar Brock (Chair), Christian Cederholm Permobil Christian Cederholm Piab Thomas Kidane Sarnova Yuriy Prilutskiy Three Scandinavia Christian Cederholm, Lennart Johansson Vectura Thomas Kidane, Lennart Johansson Overview 1) Ownership Board representation wholly-owned subsidiaries, boards comprise of independent partner-owned companies directors and directors from Patricia Industries Ownership perspective Valuation methodology long-term, buy-to-build strategy acquisition, equity and other relevant methods, estimated market values as supplementary information 115 adjusted net asset value 5.7 total Distribution, (ex. cash), SEK bn SEK bn 23% adjusted value change 5.3 net divested, SEK bn 1) G  overnance and valuation methodology refer to subsidiaries and partner-owned investments. Performance 2019, major subsidiaries % 20 18% 15 13% 10 5 of which organic 0 4% Sales growth EBITA growth INVESTOR % 2019 Patricia Industries 20 18% SEK 62 estimated value bn Mölnlycke designs, manufactures and supplies single use products and solutions for managing wounds, of holding improving surgical safety and efficiency, and preventing pressure 12% ulcers. of total adjusted assets Organic sales Reported EBITA growth, growth 99% constant currency total exposure 4% 5% Important events 2019 Important sustainability areas and related risks • Organic sales growth amounted to 4 percent in constant • Material aspects include sustainable supply chains, business currency, with Wound Care growing faster than Surgical. ethics, health and safety, diversity and equality, product All regions contributed to growth, with Emerging Markets quality and environmental impact. growing at the highest rate. • The principles are primarily addressed in the Code of • The EBITA margin was essentially unchanged. Profitability ­Conduct, Sustainability Policy, Quality Policy and Supplier was negatively impacted by increased sales and marketing Code of Conduct. activities to support ongoing product launches. • Within Wound Care, the roll-out of the Mepilex® Border Flex Sustainability priorities range continued and the product has now been launched in • Updated the compliance program, addressing subjects such all major markets. as business ethics including anti-corruption, anti-bribery, health care compliance and fair competition law issues. • Mölnlycke acquired M&J Airlaid, a manufacturer of a key component in Mölnlycke’s best-selling wound care dressings. • Efforts to reduce climate impact through product develThe acquisition supports Mölnlycke’s growth ambitions and opment, increased efficiency in supply chain logistics and adds critical R&D capabilities. improved waste management in manufacturing. • Mölnlycke successfully issued a 10-year EUR 500m senior • Employee trainings to increase health and safety in factories. unsecured bond at attractive terms. • Efforts to increase the share of women in senior positions. • Distribution of EUR 425m to Patricia Industries, reflecting the company’s strong balance sheet and financial flexibility. Key figures, EUR m 20191) 2018 OUR VIEW Net sales 1,542 1,452 EBITDA 451 418 • Mölnlycke continues to offer attractive long-term, EBITDA, % 29.2 28.8 profitable growth opportunities on the back of its EBITA 391 372 leading market positions and focus on delivering EBITA, % 25.3 25.6 innovative, evidence-based quality products within Operating cash flow 382 374 wound management, pressure injury prevention and Net debt 1,471 1,193 surgical solutions. 1) Including impact from IFRS 16, Leasing. • As long-term owners, Patricia Industries drives investKey sustainability performance indicators 2019 2018 ments in continued innovation and clinical evidence to Number of employees 7,790 7,895 support long-term profitable growth. Mölnlycke has Employees trained on anti-bribery and anti-corruption, % 96 n.a delivered several new products to the market and is Number of accidents per million working hours (LTA) 1.5 2.1 continuously improving clinical expertise and evidence. Women in senior positions (Director level or above), % 35 33 Key priorities to drive continued growth include innovaCO2e emissions, tonnes (Scope 1 and 2) 97,939 91,792 tion, expansion on emerging markets and complemenwww.molnlycke.com tary acquisitions. Chair: Gunnar Brock CEO: Richard Twomey Patricia Industries INVESTOR 2019 SEK 12 bn estimated value Permobil provides advanced mobility and seating rehab solutions through development, of holding production and sale of powered and manual wheelchairs, pressure2% relieving cushions and power-assist devices. of total adjusted assets Organic sales Reported EBITA growth, growth 96% constant currency total exposure 1% 15% Important events 2019 Important sustainability areas and related risks • Organic sales growth amounted to 1 percent in constant • The most material aspects are quality of life for users, product currency. All product segments grew except for Seating & and service safety and quality, safe and respectful work place, Positioning. Regionally, APAC reported strong growth while diversity and inclusion, responsible sourcing, business ethics Americas and EMEA were stable. and environmental impact. • The EBITA margin improved driven by initiatives to control • These areas are largely covered in principle in core values, costs, production efficiency improvements and favorable Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption Policy, Health and Safety exchange rate-related effects. Last year’s margin was Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct. negatively impacted by costs related to the CEO transition and an asset disposal. Sustainability priorities • Operationally, Permobil continued to consolidate its manu­ • Conducted a materiality assessment resulting in seven focus facturing footprint, thereby reducing complexity. areas on which the continued sustainability efforts will be based. • Permobil launched several new products, including the F-series advanced front-wheel drive power wheelchair. • Improved and prioritized key performance indicators. • Distribution of SEK 620m to its owners, of which SEK 601m • Established new Health and Safety Policy and arranged to Patricia Industries. awareness training. Ongoing online tutorial for employees. • Offer Permobil Connect, a number of services aided by connected power wheelchairs, in more markets enabling less disruption to end-users. Key figures, SEK m 20191) 2018 OUR VIEW Net sales 4,446 4,162 EBITDA 924 780 • Permobil’s ambition to increase life quality for its users EBITDA, % 20.8 18.8 through innovation has made the company a globally EBITA 726 634 leading provider of advanced mobility solutions with EBITA, % 16.3 15.2 attractive opportunities for profitable growth. Operating cash flow 776 649 Net debt 3,549 3,088 • Its strong culture, portfolio of brands, competitive product 1) Including impact from IFRS 16, Leasing. offering and innovation capabilities form a strong base for providing accessibility for more users globally. Key sustainability performance indicators 2019 2018 • Key focus in the coming years is to drive organic growth, Number of employees 1,625 1,565 complemented by add-on acquisitions to strengthen the Injury Rate, TCIR 1.68 3.01 product portfolio and sales capabilities in existing and Delivered medical products, units2) 1,007,000 1,019,000 new geographies. CO2e emissions, tonnes (Scope 1 and 2) 10,586 10,252 R&D intensity (R&D/sales), % 3.80 3.82 2) Restated compared to annual report 2018, due to developed calculation method. www.permobil.com Chair: Martin Lundstedt CEO: Bengt Thorsson INVESTOR 2019 Patricia Industries SEK 8 bn estimated value Laborie develops, designs and distributes innovative capital equipment for the urology and gastro­ of holding enterology sectors, with comple­­ mentary and recurring high-volume 2% sales of catheters and other diagnostic and therapeutic disposables. of total adjusted assets Organic sales Reported growth, EBITA growth 98% constant currency total exposure 4% 168% Important events 2019 Important sustainability areas and related risks • Organic sales growth amounted to 4 percent in constant • Material aspects include medical device regulatory and comcurrency, driven by balanced growth between the urology and pliance regulations, supply chain continuity and compliance, gastrointestinal business units. simplifying business infrastructure, cybersecurity and data • The EBITA margin amounted to 25.1 percent and was protection. impacted by USD 6m in costs related to the acquisition • The principles are addressed in the Code of Conduct, of ­Clinical Innovations. Profitability continued to improve Supplier Code of Conduct, Compliance Policy, Quality System driven by cost savings materializing from the integration of procedures and data privacy and security procedures. the urology diagnostics and therapeutics company Cogentix (acquired in April 2018) and the restructuring of Laborie's Sustainability priorities European business. • Implemented enhanced Supplier Code of Conduct and new • During the third quarter, Laborie initiated the commercial procedures to evaluate and intervene if incidents of nonlaunch of its next-generation NXT urodynamics platform. compliance occur. • In December, Laborie announced the acquisition of Clinical • Increased the integration of sustainability activities into Innovations, a global leader in childbirth and neonatal medical business processes. These initiatives have focused on labor products, for a total consideration of USD 525m. Patricia conditions, environmental protection and enhanced data Industries will contribute USD 450m in equity to help finance protection. The key environmental performance indicators the acquisition. In 2019, Clinical Innovations' sales amounted will be assessed and improved in 2020. to approximately USD 70m. Laborie also acquired Ardmore Healthcare, a UK-based supplier of gastrointestinal products, in January. Key figures, USD m 20191) 2018 OUR VIEW Net sales 205 181 EBITDA 56 22 • As the global leader in advanced urodynamic testing, the EBITDA, % 27.3 12.4 gold standard for diagnosing the underlying causes of EBITA 51 19 complex urinary incontinence, Laborie is poised to EBITA, % 25.1 10.6 continue its organic growth on the back of multiple Operating cash flow 24 –20 long-term drivers such as an aging population and higher Net debt 288 278 awareness of pelvic floor disorders. 1) Including impact from IFRS 16, Leasing. • Near-term, the priorities for Laborie are to drive Key sustainability performance indicators 2019 2018 ­continued growth and product innovation in its core Number of employees 580 580 urology and gastrointestinal businesses, advance the Employees trained on Code of Conduct, % 99 98 internal R&D pipeline, and complete the integration of Conformity to Supplier Code of Conduct, % 42 n.a Clinical Innovations, which provides Laborie with a third CO2e emissions, tonnes (Scope 1 and 2) 1,300 1,346 business segment with attractive long-term growth R&D intensity (R&D/sales), % 5 4 opportunities. Laborie will also continue to evaluate www.laborie.com additional add-on acquisitions within urology as well as Chair: Bo Jesper Hansen other markets. CEO: Michael Frazette Patricia Industries INVESTOR 2019 SEK 6 bn estimated value Sarnova is a specialty distributor of medical equipment, products, supplies and training services to of holding emergency providers, hospitals and health-related organizations. 1% of total adjusted assets Organic sales Reported growth, EBITA growth 86% constant currency total exposure 4% 14% Important events 2019 Important sustainability areas and related risks • Organic sales growth amounted to 4 percent in constant • The most material aspects are profitable growth, customer currency, driven by balanced growth between the Acute Care satisfaction, engaged employees, ethical conduct and and Emergency Preparedness divisions. diversity in the workplace. • The underlying EBITA margin was unchanged compared • The principles are primarily addressed in the Code of to last year, as Sarnova continued to invest in additional Conduct, Employee Handbook and general corporate commercial resources within both Acute Care and Emergency policies. Preparedness, digital platform enhancements and warehouse optimization. Sustainability priorities • Sarnova and Ambu mutually agreed to transition distribution • Issued a new Code of Conduct. Continued education for of several products from Sarnova to Ambu. The transition employees on ethical conduct, with an emphasis on anti-trust resulted in profit contribution to Sarnova, impacting its EBITA and anti-bribery. margin positively during the year, as well as a USD 38m pay• Conducted an annual employee engagement survey with an ment from Ambu to Sarnova. emphasis of greater employee participation. • Sarnova completed two acquisitions for its Emergency • Focused on improving diversity within workforce. Preparedness division, Southeast Emergency Equipment and • Conducted a customer satisfaction survey. Concordance Healthcare Solutions, strengthening its product and services offering further. Key figures, USD m 20191) 20182) OUR VIEW Net sales 647 597 EBITDA 82 69 • As the leading specialty distributor of medical products EBITDA, % 12.6 11.6 for the emergency preparedness and respiratory markets EBITA 73 64 in the U.S., Sarnova has attractive long-term profitable EBITA, % 11.3 10.7 growth potential. Operating cash flow 86 49 Net debt 287 307 • Near-term, focus is on commercial execution within the Emergency Preparedness and Acute Care businesses, 1) Including impact from IFRS 16, Leasing. 2) C  onsolidated as of April 4, 2018. Historical pro forma figures presented for information expansion of product and service capabilities such as purposes. private label and custom kitting, inventory management, and investments in warehouse and distribution capacity. Key sustainability performance indicators 2019 2018 • Sarnova continues to evaluate acquisition opportunities Number of employees 645 620 to strengthen its existing business as well as expand into Employees trained on Code of Ethics, % 99 98 Employee Engagement, % versus Benchmark (+/–) 80, +4 76, +5 attractive adjacent markets leveraging its organizational Percentage of women among employees, % 44 44 capabilities. CO2e emissions, tonnes (Scope 1 and 2) 2,323 2,270 Customer satisfaction, NPS 55 47 www.sarnova.com Chair: Matthew D Walter CEO: Jeff Prestel INVESTOR 2019 Patricia Industries SEK 6 bn estimated value BraunAbility is a global manufacturer of automotive mobility products engaged in design, of holding development and distribution of wheelchair accessible vehicles 1% of total (WAV) and wheelchair lifts. adjusted assets Organic sales Reported growth, EBITA growth 95% constant currency total exposure 5% 43% Important events 2019 Important sustainability areas and related risks • Organic sales growth amounted to 5 percent in constant • Material aspects include product quality, customer satisfaccurrency, primarily driven by strong performance in commertion, innovation, regulatory compliance, occupational health cial wheelchair accessible vehicles and lifts. and safety, sustainable supply chain, financial health and • The EBITA margin amounted to 7.7 percent, an improvement talent management. compared to last year driven by operating efficiency improve• These principles are primarily addressed in the Code of ments and supply chain optimization initiatives. ­Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, Employee Handbook, • BraunAbility completed several complementary acquisitions, Quality Policy and company vision and values. including Kersey Mobility, a wheelchair accessible vehicles dealer operating three stores in the Pacific Northwest. Sustainability priorities • BraunAbility opened its new corporate headquarters in • Implemented an enterprise-wide talent review process. ­Carmel, Indiana, in September. • Completed a supplier risk assessment and revised the ­Supplier Code of Conduct. • Established a Research & Development group focused on product innovation. • Implemented a discrepancy severity rating system to aid in early indication of warranty issues and prioritization. Key figures, USD m 20191) 2018 OUR VIEW Net sales 734 646 EBITDA 70 45 • As the global market leader in automotive mobility EBITDA, % 9.6 7.0 products for people with disabilities, BraunAbility has EBITA 57 40 significant organic growth potential as its core wheelchair EBITA, % 7.7 6.2 accessible vehicle market is underpenetrated and beneOperating cash flow 72 55 fits from sustainable demographic growth drivers. Net debt 193 195 1) Including impact from IFRS 16, Leasing. • There are multiple opportunities to grow the business through acquisitions, product portfolio expansion, and Key sustainability performance indicators 2019 2018 entry into new geographies. In addition, there remains Number of employees 1,700 1,685 potential to further improve manufacturing efficiency. Employees receiving performance development reviews, %2) 98.5 n.a • Focus remains on executing on strategic growth initiaInjury Rate, TCIR2) 1.1 1.1 tives, including new product development, continuous CO2e emissions, tonnes (Scope 1 and 2)2) 6,112 6,275 Reduction in warranty cost per unit WAV/lift, %2) –13/–5 +36/+7 improvement on quality and safety, and complementary Procurement spending on local suppliers (300mile radius),%2) 80.8 n.a add-on acquisitions. Suppliers signed off on Code of Conduct, no.2) 59 59 2) The sustainability indicators exclude BraunAbility’s subsidiaries. www.braunability.com Chair: Nick Gutwein CEO: Staci Kroon Patricia Industries INVESTOR 2019 ted world™ SEK 5 bn estimated value Piab develops, produces and distributes gripping and m­ oving solutions for end-users and of holding ­machine manufacturers to improve energy efficiency, productivity and 1% work environment. of total adjusted assets Organic sales Reported growth, EBITA growth 96% constant currency total exposure –4% 1% Important events 2019 Important sustainability areas and related risks • Organic sales growth amounted to –4 percent in constant cur• The most material aspects are profitable growth through rency. All geographic regions declined. Vacuum Automation continuous development of innovative and energy efficient reported moderate growth, while the other divisions declined. products, engaged employees, sound business ethics, trade • Reported profitability included SEK 9m in acquisition-related compliance and anti-corruption. costs. Excluding these costs, the EBITA margin was 28 per• These principles are primarily addressed in the Code of cent. Underlying profitability improved driven by a combinaConduct, Trade Compliance Policy, Anti-Corruption Policy, tion of good cost control, favorable mix and the weak SEK. Employee Handbook and Supplier Code of Conduct. • Piab acquired TAWI Group, a leading manufacturer of ergonomic handling solutions with global reach. In 2019, Sustainability priorities TAWI's sales amounted to approximately SEK 350m. Piab • Implementation of an Employee Handbook and a Code of also a­ cquired three Swedish distributors, strengthening the Conduct for suppliers. Nordic sales organization. • Implemented a Trade Compliance Policy. The policy includes • Several new products were launched, including a smart procedures for identifying risk countries and products. Also ­Ergonomic Handling lifter, End-of-arm vacuum tool for implemented enhanced procedures to prevent sales of ­collaborative robots and a smart Vacuum Conveying solution. goods and services to countries currently under US and EU ­sanctions. • Piab distributed SEK 59m to Patricia Industries. • Clas Gunneberg was appointed new CEO and assumed his • Continued R&D efforts of Industry 4.0 products such as position in September 2019. the piFLOW SMART and piLIFT SMART solutions that are more energy efficient, more user-friendly and contain more ­features and functionality compared to current products. Key figures, SEK m 20191) 20182) OUR VIEW Net sales 1,267 1,255 EBITDA 379 354 • Piab has significant organic growth potential driven EBITDA, % 29.9 28.2 by the global automation trend within manufacturing EBITA 341 338 and ­logistics. Based on our long-term commitment we EBITA, % 26.9 26.9 continue to support investments in product development Operating cash flow 325 216 and geographic expansion to drive sustainable growth. Net debt 987 1,064 1) Including impact from IFRS 16, Leasing. • There is also an opportunity to further leverage the com2) C  onsolidated as of June 14, 2018. Historical pro forma figures presented for pany's strong product portfolio and complement it by information purposes.. add-on acquisitions to support growth. Key sustainability performance indicators 2019 2018 • By acquiring TAWI Group, Piab establishes itself as a Number of employees 515 465 global leader in ergonomic handling solutions. The comEmployees signed off on Code of Conduct, % 83 64 panies have a strong strategic fit with complementary Energy efficiency (piSMART pumps sold/total pumps sold), % 18 18 product portfolios, and create an even stronger sales CO2e emissions, tonnes (Scope 1 and 2) 1,278 1,075 R&D intensity (R&D/sales), % 4.9 4.4 force and network of distributors. www.piab.com Chair: Ronnie Leten CEO: Clas Gunneberg INVESTOR 2019 Patricia Industries SEK 4 bn estimated value Vectura develops, owns and manages properties for community service, office and hotel with of holding a long-term commitment. Manages the whole value chain, from 1% of total land acquisition to development and management. adjusted assets Reported sales Reported growth EBITA growth 100% total exposure 17% 28% Important events 2019 Important sustainability areas and related risks • Adjusting for a non-recurring revenue last year, sales growth • The most material aspects are reducing energy consumpamounted to 23 percent, primarily driven by the office segtion, material usage and waste to ensure the development of ment (opening of the Royal Office in January 2019) and recent sustainable buildings over time, business ethics, as well as additions to the community service portfolio. healthy and safe environments around the buildings. • Commercial and community service projects progressed • Principles for these areas are primarily described in the according to plan and Vectura continued to strengthen its Code of Conduct, Sustainability Policy and Supplier Code of project pipeline. Several ongoing constructions of care propConduct. erties were completed, and several new constructions were initiated. Sustainability priorities • The zoning plan for GoCo Health Innovation City in Mölndal, • Developed and implemented a Supplier Code of Conduct. ­Sweden, was approved, and includes office space, care • A materiality assessment has been conducted which resulted properties, hotel, research facilities and accommodation. in raised ambitions regarding climate impact, innovation, • Vectura renewed and extended its credit facility, enabling the supply chain responsibilities, contributions to society as well company to deliver on its expansion ambitions and project as health and well-being. Based on the result a sustainability pipeline. strategy will be launched 2020. • The market value of Vectura’s real estate amounted to SEK 7,282m as of December 31, 2019 (5,911). • Joel Ambré was appointed new CEO, effective August 2019. Key figures, SEK m 20191) 2018 OUR VIEW Net sales 273 233 EBITDA 173 142 • Vectura is focused on creating value by developing and EBITDA, % 63.3 60.8 efficiently managing innovative and sustainable real EBITA, adjusted 74 58 ­estate in the community service, office and hotel EBITA, adjusted, % 27.2 24.7 segments. Operating cash flow –597 –298 Net debt 2,662 2,166 • Near-term priorities for Vectura include strengthening the organization, executing on its pipeline of development 1) Including impact from IFRS 16, Leasing. projects and sourcing additional growth opportunities. Key sustainability performance indicators 2019 2018 Number of employees 22 22 Percentage of women among employees, % 50 38 CO2e emissions, tonnes (Scope 1 and 2) 101 109 CO2e emissions intensity, kg/m2 3.0 3.42) Energy intensity, kWh/m2 134 1372) 2) Restated compared to annual report 2018, due to developed calculation method. www.vecturafastigheter.se Chair: Mats Wäppling CEO: Joel Ambré Patricia Industries INVESTOR 2019 SEK 0.4 estimated value bn The Grand Group offers accommodation, food & beverage, spa, conference and banqueting. It of holding consists of Scandinavia’s leading hotels Grand Hôtel, Lydmar Hotel <1% of total and The Sparrow Hotel. adjusted assets Sales growth Reported EBITA growth 100% total exposure 7% not measurable Important events 2019 Important sustainability areas and related risks • Organic sales growth amounted to 7 percent, positively • Material aspects include operating in an environ­mentallyimpacted by the reopening of rooms following last year's friendly way, protecting guests’ privacy and safety, and creatrenovation of the façade. ing a safe and secure working environment. • The EBITA margin improved compared to last year, although it • The principles are described in the core values, Code of remained negatively impacted by start-up costs relating to the Conduct, Environmental Policy and Human Resources Stockholm-based boutique hotel The Sparrow Hotel, opened manual. in early 2019. Sustainability priorities • Investment into security with the stated objective for Grand Hôtel to become the safest hotel in Europe. • New multi-year contract signed for wind-powered electricity. • Compliance with new requirements in the area of sustainability from the association Leading Hotels of the World effective from January 1, 2020. • Implemented second phase of service training for all employees and new guest satisfaction measurement system in cooperation with Leading Hotels. • Continued efforts to reduce food waste and increase purchasing of ecological and locally produced goods. Key figures, SEK m 20191) 2018 OUR VIEW Net sales 680 603 EBITDA 142 34 • The Grand Group continues to develop its concept and EBITDA, % 20.8 5.7 customer offering, while focus on cost-efficiency and EBITA 11 –5 flexibility remains key to handle changes in demand. EBITA, % Operating cash flow 1.7 1 –0.8 –42 • Our focus is on continued revenue growth and improveNet debt 893 4 ment of operational excellence. In addition, focus is on improving performance of the recently opened The 1) Including impact from IFRS 16, Leasing. Sparrow Hotel. Key sustainability performance indicators 2019 2018 Number of employees 380 380 Absentee rate, % 4.6 4.5 Customer satisfaction, NPS 70 66 CO2e emissions, tonnes (Scope 1 and 2) 419 421 Recycled biowaste, tonnes 77 90 www.grandhotel.se, www.lydmar.com, www.thesparrowhotel.se Chair: Peter Wallenberg Jr. CEO: Pia Djupmark INVESTOR 2019 Patricia Industries We strive to be a leader in sustainable business practices 48 Administration Report – Disposition of Earnings INVESTOR 2019 Sustainability Notes Investor’s Sustainability Report 2019 is integrated in the Annual The listed companies and a number of the companies within Patricia Report and covers the calendar year 2019. The content is mainly on Industries also publish their own sustainability reports. The sustainpages 7, 12-15 and in this supplement on pages 110–113. The report ability report has been reviewed by a third party, PwC, to ensure the has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative accuracy and completeness of the reporting. Questions or comments (GRI) Standards, Core option, as well as the provisions of the Swedish regarding the report can be directed to Sustainability Specialist, Sofia Annual Accounts Act. The wholly-owned subsidiaries have sustainabilJonsson, sofia.jonsson@investorab.com ity sections on pages 22-31. GRI Content Index General Disclosures Disclosures Page Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Inside cover page 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 1, 4-5, 10-11, 16-33 102-3 Location of headquarters Back of cover 102-4 Location of operations Back of cover, 15 102-5 Ownership and legal form 34-35 102-6 Markets served 11, 110-111 102-7 Scale of the organization 8-9, 15, 50-51, 112-113 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 15, 112-113 102-9 Supply chain 111 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 111 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 12-13, 113 102-12 External initiatives 12, 111 102-13 Membership of associations 12, 111 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2-3 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 12-15, 111-112 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 36-41 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 111 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 15 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 111 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 111 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 111 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 100, 111 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 110-111 102-47 List of material topics 12-13, 110-111 102-48 Restatements of information 111-113 102-49 Changes in reporting 111-113 102-50 Reporting period 110 102-51 Date of most recent report 111 102-52 Reporting cycle 110 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 110 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 110 102-55 GRI Content Index 110 102-56 External assurance 110, 114 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosures Page Business Ethics & Governance GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 12-13, 111-112 103-2 The management approach and its components 12-13, 111-112 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 110-112 GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 112 Climate & Resource Efficiency GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 12-13, 111-112 103-2 The management approach and its components 12-13, 111-113 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 110-113 GRI 305: GHG Emissions 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) 113 305-2 Energy indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) 113 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) 113 Diversity & Inclusion GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 12-15, 111-112 103-2 The management approach and its components 12-15, 111-113 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 110-113 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 113 Unless otherwise indicated, all GRI Standards used are from 2016. Sustainability Notes INVESTOR 2019 Stakeholder engagement Material topic Boundary and impact Investor continuously monitors its most significant economic, environmental and social impacts to ensure that Investor is addressing the most important Business Ethics Impact within and outside the organization. Ethical business con­topics of its business and stakeholders. The key stakeholder groups have been & Governance duct is the foundation for our and our portfolio companies’ longidentified based on their interest and potential impact from and on Investor’s term success. The information regarding the material topic covers operations. Investor AB and aggregated data for our portfolio companies. Investor’s most significant sustainability topics have been identified and Diversity & Impact within and outside the organization. Investor views diver­prioritized via ongoing engagements, dialogues, group meetings, and interviews Inclusion sity and inclusion as business imperatives and the value that is with stakeholders through different channels and methods. Most of them are created benefits society at large. The information regarding the integrated in our regular work through for example ongoing dialogue with material topic covers Investor AB and aggregated data for our ­investors, analysts, employees, suppliers and partners. portfolio companies. Climate & Impact mainly outside the organization. Small direct impact from Resource Investor AB and main impact is indirect through the operations of Stakeholders Methods of engagement Key topics Efficiency our portfolio companies. Investors includes climate data relating Employees • Regular communication and • Business ethics and to our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. Our scope 3 emissions incl. existing and meetings governance includes the portfolio companies’ direct emissions (their scope 1 potential • Annual and semi-annual • Diversity and inclusion and 2 emissions on an aggregated level). performance reviews • Employee development • Employee surveys • Work-life balance Reporting • Interviews and workshops • Climate Entities divested during the year (Aleris) are removed from the baseline for • External surveys concerning greenhouse gas emissions and are not included in the yearly sustainability data employer brand and student for the overall portfolio. The company’s last sustainability report was published perception in March 2019. Some new contextual information has been added which was • Internship programs not included in the previous report, but aside from this there have been no material changes in reporting practices. The report does not contain any Investors and • Annual Report and Interim Reports • Business ethics and significant restatements of information compared to previous years. Analysts • Webcasts, website and press governance Our business model and supply chain remains unchanged in all material releases • Economic aspects. As an industrial holding company, our supply chain is neither extensive • Sustainability assessment/ performance nor complex. Investor’s primary suppliers are office, software and hardware surveys • Climate providers, consultancies, travel agents etc. Investor’s own analysis shows limited • Capital market days • Diversity sustainability related risks in our supply chain. Suppliers are primarily active in • Investor and analysts meetings • Integrate sustainability Nordic countries and there have been no major changes of suppliers in 2019. and roadshows in business model Our sustainability work is also disclosed on our website where our Sustain• Annual General Meetings ability Policy, Code of Conduct, guiding principle on tax and whistleblowing procedures available. Investor reports its Communication of Progress to the Portfolio • Regular communication and • Business ethics and UN Global Compact and climate data to CDP. Companies meetings governance • Active representation in boards • Climate and resource Areas Policy and strategic documents • Investor Sustainability Network efficiency Compliance with laws and • Code of Conduct • Annual assessment and • Diversity and inclusion business ethics • Sustainability Policy (incl. Investor Sustainability follow-up Fair competition Guidelines) Human Rights • Compliance Policy Society incl. • Annual and Sustainability Reports • Compliance with laws International standards • Work Environment Procedures authorities, • Meetings with sustainability and regulations • Equality Plan universities, scientist and experts • Transparency and • Employee Handbook experts, business • Community engagement and reporting • Tax Policy partners and dialogue • Integrate sustainability Bribery and corruption • Code of Conduct NGOs • Memberships and partnerships in business model Conflict of interest • Gift and Benefit Procedures • Business ethics and Political donations • Personal Account Trading Policy governance • Employee Handbook • Environment and Diversity and • Code of Conduct climate non-discrimination • Sustainability Policy (incl. Investor Sustainability • Diversity and inclusion Guidelines) • Equality Plan The table shows the key stakeholder groups, methods we use to engage with them • Employee Handbook and the key sustainability topics raised. • Work Environment Procedures Working conditions and • Code of Conduct employee development • Sustainability Policy (incl. Investor Sustainability Materiality assessment Guidelines) The first materiality analysis was performed in 2016. During 2019 we con• Employee Handbook ducted an updated stakeholder dialogue to reaffirm the results and prioritize the • Work Environment Procedures most material topics going forward. The stakeholders raised the importance of Environment and climate • Code of Conduct Investor driving the portfolio companies to create sustainable business models • Sustainability Policy (incl. Investor Sustainability and work in a sustainable way. All of our stakeholders stress the importance of Guidelines) active governance of sustainability issues both as a company and as an owner in • Employee Handbook (incl. Travel Policy) order to ensure Investor’s long-term attractiveness as an investment. The results from different stakeholders showed great similarities when it comes to what was Memberships and partnerships valued the most. Topics that have been raised by our key stakeholders are govInvestor works together with other Swedish investors and share knowledge. We ernance, business ethics, anti-corruption, climate and diversity. All stakeholders are for example involved in Sida's Swedish Investors for Sustainable Developconsidered these topics to be very important. Many stakeholder groups also ment with the aim of developing more efficient performance indicators and underlined the importance of transparency in reporting and communication. processes to measure development of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The updated materiality analysis lead to minor changes to the material topics. Investor aims to continuously generate sustainable, economic value and simulFinancial strength and long-term return are the foundation for Investor’s entire taneously have a positive impact on society and the environment, thus creating business model and not reported as a specific topic within the context of our GRI shared value. In 2019, our total paid dividend amounted to SEK 9.9bn, whereof report. The material topics regarding indirect influence were merged within approx. SEK 2.3bn, was distributed to the Wallenberg Foundations, whose other relevant topics. A more significant change after the updated materiality purpose is to grant funding to scientific research in Sweden. analysis is that Investor now includes climate as a separate material topic. Investor strives to be a good corporate citizen. The areas we prioritize are Investor has limited direct impact on environment but as a owner, we have large youth, education and entrepreneurship. Investor supports several organizations indirect impact through our portfolio companies. such as IVA, SNS, Forum för Välfärd, Chambers of Commerce, Business ­Challenge and Young Enterprise Sweden. INVESTOR 2019 Sustainability Notes Investor created a Sustainability Network in 2017. Through Investor's SustainBusiness Ethics & Governance ability Network, we meet the portfolio companies’ Heads of Sustainability three Investor AB to four times per year to discuss different sustainability challenges and opportuActing responsibly and ethically is crucial for Investor to maintain a high level of nities. In 2019, Investor Sustainability Network met four times. credibility. Investor’s Board of Directors have decided on a policy framework In 2019, Investor also facilitated a sustainability training for the companies that sets the principles for how Investor should act as a responsible owner and within Patricia Industries. The training was divided in two parts covering both a company. These topics are addressed in our Code of Conduct and other general sustainability training and a more practical training related to gover­documents such as our policies for sustainability, anti-corruption and whistle­ nance structure for sustainability. blowing. The Sustainability Policy sets the framework for Investor’s sustainability 95% 100% approach and work. The Board of Directors have decided on a long-term sustainability approach covering both Investor and our portfolio companies. The Management Group decides on the development and execution of the sustainability approach and within the Management Group the Head of Corporate of our companies have signed of our companies have Communication & Sustainability is responsible for coordinating and driving the the UN Global Compact a Code of Conduct overall sustainability work. Our Code of Conduct guides all employees in their day to day work based on our values as well as policies. The Code of Conduct applies to all employees, Boards of Director and company representatives. All employees are expected to comply with our policies and confirm their adherence by signing Investor’s Code of Conduct. We hold regular trainings and all policies and procedures are 100% of our companies have an Anti-corruption policy 100%of our companies have a Whistleblowing channel available on Investor’s intranet. In 2019 all employees participated in training covering principles in the policy framework. Investor’s internal instructions are monitored continuously and updated at least annually. Material incidents are reported to the Management Group and the Board. Investor has zero tolerance for corruption and bribery. We also have internal procedures approved by the Management Group, aimed at providing guidance to evaluate what is appropriate and not appropriate in professional relations Diversity & Inclusion regarding, among other things, gifts and benefits. According to the internal procedures, the gifts and benefits given and received shall always be characterized Investor AB by openness and moderation. In doubtful situations, the immediate manager Investor aims to provide a best-in-class working environment for our employees. shall always be informed and consulted. Investor’s Legal department is also All employees shall be treated equally, fairly and with respect regardless of age, available for guidance. In 2019, all employees were trained on the procedures. gender, national origin, disability, religion, sexual orientation or union memberAll employees sign the Code of Conduct which also include the anti-bribery and ship, among others. To ensure equal opportunities in the work environment, anti-corruption policy. The risk for bribery and corruption is evaluated continuInvestor’s management has established an Equality Plan regarding equality ously and also assessed on an annual basis as part of Investor’s risk assessment ­initiatives for Investor's employees. The plan includes five steps: investigate, process. There were no incidents at Investor relating to bribery and corruption analyze, take action, follow up and evaluate. This applies to the areas equal work during 2019. environment, work and parenthood, training and competence development, recruitment, equal wages, and work against harassment, sexual harassment and Whistleblowing channel reprisals. We strive to maintain a transparent business climate and high business ethics The work environment at Investor shall be characterized by opportunity for and we value the safety and respect of everyone affected by our business. professional growth and development, opportunity to influence as well as social Through our whistleblower system, both employees and external parties can wellbeing. The Work Environment Procedure is decided by the Management report suspected violations of law or business ethics. Investor’s employees are Group and is reviewed and approved annually. It is designed so that no an important source of insight for revealing possible misconduct that needs to employee shall put their health at risk. be addressed. Investor organizes regular training for employees. The purpose of Investor conducts an employee engagement survey every 18-24 months. the whistleblowing channel is to encourage employees and other stakeholders The latest survey in 2018 came out with strong results versus the external to blow the whistle on suspected misconduct without any risk of retaliation, as benchmark on engagement, leadership, team efficiency and psychosocial work well as to ensure an appropriate investigation process. environ­ment. Our strongest scores are linked to values and pride. 100 percent The whistleblowing procedure is prepared and managed by Compliance and of our employees stated that they are familiar with our values and 97 percent approved by Investor’s Management Group. Reports are handled confidentially declared that they act according to them and that they are proud to work at by representatives at Investor’s Legal department. Access to messages received Investor. Areas to work on are individual feedback and follow-up. Investor will through the whistleblowing channel is restricted. Representatives from the conduct the next survey in 2020. To enhance an inclusive culture, Investor will Legal department decide if and how a whistleblowing report should be escaalso set a target for perceived level of inclusion. Read more about the targets lated. A summary of received whistleblowing reports is presented to the Board and progress on pages 7 and 12-15. of Directors on an annual basis. Investor also reports on the outcome in the Annual Report. In 2019, Investor received four reports through the whistle­ Employee turnover Women Men blowing channel of which one was Human Resource-related and three related Number of new employee hires 5 4 to situations in our portfolio companies. All reports have been processed and Rate of new employee hires 5.6% 4.5% managed. Number of employee turnover 9 5 Rate of employee turnover 1) 20.0% 11.0% Portfolio companies Our portfolio companies are expected to adhere to Investor's Sustainability Employment contract Women Men Guidelines. Investor continuously monitors the portfolio companies’ developNumber of permanent employees 43 44 ment and progress. One way is through the annual sustainability self-assessNumber of temporary employees 2) 0 2 ment questionnaire, where we follow-up the Sustainability Guidelines. The progress is presented to the Board of Directors once a year. Employment type Women Men The business teams within Investor have developed value creation plans for each portfolio company which includes sustainability issues. The company speNumber of full-time employees 42 44 Number of part-time employees 1 2 cific focus areas vary depending on industry, development stage, and the risks and opportunities that are relevant for each company. Examples of focus areas could be business ethics, sustainability governance, supplier control, innovaParental leave Women Men tions, energy efficiency and diversity. If a serious sustainability related issue Average time on parental leave, number of weeks 3) 48 10 occurs in one of our companies, Investor's business team is responsible for 1) T  he turnover is calculated on the average number of employees during the year. The total ­raising the matter and for monitoring the steps the company takes to address employee turnover was 15% and includes retirement, moves to subsidiaries and normal attrition. the issue. For example, the business team for Ericsson has during the year moniWe are aware that the number was higher than previous years and monitor it closely. 2) The two temporary employees are located at the Stockholm office. tored and followed up on the company's work to strengthening their ethics and 3) D  ata for the Stockholm office. Investor aims for a more equal balance in the take out of parental compliance program. leave between the genders. Sustainability Notes INVESTOR 2019 Gender Women Men Climate & Resource Efficiency Employees 1) 48.3% 51.7% Managers 31.6% 68.4% Investor AB Extended Management Group 50.0% 50.0% Investor actively works to reduce the environmental impact of our operations. Management Group 60.0% 40.0% Board of Directors 2) 44.4% 55.6% We integrate environment and climate considerations into our business operations and risk assessments. Investor is members and follows the UN Global Age group <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Compact’s ten principles, which include the precautionary principle. Our direct Employees 1) 12 50 27 environmental impact is limited, but we take action to reduce our negative Extended Management Group 0 5 3 impact and carbon footprint. This includes cautious use of natural resources and Board of Directors 2) 0 0 9 energy as well as managing waste in an environmentally sound manner. The 1) Includes all employees, including the members of the Management Group. greenhouse gas emissions are largely generated through energy consumption in 2) Board of Directors excluding the CEO. our offices and through business travel. The Employee Handbook includes Investor’s travel policy with guidance to reduce the domestic business travel by Portfolio companies air. In 2019, the energy consumption in our offices amounted to 1,291 MWh. At With nearly 500,000 co-workers world-wide, it is crucial that our portfolio comour main premises in Stockholm we use 100 percent renewable electricity. panies work with competence development, employee engagement and ensure Investor has committed to climate targets aligned with the Paris Agreement’s a safe and healthy work environment. In our yearly questionnaire, all companies aim of limiting global temperature rise to 2 degrees above pre-industrial levels, reported that they have policies covering health, safety, diversity, anti-discrimiwhile trying to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees. Investor's target is nation. In 2019, 100 percent of our companies’ measure and follow-up on to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our scope 1 and 2 with 50 percent by recordable work-related injuries and employee satisfaction on a regular basis. 2030 compared with 2016. In 2019, the direct emissions equaled 130 tonnes, a Our portfolio companies are expected to encourage and promote diversity reduction of 10 percent compared to 2016. and inclusion in their organizations. In end of 2019, 77 percent of our companies have a commitment or target related to diversity. The average proportion GHG emissions, tonnes CO2e 2019 2018 2017 2016 of women in the companies’ management groups amounts to 24 percent. Scope 1 18 18 22 22 The average proportion within the Listed Companies is 21 percent, Patricia Scope 2 (market based) 112 117 114 123 Industries 28 percent and EQT 17 percent. In the total portfolio, the average age Investor's scope 1 and 2 emissions 130 135 136 145 is 51 and there are 21 nationalities represented. 59 percent of our companies measured the perceived level of inclusion among their employees. Scope 3 emissions, tonnes CO2e 2019 2018 2017 2016 Equity share of portfolio emissions 1) 356,300 372,200 372,400 421,500 Management Groups, women 2019 2018 Emissions from business travel 2) 530 600 690 610 Other scope 3 emissions 3) 140 160 210 170 Listed Companies 21.4% 21.0% Patricia Industries 28.2% 30.3% Investor's scope 3 emissions 356,970 372,960 373,300 422,280 EQT 16.7% 9.1% 1) E  quity share includes the emissions from our portfolio companies’ scope 1 and 2 emissions equal Average share of women 24.0% 24.5% to the owned share of the companies. Please note that the portfolio target is set on the total level. 2) Emissions from business travel includes for example air, rail, hotel nights and taxi. 3) Emissions from other activities includes emissions from example purchased IT equipment. Management Groups, nationalities 2019 2018 Listed Companies 21 21 Investor has used Ecometrica software through a system called Our Impact, Patricia Industries 13 10 EQT 3 5 administered by U&We. Emissions are expressed in CO2e, carbon dioxide equivalents, which means all relevant greenhouse gases are included. Emissions are Total number of different nationalities 21 21 reported in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (World Resources Institute). Investor uses a market-based method to calculate greenhouse gas emissions. For purchased electricity and district heat, we have obtained local Participating in nomination committees, in order to compose the best possible emission factors from suppliers. The emissions from portfolio companies’ board for each company, is one of Investor’s most important tasks as an owner. exclude Financial Investments and EQT funds. Emission from biogenic sources Investor is represented in nine nomination committees in the Swedish listed (biodiesel used for heating) are 0.04 tonnes of CO2e. companies. In six of these, Investor has female representation. The average proportion of women in the companies’ boards of directors Portfolio companies amounts to 25 percent. The average proportion within the Listed Companies Investor has identified climate and resource efficiency as areas where we have is 35 percent, Patricia Industries 13 percent and EQT 17 percent. In the total an opportunity to make an impact. Investor’s long-term climate targets towards portfolio, the average age is 58 and there are 15 nationalities represented in 2030 aim to ensure that the portfolio is in line with the Paris Agreement. Investor the boards. works through the representation on the boards to drive the companies to set targets and strategies to develop resource efficient processes and to reduce Board of Directors, women 2019 2018 their greenhouse gas emissions. Listed Companies 34.6% 35.0% The first overall portfolio target is to reduce portfolio companies’ scope 1 and Patricia Industries 12.9% 13.1% 2 emissions with 50 percent by 2030 compared to 2016. This is an absolute EQT 16.7% 16.7% reduction target for the overall portfolio (not an equity approach). The baseline Average share of women 24.9% 24.7% is set to 2016 as this is the first year Investor measured our companies' emissions and is aligned with the Agenda 2030. In 2019, greenhouse gas emissions from our overall portfolio decreased by 29 percent compared to 2016. In the Board of Directors, nationalities 2019 2018 yearly sustainability questionnaire Investor tracked that 50 percent of our Listed Companies 15 15 companies had targets to reduce their scope 1 and 2 emissions. Patricia Industries 8 8 EQT 2 2 Companies' emissions, tonnes CO2e1) 2019 2018 2017 2016 Total number of different nationalities 15 15 GHG emissions Listed Companies 2,058,300 2,282,400 2,455,400 2,981,100 GHG emissions Patricia Industries 138,300 131,700 119,200 120,000 GHG emissions EQT 0 0 200 200 The process to collect diversity data has been improved during the year to Total GHG emissions 2,196,600 2,414,100 2,574,800 3,101,300 ensure higher quality. Historical data contains minor changes compared to what was reported in previous years. In the reported diversity data, executive direc1) Emissions from our portfolio companies’ total scope 1 and 2 emissions. tors have been excluded from the Board of Directors (e g CEO) to prevent double counting as they are included in the Management Groups. The second portfolio target is to ensure that all of our companies have relevant reduction targets for their scope 3 emissions. In 2019, 73 percent of our companies measured scope 3 emissions and 41 had reduction targets for their scope 3 emissions. In terms of resource efficiency, 59 percent of our companies targets regarding resource efficiency. INVESTOR 2019 Sustainability Notes Auditor's Limited Assurance Report on the Sustainability Report To Investor AB (publ), corporate identity number 556013-8298 Introduction than an audit conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on We have been engaged by Investor AB (publ) to undertake a limited Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. assurance engagement on parts of Investor’s Sustainability Report The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain for the year 2019, specifically sustainability information on pages 7, assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that 12-15, and 110-113 of the Annual Report 2019. might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. Responsibilities of the Board and Management The audit firm applies ISQC 1 International Standard on Quality The Board of Directors and the Group Management are responsible Control and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the control including documented policies and procedures regarding applicable criteria, as explained on page 110. The criteria consist of compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and the accounting and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We confirm that we are calculation principles that the company has developed. This responindependent in relation to Investor according to generally accepted sibility includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a auditing standards in Sweden and have fulfilled our professional ethics sustainability report that is free from material misstatements, whether responsibility according to these requirements. due to fraud or error. Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and the Group Management as described above. We conResponsibilities of the Auditor sider these criteria as suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the selected parts Report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient of the Sustainability Report as specified above, based on the proceand appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions below. dures we have performed. We have conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Conclusions Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, by IAASB. nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, priSustainability Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in marily of persons responsible for the preparation of the sustainability accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance proceGroup Management. dures. Such an engagement is different and substantially less in scope Stockholm, March 20, 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Sofia Götmar-Blomstedt Authorized Public Accountant Fredrik Ljungdahl Sustainability Expert Member of FAR 114 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report INVESTOR 2019
