UN Global Compact Annual Report for International Fruit Production Egypt -----------------------------------------------------June 2020 Page 1 of 8 05-07-20 17:41 2 International Fruit Production, Egypt UN Global Compact Reporting on Communication on Progress (COP) 0. Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP) From 01.10.2018 to 30.09.2019 1. Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer 1st July 2020 To our stakeholders: We are pleased to confirm that Orana Egypt / International Fruit Production Egypt reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. During the financial year 2019/20, we will continue to intensify our work on CSR, Sustainability and SDGs for Orana Egypt / International Fruit Production Egypt. Sincerely yours, Y Nguyen Nhu Deputy General Manager 2. Introduction The Orana Group hereunder Orana Egypt / International Fruit Production Egypt is committed to sustainability in all business activities and aims to apply highest ethical standards in order to ensure the long-term success of the Orana Group and its stakeholders. In support of this goal, the Orana Group implemented a Supplier Code of Conduct in 2007 and since then all Orana Group companies hereunder Orana Egypt / International Fruit Production Egypt have subscribed to the UN Global Compact. Page 2 of 8 05-07-20 17:41 3 Both specify minimum standards expected of Orana and its suppliers and are based on principles for: a) Human Rights b) Labour c) Environment d) Anti-Corruption In the Orana Group all staff are committed to following these principles. The Orana Group further requires its suppliers to explicitly acknowledge and adhere to the principles embodied in the Code of Conduct to ensure that their own suppliers also will comply with these principles. 3. Human Rights Description of Actions All Orana sites do not use forced labour or child labour. All sites further ensure that hiring, remuneration, advancement, training and termination decisions are based on objective factors and not connected to gender, age, nationality, ethnicity, race, colour, creed, caste, language, mental or physical disability, or any other discriminating factors. Instead this is determined by skills, qualifications and experience required for the position in question. All Orana sites do not tolerate workplace harassment, hereunder but not limited to words, signs, offensive jokes, e-mail statements, pranks, intimidation, sexual or physical harassment or violence. Policies are in place to protect all employees. The Orana Group has implemented health and safety prevention policies which comply with national, international and Orana company rules. These policies are made available to employees in a language, which is understood by the employees. All employees are provided with safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities and are protected against processes, substances and techniques which are unhealthy, toxic and harmful. All Orana sites documents accidents and adjusts its processes to prevent future accidents, if any. At all sites, workers and managers are trained to respond to emergencies and emergency exits are free from obstruction. Fire extinguishers are available. Work environments are maintained and kept clean. All sites have sufficient and suitable ventilation, lighting, availability of potable water, washing facilities and sanitary facilities and suitable eating areas. All employees are provided with protective equipment and training necessary to safely perform the functions of their positions. Moreover, all sites have implemented rules in regard to hygiene, alcohol and smoking. Page 3 of 8 05-07-20 17:41 4 Finally, Orana Egypt / International Fruit Production offer yearly health check for all operation related staff. Measurement of Outcomes Orana is a harassment and discrimination free organization. In the companies CSR code, the freedom of association and non-discrimination policy are addressed. In cases of harassment, all staff are asked to report to their manager or to their trade union representative. There are no kind of harassment or discrimination incidences reported in the period of communication of 2018/19. Staff turnover is measured for all Orana Group companies. For Orana Egypt / International Fruit Production Egypt, employee turnover is split into White Collar and Blue Collar. See below table and graph: Table 1: Staff Turnover 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 White Collar 18.2% 9.2% 18.8% Blue Collar 17.8% 4.3% 9.5% Total 16.2% 7.1% 15.1% Graph 1: Staff Turnover. Total There is an increase in 2018/19 for compared 2017/18 for both white collar and Blue collar employees. With total 7 cases of resignation due to different reasons such as: Re-allocation with family (1case), better offer and benefits (1case), end of contract and looking for new challenge for the career development (5-cases). Orana Egypt/ International fruit production is following the market salary and minimum wages as per Egyptian Law. We also offer other benefits such as: Page 4 of 8 05-07-20 17:41 5 Transportation, Foods, Medical and Life insurance, apartment for blue collar employee. Besides that, we are working on improvement with more benefits from KPI and Bonus agreement as well as room/chance for promotion to meet their demand of career development. And there is opportunity for career and personal growth through training and education, challenging assignments and more responsibility. Number of accidents are measured. There were no accidents measured in 2018/19 and also not in previous years 2017/18 and 2016/17. 4 customer audits and 3 certification audit have been conducted during 2018/19. Most of the customer audit have focused on food safety including hygiene. All audits were passed. Some minor non-conformities were raised related to improvement on food safety document, plant infrastructure, warehouses capacity. All these minor non-conformities were closed with proper corrections, corrective and preventive actions. GMP/ hygiene audits are also being conducted by QC online staff on a daily basis as a routine practice. Any finding is reported and discussed in the daily meeting for corrective actions in need timely. Moreover, we have GMP tour every 2 weeks conducted by Quality Assurance Department and other relating departments. In addition to the above, hygiene related issues are addressed in the Internal Audits conducted twice a year. The responsible departments work on the findings to close gaps in agreed time frames. Health checks. Orana Egypt / International Fruit Production Egypt offer annual health check for all staff. All staff have medical insurance offer and we have a weekly doctor visit from medical insurance company. 4. Labour Description of Actions No Orana site will hire any form of forced labour or child labours. All sites recognize and encourage the freedom of association rights of its employees and ensure that trade unions are able to communicate openly with management regarding working conditions without threat of reprisal, intimidation or harassment. All sites pay workers according to applicable wage laws, including minimum wages, overtime hours and mandated benefits. Measurement of Outcomes Orana Egypt / International Fruit Production Egypt do not have a trade union but as per Egyptian standard, Orana Egypt / International Fruit Production Egypt has a Page 5 of 8 05-07-20 17:41 6 Complaints and Suggestions Box where all employees can put their complaint or suggestion. The box is located in the Cafeteria for easy access for everyone and for being able to provide complaints and suggestions anonymously. HR opening this box at the end of every month to collect all the letters after which the management team will review these complaints and suggestions. All Orana Egyptian’ s wages are as a minimum consistent with Egyptian Law no. 12/2003 and prevailing industry standards. Holiday, sick leave and maternity leave are provided in consistency with Egyptian Law No. 12/2003. Working hours are also consistent with Egyptian Law no. 12/2003 and prevailing industry standards. Overtime is voluntary and as per Egyptian Labour Law no. 12/2003. 5. Environment Description of Actions All sites shall comply with all applicable environmental regulations. A system for the safe handling, recycling and management of waste and wastewater discharges has been implemented at Orana Egypt / International Fruit Production Egypt. Measurement of Outcomes Orana Egypt / International Fruit Production Egypt has ensured that all required environmental permits and licenses are in place and that their reporting requirements by law in Egypt are followed. Orana Egypt / International Fruit Production Egypt has set up a new calculator of carbon foot print measuring per ton produced for Scope 1 and Scope 2 and will started measuring in October Quarter 2018. Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy. Scope 3 emissions are emissions from sources not owned or controlled by the company. It is under Scope 3 where the Orana Group is making a difference by having decentralized productions. By establishing carbon foot print measuring for Scope 1 and Scope 2, we will have started the process on assessing our impact in all areas and will be able to establish initiatives to address opportunities for improvement. The result for 2018/19 can be seen here: Page 6 of 8 05-07-20 17:41 7 Graph 2: Carbon Foot Print. Total tCO2e/Ton As can be seen from graph, Total tco2/ton gradually increase from January Quarter 2019 to July Quarter 2019. This is mainly because of high water and electricity consumption due to summer. In terms of energy consumption, the following was measured in 2018/19: Table 2: Energy Consumption Energy consumptions EG Delta % Delta 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Base Base Year Year Electricity kWh/ton 1,081 953 866 215 19.0 % Gas / Diesel in mJ / 1,824 1,255 1,299 525 28.8% ton Water m3 /ton 18.9 12.0 12.1 7 36.1 % Waste water m3 / ton NA NA NA NA NA Though there is a reasonable improvement from base year, while during 2018-19 there is increase in diesel consumption and water consumption per ton in comparison to 2017-18. Page 7 of 8 05-07-20 17:41 8 Diesel increase last year compared to base year is due to leakage in diesel pipe-line which was rectified. Water consumption increased last year as compared to base year due to higher number of batches produced. Number of batches increased approx. 22% as a result more CIP/hot water rinsing was done. 6. Anti-Corruption Description of Actions The Orana Group has a zero tolerance on corruption. All corruption, extortion and embezzlement are prohibited. Employees are not allowed to pay or accept bribes in business or government relationships. All Orana sites shall conduct their business consistent with fair competition and in compliance with anti-trust laws. The Orana Group’s relationships with suppliers are based entirely on sound business decisions and fair dealing. Employees are not allowed to accept any gifts or entertainment. Employees are not allowed to accept or give kickbacks when obtaining or awarding contracts. Measurement of Outcomes All staff at Orana Egypt / International Fruit Production are instructed not to pay corruption or bribery in order to unjustly influence public officials or suppliers. When deemed necessary, Orana Egypt / International Fruit Production encourages employees to go to government officials / other relevant meetings two persons at a time in order to discourage corruption and bribery. Additionally, the Orana Group has initiated a whistleblower function on corruption in Vietnam that is currently being tested before it will be rolled out across the entire Orana Group. -----------------------Page 8 of 8 05-07-20 17:41
