2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT I am … I am a mother/father. I am a child. I am a worker. I am a friend. I am big and small. I am powerful. I am determined to be better. I am focused. I am connected. I am free. I am a leader, but I follow my heart. I am part of a bigger story. I am inspired by the story and the people of my country. I am the strength of a nation. I am a Namibian. I am a Motswana. I am a Zambian. I am Capricorn. Chobe River Contents 1 The Capricorn Way and vision 2 2 Our group in 2019 5 Five-year financial overview 5 Group chairman’s message 6 2019 at a glance 8 3 Investment case 10 Our value creation summary 12 4 Group profile and structure 15 Who we are 15 Shareholding and ownership 21 5 Leadership reports 24 Group chief executive officer’s report 24 Financial director’s review 32 6 Strategic landscape and material matters 42 Our operating context informs the group’s strategic landscape 42 Our four strategic choices 48 Our eight material matters 52 7 Governance reports 69 Corporate governance 69 Risk report 86 Remuneration report 110 Board sustainability and ethics report 117 8 About this report 128 9 Appendices 129 Share analysis and detail for 2019 129 Financial value-added statement 130 10 Consolidated annual financial statements 133 This integrated annual report is for the financial year ended 30 June 2019 and was compiled with input from the executive leadership team, reviewed by the board audit, risk and compliance committee (BARC) and the board sustainability and ethics committee (BSEC), and approved by the board on 11 September 2019. It was prepared according to a set of regulatory and voluntary guidelines, set out on page 128. Please note the forward-looking statement on page 128 and consult the group structure diagram on page 15 for detail on entities covered. We welcome feedback and provide our contact details on page 128. 1 1 THE CAPRICORN WAY AND VISION OUR VISION AND PURPOSE Our group vision and purpose is to be the most trusted and inspiring Connector of Positive Change, through a highly relevant, convenient and responsive network of people and channels that enables opportunities to be created, financed, transacted and secured wherever we operate. We describe instances where we acted as connectors on page 29. We realise our vision by making strategic choices and by working according to The Capricorn Way. The Capricorn Way directs us towards positive change and is underpinned by three beliefs: OUR STAKEHOLDERS We We believe We believe believe that that Diversity that Being Purpose Inspires Ignites Quantum Connected Leadership Leaps Helps Us Grow Employees To reflect The Capricorn Way in our everyday lives, we agreed on nine behaviours in the workplace: Strategic alliance Shareholders Wisdom: choose when to speak and act partners Responsiveness: be concise when you speak and silent when you listen Our proposition to our Motivation: be an example of what is possible stakeholders is that we are catalysts of sustainable Resilience: navigate the ups and downs with perseverance opportunities. Curiosity: ask in order to learn, improve and discover Suppliers Customers Initiative: don’t wait to be told what to do Enjoyment: stop, be aware of the good things that are happening, big and small Impact: busy does not equal great results Government and Communities regulators Engagement: be fully present when you are with others We follow an inclusive process to identify, assess and track those matters that are material for us to create value Read more on page 52. 2 2019 Integrated Annual Report “Our brand, culture and strategy connect us so that we can create value through more connections – all for positive change.” We describe our strategic landscape and the progress OUR KEY COMPETENCIES made with strategy implementation on page 42. Understanding the Capricorn Group and 1 competitor environment OUR FOUR STRATEGIC CHOICES (2018–2020) 2 Deep understanding of client needs Focus on building our foundation in Namibia, Zambia and Botswana to get to a position of market leadership. 3 Relentless drive to improve performance Win in Namibia, Zambia and Botswana through operational excellence (lean, efficient, fast) and effective execution. Compete in Namibia, Botswana and Zambia 4 In-depth business insight through strategic relationships and partnerships in insurtech, fintech, mobile and telco, and education. In considering other African countries beyond 2020, 5 Unlock potential in self and others target technological/borderless/cyber opportunities above bricks and mortar entry. Evaluate opportunities, whether cyber or bricks and mortar, on 6 Excellence in execution a case-by-case basis. Ethical leadership, Credit risk management Financial Meeting customer management and and mitigating losses and cybercrime/ needs and business due to bad debt cybersecurity expectations Demand for specialist Responding to a Fintech, insurtech Enhancing skills driving focused changing regulatory and evolving and optimising development, training and operating context digital assets management and and diversity operational systems THE CAPRICORN WAY AND VISION 3 I AM NAMIBIAN Namibia, the land of beauty and contrast – the place where the desert meets the sea. Namibians understand the value of freedom and unity, always striving for a better future together. With pride that is innate, we are dedicated to creating opportunities for all our people, helping to build a sustainable future for everyone. I am Capricorn 4 2019 Integrated Annual Report 2OUR GROUP IN 2019 FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Statement of comprehensive income (N$’000) Total income Operating profit Profit for the year after tax Total comprehensive income for the year Headline earnings per share (cents) Dividends per share (cents) Total assets Total loans and advances to customers 2015 2,079,559 979,023 7533,002 781,488 151 53 28,608,842 23,621,871 2016 2,411,946 1,171,014 905,048 938,513 181 66 32,333,653 26,598,023 2017 2,647,682 1,194,679 917,621 931,055 182 68 42,920,914 33,433,922 2018 3,044,065 1,168,117 934,435 986,240 158 60 47,433,686 36,234,418 2019 3,492,357 1,325,772 1,015,299 1,023,901 182 66 50,677,955 38,0495,83 Five-year CAGR* 15.0% 10.8% 10.2% 9.9% 8.4% 8.4% 15.8% 13.5% Total deposits 21,993,9998 23,724,128 31,571,561 33,948,091 36,984,725 14.5% Net asset value per share (cents) 782 856 1,003 1,099 1,136 13.0% Performance indicators (%) Return on average equity 22.4 22.9 19.5 17.3 16.3 Return on average assets 2.8 3.0 2.4 2.1 2.1 Impairment charges as a % of average gross loans and advances 0.26 0.24 0.19 0.23 0.30 Non-interest income as % of operating income 40.2 40.6 38.5 41.3 40.2 Cost-to-income ratio 51.6 50.2 53.9 60.6 60.8 Closing share price (cents) at 30 June 1,556 1,724 1,809 1,723 1,600 Price-to-book ratio at closing price per share 2.1 2.0 1.8 1.6 1.4 Price-to-earnings ratio at closing price per share 10.3 9.5 10.0 9.5 8.8 Capital adequacy (%) Total risk-based capital ratio 15.8 15.8 16.8 15.4 14.9 * Compound annual growth rate OUR GROUP IN 2019 5 GROUP CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE Capricorn Group performed well in difficult circumstances characterised by the new reality of low or no economic growth, extreme drought, relentless pressure on consumers, ever-expanding regulatory requirements and fierce competition. We elaborate more on our business landscape and the economies in the region from page 42 in section 6 of this integrated report. I am grateful that we can report positive results notwithstanding the challenging economic and business environment. Group operating profit grew by 26.0% year on year, and group profit after tax reached a new milestone to exceed the N$1 billion mark. Shareholders are rewarded with a 14.9% growth in headline earnings per share and a final dividend of 36 cents per share, 20% more than the 2018 final dividend. I want to thank and congratulate our Capricorn citizens on a commendable performance and express my heartfelt appreciation for their resilience, dedication and hard work to deliver these results. We remain committed to our vision and continue to grow our network of people and channels that enable opportunities to be created, financed, transacted and secured wherever we operate. As a group with deep roots in Namibia, our prospects are strongly intertwined with those of our economy, people and environment. Despite deeply concerning realities, we believe we have what it will take to see us through the challenges ahead. We also believe that the cycle will start turning in the medium term and until then our country and group will rely and build on our collective resilience. JOHAN SWANEPOEL We are in the fortunate position to have a strong capital position. Group chairman This is supplemented by the backing of our two shareholders of reference, Capricorn Investment Holdings and the Government Institutions Pension Fund (GIPF). The group has built up a considerable liquid asset buffer and have put in place appropriate contingency funding facilities as important measures to mitigate liquidity risk and secure access to funding. Reflecting on the 2019 financial year, a few aspects stand out: • We continued to improve our customer value proposition. Given a contracting trading environment, the only way to grow our share of the market is by making it easier for our clients to do business with us. We are improving our ability to predict customer needs, to anticipate their behaviour and to use our strong personal relationships to enhance their experiences. The performance of Bank Windhoek, Capricorn Asset Management and Bank Gaborone is a positive indicator of the success of our customer strategy. • Managing the upward trajectory in non-performing loans remained a priority. Increasing non-performing loans has become an industry phenomenon in recent times. Believing that “prevention is better than cure”, we continued to refine our tools and interventions to proactively manage credit risk and to 6 2019 Integrated Annual Report support our customers to continue meeting their financial • We revisited our approach to corporate social responsibility obligations. The learnings from the IFRS 9 implementation (CSR), and following thorough research and much deliberation, also provided us with more sophisticated modelling tools and we decided to establish the Capricorn Foundation to coordinate improved abilities to predict and early identify accounts with and provide direction for the group’s CSR initiatives. We want increased credit risk. Where accounts do become to have fewer but more impactful projects that will help us to non-performing, we focus on rehabilitation of these accounts truly live up to our brand promise and vision. This will also and ultimately on effective and efficient recovery processes. ensure that we align our efforts more closely to our business model and competencies, away from ad hoc donations and • We have made significant changes to our business model charitable giving. in Zambia, away from an elaborate network of small and • A number of initiatives were taken to further build our brand unsustainable rural branches to serving more established small and to align the brand identities of all group entities to the and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Without minimum scale Capricorn Group brand identity. We conducted extensive brand for Cavmont Bank in any segment, we had to make difficult research in all our territories, testing the market about potential decisions to ensure a turnaround towards profitability. These rebranding of our retail banks and assessing current perceptions interventions take time and require extensive interaction with and associations with the mother brand and subsidiary brands. regulators but are starting to deliver improvements. We launched the “I am … Capricorn” brand campaign and • Our investment in Entrepo exceeded expectation. The refreshed our visual language. Our brand is building on existing Entrepo group of companies became part of our group at the local pride and the sense of being part of a group that is well beginning of this financial year. This growing, well managed established, successful and growing. business with highly efficient and centralised processes has As I alluded to before, I do not expect meaningful improvement in been very successful, as it meets a growing need for unsecured economic and market conditions in the region where we operate in personal loans and associated long-term insurance. We are the next financial year. We do hope and pray for good rainfall to working with the Entrepo team to find innovative solutions break the severe drought and we trust that the ongoing structural that will address wider community needs, such as financial reforms, initiatives to promote foreign direct investment, and literacy and financial wellness. collaboration between public and private sector will see the revival • Our employees are becoming more engaged and more of regional economies. The Economic Growth Summit for Namibia appreciative about the ways we invest in them. The Capricorn held at the end of July 2019 brought together like-minded Namibians who had profound conversations to solve a national Way has been effective in bringing people together from all problem. The constructive discussions and debates underlined the parts of our business to create a shared vision and commitment fact that now, more than ever, all Namibians should work together to our future as Connectors of Positive Change. The focus on towards a shared goal and vision to create a better future for us all. middle-management development was one of our key While these external factors play out, our group will continue to investments in operational excellence and succession planning focus on and apply our energy, abilities and effort to those factors over the longer term. within our control, to identify and pursue opportunities and to • We adopted the King IVTM corporate governance framework* support initiatives aimed at addressing national concerns. and transitioned from the Namcode during the year. We We have an experienced, diverse and committed board that is welcome the King IV focus on the outcomes of corporate confident about the future of the group. I sincerely thank them for governance as opposed to a compliance-driven inputs their leadership, wise counsel, time and dedication and for always approach. Our group’s boards of directors embrace the core being available to support when needed. I encourage them to King IV™ principle of ethical and effective leadership at the top. continue asking difficult questions, probing our assumptions and In the discussions of the Capricorn Group’s material matters, prompting a stakeholder-inclusive agenda. ethics emerged as our group’s most important material matter. We have done extensive work on ethical risk management and I thank our customers, who remain the main reason for our being, reviewed and improved our ethics framework and policies. We for their continued support, our shareholders for their trust and all realise that ethical behaviour is not a given and that we need to our other stakeholders for their continued vested interest in our shared success. intervene and support our people to act with common good rather than self-interest in mind. * Copyright and trademarks are owned by the Institute of Directors in Southern Africa NPC and all of its rights are reserved. Johan Swanepoel Group chairman OUR GROUP IN 2019 7 2019 AT A GLANCE OUR PROFILE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES Capricorn Group has three main banking Corporate Retail banking subsidiaries in Namibia, Botswana and transactions Zambia. Our main interests are in financial Corporate and Property services. The group also recently invested business banking development in a telecommunications and technology investment company to position itself Wealth management Forex and trade for the future convergence between and private banking finance telecommunications, data and financial services. Our customers range from high-networth individuals to corporates, small Lending Corporate finance businesses and government employees in all territories. Our value proposition is built Investment and Capital markets around customers rather than products or asset management channels. We apply technology in transactional banking services, products Bancassurance Specialised finance and digital functionality to address future customer needs. Specialist asset finance Term lending -2% Zambia where we are driving a turnaround at Cavmont Bank Botswana through solid performance at Bank Gaborone 5% ZAMBIA Geographic contribution NAMIBIA to net profit BOTSWANA after tax 97% Namibia of which 69% is contributed by strong performance from Bank Windhoek 15% is contributed by Entrepo 4% is contributed by Capricorn Asset Management (combined with Capricorn Unit Trust Management Company) 8 2019 Integrated Annual Report FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW Total income (N$’000) 3,500,000 3,000,000 2,500,000 2,000,000 1,500,000 OUR PERFORMANCE 1,000,000 500,000 0 By making connections for positive change, we were able to 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 show positive comparisons on all key indicators. Our results were bolstered by the first-time contribution from Entrepo. Operating profit (N$’000) Detailed commentary on our performance is available in 1,400,000 the leadership reports from page 24. 1,200,000 1,000,000 800,000 600,000 400,000 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 200,000 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Our board is responsible for establishing effective leadership, ethical practices and the appropriate application of governance practices. The board ensures that Dividend per share (cents) Capricorn Group remains a sustainable, well-performing 80 70 and legitimate business. 60 50 40 Group board Group board Group board 30 sustainability and human resources nominations ethics committee committee committee 20 10 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Group board Board Group board remuneration procurement investment committee committee committee Net asset value per share (cents) 1,200 1,000 Board audit, risk Group board 800 and compliance IT committee committee 600 400 Read about governance, risk management and 200 remuneration from page 69. 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Operating profit (excludes Headline earnings Profit exceptional items in 2018) per share before tax 26.0% 14.9% 11.9% to N$1,326m to 181.5 cents to N$1,402m (2018: N$1,052m) (2018: 157.9 cents) (2018: N$1,253m) Dividend Return on average Capital per share equity adequacy 66 cps 16.3% 14.9% (2018: 60 cps) (2018: 17.3%) (2018: 15.3%) OUR GROUP IN 2019 9 3 INVESTMENT CASE Why invest in Capricorn Group? As the leading Namibian-owned financial services group listed on the Namibian Stock Exchange (NSX), Capricorn Group is uniquely positioned to take advantage of future growth opportunities in the southern African region and to invest in businesses that complement our current portfolio. Our regional advantage With operations in Namibia, Botswana, Zambia and South Africa, Capricorn Group has a regionally diversified revenue stream that provides attractive and sustainable returns for shareholders. The group’s diversified regional presence reduces concentration risk and Our diversified portfolio advantage Capricorn Group has a steady record of new product and service launches, and continues to explore opportunities for growth in new sectors beyond our interests in banking, asset management, insurance and finance. In 2018 the group invested in Nimbus, provides a pool of regional skills and expertise to share. a telecommunication and technology investment company listed on the NSX. This positions the group well to benefit from the convergence between telecommunications and financial services combined with strong growth in demand for data services. The group delivered operating profit growth of 26% in 2019, and a compound annual dividend growth rate of 8.4% over the past five years. Our key focus remains the customer and the needs of the customer. Notwithstanding the challenging environment, Bank Windhoek Therefore, we are investing in digital offerings and channels that will delivered excellent results during the year under review with a empower our customers without losing the personal touch and 10.6% growth in operating income excluding exceptional items, and customer intimacy we are known for. We anticipate the rise of contributing 69% to the group’s profits. smaller, value-adding entities that are digitally enabled and The Capricorn Unit Trust Management Company (CUTM), technology driven, with quick and fast business processes to satisfy administered by Capricorn Asset Management (CAM), has been client needs. By applying an Agile methodology to our platform the market leader in Namibia since 2004 in terms of assets under strategies, we ensure that the group is well positioned for this future. management in the unit trust sphere. CUTM’s latest market share We continue to scan the environment to stay abreast of the latest is approximately 31% with 13 unit trusts covering all major technology and business models to seize leapfrog opportunities asset classes. towards augmenting our existing business and help transform it digitally. Bank Gaborone is on a growth trajectory in Botswana with a proven capability to regularly launch new products and services leading to A combination of strengths significant new customer sales. Our scale and reputation Entrepo, which has an attractive share of the government employee Bank Windhoek, the group’s flagship brand, is the largest locally market, is expanding by using a distinct and highly competitive owned bank and the second largest commercial bank in Namibia. capability to approve and disburse loans with speed and Bank Windhoek’s scale is evident from its network of 54 branches effectiveness, resulting in high levels of customer satisfaction. and agencies, 130 automated teller machines (ATMs) and 248 Cash Capricorn Group is widely recognised for our lasting contributions Express ATMs in Namibia. to communities through social responsibility initiatives such as the Bank Windhoek was recognised internationally when it received the Bank Windhoek Cancer Apple project. This initiative was selected Green Bonds Pioneer Award from Climate Bonds this year. It was the by the 2018 World Cancer Congress as one of their global innovative first commercial bank in southern Africa to issue a green bond. projects of hope. 10 2019 Integrated Annual Report Stability and reliability “Capricorn is locally run and managed and has Capricorn Group’s two shareholders of reference ensure stability, undertaken a number of transactions in recent liquidity and access to capital. They are the GIPF, the largest institutional investor in Namibia with a net asset value of months giving it exposure to lending for strong approximately N$117 billion, and Capricorn Investment Holdings short-term (cash) earnings growth, as well as (CIH), the founding holding company of Bank Windhoek, ICT – a longer term strategic sector providing established in 1982, with a net asset value of N$5.6 billion as complementary services. Moreover, they have at 30 June 2019. diversified into other countries on the continent Capricorn Group has a credit rating of AA and A1+ in the long term with Cavmont Bank and Bank Gaborone, thus and short term respectively with a stable outlook. providing some revenue stream diversification. The group remains well capitalised with a significant buffer above As far as locally listed companies go, Capricorn the minimum capital requirements. This is further supported by a Group is one of, if not the, most dynamic, strong governance culture, entrepreneurial spirit and commitment and is thus better positioned to weather the to transparency. We have demonstrated consistent delivery on our economic storm than most if not all of her AsOne2020 strategy since 2017. peers.” – Cirrus Capital, Namibia A shared value approach Since listing on the NSX six years ago, Capricorn Group has created “Capricorn Group has, in our view, the best significant value for shareholders, employees, government and treasury team in Namibia with a strong track strategic partners. The Capricorn Group share price has increased record of managing liquidity and funding from its public offer price of N$8.75 at listing in June 2013 to through challenging times. Capricorn Group also N$16.00 on 30 June 2019, thereby achieving a compound annual has, in our view, one of the most stringent credit growth rate of 10.6% – great value given economic challenges over this period. processes of all the local banks, thus reasonably well placed for both challenging economic Value created includes delivering N$24,922,380.60 of dividends to conditions and IFRS 9.” – Cirrus Capital, empowerment beneficiaries through Nam-mic Financial Services Holdings (NFSH) since 2013. Namibia The group distributed 10.4% of direct economic value generated “We believe CGP has a sustainable competitive in 2019 – at a total value of N$624.8 million – to government in advantage considering the robust long-term the form of taxes, levies and duties. earnings growth and their growing market share An ethical culture and business diversification.” – PSG Namibia Capricorn Group has a shared culture defined by The Capricorn Way. Ethical decision-making is demonstrated by the board and “The Capricorn Group is committed to growth entrenched through our board evaluation and performance and has an innovative approach to doing management process. The group has a zero tolerance towards business. Results from the Namibian operations non-compliance with any regulations or legislation in the jurisdictions in which it operates. have been impressive as strong growth in the corporate banking division and a push to drive We believe that through our vision of down funding costs have been driving the being the most trusted and inspiring bottom line. The resilience of the Group’s financial results in trying times is a testament Connector of Positive Change through to the strong and focused management, and we a highly relevant, convenient and expect this resilience and innovation to responsive omni-channel network, we continue.” – IJG, Namibia will be a catalyst of sustainable opportunities for all our stakeholders. INVESTMENT CASE 11 OUR VALUE CREATION SUMMARY The inputs for our business model All our services and offerings rely on the flow of money. We collect money through funding mechanisms such as bonds, deposits, dividends and reinvestments. We use money responsibly in our engagement with clients to facilitate transactions, to earn interest and to invest, while also applying it in the group to make acquisitions and distributions. For example, we distribute financial capital through dividends, FINANCIAL taxes, remuneration and payments to suppliers. It is our business to increase financial capital. CAPITAL Read more in the financial director’s review on page 32. Our purpose statement emphasises our role as a Connector of Positive Change. This implies relationships, knowledge and ethical behaviour reflecting stakeholder-inclusive thinking. We engage with our stakeholders to increase this capital through innovation, service improvement and HUMAN, empowerment that collectively bring positive change. By using and increasing the quality of these INTELLECTUAL, capitals we can identify and address anything that prevents value creation while increasing systemic awareness and responsiveness. SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP Read more in the section on our material matters from page 52. CAPITAL Our branches, offices, call centre, ATMs, cash express machines, cash and coins form part of the physical infrastructure and items that we use to operate in three countries. It gives us a base to interact with clients in a secure and convenient way. Our Nimbus acquisition gives us access to expanding data facilities and networks that provide digital infrastructure for online and mobile offerings. In addition, IT Infrastructure is a critical component to delivering our services to our customers and improving our system performance and stability. In this regard we have significantly invested in our countries of operation to upgrade and expand our IT infrastructure by adding capacity to our country networks and MANUFACTURED upgrading our data centres with the latest IT hardware and systems software. We have also commissioned new services from our telecommunication partners and have implemented a high-speed/ CAPITAL high-capacity Data Ring connecting our three countries and South Africa. This has significantly improved our service delivery to our customers and also our systems availability, stability and performance. Read more in the section on our material matters from page 52. We are a relatively modest consumer of natural resources in our business activities, but the indirect impact of natural disasters such as drought can affect our business significantly. We provide credit and insurance to businesses that rely predominantly on natural resources and are at risk of climate change impacts. These include industries such as mining, agriculture, fishing and construction. We manage our exposure through an Environmental and Social Management System, which guides credit allocation and lending activities. We measure direct use such as water and electricity at the NATURAL group’s three main buildings in Windhoek to track our efforts to reduce use. This year Bank Gaborone moved into a new head office, which, once certified, will be the first Green Building Council of CAPITAL South Africa green star-rated building in Botswana. Read more in the section on our material matters from page 52. 12 2019 Integrated Annual Report OUR VALUE CREATION SUMMARY The circumstances under which we operate are dynamic and complex within a system Our brand proposition states that we are catalysts of sustainable of markets, regulators and social and opportunities. Thus, there is an opportunity to be a catalyst in everything we environmental challenges. Read more do. Ultimately, our success as a group enables us to reinvest in the about our operating contexts in Namibia, development of the economies in which we operate. We are recognised as a Botswana and Zambia from page 42. responsible corporate citizen, contributing to socioeconomic development, yet we aspire to do better and give more because we care about the future of the Our material matters from page 52 people whom we serve. This is why our vision is to be a Connector of Positive describe the internal and external risks and Change, linking our identity and ethos to the well-being of our country. opportunities that we face as a group. By attending to these we are able to create sustainable value. Value creation is a dynamic process of Our four strategic choices take the future availability of resources into account when connections, decisions and change. We rely on directing us towards impact decisions and The Capricorn Way, our four strategic choices trade-offs. The board’s authorities framework clearly states roles and and material matters to guide us in making responsibilities for these decisions. Our this process sustainable. remuneration framework on page 110 ensures that performance is linked to the successful implementation of our strategy. Synergies between our different business units mean that we can offer combined packages such as bancassurance, private wealth and investments, and specialised finance. These interdependent relationships increase our customer intimacy and market share, and enable us to act as Connectors of Positive Change in practice. BUSINESS INPUTS ACTIVITIES In an interconnected, dynamic operating environment, we make strategic choices that result in trade-offs between different stakeholders’ interests over varying periods OUTCOMES of time. Where these choices are made deliberately, we can mitigate value destruction and ensure that we act ethically. OUTPUTS Trade-offs surface, for example, in the annual budget process when we have to divide limited resources between competing departments, activities and employee needs. INVESTMENT CASE 13 “Capricorn Group is proud to have a team of willing, extraordinary individuals who are living The Capricorn Way behaviours and displaying the attributes of being Connectors of Positive Change.” – Thinus Prinsloo, Group CEO Epupa Falls, Kaokoveld 14 2019 Integrated Annual Report GROUP PROFILE AND STRUCTURE WHO WE ARE Capricorn Group at a glance Capricorn Group is a diversified financial services group based in Windhoek, Namibia. We provide strategic guidance, oversight and support to our subsidiaries, whose operations are primarily focused on banking, insurance, wealth and asset management, and finance. Registered as: Capricorn Investment Group Limited 84.3% 100% 29.5% 97.9% Capricorn Investment Sanlam Namibia Cavmont Capital Bank Windhoek Ltd Holdings (Botswana) Ltd Holdings (Pty) Ltd Holdings Zambia PLC 100% 100% 28% 100% Bank Gaborone Ltd Capricorn Asset Santam Namibia Ltd Cavmont Bank Ltd Management (Pty) Ltd BOTSWANA ZAMBIA 100% 30% Capricorn Unit Trust Nimbus Management Company Ltd Infrastructure Ltd Acquired in 2018 100% Namib Bou (Pty) Ltd 100% Capricorn Capital (Pty) Ltd Launched in 2018 55.5% Entrepo Holdings (Pty) Ltd Acquired in 2018 NAMIBIA GROUP PROFILE AND STRUCTURE 15 WHO WE ARE continued A wide spectrum of financial solutions for business clients includes structured finance, working capital finance as well as tailor-made term financing options. Bank Windhoek offers a wide range of treasury services, including money market and foreign currency exchange services. BARONICE HANS Our international banking services comprise foreign payment Managing director products, trade finance and foreign currency accounts. I AM inspired by the dedication, resilience Our bancassurance options include short-term, life, travel and commercial insurance, and guarantees. and tenacity of the Bank Windhoek team as together we translate vision into reality. One of the biggest highlights of the 2019 financial year has been when we became the first commercial bank in southern Africa to issue a green bond and the international recognition we received for WINDHOEK, NAMIBIA winning this year’s Green Bonds Pioneer Award from Climate Bonds. HEAD OFFICE As part of Bank Windhoek’s customer-centric strategy to ensure that the bank caters for the evolving needs of customers and to 1982 continuously enhance the customer experience, the bank revised a Date of establishment number of the customer value propositions (CVPs) for its target 1,575 segments during the reporting period. Number of permanent employees 2018: 1,449 Our recently launched contact centre expanded its service offering 69% to include: Contribution to group profit after tax 2018: 86% • cellphone banking registrations • converting clients from paper to electronic statements Bank Windhoek Ltd • dedicated internet banking support service for the branches Bank Windhoek, a fully-fledged bank and the flagship brand of Bank Windhoek’s private banking offering is provided through the Capricorn Group, is the largest lender in Namibia. Capricorn Private Wealth, a joint venture between Bank Windhoek Bank Windhoek offers a wide range of banking products and and Capricorn Asset Management, which caters to the wealth and services covering the personal, corporate, small and medium investment needs of the affluent market. enterprises market segments. Our offering includes transactional, investment and lending products, as well as digital and electronic banking services. 16 2019 Integrated Annual Report Bank Gaborone Ltd Since commencing operations in 2006, the bank has expanded its network to 12 branches and 4 BG finance offices countrywide, offering an increasingly broader range of products and services in response to market needs. To increase branch efficiency and branch SYBRAND COETZEE focus on sales, the back-office operations of all branches were Managing director centralised. Additionally, the bank has opened the group’s first ‘branch of the future’ which diversifies the services offered to clients I AM passionate about leading growth in within the branch. both our business and our people. Great Bank Gaborone offers personal and corporate products and services people connect clients to great service. tailored to different market segments: • Deposit accounts for individuals and businesses including current, savings, investment and call accounts as well as foreign GABORONE, BOTSWANA exchange products and services HEAD OFFICE • Loan accounts including vehicle and asset finance, home and 2006 building loans, unsecured lending through BG Finance, Date of establishment commercial loans and overdraft facilities. • Bancassurance including shortand long-term insurance 295 Number of permanent employees 2018: 289 • Electronic channels including internet banking, mobile banking and SMS notifications. 5% During the past financial year, the bank increased its market share Contribution to group profit after tax 2018: 6% to 7.5% and aims for medium term growth to a 10% share. Cavmont Bank Ltd Cavmont Bank is a 100% subsidiary of Cavmont Capital Holdings Zambia Plc (CCHZ) and was established in 2004. CCHZ listed on the Lusaka Stock Exchange (LuSE) in September 2006. Cavmont Bank provides corporate, investment, retail and community banking PEET VAN DER WALT services. Its personal, business, treasury and credit products include: Managing director • personal savings, transaction and loan products • business transaction and loan products I AM a leader who works with the Cavmont • foreign exchange trading and deposit accounts team to deliver sustainable results. Cavmont Bank offers its customers various investment products, ranging from term and fixed deposits to asset-backed securities. Payment solutions include real-time gross settlement, direct debit LUSAKA, ZAMBIA and credit clearing, as well as foreign exchange services. It offers HEAD OFFICE the e-Cavmont internet banking facility. 2004 Date of establishment 308 Number of permanent employees 2018: 324 GROUP PROFILE AND STRUCTURE 17 WHO WE ARE continued CAM is a leading, fully Namibian-owned asset management firm aiming to meet the investment needs of individual investors, financial advisers, businesses and institutional investors, including pension funds and insurance companies. It manages investments covering all major asset classes in markets around the world. TERTIUS LIEBENBERG Capricorn Private Wealth, a combined offering of CAM and Managing director Bank Windhoek, focuses on servicing the needs of the affluent market segment of the Capricorn Group in one integrated offering. I AM a Servant Leader who empowers my The specific services CAM offers as part of this unique offering are team. investment advisory, financial planning, estate planning and fiduciary services. CAM is also a leading unlisted investment manager with a specific focus on debt financing. The Caliber Capital Trust is an approved WINDHOEK, NAMIBIA unlisted special-purpose vehicle in terms of regulation 29 of the HEAD OFFICE Pension Funds Act, 24 of 1956. It provides Namibian pension funds and other institutional investors with an alternative to unlisted 2006 equity investments to diversify risk. The Caliber Capital Fund invests Date of establishment in Namibian companies that aspire to the aims of the Harambee Prosperity Plan and Vision 2030, which include job creation, import 43 replacement and industry and infrastructure development. Number of permanent employees 2018: 43 The Capricorn Unit Trust Fund range was established in 2000 with 4% the launch of the Capricorn Selekt Fund. CUTM has been the market Contribution to group profit after tax 2018: 5% leader since 2004 in terms of assets under management in the N$26.3 billion unit trust sphere. With total assets under management of nearly Assets under management 2018: N$22.2 billion N$20 billion, CUTM’s latest market share is approximately 31% with 13 unit trusts covering all major asset classes, including cash, bonds, property, equity and international equities. Capricorn Asset Management (Pty) Ltd and Capricorn Unit Trust Management Company The group’s asset management activities are conducted under two legal entities: Capricorn Asset Management (CAM) and Capricorn Unit Trust Management Company (CUTM). All administration and asset management activities of CUTM funds are performed by CAM. 18 2019 Integrated Annual Report We offer bespoke, integrated and intelligent solutions in the following areas: Corporate finance • Mergers and acquisitions • Divestitures MARK DURR • Recapitalisations Managing director • Restructuring I AM positive about the future and see • Sovereign advisory problems as challenges to overcome and • Valuations and due diligence opportunities to grow. • Strategic advice Capital markets WINDHOEK, NAMIBIA • Equity capital market advisory HEAD OFFICE • Debt capital market advisory 2018 • Debt and equity private placements Date of establishment • Placement with alternative investors through Neu Capital Africa • Strategic capital and minority investments 7 Number of permanent employees 2018: 3 Specialised finance • Project finance Capricorn Capital • Leveraged finance Capricorn Capital is a wholly owned subsidiary of the • Acquisition finance Capricorn Group. It offers its southern African investment banking • Structured products advisory services from offices in Windhoek and Johannesburg. • Structured credit and derivatives Capricorn Capital’s core investment banking advisory services • Tax structuring include the provision of strategic, corporate finance, capital raising and specialised financial advice to public and private companies, private equity firms, family offices and governmental and other bodies located in or wishing to invest in southern Africa. It includes southern African entities seeking strategic investors or acquisition targets abroad. Capricorn Capital follows a collaborative model, leveraging its global relationships to partner with leading industry and sector specialists to provide an unparalleled level of attention and expertise to its clients, placing them in the best position possible to achieve their desired outcomes. GROUP PROFILE AND STRUCTURE 19 WHO WE ARE continued Entrepo Holdings (Pty) Ltd Entrepo is a focused financial services group providing lending and credit protection products to government employees in Namibia. Its business activities are conducted through two separate legal entities, regulated by the Namibia Financial Institutions Supervisory LEEBA FOUCHE Authority (NAMFISA): Entrepo Finance (Pty) Ltd, a registered lender, Managing director and Entrepo Life Ltd, a registered long-term insurer. Entrepo’s tailor-made products are simple and clear, competitively I AM proud to be part of the focused and priced and provide comprehensive and suitable benefits to its results-driven team at Entrepo. chosen target market. Entrepo Finance is a responsible lender and accepts loan applications that are considered against clear and unassailable rules regarding affordability and minimum take-home pay. As security against the loan, a client may choose to take out WINDHOEK, NAMIBIA Entrepo Life’s credit protection product, which offers excellent HEAD OFFICE death, disability, funeral and job-loss protection benefits. 2014 Date of establishment 33 Number of permanent employees 2018: 30 15% Contribution to group profit after tax More information on our associates is available online: Nimbus Infrastructure Ltd Nimbus.africa Sanlam Namibia Holdings (Pty) Ltd www.sanlam.com/namibia Santam Namibia Ltd www.santam.na 20 2019 Integrated Annual Report SHAREHOLDING AND OWNERSHIP Shareholders in Capricorn Group Capricorn Group is listed on the NSX. This means that shares are traded publicly and that any stakeholder can acquire shares and participate in the ownership of the group. At the end of the 2019 financial year, the group had a diversified shareholder base, with total direct and indirect black shareholding exceeding 40%. Below is the shareholding in the Capricorn Group as of 30 June 2019. Capricorn Government Nam-mic Financial Capricorn Group Investment Holdings Institutions Pension Fund Services Holdings Directors, Staff and Other shareholders Ltd (CIH) (GIPF) (Pty) Ltd Employee Share Trusts 43.1% 25.9% 8% 5% 18% Registered as: Capricorn Investment Group Limited A detailed analysis of public and non-public shareholding, the distribution of shares and the beneficial ownership of the Capricorn Group shares are set out in the Appendix on page 129. GROUP PROFILE AND STRUCTURE 21 I AM MOTSWANA We are known for the exquisiteness of the Kalahari Desert and the Okavango Delta, but the most valued treasure is our people. We are proud to be Batswana and want to see our people and nation flourish. Like the rain that is sacred to our country, we hold dear our commitment to creating a lifelong impact on the progress of our people. 22 2019 Integrated Annual Report 23 5 LEADERSHIP REPORTS GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT Reflecting on the 2019 financial year Our previous chairman, Koos Brandt, said a bank should be there for customers in the good and bad times. Building on this philosophy, we have supported our customers in the past financial year during sometimes very difficult circumstances, and we can now see the positive impact it had. We anticipate the tough conditions to persist, amplified by economic challenges and the widespread impact of the drought, resulting in consumers, including our customers, remaining under pressure and in need of innovative solutions that will address their unique challenges. This calls for finding ways to mitigate risk for all. Our platform approach C  apricorn Group identified eight platforms to implement strategic choices through operational excellence: 1. Digital platform 2. Core banking platform 3. Process automation platform 4. Information and analytics platform 5. Legal compliance and risk platform 6. Human resources platform Despite challenging conditions, the group saw solid performance 7. Finance platform from Bank Windhoek and Bank Gaborone, an encouraging albeit 8. Infrastructure platform slow turnaround at Cavmont Bank and a stellar performance from newly acquired Entrepo. Capricorn Asset Management (CAM) The platform approach delivered the following benefits: continued growing market share and returned good results • Increased execution traction due to better focus on realistic notwithstanding lower rates of fee income. As a result, group outputs within properly planned timeframes operating profit increased by 13.5% compared to the previous year. • Higher levels of alignment between business and platforms with This can be ascribed to a few specific value drivers: improved communication • S  ignificant progress has been made with the implementation • Changed behaviours: higher energy levels, higher engagement of the Agile methodology in technology change since the levels beginning of the 2019 financial year. We can now build a • Increased transparency about execution progress solution for one bank and roll it out quickly to others. • Satisfactory levels of adoption of the Agile methodology We are creating a culture of experimentation, quick decisions and fewer rollover projects. Concerns that are being addressed in terms of this approach relate to capacity, measuring the impact and retaining momentum. • Our ability to detect increased credit risk early and our efforts to proactively engage with customers showing signs of financial The platforms further contribute by improving the quality, distress helped us to manage non-performing loans (NPLs) – a predictability and visibility of project delivery, by increasing product pervasive and growing challenge across the region. By capabilities and enabling us to discover business opportunities. preventing loans from defaulting, we can improve the chances of recovery. Where accounts became non-performing despite our preventative measures, good collateral security ensured that we could contain impairment provisions. • Our leadership teams have managed their respective businesses well. Key appointments were made: a new chief information officer (CIO) joined the group executive leadership team, a new managing director was appointed for Cavmont Bank, and several other skilled and experienced employees joined the group. “Despite challenging conditions, the group saw solid performance from Bank Windhoek and Bank Gaborone, an encouraging albeit slow turnaround at Cavmont Bank and a stellar performance from newly acquired Entrepo.” 24 2019 Integrated Annual Report 2019 performance summary Bank Windhoek Bank Windhoek, our largest contributor to group profit after tax, returned a very solid performance with an increase of 1% to N$797.7 million (2018: N$796.8 million). As the largest lender in Namibia with a 32.4% market share, Bank Windhoek is exposed to local industry and economic conditions, but delivered better interest margins, improved liquidity and better cost management. Operating profit (excluding exceptional items of 2018) improved by 10.6% to N$1,124.5 million (2018: N$1,017.0 million). Through the acquisitions of new transactional accounts, especially in our corporate and Private Wealth segments, new solar plants, renewable energy initiatives and companies with resilient business models, Bank Windhoek achieved moderate growth despite the challenging economic environment. Bank Windhoek competes by providing outstanding client service at affordable levels, and by empowering branch managers to use their local knowledge and client relationships to enhance the client experience. Through our easy-to-use, convenient and highly reliable digital channels, clients are provided with 24/7/365 transactional banking services. Capricorn Private Wealth performed exceptionally well over the past year. The success of Capricorn Private Wealth, albeit growing off a small base, can be attributed to an offering that is flexible, THINUS PRINSLOO personalised and offers the highest service levels. Given the prolonged drought in Namibia, the agricultural sector Group chief executive officer remains under immense pressure. Bank Windhoek has joined efforts with clients and the agricultural sector to provide muchneeded support. The bank contributed N$500,000 to the Dare to Care Fund in support of farmers and has also proactively established a focus group to assist and manage the bank’s clients operating in this sector. Following the revision of the customer value proposition in Bank Windhoek’s target segments and in response to the voice of the customer, a number of features, enhancements and new products have been introduced. Additional features on the Women in Business offering, the introduction of the HeyJude App, credit SMS notifications, an integrated point-of-sale solution and free life and legal cover on most personal transactional accounts are a few of the notable offerings introduced. LEADERSHIP REPORTS 25 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT continued The HeyJude App was successfully launched to market in May 2019. Our biggest challenge in Botswana remains continued downward This is a first-of-its-kind offering in the Namibian banking pressure on interest margins with the central bank continuing to environment where a unique, value-added digital service is being reduce the bank rate and cost of funding increasing. The upward coupled with our banking offering to try to cement our brand pressure on cost of funding was partly due to the uncertainty and promise of “Connectors of Positive Change”. The app is a volatility of liquidity levels in the market, as investors explored other digital personal assistant that sources products and services, investment opportunities yielding higher returns both inside and negotiates discounts and arranges payment and delivery on the outside Botswana. The bank also has relatively high exposure to customer’s behalf. price-sensitive treasury funding, limited retail depositor funding and is reliant on term deposits. To address this, term deposits have been repriced and our digital offering – including POS and bulk payment “Bank Windhoek shares the responsibility capabilities – has been used to grow current account deposits. to protect our country for future In the short term, Bank Gaborone’s focus remains on growing its generations by actively contributing to loan book, containing its cost of funding, optimising liquidity and and facilitating the transition to a stemming the rising trend in NPLs. We further explain our mitigation efforts in the risk report from page 86. low-carbon and climate-resilient economy.” – Baronice Hans, Bank Cavmont Bank Windhoek’s managing director Notwithstanding an increasingly difficult operating environment in Zambia, Cavmont Bank significantly reduced losses during the year. Bank Gaborone The business recorded a loss after tax of N$19.8 million (2018: loss after tax of N$46.6 million). Bank Gaborone delivered good results, with 15.7% growth in revenue (2018: 6.7%) and a 11.4% improvement in operating profit Group support and oversight for the turnaround plan continues, (2018: 17.3%). This follows significant growth in customer sales, with remediating actions driven by the executive management partly owing to the launch of a new unsecured lending product. team. Focus areas in the past year were: The new product requires customers to deposit their salaries into a • sourcing of cheaper deposits to reduce the funding gap and Bank Gaborone transactional account. improve cost of funds We also launched bulk payment services, which enabled us to start • increasing interest income through investment in government offering payroll services and capturing more employee accounts. securities or loans and advances depending on availability of Several enhancements to digital banking functionality and network liquidity stability increased Bank Gaborone’s online uptake. This is driving • continued cost management efforts transactional income growth and included: • increasing foreign exchange trading volumes and margins • the launch of point-of-sale (POS) devices Branch rationalisation and the streamlining of head office support • the fast-branch-of-the-future concept was built and launched at functions are key initiatives to reduce an unsustainable cost base. the new head office After engagements, the Bank of Zambia approved the restructure, • a state-of-the-art data centre was established and is being run which includes the closure or downsizing of a number of branches at the bank’s new head office and support functions. • infrastructure, including lines, servers, switches, routers and The restructure follows a strategic shift away from predominantly firewalls, was upgraded retail customers to business banking, repositioning Cavmont Bank • a complete national overhaul of the PABX system was to focus particularly on SMEs – a targeted fit with our service and completed relationship strengths. • three new retail and five new lending products were launched Products and solutions for customers have been rationalised to • three new branches and six new ATMs were rolled out ensure that only profitable options are made part of the product offering. Instant cards are now being issued at the point of account • the front and back ends of the core banking and digital opening, and improved uptime of Cavmont Bank’s ATMs made the channels systems and interfaces were upgraded Cavmont Bank Visa Classic debit card more attractive to customers. 26 2019 Integrated Annual Report Liquidity risk currently poses the greatest challenge to the bank “Capricorn Group is proud to have a team attaining its turnaround objectives. Issues related to connectivity, payment platform functioning and network downtime are being of willing, extraordinary individuals who addressed. Mitigating actions include the migration to a new data are living The Capricorn Way behaviours centre. This also resulted in improvements in the quality of data, and displaying the attributes of being which means improved performance tracking and significantly better focus on short-term business performance owing to clear key Connectors of Positive Change. This is performance indicators and regular reporting. facilitating a shift in mindset within all Capricorn Asset Management Capricorn Group employees to a more Capricorn Asset Management (CAM) launched its digital platform, future-focused, open, collaborative way Capricorn Online, in September 2018. This allows investors to of thinking about strategy.” manage their investment portfolios and provides access to a wide – Thinus Prinsloo, Group CEO range of investment options, including the Capricorn Unit Trusts. With a 0% fee, which is unique in Namibia, the platform pricing is Capricorn Capital highly competitive. Capricorn Capital launched its brand and service offering in Despite a fiercely competitive market, CAM increased its market September 2018. The 2019 financial year was a formative period share in unit trusts from 29% to 31%. Most of the growth originated where key relationships were forged with new clients and from investment short-term interest-bearing funds. The Capricorn collaborative partners. We continued to build the team that is Investment Fund passed the N$9 billion mark while the Capricorn required to implement a pipeline of transactions and opportunities Corporate Fund grew to over N$5 billion. A further highlight was successfully. Our strategy was refined to include the following the significant growth in the Capricorn High Yield Fund and initiatives: Enhanced Cash Fund, which grew by more than 175% and 40% to N$1.8 billion and N$1.3 billion respectively. The Capricorn Private • The current economic climate in southern Africa resulted in Wealth client base grew to over 500 during the year. numerous entities requiring restructuring or business rescue. As this trend is likely to continue, we are establishing a reputation Unfortunately, equity and listed property markets underperformed. with key banks and other lenders as an effective restructuring This resulted in market value reductions, disinvestments and clients team. seeking the safer haven of cash and bonds. Consequently, the • We have identified large family businesses across the region Capricorn Equity Fund decreased by 38% and the Capricorn with limited succession planning, where we can assist in Property Fund by 37%. This had a significant fee impact on CAM providing corporatisation support and sell-side advisory services. due to money shifting from higher-fee-earning funds to lower-feeWith the commodity cycle expected to turn in the near to earning money and capital market funds. medium term, we are positioning ourselves to advise During the year, CAM employees created their own impact fund to international mining houses looking to invest in or acquire local which they contribute in their personal capacity to support their productive assets as well as assets for exploration. nominated projects, acting as true Connectors of Positive Change. • We are assisting businesses that have limited access to liquidity in the current market to access capital by divesting their non-core assets. This includes assisting businesses in varying stages of restructuring and turnaround to raise equity. • We are well positioned as an advisory partner to inward investors such as offshore impact funds, development finance institutions and small to mid-size private equity with a southern Africa mandate. This includes providing transaction support, such as due diligence and valuation services. LEADERSHIP REPORTS 27 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT continued Namib Bou Entrepo The symptoms of a severely depressed economy were visible in the Entrepo operates in the Namibian lending and long-term insurance drastic slowdown in property developments and sales. This included markets, with a specific focus on the government employee the development of houses at Ondangwa Extension 20 (Phase 3) segment as a deduction code holder. It exceeded expectations in its and downward pressure on property valuations in most price first year as part of the group. At the time of making the 55.5% categories on a national level. acquisition, we envisaged a 17% contribution to group profit after tax, with the actual contribution being 15%. Entrepo’s excellent As a result, we focused on more affordable designs while performance is attributable to: attempting to address the needs of home buyers better. • Good new business inflows resulting from a distinct competitive The valuation business improved its financial contribution following edge in the speed and effectiveness whereby new loans are the conclusion of service level agreements, streamlined operations approved and disbursed, high levels of customer satisfaction, and the gathering of critical market information in a vulnerable two new branches opened in Oshakati and Katima Mulilo and a time for the property sector. shift in emphasis towards loan consolidations and client Following the retirement of Johan Nienaber, who was executive retention director at Namib Bou for 13 years, we appointed Bernard Minnaar • Increasing net interest margins at Entrepo Finance and as managing director, effective 1 January 2019. underwriting profits at Entrepo Life Associates and other subsidiaries • Low loan write-offs at Entrepo Finance Santam and Sanlam • Low cost-to-income ratios Income from associates Santam and Sanlam decreased by 18.9% • Reducing debt-to-equity ratios (2018: 6.6% increase). • Good investment income at Entrepo Life Santam maintained its leading market position with strong Net premium income at Entrepo Life increased by 5.7% to underwriting performance under difficult economic conditions. This N$103.5, with new business largely derived from the sales at resulted from diversified income streams such as bancassurance, Entrepo Finance. The claims experience remained within the digital solutions and a new core underwriting platform. Growth actuarial assumptions and guidance. The capital adequacy ratio challenges included negative GDP growth that resulted in policy improved further and is well above the statutory requirements. cancellation and clients adjusting policy scope to reduce premiums. Good investment income was gained from the growing shareholder Claims resulted mainly from the drought and large commercial and policyholder reserves, which are invested in terms of regulatory property fires. Unfortunately, Santam received a N$15 million fine in requirements. July 2019 from the Namibian Competition Commission due to anti-competitive behaviour. Nimbus Although Nimbus did not meet our performance expectations and The key highlights for Sanlam Namibia were the exceptional did not declare any dividends, we remain committed to this 30% performance in the entry-level market business unit and effective investment. It supports our intent to diversify through partnerships cost management. Challenges included the effective turnaround of and facilitates operational growth through expanded access to the affluent business unit which has been struggling for the past infrastructure. Through Nimbus, we contribute positively to SADC few years, negative risk experience on the group business side and development as the region benefits from higher internet speed and increased lapses due to larger new business volumes taken on in the improved connectivity. entry-level market business. The Trans-Kalahari Fibre (TKF) line running between Swakopmund Both Santam and Sanlam continue to focus on synergies with key and Buitepos (on the Botswana border) was completed during stakeholders, optimised efficiencies and stringent cost September 2018. The TKF network extends 4,160 kilometres from management. the West Africa Cable System (WACS) cable landing station in Swakopmund to the EASSY cable landing station in Dar es Salaam, connecting the east and the west coast. This enables the export of bandwidth to other African countries. Nimbus was admitted to the NSX Main Board in June 2018 and subsequently increased its interest in Paratus Namibia to 51.4%. It also concluded a rights issue, raising N$103,444,792. 28 2019 Integrated Annual Report Connections for Positive Change Capricorn Group employees, business units, teams and board members all acted individually and collectively as Connectors of Positive Change. Some examples of the outcomes include: We appointed a The NeXtGen board was established in March 2019 to promote a culture of collaboration within the group, to millennial board help leaders recognise outdated conventions and to provide input into new or existing projects. This brings a fresh perspective that speaks to the millennials and Generation Zs who make up more than 60% of the workforce and a large portion of our clients. The NeXtGen board is chaired by Bank Windhoek’s chief financial officer and comprises a group of 12 young employees, mandated to contribute to the Capricorn Group strategy. Bank Windhoek issued Bank Windhoek is the first commercial bank to issue a green bond in the southern African region. The green Namibia’s first green bond is listed on the Namibian Stock Exchange and complies with the Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) bond Initiative, a UN Partnership Programme of the UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the UN Global Compact. Bank Windhoek aims to become the green financier of choice for sustainability projects in Namibia and in other countries in which the group operates. Proceeds from the bond will be used to finance eligible green projects and assets, which include renewable energy, energy and resource efficiency, green buildings, sustainable waste management, clean transportation and sustainable water management. Since issuing the bond, Bank Windhoek was awarded a Green Bonds Pioneer Award from Climate Bonds. Bank Windhoek Bank Windhoek, in partnership with four financial institutions, financed a new diamond recovery vessel for co-financed a new Debmarine Namibia – one of our largest commercial transactions to date. The state-of-the-art semi-submersible Debmarine vessel multirole vessel will be the world’s largest diamond recovery vessel and will enhance Debmarine Namibia’s ability to recover diamonds off Namibia’s Atlantic coastline. The N$5.6 billion asset financing facility constitutes 80% of the vessel cost and will be financed by Bank Windhoek and four other banks. We provided finance to To support the Namibian government’s efforts to alleviate the shortage and backlog in housing, Bank Windhoek alleviate housing offered financing to potential buyers of PolyCare houses. These houses are aimed at mediumto low-income shortages earners who are unable to afford conventional housing at current market prices and interest rates. PolyCare houses are constructed without having to use water and can be built within ten working days. Improving well-being, Bank Gaborone launched the Diabetes Apple Project to raise funds to help support and care for people with health and diabetes in Botswana. The partnership with the Diabetes Association of Botswana follows the success of productivity Bank Windhoek’s flagship Cancer Apple Project. Sharing investor Capricorn Group co-hosted a workshop to share investor reporting best practice with peers listed on the expertise Namibian Stock Exchange. The workshop provided input on starting a reporting journey, integrating governance reporting and understanding what investors look for. Cavmont Bank gives Cavmont Bank supports and participates in the Smart Money show, a half-hour weekly magazine programme practical money advice that gives viewers in Zambia an in-depth look at current money and business topics. It allows Cavmont Bank to offer practical and inspirational financial advice on topics such as renting vs buying a house, monetary policy and scams to avoid. CAM employees Capricorn Asset Management’s staff launched the CAM Impact Fund to which they contribute weekly through making an impact fundraisers in the office and, in turn, donate the funds collected or essential goods to different social responsibility projects. The staff nominated and selected their top six social responsibility projects which they support over the calendar year, enabling them to be Connectors of Positive Change. Caliber Capital Trust Caliber Capital Trust, managed by Capricorn Asset Management, has extended debt to Namibian companies supporting Harambee that support 1,129 families. In support of the Harambee objectives, the debt financing has assisted in objectives modernising healthcare, improving food security as well as increasing the country’s energy capacity, which in turn reduces its reliance on imported energy. LEADERSHIP REPORTS 29 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT continued Outlook We are positive that the group will maintain its resilience and continue to deliver positive results. By delivering on our strategy, The operating environment is expected to remain challenging. diversifying investment and keeping our focus on operational Interest rate cuts in Namibia are almost certain, which will excellence, we will be able to continue creating value and negatively impact the interest margin of Bank Windhoek. contributing to positive change. As stated by our chairman, the Consumers are expected to remain under pressure, with very little recent Economic Growth Summit in Namibia was a very positive economic growth anticipated. sign and hopefully the beginning of even more collaborative This calls for enhanced engagement with our clients on all aspects initiatives and discussions to address our national challenges. of their financial needs and finding ways to mitigate risk for all – really putting the customer at the centre of everything we do. Building on the speed of execution and adaptability that we ingrained in the business this year, we will exploit opportunities and Thinus Prinsloo further improve our offerings. Group chief executive officer 30 2019 Integrated Annual Report “Our previous chairman, Koos Brandt, said a bank should be there for customers in the good and bad times. Building on this philosophy, we have supported our customers in the past financial year during sometimes very difficult circumstances, and we can now see the positive impact it had. We anticipate the tough conditions to persist, amplified by economic challenges and the widespread impact of the drought, resulting in consumers, including our customers, remaining under pressure and in need of innovative solutions that will address their unique challenges. This calls for finding ways to mitigate risk for all.” – Thinus Prinsloo, Group chief executive officer. Chobe National Park LEADERSHIP REPORTS 31 FINANCIAL DIRECTOR’S REVIEW 2019 overview Despite the economies in the region where we operate being under severe pressure, the Capricorn Group delivered very good results, with group profit after tax for the year ended 30 June 2019 of N$1,015 million (2018: N$934 million), surpassing the N$1 billion mark for the first time. Bank Windhoek, Capricorn Asset Management and Entrepo Holdings’ performances exceeded expectations, while Bank Gaborone performed in line with its targets for growth and profitability. Cavmont Bank showed improvement compared to the prior year with a significantly reduced operating loss. Sharp declines in investment income and challenging market conditions for underwriters, resulted in income from associates reducing by 12.7%. The following events might affect the comparability of financial information since the previous financial year: • The contribution from Entrepo was included for the first time in our full-year results. • Exceptional items relating to a gain-on-bargain purchase of Entrepo of N$38.8 million and profit on the sale of Visa shares of N$77.3 million which were included in the prior period were not repeated in the current period. Excluding exceptional items mentioned above in the prior year, JACO ESTERHUYSE Financial director • group operating profits increased by 26.0% to N$1.36 billion; • headline earnings per share increased by 14.9% to 181.5 cents (2018: 157.9 cents) per share; and • earnings attributable to shareholders increased by 15.3%. Financial performance summary The graphics on page 9 and the five-year financial overview on page 5 set out the salient features of the group’s financial performance for the year under review and the past five years. 32 2019 Integrated Annual Report Good improvement in In the 2017 financial year, the increase in net interest income was largely as a result of the acquisition of net interest margin Capricorn Investment Holdings (Botswana) Limited (CIHB) and Cavmont Capital Holdings Zambia Plc (CCHZ). Net interest income increased with 17.3%. Bank Windhoek contributed 8.3% of this growth mainly through good margin improvement resulting from lower cost of funding and effective liquidity management. The margin improvement has been achieved notwithstanding the bank increasing lower-yielding liquid assets significantly (growth of 15.3%), whilst higher-yielding loans and advances showed growth of 6.3% over the year. This resulted in a considerable improvement in the average loan to funding (LFR) ratio of Bank Windhoek from 93.1% to 92.1% compared to the prior year. The inclusion of Entrepo contributed 5.0% of the growth in net interest income. Bank Windhoek’s improvement in the net interest margin is even more remarkable given the significant increase in non-performing loans from N$829.4 million to N$1,222.9 million and the negative effect suspended interest had on the bank’s margin. Bank Gaborone’s net interest margin decreased from 3.8% to 3.5%, mainly due to increased cost of funding, resulting from more prudent liquidity management through an increased maturity profile. Cavmont Bank also experienced a shrinking interest margin due to low market liquidity giving rise to increased pricing of deposits in Zambia. As depicted in the graph below, the group experienced an improvement in the net interest margin to 4.3% (2018: 4.0%). Net interest income 2,500,000 5.0% 2,000,000 4.7% N$’000 1,500,000 4.4% 1,000,000 4.2% 500,000 3.9% 0 3.6% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Net interest income (N$’000) Net interest margin (N$’000) LEADERSHIP REPORTS 33 FINANCIAL DIRECTOR’S REVIEW continued Strong growth in Group non-interest income consists of the following categories: non-interest income • Transaction-based fee income (45% (2018: 53%)) with continued improved in • Card and digital channels (20% (2018: 21%)) diversification of • Commission and other insurance (12% (2018: 5%)) revenue streams • Asset management fees (9% (2018: 10%)) • Net trading income (14% (2018: 9%)) Non-interest income (excluding the effect of exceptional items) grew by 22.6% to N$1.36 billion for the year ended 30 June 2019. The growth is mainly attributable to: • strong forex trading income across the three banks (contributing 9.0% to the growth); • strong, consistent income from electronic channels within Bank Windhoek increasing by 25.4%; • good growth in transaction fee income in Bank Gaborone of 45.4%, mainly as a result of a transaction volume increase; and • the income from underwriting activities contributed by Entrepo for the first time (13.6% of the growth). Cards and digital channels showed consistent growth over the past few years as customers switch to online and mobile solutions. Not surprisingly, it is in this capability and functionality that the group invests most significantly. Asset management income increased by 11.3% to N$118.2 million (2018: N$105.8 million). By increasing the ratio of non-interest income to total income, we continue to decrease the dependency on net interest income and therefore lessening the impact of shrinking margins due to reduction in interest rates by central banks and increased cost of funding attributed to factors beyond our control. 34 2019 Integrated Annual Report IFRS 9 significant Impairment charges were for the first time, calculated in terms of the new IFRS 9 standard that was adopted on impacting impairment 1 July 2018. Under the new standard, impairments are determined based on an expected credit loss model provisions rather than the incurred loss model (IAS 39) used for the previous year. The level of provisions under IFRS 9 are more in line with the provisions required by determination BID-2 of Bank of Namibia on Asset Classification, Provisioning and Suspension of Interest (BID-2) compared to IAS 39. It emphasises a more proactive impairment provisioning approach. Impairment charges for the group increased by 41.7% to N$114.5 million (2018: N$80.8 million). The impact of the first time adoption per bank is illustrated below as well as the movement for the year. Bank Windhoek N$’000 IAS 39 opening balance – 1 July 2018 230,314 IFRS 9 implementation adjustment 218,932 Adjusted opening balance – 1 July 2018 449,246 Impairments and bad debts written off 51,282 Closing balance – 30 June 2019 500,528 Bank Gaborone P’000 IAS 39 opening balance – 1 July 2018 92,150 IFRS 9 implementation adjustment 17,871 Adjusted opening balance – 1 July 2018 110,021 Impairments 10,144 Closing balance – 30 June 2019 120,165 Cavmont Bank ZK’000 IAS 39 opening balance -–1 July 2018 10,083 IFRS 9 implementation adjustment 97,280 Adjusted opening balance – 1 July 2018 107,363 Impairments and bad debts written off (19,389) Closing balance – 30 June 2019 87,974 Impairment charges for Bank Windhoek increased by 63.1% whilst both Bank Gaborone and Cavmont Bank decreased by 45.1% and more than 100%, respectively. The impairment coverage ratios for the three banks as at 30 June 2019: • Bank Windhoek: 42.8% • Bank Gaborone: 47.6% • Cavmont Bank: 110.5% Cavmont Bank has been significantly impacted by the downgrade of the Zambian sovereign rate on 26 June 2019 to CCC-, the last grade before default. In accordance with IFRS 9, impairment provisions had to be recognised on its holding of government securities, e.g. treasury bills and government bonds, using probability of defaults (PDs) and loss given defaults (LGDs) prescribed by one of the three main rating agencies. This resulted in an additional impairment provision of ZMW13.9 million to be raised on Cavmont Bank’s government securities holdings at year end. More information regarding Capricorn Group’s loan book is discussed under loans and advances on page 37. LEADERSHIP REPORTS 35 FINANCIAL DIRECTOR’S REVIEW continued Operating expenses Operating expenses increased 14.3% year-on-year from N$1.8 billion to N$2.1 billion as a result of three are well controlled main factors: • the inclusion of Entrepo, which contributed 2.3% of the growth; • staff cost, which increased by 15.6% and contributed 8.3% of the growth, was mainly attributed to the inclusion of Entrepo, building capacity in Capricorn Private Wealth and the group’s IT function, and increase in performance remuneration linked to the group’s improved financial performance; and • operational banking expenses increased with N$30.9m (18.6%) from the prior year, mainly due to increased transaction volumes, property valuation fees and a once off loan settlement fee within Bank Windhoek. The increase in staff cost should be viewed in conjunction with the savings on projects and flexible resources as there was a drive to replace IT consultants with permanent employees in Namibia. Excluding the items mentioned above, remaining cost only increased by 2.0%, well below inflation. Group operating expenses 2,500,000 30,855 36,521 2,052,038 2,000,000 149,107 1,795,108 40,447 N$’000 1,500,000 1,000,000 500,000 0 2018 Entrepo Staff Operational Other 2019 costs banking expenses 36 2019 Integrated Annual Report Satisfactory growth in Gross loans and advances increased slightly below with private sector credit extension by 6.5% (N$2.3 billion) to loans and advances N$39.0 billion. N$2.0 billion of this increase is accounted for by commercial loans in Bank Windhoek and Bank Gaborone increasing by 31.2% and 28.6% respectively. Current adverse economic conditions have seen a substantial increase in non-performing loans (NPLs) across the industry. Our group was no exception, with NPLs increasing from N$1.2 billion as at 30 June 2018 to N$1.6 billion as at 30 June 2019. The increase is mainly as a result of: • some large well-secured loans within Bank Windhoek, classified as NPLs in this financial year, contributing 70% of the total growth of the group; • Bank Gaborone’s NPLs increasing by 34.4% from BWP188.0 million to BWP252.6 million; impairment of mortgage loans and, to a lesser extent, in overdrafts and finance; and • Cavmont Bank seeing a reduction in NPLs as a result of improved credit processes and active management of the non-performing book through collections and rehabilitation. Bank Windhoek experienced a fairly large shift in its asset mix with overdrafts and mortgage loans remaining relatively flat and vehicle finance declining, while commercial loans grew. The group’s loans and advances book remains healthy, notwithstanding the current economic environment. This is testimony to the group’s success in prudent credit management and the benefits of a decentralised credit model. Gross loans and advances to customers 5% 50,000 40,000 4% N$’million 30,000 3% 20,000 2% 10,000 1% 0 0% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Bank Windhoek Bank Gaborone Cavmont Bank Entrepo NPLs as % of gross loans and advances (N$’000) LEADERSHIP REPORTS 37 FINANCIAL DIRECTOR’S REVIEW continued Significant liquidity Liquid assets increased by 14.6% compared to the prior year. This is largely due to a key focus by Bank Windhoek buffers to grow liquid assets which increased by 15.3%, resulting in a significant improvement to the bank’s LFR ratio. Bank Gaborone Bank Windhoek Cavmont Bank liquid assets liquid assets liquid assets 1,200 7,000 150 1,000 6,000 120 P’million N$’million ZK’million 5,000 800 4,000 90 600 3,000 60 400 2,000 30 200 1,000 0 0 0 June 2017 June 2018 June 2019 June 2017 June 2018 June 2019 June 2017 June 2018 June 2019 Regulatory requirement Actual liquid assets All three banks exceed the minimum regulatory requirements as at 30 June 2019 with healthy excess above minimum liquidity requirement as indicated below: • Bank Windhoek: N$2.7bn (176.4%) • Bank Gaborone: P392.5m (80.2%) • Cavmont Bank: K199.0m (151.9%) Strong growth in Total funding increased by N$3.6 billion (9.0%) to N$43.9 billion as at 30 June 2019. funding Growth in funding is attributable mainly to growth in NCDs in Bank Windhoek and term deposits in Bank Gaborone. This was largely driven by market appetite. Funding growth would have been higher had it not been for the repayment of the DEG loan by Bank Windhoek, while Zambia saw liquidity pressures in a low liquidity market. Although Bank Windhoek grew their funding in line with general money supply it has actively managed the cost of funding. This resulted in a decrease in the average cost of funding from 6.7% in the prior year to 6.6%, improving the interest margin of the bank. Capricorn Group issued a medium-term note programme on both the Namibian and the Botswana Stock Exchange. Capricorn Group issued notes for BWP128.5 million (N$171 million) under the Botswana listed programme to create a natural currency hedge against existing pula assets. No notes have been issued yet under the programme approved by the Namibian Stock Exchange. The group also obtained a N$650 million five-year preference share facility from a Namibian financial institution. This was mainly to fund the Entrepo acquisition and related funding. Read more in note 26 of the annual financial statements. 38 2019 Integrated Annual Report Capital remains well The group remains well capitalised with its total risk-based capital adequacy ratio of 14.9% (June 2018: 15.3%). above minimum This is well above the minimum regulatory capital requirement of 10.0%. requirements The implementation roadmap of Basel III in Namibia has been communicated and is a key priority of Bank Windhoek. Bank Windhoek expects to be well above the required ratios for Basel III when it becomes effective in 2023. The Global Credit Ratings Company affirmed the group’s and Bank Windhoek Limited’s credit ratings of AA(NA) with a stable outlook during November 2018. The rating was based on adequate capitalisation, growing earnings, adequate funding and liquidity of the group. The rating also recognised the group’s strong and diverse competitive position, supported by a large market share in Namibia. Financial outcomes Return on equity Headline earnings Profit after tax per share 16.3% +14.9% +8.7% (2018: 17.3%) to N$1,015 million to 181.5 cents (2018: N$934 million) (2018: 157.9 cents) LEADERSHIP REPORTS 39 FINANCIAL DIRECTOR’S REVIEW continued Strategic choices to invest aggressive growth strategy to further expand its infrastructure footprint across the continent. It is the only information and The Capricorn Group has made a number of investments in recent communication technology company that can provide redundancy years, which included the expansion of the group beyond the on both the West Africa Cable System (WACS) and the Eastern borders of Namibia to Botswana and Zambia, an acquisition of a African Submarine Cable System (EASSY) under one single 55% interest in Entrepo, an exceptionally well-run finance business autonomous system number that does not run through South in Namibia, and an investment in Nimbus, which has a 51.4% Africa. shareholding in Paratus Namibia. The investment in Nimbus was the start of the expansion outside Dividend declaration financial services with a specific focus on the telecommunications A final dividend of 36 cents per ordinary share was declared on sector given the convergence between financial services and 20 August 2019 for the year ended 30 June 2019 (2018: 30 cents). telecommunications and the exponential growth in the demand Considering the interim dividend of 30 cents per share, this for data. represents a total dividend of 66 cents per ordinary share (2018: 60 cents per share). The group’s dividend policy remains On 1 July 2019, the group concluded a 30% acquisition in Paratus unchanged with a cover ratio of three times. Group Holdings Limited. Paratus Group Holdings and its subsidiaries and associates operate in 24 African countries, the most significant of which are Angola, Namibia, Zambia and Botswana. In line with the Capricorn Group’s strategy to be a regional competitor, Paratus has demonstrated a successful regional expansion and has an Jaco Esterhuyse Financial director 40 2019 Integrated Annual Report I AM ZAMBIAN The mighty Victoria Falls plummets with strength and purpose, granting us understanding of our own significance. In our country, diversity is our strength. We preserve our multifaceted traditions through ceremonies and cultural festivals, holding dear our devotion to the progress of all Zambians. We focus on potential, igniting and supporting opportunities to connect, grow and build our people. LEADERSHIP REPORTS 41 6 STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE AND MATERIAL MATTERS OUR OPERATING CONTEXT INFORMS THE GROUP’S STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE Kitwe Ndola Lusaka Kasama Chipata Livingstone Oshakati Otjiwarongo Maun Francistown Swakopmund Windhoek Serowe Selebi-Phikwe Walvis Bay Molepolole Gaborone Kanye Lüderitz Oranjemund Namibia Botswana Zambia 1,635 274 324 Permanent employees Permanent employees Permanent employees 2,514,000 2,396,129 17,609,178 Population Population Population Namibia dollar (N$) Botswana pula (BWP) Zambian kwacha (ZMW) (pegged to the South African rand) P Currency ZK Currency Currency N$1 = ZAR1 P BWP1 = N$1.33 ZK ZMW1 = N$1.09 Currency conversion at 30 June 2019 Currency conversion at 30 June 2019 Currency conversion at 30 June 2019 42 2019 Integrated Annual Report Total ATMs and Cash Express machines Contribution to net Namibia profit after tax |||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| |||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||329 |||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| Namibia |||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| |||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| 97% ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| Botswana |||||||||||||||||| 18 Zambia |||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| 42 Botswana 5% Total branches 10 56 Zambia Botswana Namibia 20 -2% Zambia Expected GDP growth for 2019 -1.5% 3.9% 2.0% Namibia Botswana Zambia STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE ANDLEADERSHIP MATERIAL MATTERS REPORTS 43 OUR OPERATING CONTEXT INFORMS THE GROUP’S STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE continued Key messages from this chapter • Namibia is in a recession, Botswana is improving its business climate, and Zambia is losing momentum. • Our four strategic choices guide us towards long-term thinking in this context and keep us focused on operational excellence to win. • Our eight material matters ensure that we keep those aspects that enable us to create sustainable value, top of mind. Namibia Salient features Potential impact for Capricorn Group The Namibian economy is under severe pressure, and growth Economic conditions significantly impacted customer prospects remain sluggish. This translates into low levels of affordability and resulted in a material increase in investment, low employment, reduced household consumption non-performing loans at Bank Windhoek. and an increase in non-performing loans in the Namibian Reduced investment activity, a material price correction in the banking sector. housing market and a significant decrease in demand for vehicle and asset finance, resulted in the demand for credit decreasing to the lowest levels ever experienced in Namibia. The bank is also being more cautious in extending additional and new credit. The subdued business activity impacts new customer acquisition and growth, resulting an increased pressure on non-interest income. Policy uncertainty is affecting investor confidence, resulting in Banks typically experience lower levels of investment and lower lower capital investment. demand for credit, which leads to lower levels of business activity impacting income. This may result in a potential increase in cost of funding. The upcoming general elections might increase uncertainty This will further affect business and consumer confidence and and encourage activism around issues such as land redistribution increase the need for corporate social responsibility (CSR) and and the demand for affordable housing. stakeholder engagement. The Namibian economy is still in recession. This is evident from • G  lobal economic growth remained lacklustre against an indicators such as negative GDP growth (-2% in the first quarter uncertain political backdrop. Brexit is dragging along messily of 2019), severe shrinkage in the sales of vehicles, slow credit and inconclusively, and the “trade and tech war” is heating up. growth and a hard-hit construction sector in conjunction with a •  he Chinese domestic economy is cooling, which dampens T sharp slowdown in the property market. import demand from the rest of the world. For instance, car There are a number of factors that have been casting long sales in that market are down 14%. shadows over the economy for the last three or more years: •  he extreme drought in the country is taking a heavy toll on T •  ommodity prices such as oil and base metals dropped C the agricultural sector. precipitously about three to four years ago with no meaningful •  he general economic slowdown puts the revenue of the T recovery since. This has cut spending power in the Namibian government under severe pressure. This forced fiscal region sharply. consolidation that dampened spending, which rippled through •  lobal and regional trade slowed. This has negative G the economy. implications for the Southern African Customs Union revenue. •  onsumer, business and investor confidence is further eroded in C a climate of political and policy uncertainty. 44 2019 Integrated Annual Report Initially, it seemed that we would be over the worst in 2019/20 and The Bank of Namibia introduced new regulations to limit the that an upswing would be underway. However, it now appears that amount an individual can borrow. These include the debt-serviceeconomic growth will be barely positive, if at all. Most of the factors to-income ratio as an addition to the loan-to-value ratio, as well as mentioned above are not showing signs of dissipating. adjustments to the Credit Agreements Act, 75 of 1980. Globally, regionally and domestically, we are entering a phase, once Although NPLs remained below the 4% target of the Bank of again, where growth expectations are being lowered. Analysts, Namibia at year-end, further increases will be a threat to banks’ commentators and policymakers are cutting their growth forecasts. performance. The Bank of Namibia implemented credit bureau For instance, the Bank of Namibia, the International Monetary regulations to give commercial banks access to viewing Fund, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and consumers’ exposure and assist in affordability assessments Development (OECD) and the South African Reserve Bank are before providing credit. expecting lower rather than higher economic growth going forward. Growth in vehicle and asset finance accounts continues to decline In this environment, it is not surprising that fears of disinflation or due to government expenditure cuts on capital goods. Tighter even deflation are more prevalent than fears of inflation. In credit criteria and changes in regulatory policy, which requires a Namibia, we expect inflation to average 4.5% to 5.5% for the 10% deposit on a vehicle loan, contributed to lower growth. foreseeable future, as is the case in South Africa. Food, oil and the exchange rate remain volatile drivers of inflation. Botswana Salient features Potential impact for Capricorn Group Botswana’s GDP growth remains volatile due to large swings in the Bank Gaborone’s exposure to diamond mining is limited. performance of the mining sector. The country remains dependent However, doing business in the mining sector is seen as an on a single commodity: diamonds. This makes the economy opportunity as the outlook for diamond, coal, gold and copper vulnerable to any downturn in diamond prices. mining is positive over the medium term. Awarding of new licences and investments by Australian companies add to the attractiveness of the sector. Botswana was recently designated by the Financial Action Task The lack of controls on terrorism financing and money Force (FATF) as a country of high risk for money laundering and laundering poses reputational risk and could affect investor terrorism financing. This comes despite government efforts to confidence in the banking sector. It also puts Bank Gaborone’s combat money laundering and its commitment to streamline correspondent bank relationships at risk. policies and regulations to improve the business climate for private sector development and to attract foreign investment. The Bank of Botswana reduced the benchmark policy rate to This is an attempt to promote investment growth and stimulate 5% in March 2019 in response to weak economic activity and credit growth. It is, unfortunately, having the opposite effect as low inflation. liquid assets are invested outside Botswana as investors seek higher money and capital market yields. This results in upward pressure on cost of funds, which, combined with lower lending rates, reduced the interest margins of banks. The use of mobile and non-traditional banking services is Cellphone banking is driving transactional income growth for increasing. Botswana has high levels of cellphone banking banks. penetration. Botswana banks also have a model of so-called learner branches, with increased self-service access points inside and outside the branch for its clients. The outcome of the general elections at the end of 2019 might Instability might negatively affect the performance of the have an impact on political stability. banking sector in Botswana. STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE AND MATERIAL MATTERS 45 OUR OPERATING CONTEXT INFORMS THE GROUP’S STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE continued The Botswana economy showed marginal improvement over the The bank rate remained at 5% and is expected to be maintained reporting period, with GDP growth at 4.5%, significantly higher than as such for the rest of the 2019 calendar year. Inflation as at the previous year at 2.9%. Although the country continued to face June 2019 was recorded as 2.8%; below the lower boundary of low levels of economic growth, there are good prospects of recovery the Bank of Botswana’s target range of 3–6%. for the next reporting period based on the strong performance of The European Union blacklisted Botswana alongside 22 other the mining sector, as well as increased government capital countries for money laundering-related deficiencies in expenditure. All sectors, apart from trade and water and electricity, February 2019, over and above the preceding grey listing of recorded increased rates of growth when compared to the previous Botswana by the Financial Action Task Force (FAFT) in year. The mining sector experienced the most significant increase, October 2018. This has led to an increase in legislation aimed registering a growth rate of 7.4% in 2018 compared to -11.1% in at improving mechanisms to manage anti-money laundering and 2017. The steady increases in annual bank credit over 2018/2019 financing of terrorism efforts in the country. are also an indication of the improved business environment. Zambia Salient features Potential impact for Capricorn Group Large fiscal deficits and rising debt service costs have resulted in Banks may start experiencing an increase in non-performing domestic expenditure arrears, taking a toll on growth. loans (NPLs) and tightening liquidity conditions. Zambia has seen an improvement in the NPL ratio the last 12 months in the sector. Interest rates have been relatively stable until May 2019 when the Bank of Zambia policy rate was revised upwards by 50bps. If the book deteriorates, IFRS 9 provisions will increase, which will also erode the capital base of Cavmont Bank and ultimately the earnings of the group. The sovereign rating downgrade will further put pressure on foreign direct investment flows and the cost of raising international third-party credit lines. This could increase the cost of available funding and reduce the subsequent profitability of banks. A further impact of this is increased IFRS 9 impairment provisions on government securities, which could be significant for Cavmont Bank and the group. GDP growth is losing pace on the back of lower agricultural Pressure on consumer spending will affect the rate of deposits production, mining output and constrained electricity production. and transaction volumes for banks. Forex trading will be impacted by mining output as mines attract more than 80% of foreign inflows. The further impact on Cavmont Bank will be a lack of growth in targeted sectors such as retail and wholesale trading, which is a key sector for Cavmont Bank. 46 2019 Integrated Annual Report Zambia’s GDP is forecast at between 2% and 3%, which is below The electricity deficit is expected to negatively impact productivity the global growth rate of 3.6%. With GDP growth expected to slow and ultimately put a strain on industries, with reduced output. and inflation rising, Zambia’s Central Bank raised its key interest The recent implementation of structural and legal reforms should rate, the Bank Policy Rate, for the first time since November 2015 help to retain a level of stability. Macroeconomic policies continue to from 9.75% to 10.25%. The impact of the drought on agricultural emphasise fiscal consolidation, prudence and the curtailment of production and the resultant increase in food prices, combined with avoidable expenditure. a volatile currency, have put the country on the back foot in terms of growth. The appointment of a new finance minister is expected to improve market sentiment as he brings his wealth of experience in monitory In the financial sector, the overall performance and condition of policy to the fiscal side. In the medium to long term, we expect a banking institutions remain satisfactory, premised on satisfactory reversal of the recent downward trend in economic fundamentals capital adequacy positions, earnings performance and liquidity and sentiments. As we head towards elections in the next two years, positions. However, asset quality is a concern due to the high we expect the government to put huge projects in motion to level of NPLs. stimulate economic growth. STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE AND MATERIAL MATTERS 47 OUR FOUR STRATEGIC CHOICES An important role of the Capricorn Group board is to consider, • p  ractical insight into strategy execution across the main evaluate and agree on our strategy, given the evolving operating platforms and impact with the implementation of the Agile and contexts in Namibia, Botswana and Zambia. The board considers Six Sigma methodologies our purpose, our long-term vision and our progress in implementing • s pecific strategic actions relating to the turnaround of Cavmont our strategy. Based on the board’s assessment of the material risks Bank, including a change in our group oversight model, moving and opportunities the group anticipates, the directors confirm or from strategic guidance to strategic control adjust our strategic choices, as these direct the executive team’s •  n increased focus during the final year of the current strategic a decisions about resource allocation and trade-offs. cycle on the human and culture side of operational excellence At the annual AsOne2020 strategic review session, the executive implementation team made presentations and engaged with the board on • m  aterial matters impacting on our ability to create value in the the following: short, medium and long term. • t he group’s 2018–2020 strategic cycle, including our four As mentioned in the chairman’s statement, our three-year strategy strategic choices and our aspiration to win through operational cycle is in its last year. The preparation for a new cycle will include excellence refinements and learnings from the current cycle, and no significant • f eedback from the managing directors of operating subsidiaries shifts are expected. on their business environments, successes, challenges and strategy Our four strategic choices Progress summary Focus on building our foundation in Namibia, Zambia We received good feedback from customers on service quality and Botswana in order to get to a position of market and increased our market share on assets. There are still gaps to leadership. close in our share of the deposits market. Win in Namibia, Zambia and Botswana through We are gaining traction in operational excellence through the operational excellence (lean, efficient, fast) and cumulative effect of Agile delivery platforms, customer effective execution. efficiency, culture development and Six Sigma deployment. Compete in Namibia, Botswana and Zambia through Our recent acquisitions improved our competitive position. strategic relationships and partnerships in insurtech, Further alliances are being explored. fintech, mobile and telco, and education. In considering other African countries beyond 2020, The acquisitions already completed and those currently being target technological/borderless/cyber opportunities explored will position us to expand into other African countries above bricks and mortar entry. Evaluate opportunities, beyond 2020. whether cyber or bricks and mortar, on a case-by-case basis. Operational excellence traction and challenges included The uptake of internet banking has tapered off as the channel is the following: maturing and being disrupted by the mobile app. •  ustomer satisfaction, net promoter and ease-of-doingC •  ustomer growth rates and market share for liabilities remained C business indicators were all trending upwards. challenging. • Transactional account processing time continued to improve. •  eliberate employee engagement actions will continue to sow D •  t Bank Windhoek, digital channel adoption for EasyWallet and A the seeds of the culture required for the effectiveness of the mobile app continues to show promising growth rates. operational excellence. 48 2019 Integrated Annual Report Strategy implementation and support to become operationally excellent and design business processes that lead to better customer experiences. Delivery against We believe that by successfully implementing the AsOne2020 operational targets is reported to the board every quarter and strategy, we can build a sustainable business that makes a includes growth in market share, customer performance metrics difference to broader society. Successful implementation relies on and business process improvements per bank. employees that understand the strategic choices, are clear about their role and contribution, and are incentivised to deliver on The performance development process ensures that the group’s targets. We therefore have to ensure that our internal organisational and employees’ individual goals and objectives are communication, rewards and recognition, employee value aligned. We identify, evaluate and enhance the performance of proposition, training initiatives and performance management are employees through rewards and recognition, regular feedback and all aligned and support implementation. Our Connector Programme career guidance. The fundamental goal is to establish a culture in is at the heart of these elements. which employees and teams take responsibility for the continuous improvement of business processes and their skills and contribution. Progress with the implementation of the four strategic choices is measured through board-approved indicators and targets. We aim Read more in the remuneration report from page 109. Salient features of our performance management approach The performance of employees against objectives (what) and The implementation of the new performance management against The Capricorn Way behaviours (how) are measured approach was supported by education and awareness sessions according to the 5Cs: to familiarise all employees with the new descriptors and methodology. A prototype was sent out with examples, objectives, actions and measurable indicators. This helped 1 Customer business units to create new contracts based on a common understanding of the intent, content and outcomes of the 5Cs. This process was also automated during the year to enhance 2 Colleague operational excellence and integrity. 3 Citizenship 4 Conduct 5 Company STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE AND MATERIAL MATTERS 49 OUR FOUR STRATEGIC CHOICES continued Core elements of our human capital value proposition Citizenship We are actively using The Capricorn Way to shape a new culture that encourages exceptional performance and promotes being Connectors of Positive Change. This is done by driving strategic people practices, simplifying the processes in the employee lifecycle and making them more relevant. HR business Remuneration partnering We shape our We are trusted business remuneration approach advisers and change to ensure strategic champions who focus on alignment and strategic priorities that competitiveness in contribute to growth and the market. competitiveness. We drive The Capricorn Way in everything we do. The Human Capital Shared services People Value Proposition development We aim to be a value-adding Service Insanely Perfected partner to group companies We support professional by delivering reliable services, development by providing improving efficiencies and employees with the creating higher levels of service. opportunity to engage in This includes budget self-development and management, data analysis, learning. This transpires by reporting, leave management aligning a learning culture, and policy and framework design. strategic direction, internal resources and partnerships. Employee wellness Resourcing Employee relations Wellness addresses non-occupational illness, health We offer a complete end-to-end We focus on employer and and personal issues that process from job planning to employee relations to ensure negatively and/or positively design, to ensure the right fit compliance with labour affect the workplace in a at the right time through a legislation and basic conditions holistic way. When our combination of traditional of employment. employees feel cared for, they and unorthodox targeted will take exceptional care of sourcing methods. their customers. The human capital strategy is visualised using the analogy of a flywheel: when we deliver any part of the flywheel, it accelerates the entire loop. This captures the dynamic of implementing our strategy through consistent small results phased over time and aligned in the same direction. 50 2019 Integrated Annual Report The Capricorn Way and the Connector Based on these focus areas, action plans will be developed by each Programme business unit. The Connector Programme was created with a twofold purpose: Engaging with our stakeholders •  o embed the work done by the AsOne2020 strategy through T Our stakeholders are those individuals or groups that are impacted The Capricorn Way, the brand values, brand proposition, by our business activities – and who have an interest in our success. purpose, customer propositions and frameworks. Their relationships with the Capricorn Group – whether they form • T  o provide a platform for the ongoing communication, part of the group (for example employees) or have external roles engagement, interaction and embedding of the group’s (for example clients or service providers) – determine the intensity, AsOne2020 strategic choices for the period 2018–2020. nature and intervals of engagement. Effective engagement with stakeholders is a core element of our vision and purpose. The second Connector conference was held in March 2019. This year, 135 Connectors from four countries participated. The purpose Our major stakeholder engagement events for the past year were of the conference was to encourage networking, expose Connectors guided by the 2018/2019 strategic stakeholder engagement plan to multiple perspectives and create awareness around the that was developed, approved and shared with group entities to AsOne2020 strategy, risk and culture. Most importantly, it ignited align with their operational engagement plans. The group plan the team spirit of Connectors across all entities through the “I am…” supports the implementation of the AsOne2020 strategy. Initiatives campaign. Specific “I am…” Connector activities were designed for are clearly linked to material matters or CSR themes. For each stakeholder group, we identify opportunities and desired outcomes, the conference. such as creating strong relationships around and awareness of our Elements that surfaced during the Connector activities were the regional footprint and banking brand in all three territories. commitment to embrace the thoughts and ideas of the Capricorn Extensive stakeholder input was obtained during five months of Group, the powerful impact of teamwork and the undeniable brand research on the Capricorn Group and its subsidiary banks concept of strength through diversity. as part of our monolithic brand architecture journey. Development initiatives and focus areas Stakeholder engagement remains important because it: Further initiatives to entrench The Capricorn Way, ensure effective • e nables us to sense the needs of stakeholders and to respond strategy implementation and achieve operational excellence appropriately included the following: • e nsures engagement with stakeholders in a customised, We completed a leadership assessment for middle management. coherent and consistent way across the group Individual plans for each assessed middle manager were developed, • e nables better planned and more informed policies, and a coach was assigned to each manager. A new management programmes, products and services that are aligned with development programme for middle management, in partnership stakeholder expectations with the University of Stellenbosch Business School, was launched across all countries. • supports the group’s other strategic initiatives •  ositions stakeholder engagement as an enabler of the group’s p In the latest employee engagement survey, the Capricorn Group business success obtained a response rate of 87%, which is considered to be a very • f acilitates effective internal collaboration and knowledge good response rate compared to the norm of 72%. Thirty-one per sharing about stakeholder interests, needs and positioning cent of employees are fully engaged, meaning they are highly committed employees and are prepared to do more than what is • c ommunicates the importance that the group places on required. engaging with its stakeholders From the survey, key focus areas were identified to drive increased Our list of stakeholders is set out on page 2, and we provide more engagement: detail on specific interactions and engagements this year in the Group CEO’s report from page 24 and the board sustainability and •  alent fit, including matching employees to roles or job T ethics committee report from page 117. assignments that enable them to use their strengths •  mployee voice, including encouraging a feedback culture where E feedback is regarded as developmental and reinforces a culture of continuous conversations • L eadership, including encouraging and developing inspirational leadership where leaders demonstrate The Capricorn Way STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE AND MATERIAL MATTERS 51 OUR EIGHT MATERIAL MATTERS Whereas our four strategic choices respond directly to our operating context and direct our resource allocation and trade-offs, the group’s material matters ensure that we keep those aspects that enable us to create sustainable value, top of mind. As with the strategy, the board plays a key role in identifying and testing assumptions and approving the material matters. Material matters were identified by a diverse internal team and included in the 2016 integrated annual report. 2016 The board and executive team reviewed the material matters in view of changes in the external environment, the group’s risk profile, expanded footprint and evolving strategy. The adjusted list was approved and included in the 2017 2017 integrated annual report. The 2017 material matters were tested with the Capricorn Group’s external stakeholders for robustness, relevance and gaps. Feedback indicated that all matters were material to stakeholders with some shifts in 2018 emphasis between stakeholder groups. The board considered the stakeholder feedback and approved the 2018 material matters for inclusion in the integrated annual report. 1. The reporting team reviewed the 2018 material matters and made recommendations for adjustments and emerging matters to be considered. 2019 2. During the board’s strategy review session held on 6 March 2019, members formally debated the matters that are material to the group’s future growth and sustainability and reviewed the 2018 material matters, including recommendations by the reporting team. During the board discussion, new material matters were identified and it was agreed to get more input from the directors via a survey. Eight board members completed the electronic survey. 3. T he results of the discussion and survey were analysed, ranked and combined into eight main material matters. The Group principal risk owners (GPROs) were then engaged to link each material matter to a principal risk and the relevant board committee. 4. I n April, the material matters were discussed as part of Bank Windhoek’s strategy session due to the bank’s material size and impact on value creation. 5. I n May, the list of material matters was formally submitted to the board audit, risk and compliance committee (BARC). This included a report by principal risk officers on mitigating actions. 6. The board discussed and approved the 2019 material matters for inclusion in the integrated report as recommended by the BARC in June. 7. In future, the material matters will form part of the relevant board committee agendas and subsequent reporting to the board. GPROs will develop specific strategies and implement specific actions to address the material matters. 52 2019 Integrated Annual Report Our 2019 material matters in summary 2019 material matters High-level shifts from 2018 material matters Ethical leadership, management and business This is a new and now the highest-ranking material matter, which includes aspects of mitigating corruption and fraud. Credit risk management and mitigating losses due to There has been a shift in emphasis away from growth prospects to bad debt managing credit and liquidity risk. Financial and cybercrime/cybersecurity Financial crime has been separated from the ethical aspects with the emphasis on technology as an enabler. Meeting customer needs and expectations No change Demand for specialist skills driving focused Supporting elements now include succession planning. development, training and diversity Responding to a changing regulatory and operating Supporting elements include socioeconomic issues, political instability context and environmental and governance challenges. Fintech, insurtech and evolving digital assets No change Enhancing and optimising management and No change operational systems STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE AND MATERIAL MATTERS 53 OUR EIGHT MATERIAL MATTERS continued Our material matters explained In this section, we provide more detail on the material matters, including the stakeholder groups most affected, positively or negatively, by each. The risk report from page 84 contains specific detail on some of these matters. For example, in the risk report, we set out the material matters in relation to the principal risks and identify the board committees mandated to consider each. Ethical leadership, management and business Ethical leadership means setting the tone from the top. We believe in doing ethical business not just Read more about this material for the good of the group, but for the common good. matter in the governance report from page 69 and the risk report This matter is material as corruption in government and business is increasingly being exposed, with the realisation that some practices have potentially become entrenched in and accepted by some in from page 86. our society. We want to contribute to eradicating corruption and fraud in government, civil society and business. Capricorn Group’s response and approach Strategic choices related to this material matter: We have created an ethical organisation where our stakeholders are motivated to support our values of being inspired, open and dedicated. Our ethical culture is directed by the ethics strategy, our risk BUILDING OUR culture which is grounded in The Capricorn Way, the Group Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy and the FOUNDATION qualitative risk appetite statement on ethical conduct, which are all aimed at the proactive and holistic management of ethics risk. WIN THROUGH OPERATIONAL The Group board sustainability and ethics committee (BSEC) is an independent and objective body to EXCELLENCE assist the board in ensuring that the Capricorn Group remains a good corporate citizen. We implement our ethics strategy and reporting framework according to four focus areas: Stakeholder groups most • Leadership commitment to ethical behaviour significantly affected by this • Setting ethical standards material matter: • Employee ethics awareness • Managing ethics risks The Group Code of Ethics and Conduct Policy serves as the moral foundation for all other rules and policies. The Code describes the desired ethical behaviour of non-executives, including their fiduciary EMPLOYEES duties, conflicts of interest and duties to display reasonable skill and care. The group conducts an ethics risk assessment as part of its ethics programme. The assessment is based on an anonymous survey conducted throughout the group. The survey informs an understanding of the ethical conduct of employees and assesses whether the climate is conducive to ethical behaviour. SHAREHOLDERS Gaps identified in the assessment are addressed through management actions overseen by the subsidiary executive management teams and ultimately, the BSEC. Internal and external mechanisms are available to report concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour. The Group board, through the approved qualitative risk appetite statement, is explicit in its zero CUSTOMERS tolerance of unethical conduct. Boards of group legal entities and employees are made aware of their obligations to manage all types of risk, including ethics risk through our practical and case study-oriented Risk Culture Building programme. Our risk culture is grounded in The Capricorn Way, which espouses our values and the behaviours that we display in the best interest of the group and our stakeholders. GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORS 54 2019 Integrated Annual Report Credit risk management and mitigating losses due to bad debt The economic recession in Namibia, regional economic stagnation, the drought, low business Read more about credit and confidence and rising unemployment are all factors leading to a substantial increase in credit risk liquidity in the risk report from and consequently a potential rise in non-performing loans and losses due to bad debt. According page 86. Detail about NPLs is to the Bank of Namibia, the asset quality of the banking industry deteriorated since 2017. The provided in the financial director’s deterioration in non-performing loans (NPLs) and overdue loans persisted, despite a dampened review from page 32. appetite for credit by consumers. In Namibia, the industry NPLs increased by 39% to N$3.7 billion in March 2019, up from the N$2.7 billion recorded in March 2018. NPLs and overdue loans increased, with all loan product categories represented in the increase in NPLs. We expect further deterioration in key economic indicators, which could potentially result in a Strategic choices related downgrade in credit ratings for the countries in the region. This could lead to a further decline in to this material matter: foreign direct investment, weakening currencies and increased cost of funding. BUILDING OUR Capricorn Group’s response and approach FOUNDATION The group has always been prudent in its lending practices, and we pride ourselves on the quality WIN THROUGH of the advances book and strong underlying collateral value. This remains a key focus and receives OPERATIONAL increasing attention during these challenging economic times. EXCELLENCE We are taking a more proactive and forward-looking approach to credit risk management. This entails the early identification of accounts exposed to or representing increased credit risk for timely remedial Stakeholder groups most action. Credit teams are pre-emptively engaging customers that are showing signs of distress. significantly affected by this Restructuring and consolidation efforts in Bank Windhoek for non-performing clients are yielding material matter: positive results. The agricultural sector is expected to be hit hardest by the current drought, following five years of below-average rainfall. An extensive exposure assessment was performed to determine potential financial impacts under different scenarios. A task force was established to discuss potential next steps for the group. This includes restructuring facilities or changing the frequency of instalments. CUSTOMERS NPLs started to flatten towards the end of the financial year, supported by an improvement in early arrears roll rates. The graph below illustrates Bank Windhoek’s NPL and advances. GOVERNMENT NPL and advances AND REGULATORS N$ N$ 32,000,000 -3% Growth 1,400,000 6% Growth 6% Growth 31,500,000 35% Growth 1,200,000 31,773,135 SHAREHOLDERS 1,000,000 31,431,011 31,000,000 31,133,611 800,000 30,500,000 30,604,687 600,000 30,000,000 400,000 29,992,964 29,500,000 200,000 29,000,000 0 Jun 2018 Sep 2018 Dec 2018 Mar 2019 Jun 2019 Advances NPL (RHA) STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE AND MATERIAL MATTERS 55 OUR EIGHT MATERIAL MATTERS continued Financial and cybercrime/cybersecurity Cybercrime is a growing threat internationally. Continuous assessment, monitoring and security Read more about cybersecurity in improvements are required to protect data and assets. The scale and complexity of financial and the risk report from page 86. cybercrime are increasing and can lead to reputational damage and a loss of income. On an industry level, it jeopardises the stability and security of the entire financial services system. Effective controls against money laundering and the financing of terrorism require cooperation Strategic choices related between stakeholders, appropriate tools to investigate these crimes and quality data. On a global to this material matter: scale, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) tests anti-money laundering (AML) capabilities per BUILDING OUR country against a set of standards. FOUNDATION Last year Botswana was reported by the FATF due to AML deficiencies. Since then, the European Union has blacklisted Botswana among 22 other countries for money-laundering-related deficiencies. WIN THROUGH OPERATIONAL As a result of this, Bank Gaborone’s correspondent bank relationships are at risk, with international EXCELLENCE transactions increasingly being scrutinised. Namibia is scheduled to undergo an evaluation by the FATF and the Eastern and Southern African Stakeholder groups most Anti Money Laundering Group (ESAAMLG) in June 2020. A national committee has been established significantly affected by this to ensure that Namibia receives a positive rating on technical and effectiveness compliance. material matter: According to the Namibian Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC), banks report the highest number of suspicious transactions (other bodies include unit trust schemes, lending institutions and stockbrokers). Among the offences reported up to April 2019, tax evasion ranked highest in number, followed by fraud, which ranked highest in monetary value. ATM fraud ranked as one of the lowest offences in Namibia. CUSTOMERS Capricorn Group’s response and approach Cybercrime is the number one priority for Capricorn Group’s IT function. Systems and infrastructure are designed and implemented with the required controls and technology to ensure that these are protected against potential cybercrime threats. We use in-house and external experts and service GOVERNMENT providers to ensure we are up to date with the latest cybercrime threats. Defences are continuously AND REGULATORS updated to address any potential weaknesses or changes in the technology landscape. In addition, we do regular internal and external scans and simulate attacks on our systems and infrastructure to ensure that they are optimal in protecting the group. The impact of financial crime is mitigated by a collective and collaborative approach by the industry and relevant stakeholders. We believe that sharing data and centralising resources are the most SHAREHOLDERS effective ways to identify risk and develop interventions that proactively prevent either systemic or unilateral threats. The group actively supports government law enforcement entities during investigations of financial crime. Employees continuously received training on AML measures. We continuously initiate campaigns aimed at employees and customers that help to improve fraud awareness and empower people with the knowledge to recognise risk and prevent losses. Internally, systems, device and data protection measures are continually updated, and incident response and support mechanisms are used to reduce the impact of the risk and to increase awareness of information security. Risk practitioners collaborate across subsidiaries to share knowledge and practices. 56 2019 Integrated Annual Report Financial and cybercrime/cybersecurity continued Bank Windhoek also implemented a comprehensive management action plan to ensure that clients are compliant with the Financial Intelligence Act 13, of 2012, especially in respect of enhanced due diligence for high-risk clients. The bank is continually engaging the FIC on this matter. Risk is mitigated through a combination of system enhancements and manual interventions. Indicator Group Trend Losses due to financial crime N$2.8 million (2018: N$6.2 million) Internal and external fraud N$ 3,000,000 2,500,000 2,000,000 1,500,000 1,000,000 500,000 0 Internal fraud External fraud Internal fraud External fraud 2018 2019 Bank Windhoek Bank Gaborone Cavmont Bank Entrepo STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE AND MATERIAL MATTERS 57 OUR EIGHT MATERIAL MATTERS continued Meeting customer needs and expectations Customer centricity has become a key competency for banks. This entails understanding and meeting Read more about customer the needs of existing, emerging and new-generation customers, and being able to offer appropriate engagements in the Group CEO’s value propositions. report from page 24. The availability and use of data management, statistics and analytical modelling are essential to be able to respond to these changing customer trends. Strategic choices related Capricorn Group’s response and approach to this material matter: Bank Windhoek won the Centre for Economic and Leadership Development’s Global Female Impact Excellence Award for the Best Bank in the Gender-Sensitive Product category. The award recognises BUILDING OUR FOUNDATION our Women in Business financial solution, which demonstrates our commitment to investing in women-owned and women-led businesses. Features are being enhanced to drive further success in WIN THROUGH this offering. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE The launch of the Bank Windhoek credit cards in 2018 helped the bank to close a gap in its product offering. With certain unique features such as interest-free periods on all transactions and a responsible approach, the bank has enriched its offerings in key target segments. Stakeholder groups most Leveraging the capability delivered at Bank Windhoek, Bank Gaborone can offer credit cards to significantly affected by this acquire and retain their key segments with this offering. material matter: An outbound contact centre capability at Bank Windhoek was introduced to complement the inbound call facility, which has greatly added to supporting the business to drive sales and activations of channels like e-statements and cellphone banking. The HeyJude App was successfully launched in Namibia to Bank Windhoek customers in May 2019. CUSTOMERS This was a first-of-its-kind offering in the Namibian banking environment where a unique, valueadded digital service is being coupled with our banking offering to cement our brand promise of Connectors of Positive Change. The app serves as a digital personal assistant or concierge service that sources products and services, negotiates discounts and arranges payment and delivery on a customer’s behalf. GOVERNMENT Bank Gaborone continues to develop new offerings in response to customer needs. After identifying AND REGULATORS and testing the opportunity to offer transactional church accounts, this has now been formalised into a bundled account that makes the accounting, reconciliation and auditing of accounts easier for churches. Churches will qualify for preferential rates and will have the opportunity to collaborate with Bank Gaborone on CSR initiatives. SHAREHOLDERS Bank Gaborone’s Lebandla account offers a group savings option aimed at clubs, stokvels, burial societies or groups of people wanting to save towards a common goal. The account is further designed to provide security in that no single individual is in control of the funds. Funeral cover is offered as part of the Lebandla account benefits. Bank Gaborone also ventured into a point-of-sale (POS) device offering. The POS payment solution COMMUNITIES offers convenience and flexibility in that customers can use cards as an alternative to cash, especially in areas where the bank does not have ATMs. 58 2019 Integrated Annual Report Meeting customer needs and expectations continued “Relying solely on algorithms and computer capability will not assist us to fully understand evolving customer habits and lifestyle expectations regarding banking. We need to ensure both qualitative and quantitative approaches.” – Capricorn Group board member Data for three customer satisfaction indicators per bank were measured over a 12-month period: Customer satisfaction ratings 89 89 83 82 83 78 80 82 71 72 70 72 62 60 52 53 49 32 Customer satisfaction Net promoter Customer effort score score (%) score (%) (ease of doing business) (%) Jul 18 Bank Windhoek Jul 18 Bank Gaborone Jul 18 Cavmont Bank Jun 19 Bank Windhoek Jun 19 Bank Gaborone Jun 19 Cavmont Bank The sharp improvement in both customer satisfaction and net promoter score for Bank Windhoek and Bank Gaborone was mainly driven by the introduction of the Capricorn Group Contact Centre as an additional touchpoint with very high call volumes driving up the response rate. These scores improved slightly in branches as well, but are significantly lower in comparison to the contact centre. The Bank Windhoek Net Promoter Score improvement was further driven by the media consumption survey that was done with a very large market sample of over 12,000 responses, which is much more representative of the customer base in comparison with the samples used back in 2018 when the first customer satisfaction, net promoter score and customer effort score were determined through the annual DSQ survey with samples less than 1,000 respondents for each business entity. At the same time, interactive customer measurement was introduced across all three entities, which provided closer insights enabling the business entities to respond faster on customer pain points. All customer experience scores for Cavmont Bank decreased due to the current challenging business operating environment having a negative impact for both customers and staff morale. Customer effort improvement is much lower than customer satisfaction. Net promoter score as customers still experience some difficulties in dealing with all entities, mainly driven by some cumbersome processes and procedures, especially the onboarding time of new customers in branches. This is a specific focus of the Nawa process improvement project being undertaken at all banks currently – which should see improvements in these scores. STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE AND MATERIAL MATTERS 59 OUR EIGHT MATERIAL MATTERS continued Demand for specialist skills driving focused development, training and diversity According to a discussion paper by McKinsey & Company in 2018, a skills shift followed the adoption Read more about human capital of automation and artificial intelligence. The need for technological, social and emotional skills is initiatives earlier in this section rising as the demand for physical and manual skills decline. An inadequately or inappropriately skilled and the Group chairman’s message workforce is a major constraint to businesses. from page 6. The need for future-oriented skills development, including the fundamental reform of education systems and labour policies, remains critical. The Harambee Prosperity Plan recognises that the provision of quality skills is one of the major constraints to competitiveness in Namibia. The plan Strategic choices related commits to addressing the gap between the demand for and supply of skilled labour by supporting to this material matter: practical training programmes and the streamlining of the system for the import of skilled labour. BUILDING OUR Specific human capital challenges for the Capricorn Group include: FOUNDATION • the ability to attract and retain key talent WIN THROUGH • t he need to develop a pipeline of leaders for succession at board and executive and senior OPERATIONAL management level EXCELLENCE • a  focus on the development of the “critical layer” to address the significant gap between middle and executive management Stakeholder groups most •  lack of diversity (whether real or perceived) in terms of gender, ethnicity and age at executive a significantly affected by this management and board level material matter: Capricorn Group’s response and approach Internal and external bursary holders study at the University of Namibia and the Namibia University of Science and Technology (NUST) with highly specialist programmes provided by South African universities. Our internship programme focuses on business requirements and serves as another skills EMPLOYEES deficit resource pool for employment. We partnered with Stellenbosch University for tailor-made senior management development and management development programmes. Sixty middle managers and 30 senior leaders are currently undergoing training. COMMUNITIES We partnered with the internationally accredited Retail Banking Academy in London for the certified banker qualification, with 26 employees enrolled. The programme consists of three phases: • R  etail banking I is designed to introduce the theoretical and practical core competencies that are required for success in a retail banking organisation. • R  etail banking II focuses on the issues that are encountered when leading people and SHAREHOLDERS departments. • R  etail banking III focuses on the issues that are encountered when you are leading people and departments. The aim is to develop and enhance the capabilities required to run retail banking strategic business units for best results. Bank Windhoek also partnered with NUST and B360 Education Partnerships, a Swiss-based non-governmental organisation. NUST graduates are hosted for one-week career development workshops. Aimed at coaching graduates on how to prepare themselves for possible employment in 60 2019 Integrated Annual Report Demand for specialist skills driving focused development, training and diversity continued a highly competitive job environment, the workshops expose the students to skills required to prepare for interviews, to write a curriculum vitae and other business skills. Bank Windhoek keeps abreast of industry challenges in terms of scarce skills. Through the recent scarce skills survey conducted within the financial sector in Namibia, we identified various challenges. In response to the findings, we have introduced a two-year graduate training programme that exposes graduates to practical working environments. Once we are confident that our process is effective, the graduates will be employed to close the skills gap. Plans to extend the programme beyond our own bursars are underway. We also have a pipeline of external candidates for possible employment. At Bank Gaborone, we introduced an 18-month graduate training programme to reduce the skills gap faced by the bank while helping to reduce the level of unemployment in Botswana, especially among local graduates from institutions of tertiary education. Bank Gaborone is committed to identifying graduate talent and connecting them to opportunities to gain practical experience in the financial industry. By doing so, they should become more employable by our bank and other corporate players in the country’s financial sector. The composition of the NeXtGen board was a significant step towards creating a pipeline for succession, with a high level of diversity achieved. The group’s diversity was also acknowledged in the Capricorn Group’s rating by the Namibian Preferential Procurement Corporation in January 2019. The group achieved 98.34% (exceptional equitable economic empowerment level contributor status) on its scorecard. Capricorn Group employees are employed by the entities as set out in the diagram on page 15. The most substantial portion of employees is permanently employed. The following table summarises the group’s employee profile as at 30 June 2019. % permanent Permanent % % of total % Total Total Capricorn Group employee profile employees male female employees contract 2019 2018 Namibia 1,691 37 63 98 2 1,729 1,678 Botswana 295 33 67 93 7 317 289 Capricorn SA 7 57 43 7 70 23 29 Zambia 308 53 47 97 3 317 324 Total and average % 2,301 45 55 74 21 2,386 2,168 Indicator Group Trend Investment in training N$23.6 million (2018: N$18.5 million) STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE AND MATERIAL MATTERS 61 OUR EIGHT MATERIAL MATTERS continued Demand for specialist skills driving focused development, training and diversity continued Group indicator 2019 2018 Female permanent employees (%) 64% 63% Racially disadvantaged permanent employees (%) 78% 78% Women in senior management (%) 32% 30% Women in middle management (%) 60% 60% Racially disadvantaged in senior management (%) 34% 30% Racially disadvantaged in middle management (%) 64% 61% Non-Namibian workforce (%) 2% 2% New employees age <24 (%) 15% 28% New employees age 25–35 (%) 62% 52% New employees age 36–45 (%) 15% 11% New employees age 46–55 (%) 8% 9% Staff turnover annualised (%) 5% 6% Training hours Bank Windhoek, CAM and Namib Bou 2,248 hours 2,600 hours Training hours Bank Gaborone 3,168 hours 3,304 hours Training hours Cavmont Bank 3,100 hours 400 hours 62 2019 Integrated Annual Report Responding to a changing regulatory and operating context Financial services globally are exposed to an ever-increasing regulatory compliance burden. Read more in the Group CEO’s A significant portion of new regulation introduced in the Capricorn Group jurisdictions is influenced report from page 24, the risk by extraterritorial pressures. Examples are Basel III, the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), report from page 86 and the IFRS and Anti-Money Laundering regulation. Regulatory changes in the region are also influenced BSEC report from page 117 by local socio-political circumstances and government priorities. The expansion of operations into adjacent or different industries further increases the amount of regulation that the group must comply with. Strategic choices related Regulatory compliance can divert management attention and increase capacity needed to make to this material matter: changes to comply, thereby reducing the aptitude to pursue strategic objectives. It often tends to BUILDING OUR increase the size of risk, compliance and assurance functions which monitor, maintain and report on FOUNDATION compliance. Regulatory compliance can introduce complexity and inefficiencies into ordinary business processes, which drive up cost and impact customers who do not always appreciate the value of WIN THROUGH regulations. OPERATION EXCELLENCE In addition to regulatory compliance matters, the regional economies are confronted with sustainability challenges, such as climate change, poverty, health issues and resource shortages COMPETE THROUGH (water, food and energy). In addressing these concerns, governments use regulation as an instrument STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS to enable and encourage the necessary change. While sustainability issues may trigger regulatory AND PARTNERSHIPS responses, they also bring about new opportunities. The banking sector can play a vital role in accelerating the local markets’ transition to a sustainable future. Stakeholder groups most There are early signs that government is addressing sustainability challenges which have been significantly affected by this deepened by inconclusive legal and regulatory reforms. We welcome government’s response to material matter: concerns raised by the private sector on the National Equitable Economic Empowerment Framework (NEEEF), in particular on the ownership pillar. The National Equitable Economic Empowerment Bill (NEEEB) will go a long way towards providing policy certainty. Government is also in the process of revising new investment legislation and has put the Namibia Investment Promotion Act on hold to accommodate broader inputs by the private sector. Unemployment, especially among the youth, and widespread retrenchments in the wholesale, retail and construction sectors remain of great concern. CUSTOMERS In Namibia there have been several new government interventions, including the following: • N  ew tax proposals which, if implemented, will affect trusts and income from commercial activities of charitable, religious and educational institutions as well as the introduction of a dividends tax on dividends paid to residents. GOVERNMENT • T  he Microlending Act, 7 of 2018 was introduced to promote responsible borrowing while AND REGULATORS protecting the rights of borrowers. • R  egulation 15 of the Long-Term Insurance Act and Regulation 28 of the Pension Funds Act Regulations were amended, requiring long-term insurance companies and pension funds operating in Namibia to invest 45% of their assets in Namibia compared to 35% previously. • I mplementation of the industry’s regulatory and compliance projects such as PSD7 SHAREHOLDERS (Determination on the Efficiency of the National Payment System) will bring efficiency, safety and effective control of the domestic Electronic Fund Transfer components of the Namibian Payment system. STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE AND MATERIAL MATTERS 63 OUR EIGHT MATERIAL MATTERS continued Responding to a changing regulatory and operating context continued In Botswana, a high unemployment rate remains one of the key social issues. This is partly due to a skills mismatch in the market, as new graduates are unable to meet business requirements. Proposed amendments to the National Employment Act, 29 of 1982 is expected to assist in addressing the mismatch and achieving a greater level of employment. Three national priority areas were identified in terms of the environment: • Pollution prevention and control • Sustainable use of natural and cultural resources • Climate change and global warming Botswana has partnered with the World Bank to develop a renewable energy strategy that will allow the country to be more independent in its energy consumption. The government has established the Energy Regulatory Authority to set out the rules for independent power production and to ensure that proper procedures are adhered to in financing renewable energy projects. New regulatory changes include the requirement to register all trusts with the high court and the implementation of the Company Re-registration Act, 24 of 2018. Financial Intelligence Agency amendments were made, which increased the penalties and broadened the scope of AML issues covered. In Zambia, the Bank of Zambia issued a prohibition against bank charges and fees that are deemed unwarranted. The new Employment Code Act, 3 of 2019 relates to contracts, entitlements and employment benefits, which affects Cavmont Bank. Failure to comply with applicable rules and regulations can expose the group to penalties and reputational damage. The group remains optimistic that with regulatory change and within sustainability challenges there are opportunities to be exploited to our advantage. This requires a positive and proactive stance. Capricorn Group’s response and approach In terms of regulatory changes, our Group Risk Internal Control and Assurance Framework follows a systematic approach to ensure that new regulations are identified in advance and that changes are proactively introduced. The purpose of our legislative review process is to identify emerging regulation in advance to ensure that the group can use every opportunity to influence and prepare for regulation. Dedicated capacity was created to implement changes to systems and processes that are required by regulation and industry standards. In doing so we have simplified our change environment to better focus on strategic change. An established risk and compliance framework ensures that our regulatory risk profile is reviewed and updated at least annually, or as and when new regulatory requirements are introduced. We maintain good relations with all regulators as part of a deliberate stakeholder engagement strategy. This status has been maintained throughout the reporting period in all jurisdictions. In relation to the operating environment Capricorn Group, as a corporate citizen, acts as a Connector of Positive Change in our operating context. Our operating context is reflected in the needs and concerns of our stakeholders. To be successful as a Connector of Positive Change it is necessary for the group to maintain good stakeholder relations which allow the group to sense and respond to stakeholder needs. These efforts illustrate how we respond to our operating context. Examples include: • t he proposed establishment of the Capricorn Foundation (refer to the Group chairman’s message from page 6 and the BSEC report from page 117) • Bank Windhoek issued Namibia’s first green bond (refer to the Group CEO’s report from page 24) • we provided finance to assist with housing shortages in Namibia (refer to the Group CEO’s report from page 24) • B  ank Gaborone launched the Diabetes Apple Project, and Bank Windhoek remains committed to the Cancer Apple Project (refer to the Group CEO’s report from page 24 and the BSEC report from page 117) • Cavmont Bank participated in the Smart Money Show to improve financial literacy (refer to the Group CEO’s report from page 24) 64 2019 Integrated Annual Report Responding to a changing regulatory and operating context continued In response to the Namibian government’s state of emergency declaration, Bank Windhoek is exploring innovative ways to determine the exposure of commercial and communal farmers and mitigate the impact of loss of income on their financial obligations. The Bank Windhoek vehicle and asset finance team is offering bush equipment to enable the production of animal fodder, using encroached bush. Bush thinning helps to restore degraded farmland and increase agricultural productivity. There are currently 30 million hectares of Namibian farmland that are bush encroached according to the de-bushing advisory services of the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry. Bank Windhoek also contributed N$500,000 to the Dare to Care initiative. This is aimed at assisting farmers in preparing their animals for market and saving their core breeding herds for when the rain returns. “All regulated businesses have to contend with regulatory changes: realistic and unrealistic. We need to respond, but much more, we should anticipate and predict so that we can be proactive. We should also leverage changing regulatory landscapes as these are opportunities if we look for them.” – Capricorn Group board member Indicator Group Trend Investment in CSR N$25.5 million (2018: N$23.6 million) STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE AND MATERIAL MATTERS 65 OUR EIGHT MATERIAL MATTERS continued Fintech, insurtech and evolving digital assets The banking sector is characterised by disruptive innovation from non-traditional competitors who Read more about digital use automation and digitisation to render some conventional offerings obsolete and to compete on operations and investment in the price. These new players design flexible and dynamic solutions based on new financing platforms, Group CEO’s report from page 24. open banking and cloud-based products and services. Regulators around the world, including southern Africa, are keenly observing the managed roll-out of open banking in the UK, which started in January 2018. Open banking is a reform which obliges all Strategic choices related UK-regulated banks to share customers’ financial data (such as bank, credit card and savings statements) with authorised providers if customers give their banks permission to do so. The goal is to this material matter: to give consumers more choices by increasing competition between banks and fintech start-ups while BUILDING OUR ensuring secure and stable markets. FOUNDATION Capricorn Group’s response and approach WIN THROUGH Bank cheques have been phased out in Namibia, effective end June 2019. As such, Bank Windhoek OPERATIONAL is offering its customers other payment methods such as mobile banking, internet banking and EXCELLENCE cellphone banking in addition to point-of-sale (POS) devices, ATMs across the country and various card products. Biometrics that assist in validating know your customer (KYC) information and reduce the COMPETE THROUGH risk of identity theft is being investigated for implementation. STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS In terms of process automation, the group completed the first wave of business improvements that AND PARTNERSHIPS are enhancing client onboarding, simplifying application processes and introduced cloud-enabled control on debit and credit cards. Customers can now adjust limits themselves. TARGET EasyWallet continues on a steep growth curve owing to the convenience of doing secure and simple TECHNOLOGICAL/ money transfers. BORDERLESS/CYBER OPPORTUNITIES On 1 July 2019, the group concluded a 30% acquisition in Paratus Group Holdings Limited. Paratus Group Holdings and its subsidiaries and associates operate in 24 African countries, the most significant of which are Angola, Namibia, Zambia and Botswana. Stakeholder groups most Our investment in Nimbus, and indirectly in Paratus, was a deliberate move to explore new technology significantly affected by this and digital infrastructure options. We anticipate new opportunities from the convergence between material matter: telecommunications and financial services combined with strong growth in demand for data services. Nimbus is focusing its investment strategy on ICT companies in sub-Saharan Africa. Paratus provides communication, connectivity, carrier and cloud services to the public, private and corporate sectors in Namibia. Its telecommunications and network services include VSAT solutions, IP products, multiprotocol label-switching technology, fourth-generation wireless broadband network solutions, wireless data CUSTOMERS communications and E-Pad solutions. Paratus Namibia also owns the Trans-Kalahari Fibre line. In Zambia, we are staging a partnership with a fintech start-up bringing a minimum viable proposition first to that market in pursuit of the opportunity presented by digitising the cash economy so prevalent throughout Africa. Our aim is to continue making diverse investments in customer-centric technology and digital assets. GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORS Indicator Group Trend % growth in mobile app use 58.1% (2018: 58.3%) % growth in iBank use -1.5% (2018: 5.4%) SHAREHOLDERS % growth in cellphone banking 23.8% (2018: 25.1%) % growth in point of sales 5.4% (2018: -3.4%) 66 2019 Integrated Annual Report Enhancing and optimising management and operational systems Operational excellence is a key competitive choice for the group. It can enhance internal effectiveness, Read more about the platforms security and process optimisation – doing things faster and more cost-effectively, reducing errors and and operational excellence in the ultimately improving the quality of customer experiences. Group CEO’s report from page 24. Capricorn Group’s response and approach We created eight delivery platforms and adopted the Agile and Six Sigma methodologies to achieve operational excellence. We are more adaptive in planning and responding to change quickly. We have Strategic choices related also seen the benefits of more collaboration throughout the group. to this material matter: At Bank Windhoek, we enhanced the customer experience by introducing and updating digital BUILDING OUR functionality and solutions to provide a fully integrated service offering. For example, we are FOUNDATION improving the onboarding time for new clients to under 30 minutes, issuing cards in-branch and significantly reducing the need for paperwork. We are also in the process of introducing biometrics to WIN THROUGH enhance security. Bank Windhoek remains the only bank with a token linked to the internet banking OPERATIONAL application, significantly reducing the risk of fraud. Smartphone-based tokens will be introduced in the EXCELLENCE new financial year. At Bank Gaborone, operational excellence initiated the centralisation of the back office, emphasising Stakeholder groups most the sales role in branches and reducing administrative functions. Data quality, consistency and significantly affected by this compliance have also improved as all the related functions are happening in one space and not in a material matter: fragmented fashion. The approach is scalable and has been replicated in the centralisation of collateral. This has decreased the turnaround time between receiving credit applications and disbursing loans. In future other roles will be centralised, including account opening and customer service, among other things. Network downtime is severely impacting Cavmont Bank’s ability to achieve operational excellence. To address its IT infrastructure challenges, a new service provider and primary data centre were CUSTOMERS established. This has increased the reliability of banking services and improved incident-handling time. In summary, from a strategy perspective, and specifically in terms of operational excellence, we measure our customer productivity on a range of metrics with performance targets calibrated by entity. We measure our customer performance, from an operational excellence perspective, on a monthly basis with feedback to entity EMTs on a monthly basis and feedback to the group board on GOVERNMENT a quarterly basis. We use the methodologies mentioned above (Agile and Six Sigma), with ongoing AND REGULATORS actions developed by the entities, to adapt, refine, develop and implement customer propositions that drive our customer productivity in the right direction as per the set of strategy and customer metrics we have in place. SHAREHOLDERS STRATEGIC LANDSCAPE AND MATERIAL MATTERS 67 “We are positive that the group will maintain its resilience and continue to deliver positive results.” – Thinus Prinsloo, Group CEO Zambezi River 68 2019 Integrated Annual Report 7GOVERNANCE REPORTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Governance overview and approach Capricorn Group and its subsidiaries are committed to the principles of sound corporate governance, which are characterised by discipline, transparency, independence, accountability, responsibility, fairness and social responsibility. By subscribing to these principles, the group believes that all stakeholders’ interests are promoted, including the creation of long-term shareholder value. The board and its committees are responsible for establishing effective leadership and ethical practices, and for ensuring the application of appropriate governance practices to deliver the desired outcomes. Following a decision by the Namibian Stock The board provides oversight and ensures sustainability by approving a clear strategy linked to performance objectives and targets. The operational risk management infrastructure has been enhanced to support the group’s strategy, which directs the evolution of the internal risk and control frameworks based on anticipated future operating dynamics. To achieve good performance as an outcome, the board evaluates its own performance, which includes the performance of the board committees, and ensures that remuneration throughout the group is linked to the achievement of performance targets. Effective control is embedded in the governance structures in the group. The board follows a structured approach to meetings, Exchange (NSX) in 2018 to allow listed entities to select compliance supported by a timely flow of documents to ensure that the either with the NamCode or the King IV Report on Corporate oversight responsibilities of the boards of subsidiaries, as well as the Governance™ for South Africa, 2016 (King IV™), Capricorn Group Group board and its board committees, are carried out effectively. resolved to adopt King IV™ in the current financial year. The board believes that the group earns legitimacy through The board supports the shift to an outcomes-based approach to consistent performance over time, a reputation for compliance, governance, where the leadership tone is set from the top. The work customer service, stakeholder-inclusiveness and by acting as a done in embedding The Capricorn Way signals the emphasis on Connector of Positive Change. creating an ethical culture with behaviours based on a common set of values. Governance milestones for 2019 • Implementation of King IV™, transition from NamCode The board has also been setting the tone to create an ethical culture • A  ppointment of a financial director, Jaco Esterhuyse, with through a group risk appetite statement that includes elements effect from 1 September 2018 specifically related to ethical risk. Operational risk priorities include building an effective risk culture to support dynamic risk •  ppointment of two Government Institutions Pension Fund A management. (GIPF) nominees, Mihe Gaomab II and Goms Menetté, as non-executive directors to the board with effect from August Board members and employees adhere to an updated Group Code and November 2018, respectively of Ethics and Conduct Policy while the Procurement Policy was • E  xternal evaluation of the boards, committees, directors and augmented with a Suppliers’ Code of Conduct. Since its inception, company secretaries of Capricorn Group and the three banks the board sustainability and ethics committee (BSEC) has been mandated to recommend policies and guidelines for addressing Our King IV™ journey ethics issues to the board and escalate any ethics risks to the board King IV™ focuses on outcomes as opposed to inputs in respect of audit, risk and compliance committee (BARC). good governance. It defines corporate governance as the exercise of ethical and effective leadership by the board towards the Dealing in shares is governed by a policy that sets out practices for achievement of four corporate governance outcomes, namely: approval requirements, disclosure principles and closed-period rules, among other things. Board members are required to observe • Ethical culture section 242 of the Companies Act, which deals with disclosure of • Good performance (sustainable value creation) interests. Where appropriate, board members recuse themselves • Effective controls from discussions or decisions on matters of potential conflict of interest unless these matters are resolved otherwise by the • T  rust, a good reputation and the legitimacy of the company chairman or by the remaining members of the board. (its social licence to operate) Furthermore, King IV™ contains 17 principles, stated in an Key board practices and activities focus on: outcomes-based manner, which should all be applied. • Open and rigorous discussion The executive leadership and the board of Capricorn Group, with the • Active participation assistance of a governance expert, reviewed King IV™ with a view to: • Consensus in decision-making • e nsure alignment in the understanding of the King IV™ • Independent thinking and alternate views philosophy, corporate governance outcomes, the 17 principles • Reliable and timely information and how to apply the principles through supporting practices; GOVERNANCE REPORTS 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued • a  ssess the appropriateness of current practices in support of achievable. The group’s strategy is considered, evaluated and the outcomes required by each of the 17 principles; and agreed upon every year before the annual budget is approved. • identify proposed changes and enhancements to current Implementation is monitored quarterly at the board and executive practices to ensure the more effective application of the meetings. Read more about the group’s purpose, strategy and The principles. Capricorn Way from page 2. While no major gaps were found, management and the boards The board also ensures that procedures and practices are in place of each subsidiary company are in the process of finalising and that protect the group’s assets and reputation. The board is also implementing the proposed enhancements. responsible for establishing, reviewing and monitoring strategic choices, approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital Capricorn Group board expenditure and overseeing the group’s systems of internal control, governance and risk management. A schedule of matters reserved The board plays a pivotal role in the group’s corporate governance for the board’s decisions details key aspects of the group’s affairs system. An overriding commitment with regard to the board’s that the board does not delegate, including the approval of business deliberations and approach to corporate governance is that of plans and budgets, material expenditure and alterations to share intellectual honesty. capital. This framework clarifies roles and ensures the effective The board, as constituted by the Companies Act, is governed by exercise of authority and responsibilities. the board charter. The purpose of this charter is to regulate how business is conducted by the board. The charter also sets out the Board leadership and composition specific responsibilities to be discharged by the board members Capricorn Group has a unitary board, consisting of an appropriate collectively and the Group CEO and Group chairman in their mix of executive, non-executive and independent directors. The size respective capacities. of the board is dictated by the company’s articles of association that require a minimum of five directors. Currently, 11 members Role of the board constitute the board at group level, with two executive directors, An important role of the board is to define the vision and purpose three non-executive and six independent non-executive directors. of the group (including its strategic intent and choices) and its The nominations committee, which includes the lead independent values (manifested by The Capricorn Way), which constitute its director (LID), assessed the independence of the non-executive organisational culture, associated behaviours and norms to achieve directors classified as independent and confirmed their continued its purpose. These are considered to be clear, concise and classification as independent. 70 2019 Integrated Annual Report Board member diversity: age Board member diversity: status 19% 18% Executive 50–59 36% 27% Non-executive 9% 36%60–69 40–49 55% Independent non-executive 70+ Board member diversity: gender Board member diversity: tenure 82% 18% 36% 9+ years Male Female 64% Target 0–9 years 20% The board is satisfied that its composition reflects the appropriate mix of knowledge, skills, experience, diversity and independence. GOVERNANCE REPORTS 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Board member profiles Chairman of the Group board nominations committee Chairman of the Group board investment committee Chairman of the board procurement committee Member of the Group board remuneration committee Appointed to the board in 1999 JOHANNES After joining Coopers & Lybrand (now PricewaterhouseCoopers) in 1980, Johan Swanepoel qualified as a chartered accountant in 1982. He was elected managing JACOBUS partner of the firm in Namibia in 1989. He was appointed as managing director of SWANEPOEL (59) Bank Windhoek and a director of Capricorn Group on 1 July 1999. In 2005 he took up the position of the group managing director of Capricorn Investment Holdings. Upon BCom (Hons) (Accounting), his retirement from this position in 2017, he accepted the role of chairman of the boards of Capricorn Group and Bank Windhoek. CA(SA), CA(Nam) Johan is a director of a number of companies in the Capricorn Group, Capricorn Independent non-executive Investment Holdings, Namibia Strategic Investments, Kuiseb Investments (Pty) Ltd, chairman Infocare Healthcare Services (SA) (Pty) Ltd and Infocare International (Pty) Ltd. Chairman of the Group board human resources committee Member of the Group board nominations committee Appointed to the board in 2007 Brian Black was the national chairman of the Hospitality Association of Namibia, chairman of NCCI Trade and Investment Advisory Committee, and board member of KEPHAS BRIAN FENATA and PG Bison Namibia. Previous board memberships include the Namibian BLACK (64) Employers Federation, the Namibian Tourism Board, Namibia Wildlife Resorts, Swakopmund Hotel & Entertainment Centre and Medicity Private Hospital. Brian Executive and Senior was also the general manager of marketing and sales for TransNamib Holdings Ltd, managing director of Cernol Chemicals (Namibia) (Pty) Ltd and executive director of Management diplomas from Swachem Namibia (Pty) Ltd and Spice and Scale World (Pty) Ltd. He was a member the University of Stellenbosch of the Labour Advisory Council. Independent non-executive Current board memberships include being the chairman of Ekango Salt Refiners (Pty) Ltd, AFS Group Namibia and the Namibian Manufacturers Association. He is also a director board member of the Social Security Commission. Among his personal CSR projects is the Kappsfarm Community Police Station. Member of the Group board investment committee Member of the Group board nominations committee Appointed to the board in 1996 Koos Brandt is a founding member of Bank Windhoek. He was appointed as chairman of the board of Bank Windhoek on 1 April 1982 and was chairman of JACOBUS Capricorn Group since its inception in 1996 until 30 June 2017. He practised as a CHRISTIAAN commercial lawyer for more than 30 years at Dr Weder, Kruger and Hartmann (now Dr Weder, Kauta & Hoveka). BRANDT (76) He is a director of a number of companies in the Capricorn Group, Capricorn BA LLB Investment Holdings, Namibia Strategic Investments, Infocare Healthcare Services (SA) (Pty) Ltd and Infocare International (Pty) Ltd. Non-executive director 72 2019 Integrated Annual Report Member of the Group board investment committee Member of the Group board IT committee Member of the board procurement committee Appointed to the board in 2018 Jaco Esterhuyse joined Capricorn Group in 2012 as Group Financial Controller after JOHANNES spending seven years in London, among others as associate director at Barclays. JACOBUS Jaco completed his BCompt (Hons) in 2001 and qualified as a chartered accountant (SA) in 2004. He was promoted to Group Chief Financial Officer in 2013 and is a ESTERHUYSE (41) director of numerous companies in the Capricorn Group, Nimbus Infrastructure Limited, Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd and Santam Namibia Ltd. BCompt (Hons), CA(SA) Financial director Chairman of the board audit, risk and compliance committee Chairman of the Group board remuneration committee Member of the Group board human resources committee Member of the Group board nominations committee Member of the Group board investment committee DANIEL Appointed to the board in 2015 GERHARDUS Gerhard Fourie has 35 years’ experience as a chartered accountant. He was a partner with EY (formerly Ernst & Young) for 28 years until his retirement as FOURIE (61) managing partner of EY Namibia in June 2015. Gerhard completed a postgraduate management development programme at the University of Cape Town Business BCom (Hons), CA(SA), School and an advanced leadership programme at the Gordon Institute of Business CA(Nam) Science (GIBS), and is a member of the ICAN Council. Other board memberships include Bank Windhoek Ltd and being the chairman of Namib Bou. Lead independent non-executive director Member of the board audit, risk and compliance committee Appointed to the board in 2018 Until June 2019, Mihe Gaomab was an executive director at the African Development Bank after serving as the CEO of the Namibian Competition Commission until 2016. He was a deputy director of the Southern African Customs HEINRICH MIHE Union until 2009. He was the chairman of the board of trustees of the GIPF from GAOMAB II (49) 2011 to 2016 and is the founding president of the Namibia Economic Society. BCom (Hons), Postgraduate Diploma: Quantitative Development Economics, MSc Quantitative Development Economics Non-executive director GOVERNANCE REPORTS 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Board member profiles continued Member of the Group board sustainability and ethics committee Appointed to the board in 2013 Esi Schimming-Chase was admitted as a barrister at law in England and was subsequently appointed legal officer in the office of the Attorney General of Namibia. She was senior manager: investment promotions at the Offshore ESI MALAIKA Development Company (Pty) Ltd, where she promoted foreign investment in export SCHIMMINGprocessing zones in Namibia. She completed her articles at Koep & Partners and was admitted as a legal practitioner of the High Court of Namibia. She is currently a CHASE (49) practising advocate of the High Court of Namibia and member of the Society of Advocates of Namibia. She has lectured part-time and acted as a judge of the High LLB (Hons) Coventry University, Court of Namibia in 2011, 2013 and 2015. In July 2017, Esi was awarded the status England of senior counsel. Independent non-executive Her other board memberships include the Legal Assistance Centre. director Appointed to the board in 2018 Goms Menetté is the Deputy Auditor-General of Namibia. He was the deputy director for internal audit of the Ministry of Finance. He holds an MBA and a Diploma in Management Studies and is the chairman of the board of trustees of the GIPF. He is a member of the GIPF’s investment committee and its audit and risk committee. GOMS MENETTÉ He served on the board of Air Namibia for seven years until 2012 and chaired the airline’s audit committee. He also served on the Road Fund Administration’s audit (52) committee from 2001 to 2004. MBA, Postgraduate Diploma in Management Studies, National Diploma in Business Administration Non-executive director Chairperson of the Group board sustainability committee Member of the Group board IT committee Appointed to the board in 2004 Gida Nakazibwe-Sekandi joined the banking industry in August 2000 when she was appointed as executive officer: marketing and corporate communication at Bank GIDA Windhoek. In 2008, she was appointed as executive director of Capricorn NAKAZIBWEInvestment Holdings Ltd. Gida is a founding member of the Public Relations Institute of Southern Africa (PRISA) Namibia. She has served in various executive roles, SEKANDI (66) including as head of industrial relations and communications and head of corporate affairs at Rössing Uranium. She served in the Ministries of Justice in Uganda and LLB, Accredited Public Zimbabwe as state attorney and public prosecutor respectively. Relations Practitioner (APR) Gida is a director of numerous companies in the Capricorn Group, Capricorn Independent non-executive Investment Holdings and Welwitschia Insurance Brokers. She serves as the lead director of Allegrow Fund, a local unlisted private equity fund. She invests her time director pro bono in various social institutions, including MSR and Women@Work. 74 2019 Integrated Annual Report Member of the Group board human resources committee Member of the Group board investment committee Member of the Group board sustainability and ethics committee Member of the Group board IT committee Member of the board procurement committee MARTHINUS Appointed to the board in 2013 JOHANNES Thinus Prinsloo joined Capricorn Investment Holdings in July 2011 and was appointed as managing director of Capricorn Group from 1 January 2016. Before PRINSLOO (48) joining the group, Thinus worked at Absa in South Africa where he held various positions, including the head of integration. Prior to that, he worked as a business BCompt (Hons), CA(SA) strategy consultant at IBM and PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). Thinus qualified as a chartered accountant while working at PwC in South Africa and the corporate Group chief executive officer finance division in the UK. He completed a number of executive programmes at GIBS, the University of Cape Town Business School and, most recently, the Oxford and executive director Advanced Management and Leadership Programme at Saïd Business School. (Group CEO) He is a director on various boards in the Capricorn Group and the Sanlam Namibia group. Member of the board audit, risk and compliance committee Member of the group board IT committee Appointed to the board in 2017 Dirk Reyneke was a partner at EY for 14 years, including the Gauteng Financial Services Group and Gauteng head of banking. In 2006 he joined Absa Retail Bank DIRK JOHANNES as CFO. Other positions at Absa included head of finance and operations and later REYNEKE (57) Chief Operating Officer for Absa Retail and Business Bank. Since 2012 he has been employed by Telkom Group, where he is now the CFO for Openserve. Previous BCom, BCompt (Hons), CA(SA), positions at Telkom included CFO for Gyro Group, Telkom’s property division, CFO for Telkom Mobile and head of integration tasked with the integration of Diploma in Advanced Banking Telkom Enterprise and Business Connexion. He is also a member of the boards of SBV Services, SWIFTNet SOC and Gyro Group Companies. Independent non-executive director GOVERNANCE REPORTS 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Chairman, lead independent director and Meeting attendance Group CEO Each board committee has an executive lead to coordinate The board chairman, Johan Swanepoel, is considered to be an meetings and meeting documentation. The board meets a independent non-executive director. minimum of four times a year, with board committee meetings normally held two weeks prior to board meetings. The board has appointed Gerhard Fourie as lead independent director. His role and responsibilities are set out in the board Feedback reports from the committees to the board include charter and include serving as a nexus between executive and feedback on key matters discussed, key decisions taken, and matters non-executive directors where a more stringent observation of referred to the board. independence is required on particular matters requiring a board The board audit, risk and compliance committee (BARC), in decision, especially in situations where the independence of the particular, has an oversight responsibility on behalf of the group chairman may be questionable or impaired, including discussions regarding key audit, financial and risk matters dealt with by the dealing with the succession of the chairman and the chairman’s BARCs of group subsidiaries. To assist the Group BARC in performance appraisal. discharging this responsibility, the chairpersons of the BARCs, board The Group CEO is appointed by the board, and his succession is audit committees (BACs) and board risk and compliance attended to by the nominations committee. committees (BRCs) of group subsidiaries submit letters of representation to the group BARC chairman. The Group CEO also The board is of the opinion that the governance structures and attends all the audit and risk committee meetings of subsidiaries. processes in place provide adequate challenge, review and balance, See the diagram on page 78 for details of this structure. and mitigate undue influence by any particular director. Board decisions are robustly deliberated, and consensus driven. Attendance at meetings during the financial year was as follows: Board audit, Group board risk and Group board Group board Group board sustainability Group Board Board of compliance Group board remuneration nominations investment and ethics board IT procurement Director Category directors committee HR committee committee committee committee committee committee committee Meetings held 8 5 4 5 5 3 4 4 1 J J Swanepoel Independent 8 5 5 3 1 chairman K B Black Independent 8 4 5 non-executive J C Brandt Non-executive 7 5 3 J J Esterhuyse Financial director 7 3 3 1 D G Fourie Independent 8 5 4 5 5 3 non-executive H M Gaomab Non-executive 6 4 G Menetté Non-executive 6 M J Prinsloo Group CEO 7 4 3 4 4 1 D J Reyneke Independent 8 5 4 non-executive E M Schimming-Chase Independent 6 2 non-executive G Nakazibwe-Sekandi Independent 8 4 4 non-executive 76 2019 Integrated Annual Report Board appointments, induction and training Board evaluation Procedures for appointment to the board are formal and The nominations committee appointed the Institute of Directors of transparent. Nominations for appointment as members of the Southern Africa (IoD) to do an external evaluation of the boards, board are recommended by the group board nominations committees, directors and company secretaries of Capricorn Group committee (Nomco), which is chaired by the board chairman. and the three banks. Other subsidiaries participated in a process of The lead independent director is a member of the committee, and self-evaluation. The appraisal included a review of the composition all members are non-executive. of the boards and committees, roles and responsibilities, relationships with management and other stakeholders, and board Background and reference checks are performed before the meetings, among other things. Following a review of the governance nomination and appointment of new directors. documentation, the IoD tailored appraisal questionnaires that were New board members hold office until the next annual general completed by the directors and company secretaries, after which meeting, at which time they become available for re-election. the IoD interviewed them individually. The reports prepared by the Executive directors are engaged on employment contracts, subject IoD indicated a satisfactory outcome of the appraisal. Key strengths to short-term notice periods unless longer periods are approved by mentioned include that the board is highly functional, that the board. members respect one another, work well together, have significant skills, experience and qualifications in finance and banking and that On appointment, all directors attend an induction programme there are robust debate and discussion. The board identified a need aimed at deepening their understanding of the group and the for additional information technology skills. A comprehensive group business environment and markets in which the group operates. governance framework has been developed over the years, and This includes background material, meetings with senior appropriate reporting and feedback channels have been management and visits to the group‘s facilities. All board members established. The board is satisfied that the evaluation process is are expected to keep themselves abreast of changes and trends in improving the board’s performance and effectiveness. the economic, political, social and legal landscape in which the group operates. Where appropriate, significant developments that Access to independent advice impact the group and of which the board needs to be aware, are The company secretary is available to provide assistance and highlighted via the governance structures and process. information on governance and corporate administration to the With the assistance of a governance expert, the directors reviewed directors, as appropriate. The directors may also seek advice on King IV™ to ensure alignment in the understanding of its these or other business-related matters directly from independent philosophy, outcomes and principles, assess the appropriateness professional advisers should they so wish. This is in addition to the of our current practices and identify proposed changes and advice provided by independent advisers to the committees of the enhancements to our current practices. board. No requests for external professional advice were received during the year. This year, the board received a presentation on the board’s responsibilities regarding anti-money laundering (AML) and the The board has unrestricted access to the executive management combating of terrorist financing (CTF) and a session on the Agile team of the group to discuss and ask advice about any matters on methodology. which they require additional information or clarification. The board believes that these arrangements are effective for the optimal functioning of the board. GOVERNANCE REPORTS 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Board committees The board as a whole remains responsible for the strategic direction of the group. To effectively discharge its responsibilities, it delegates certain functions to committees established by the board. All committees are properly constituted, chaired by a non-executive director and act within agreed, written terms of reference that meet best-practice standards authorised by the board. CAPRICORN GROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORS Group board sustainability Group board human Group board nominations Board and ethics committee resources committee committee procurement committee Board audit, risk Group board Group board Group board and compliance remuneration committee investment committee IT committee committee Board audit, risk and compliance committee Members of the committee Committee role, responsibilities and functions Chairman: Gerhard Fourie The key responsibilities and duties of the committee are summarised as follows: Mihe Gaomab • F  inancial control, accounting systems and reporting including management accounts, Dirk Reyneke external reporting (interim results and integrated report), budgets, dividends and the capital plan • Combined assurance and internal audit • Review of the finance function • Internal control • Risk management, including risk appetite and IT risk, as referred by the IT committee • Compliance • External audit • Non-trading losses • Asset and liability committee (ALCO) The financial director, group head of risk, head of internal audit and the external auditor attend all BARC meetings. They have unfettered access to the BARC chairman and the board. The committee is satisfied that it has fulfilled its responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference for the year. 78 2019 Integrated Annual Report Board members and management Key focus areas for the past financial year representatives invited to attend 1. Key responsibilities as listed above committee meetings 2. Group liquidity plan Johan Swanepoel 3. Implementation of IFRS 9 provisioning model Brian Black 4. Cavmont Bank operating losses and continued financial support Koos Brandt 5. External quality assurance review of internal audit function and monitoring Jaco Esterhuyse appropriate quality improvement plans Goms Menetté 6. Improved oversight over board audit and board risk and compliance committees of Thinus Prinsloo subsidiary companies Esi Schimming-Chase Gida Nakazibwe-Sekandi Nico van der Merwe Johan van Rensburg Further disclosures The audit committee is satisfied that the external auditor is independent of the organisation. The committee has approved a non-audit services policy that is strictly adhered to. On a quarterly basis, management reports all payments made to the external auditor for audit and non-audit fees to the BARC. Prior BARC approval is required for assignments exceeding the policy threshold. The external audit firm has audited the company since its incorporation in 1996. Audit firm rotation is envisaged as required by BID-10. The designated external audit partner was rotated in 2017. During the external audit firm’s tenure, the finance team and all BARC members have low tenures, which mitigates the risk of familiarity between the external auditor and management. The IFRS 9 provisions were a significant matter that the audit committee has considered in relation to the annual financial statements. This was addressed by the committee by engaging with professional advisers in each of the three countries where the group’s banks operate. The audit committee’s views on the quality of the external audit is that the audit was executed in compliance with generally accepted audit standards. As regards the audit committee’s views on the effectiveness of the chief audit executive and the arrangements for internal audit, the committee concurs with the opinion of the external quality assurance review, which allocated a “partially conforms” overall rating to the internal audit activity of the Capricorn Group. This means the evaluator has concluded that the activity is making good-faith efforts to comply with the requirements of the international internal audit standards. Actions identified by the quality assurance review were tracked at each BARC meeting and were fully addressed during the financial year. The audit committee’s views on the effectiveness of the design and the implementation of internal financial controls are reflected in the statement of responsibility by the board of directors on page 134. During the year under review, there was no serious incident that would indicate a breakdown of controls. This, and the results of the internal audit report and the external audit report, confirm that material internal financial controls were effective. Having assessed the effectiveness of the finance functions in the group as well as the finance director, the audit committee considered the overall finance function in the group to be competent, well capacitated and in compliance with benchmark standards and norms. With regard to combined assurance, the outcome from assurance activities of management assurance services and internal audit are reported to the BARC. The annual audit activities of the external audit take into consideration and are coordinated with internal audit assignments. Other assurance role players, like group compliance and IT risk, were identified relevant to their envisaged contribution to combined assurance. However, the outcome of their assurance efforts must still be coordinated and collated in the reporting to the BARC. GOVERNANCE REPORTS 79 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Group board HR committee Members of the committee Committee role, responsibilities and functions Chairman: Brian Black The committee is responsible for the following key matters: Gerhard Fourie • Personnel policies Baronice Hans • Appointment, benefits and remuneration of management below executive level Tertius Liebenberg • Remuneration and benefits of non-management Thinus Prinsloo • Retirement fund scheme • Medical aid and group life benefits • Performance management • Employment equity • Environmental health and safety The committee is satisfied that it has fulfilled its responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference for the year. Management representatives invited to Key focus areas for the past financial year attend committee meetings 1. Employment equity Chris Matthee (Retail Banking) 2. Managerial appointments and promotions Stephanie Viljoen (Human Capital and 3. Gender pay parity Citizenship) 4. Mandate for negotiations with trade union 5. Personnel policies Group board remuneration committee Members of the committee Committee role, responsibilities and functions Chairman: Gerhard Fourie The committee is responsible for the following key matters: Frans du Toit • Remuneration framework Johan Swanepoel • Remuneration policy • Remuneration and fees for services as directors • Talent management at executive level • Remuneration of executive positions • Incentive schemes Read more about the activities of the committee in the remuneration report on page 110. The committee is satisfied that it has fulfilled its responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference for the year. Management representative invited to Key focus areas for the past financial year attend committee meetings from time 1. IoD committee appraisals to time 2. Longand short-term incentives Baronice Hans 3. Share purchase scheme 4. Leadership assessments 5. Remuneration report 6. HR organisational changes and implementation 7. Executive directors’ and executive management benchmarking of total reward 8. Non-executive directors’ remuneration 80 2019 Integrated Annual Report Group board nominations committee Members of the committee Committee role, responsibilities and functions Chairman: Johan Swanepoel The committee is responsible for the following key matters: Brian Black • Director nominations and related matters Koos Brandt • Director performance Gerhard Fourie • Director succession planning The committee is satisfied that it has fulfilled its responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference for the year, for all Namibian entities. Botswana and Zambia have their own committees. Management representative invited to Key focus areas for the past financial year attend committee meetings 1. IoD board committee appraisals Thinus Prinsloo 2. Board appointments at subsidiaries 3. Shareholders’ representation at boards 4. Appointment of subject matter specialist on board sustainability and ethics committee 5. Ratification of new managing director at Cavmont Bank and appointment of Namib Bou managing director 6. Directors’ succession planning 7. Appointment of IT director 8. Board composition at group and subsidiaries 9. Directors’ independence Group board investment committee Members of the committee Committee role, responsibilities and functions Chairman: Johan Swanepoel The committee is responsible for the following key matters: Koos Brandt • I nvestment evaluations, approvals and recommendations of all prospective Jaco Esterhuyse investments and disinvestments above a certain value Gerhard Fourie • Monitoring of investments Thinus Prinsloo • Measurement and oversight of equity investment portfolio • Review of investment strategies The committee is satisfied that it has fulfilled its responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference for the year. Management representatives invited to Key focus areas for the past financial year attend committee meetings 1. Evaluation of potential investments, recommendations to the board for approval James Chapman (Finance) 2. Monitoring of the acquisition process Baronice Hans 3. Monitoring of investments Claire Hobbs (Treasury) Tertius Liebenberg Nico van der Merwe (Enterprise Risk) GOVERNANCE REPORTS 81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Group board sustainability and ethics committee Members of the committee Committee role, responsibilities and functions Chairperson: Gida Nakazibwe-Sekandi The committee is responsible for the following key matters: Ven Pillay (Special Adviser) • Group sustainability strategy and philosophy, good corporate citizenship and ethics Thinus Prinsloo • Promotion of equality, prevention of unfair discrimination and reduction of corruption Esi Schimming-Chase • Monitoring social and economic development activities Nico van der Merwe (Enterprise Risk) • Monitoring environment, health and public safety activities • Monitoring consumer relationships and public relations • M  onitoring compliance with human rights conventions and ethical breaches internally and externally The committee is satisfied that it has fulfilled its responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference for the year. See separate committee report from page 117 with disclosures related to ethics, good corporate citizenship and stakeholder engagement. Management representatives invited to Key focus areas for the past financial year attend committee meetings 1. Establishment of the Capricorn Foundation, following a review of the corporate social Louis Carstens (Strategy and Sustainability) responsibility (CSR) strategy Sybrand Coetzee 2. Review of the ethics strategy and implementation of the ethics action plan Mark Durr 3. Review of the integrated report Ian Erlank (Capricorn Asset Management) 4. Monitoring stakeholder relationships and engagement Baronice Hans 5. Monitoring procurement practices Marlize Horn (Brand and Corporate Affairs) Peet van der Walt Azelle Verwey (Legal) Stephanie Viljoen (Human Capital and Citizenship) 82 2019 Integrated Annual Report Group board information technology committee Members of the committee Committee role, responsibilities and functions Chairman: Prof. André Watkins The GBITC is chaired by Prof. André Watkins, an independent external IT specialist. The Sybrand Coetzee committee is responsible for the following key matters: Jaco Esterhuyse • Group IT strategy Baronice Hans • Group IT policy Tertius Liebenberg • Group IT reference architecture Gida Nakazibwe-Sekandi • Group application portfolio Thinus Prinsloo • Group IT organisational and governance structures Dirk Reyneke • IT risk management inclusive of information security/cybersecurity Peet van der Walt • Strategic projects • Significant outsourcing • Adequacy of IT resources The committee is satisfied that it has fulfilled its responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference for the year. Management representatives invited to Key focus areas for the past financial year attend committee meetings 1. Embedding Agile methodology Louis Carstens (Strategy and Sustainability) 2. Execution through eight focused platforms – digital, core banking, process Etienne Slabbert (IT) automation, information and analytics, finance, human resources and risk, Nico van der Merwe (Enterprise Risk) compliance and legal, tracking progress on platforms projects 3. IT risk and information security/cybersecurity Further disclosures Technology and information are governed in a way that supports Capricorn Group in setting and achieving its strategic objectives. The GBITC is well established to fulfil the oversight required and meets quarterly. Oversight of IT is part of every GBITC agenda and IT policies are reviewed and approved by GBITC. GBITC actively monitored the delivery against the priorities of the eight platforms. Platform owners provided progress updates at every GBITC meeting and specific actions were noted and tracked to completion. All other focus areas were reviewed and actioned. The following policies are in place and approved by GBITC: • Capricorn Group IT policy • Capricorn Group IT service delivery policy • Capricorn Group IT change management policy • Capricorn Group information security policy • Capricorn Group IT disaster-recovery policy • Capricorn Group IT acceptable use policy • Capricorn Group technology risk framework Planned areas of future focus are: • Further embedding Agile and platforms • Investing in the various platforms to support the group’s strategy • Oversight for expanding platform capacity in line with business demand and to enable delivery of the strategy • Continue reviews of the platform roadmaps and delivery against strategy GOVERNANCE REPORTS 83 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Board procurement committee Members of the committee Committee role, responsibilities and functions Chairman: Johan Swanepoel The committee is responsible for: Jaco Esterhuyse • The procurement of high-value and high-risk goods and services Thinus Prinsloo • Indefinite delivery contracts • The assessment and approval of quotations received The committee is satisfied that it has fulfilled its responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference for the year. Management representatives invited to Key focus areas for the past financial year attend committee meetings 1. Property development Jaco Esterhuyse 2. Inter-country data ring Jacques Joubert (Procurement) Audit and compliance report control process and the governance process are adequate, effective and appropriate. Systems of internal control GIAS reports to the BARC and has unrestricted access to the The group maintains systems of internal control over financial BARC chairman. reporting and the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition. These systems are designed to EY acts as co-source partner to GIAS, supporting the Head: GIAS, provide reasonable assurance to the group and each subsidiary’s providing technical support and resource capability, and reporting management and board of directors about the reliable preparation to the BARC. of financial statements and safeguarding of the group’s assets. External auditor The systems include a documented organisational structure and The BARC approved the external auditor’s terms of engagement, division of responsibility and established policies and procedures scope of work and the 2019 annual audit strategy, and agreed on that are communicated throughout the group, and the proper the applicable levels of materiality. Based on written reports training and development of its people. submitted, the committee reviewed the findings of their work with There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any system of the external auditor and confirmed that all significant matters had internal control, including the possibility of human error and the been satisfactorily resolved. circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even an The committee has also assessed the external auditor’s effective internal control system can provide only reasonable, and independence and has concluded that the external auditor’s not absolute, assurance with respect to the preparation of the independence was not impaired during the reporting period and up financial statements and the safeguarding of assets. Furthermore, to the date of signing the consolidated financial statements. the effectiveness of an internal control system can change with circumstances. Non-audit services received, and fees paid by the group during the financial year are as follows: The group continuously assesses its internal control systems in relation to effective internal control over financial reporting. Based Technical training N$7,609 on its assessment, the group believes that as at 30 June 2019, Agreed-upon procedures N$827,432 its systems of internal control over financial reporting and Other N$922,131 safeguarding of assets against unauthorised acquisitions, use or disposition were adequate. It is the external auditor’s responsibility to report on whether the financial statements are fairly presented in all material respects in The group internal audit services (GIAS) is an independent and accordance with the applicable frameworks adopted by the group. objective review and consulting function created to improve the Their audit opinion is included in the consolidated annual financial systems of internal control across the group. GIAS helps the group statements on page 138. to achieve its objectives by systematically reviewing current processes by using a risk-based approach to establish whether design, controls, the risk management process, the management 84 2019 Integrated Annual Report “We believe that by successfully implementing the AsOne2020 strategy, we can build a sustainable business that makes a difference to broader society.” Namib Naukluft National Park, Namib Desert GOVERNANCE REPORTS 85 RISK REPORT Capricorn’s Risk Culture Building framework is based on four pillars, Executive summary of this risk which link directly into The Capricorn Way. Face-to-face Risk Culture report Building Awareness training sessions were conducted with boards, management teams and employees of majority-owned subsidiaries •  roup risk management supports the implementation of G in all four countries in which Capricorn Group does business. the four strategic choices. •  he group principal risk owners (GPRO) own relevant T Building a risk culture Capricorn Group material matters, and specific board committees have oversight of these. Risk framework pillars 1 October 2018 – 31 May 2019 •  ur risk management practices are aligned to King IV™, O and we apply our group risk, internal control and assurance 83 sessions framework according to the unique features of each Think differently 1 343 operating entity. employees trained •  he principal risks are defined and mitigating actions T 27 sessions explained, combined with key risk indicators, trends, oversight accountability and future focus areas. Get the whole picture 230 employees trained • Nine principal risks show stable trends, one is deteriorating, and four are improving. 18 sessions Build a risk intelligence system 213 employees trained Risk overview Risk culture 2 sessions Every Capricorn citizen The Capricorn Group recognises that the foundation for a is a risk manager 29 employees trained sound governance, risk and compliance environment is an effective risk culture. Risk culture is woven into the fabric of our corporate culture, The Capricorn Way. We create an environment where every employee knows the group’s Philosophy and approach strategic choices and his or her role in relation to strategy and The Group Risk Internal Control and Assurance Framework (GRICAF) the obligation to manage risk. follows a systemic approach to risk and control framework design to ensure that our risk management practices support and sustain the Employees are enabled to manage the risks that are part of performance objectives of the system as a whole. Capricorn Group their daily work and to adapt to changes in the economic cycle, further promotes decentralised risk management responsibility new customer requirements and the ever-increasing where executives are accountable, and everyone is responsible for competitiveness of market participants. Through our risk managing risk. Risk management practices are guided by business culture, we earn the trust of our customers, employees, objectives and formal risk capacity, appetite and tolerance shareholders and society. statements. Objectives At a strategic level, the objectives of GRICAF are to: •  ptimise efficiency through effective use of risk resources in o the group; •  irectly contribute to the creation of end-customer value by d eliminating unnecessary tasks in the process; •  uild standard risk management accountability, principles and b processes into the business management process; and • e nsure that risks are understood and managed proactively within acceptable risk capacity, appetite and tolerance. 86 2019 Integrated Annual Report Risk management and strategy The strategic choices help to frame the long-term direction for risk management infrastructure, key skills and risk management capabilities. The implications of the strategic choices (see below) have been carefully evaluated to determine the right level of maturity for the GRICAF and to pinpoint focus areas such as developing analytical and electronic crime prevention capabilities, strengthening legal, compliance and due diligence processes and transitioning manual processes to automated workflows. Implication of the strategic choice for Strategic choice Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Focus on building our foundation in Namibia, Zambia ERM supports this choice by using financial analytics, scenario testing, and Botswana to get to a position of market merger and acquisition risk assessment and an intentional drive to leadership. mature our modelling and analytics capabilities towards prediction and prescription. Win in Namibia, Zambia and Botswana through ERM supports this choice by fostering efficiencies and lean but safe operational excellence (lean, efficient, fast) and control frameworks built into the business process, analytics and effective execution. management information. Compete in Namibia, Botswana and Zambia through ERM supports these choices through risk assessment of new ventures, strategic relationships and partnerships in insurtech, vigilance of cyber risk and measures to address it, and development of fintech, mobile and telco, and education. new skill sets while maintaining awareness of fast-changing business operations and the need to achieve scale quickly and easily. In considering other African countries beyond 2020, ERM recognises that to support this choice, it is necessary to be target technological/borderless/cyber opportunities cognisant of cyber risk, new regulations and legal requirements. above bricks and mortar entry. Evaluate opportunities, Quick response to threats and sharp sensing mechanisms are required. whether cyber or bricks and mortar, on a The increased use of technology such as the governance, risk and case-by-case basis. compliance (GRC) system will allow for better risk outcomes through scalable, enterprise-wide data gathering, analysis and insight. Risk and governance structures aligned to material matters Material matters have an impact on the strategy and operations of the group. As such, they form part of the context for risk management and are, therefore, linked to principal risk frameworks and risk governance structures. As part of the material matters identification and approval process, we mapped the material matters against principal risk categories and confirmed the appropriate board committee that should provide oversight per material matter. GOVERNANCE REPORTS 87 RISK REPORT continued Material matter GPRO oversight Board committee oversight Ethical leadership, management and business People risk Board audit, risk and compliance Compliance risk committee (BARC), group board sustainability and ethics committee (BSEC), Reputational risk group board human resources (HR) Operational risk committee and Remco Credit risk management and mitigating losses Credit risk BARC, Board Credit Committee (BCC) due to bad debt Capital risk Liquidity risk Market risk Finance and tax risk Financial and cybercrime/cybersecurity Technology risk Group board information technology Reputational risk committee (GBITC) Operations risk Compliance risk People risk Meeting customer needs and expectations Reputational risk BSEC Strategic risk Operations risk Demand for specialist skills driving focused People risk Board HR, Remco development, training and diversity Compliance risk Reputational risk Responding to a changing regulatory and Legal risk BARC operating context Compliance risk Strategic risk Reputational risk Operations risk Finance and tax risk Fintech, insurtech and evolving digital assets Technology risk GBITC Operations risk Reputational risk Enhancing and optimising management Operations risk BARC and operational systems Technology risk People risk Read more about the material matters on page 52 and the strategic landscape shaping our current and emerging risks from page 42. 88 2019 Integrated Annual Report Basel II/III • identify proposed changes and enhancements to current practices to ensure more effective application of the King IV™ The Bank of Namibia embarked on the implementation of Basel III principles and practices. in 2017. The first Basel III determination, BID-5A (capital requirements for credit, market and operational risks), was issued The group governance framework and GRICAF support the on 24 August 2018 and became effective from 1 September 2018. 17 principles of King IV™ and provide a stable foundation for the The capital requirements for credit risk under Basel III remained following enhancements that were identified and implemented: the same as the capital requirements under Basel II. •  n ethics strategy and action plan, informed by a group-wide A The second Basel III determination, the revised BID-6 (minimum ethics risk assessment, was approved and initiated. The ethics liquid assets), was issued for commentary in June 2018. The two officer was certified by the Ethics Institute of South Africa. Basel III liquidity ratios, the Net Stable Funding Ratio and the • A  review of the terms of reference of board committees and Liquidity Coverage Ratio, were not addressed in the revised the quality and appropriateness of reporting was completed. determination. • C  loser alignment between strategy and risk management Banking regulation in Botswana and Zambia is based on Basel II. practices was achieved through the linking of material matters The Bank of Botswana has indicated that it will engage the industry to the principal risk frameworks and the identification and in 2020 on the implementation of Basel III. formal reporting within the governance structure of risks to the strategy, suboptimal risk-taking (too much or too little) and How we govern risk emerging risks. The board assumes responsibility for the governance of risk and sets the direction for how risk should be approached in the group. The Creating value through Enterprise Risk board recognises that risk is about the uncertainty of events and Management (ERM) that these could potentially have a positive or negative impact on Through the group’s ERM process, we proactively identify and act our ability to create value. on risks and opportunities that impact on the group. This supports the successful implementation of our strategy and ensures that we The board allocates the responsibility for oversight and governance achieve desirable outcomes. of risk management to the BARC. The Group CEO is the senior executive responsible for the implementation of a sound risk The strategic choices of the group are supported by a risk management framework. The executive officer for ERM has management framework that is becoming dynamic as it matures. delegated authority to facilitate the appointment of group and This stage of maturity is characterised by a risk and control entity principal risk owners (PROs) and the development of environment that senses changes in the operating environment appropriate risk and control frameworks for each of the principal and responds to them dynamically. The focus of dynamic risk risks. Each principal risk is assigned to an executive officer with management is on continuous improvement of methods and relevant expertise as the PRO. Entity PROs are responsible for the procedures, proactive risk identification and reward, assured risk management frameworks within the respective entities. Group regulatory delivery, and risk behaviours that are evidenced in the PROs are responsible for the appropriateness, effectiveness and industry. This leap from an established, process-oriented framework consistency of principal risk frameworks across the group. Central to a responsive and dynamic risk management framework is risk functions within the banks and at the group head office are supported by investment in technology and building a risk culture. responsible for providing the risk management infrastructure The effective management of risk depends on the decisions taken (guidance, policy, standards, processes and tools) to support the by employees every day in their roles and any situation to mitigate, GRICAF and provide oversight and assurance. control and optimise risk to add value to the business. The risk Alignment with King IV™ culture principles and their practical application were shared with all Capricorn Group, with the assistance of a governance expert, employees as a component of the Risk Culture Awareness Training reviewed King IV™ with a view to: to support better risk decision-making. • e nsure alignment in the understanding of the King IV™ philosophy, corporate governance outcomes, the 17 principles and how to apply the principles through supporting practices; •  ssess the appropriateness of current practices in support of the a outcomes required by every one of the 17 King IV™ principles; and GOVERNANCE REPORTS 89 RISK REPORT continued Enablers of a dynamic risk management system Governance, risk and compliance (GRC) Group risk committee and the group Centres of expertise: Value is created system: The GRC system is an enabler for principal risk owners (GPRO) role: The through centres of expertise located in developing a proactive approach to risk GPRO role was created to allocate Namibia, which provides thought leadership management. The capability of the system accountability and coordinate the and direction in addition to performing allows all role players in the risk execution of the Capricorn Group risk non-routine activities such as advisory management framework to provide input committee mandate. The committee was engagements and special assignments. and share risk information in real-time and established by the Capricorn Group Examples include the Anti-Money Laundering present up-to-date risk profiles based on executive management team (EMT) to (AML) unit, financial risk modelling, legal and integrated data across risk and assurance assist with the oversight of risk compliance, corporate governance and risk functions. The benefits of the system management, compliance and risk culture building. While strategic direction further include standardisation of risk governance across the group. The setting occurs centrally, it is developed management across the group (“speaking committee differs from entity risk and interpreted locally in line with the one language”) and the ability for the audit committees through its oversight role, strategic guidance approach of the group. and compliance functions to plan their which includes an emphasis on the Decentralised, local execution meets market workstreams in a more integrated and aggregated risk profile and adequacy of expectations. The sharing of services such as efficient manner. the GRICAF infrastructure and systems of AML expertise and analytics provides for control (the control frameworks). economies of scale and greater integration and engagement across risk management in Botswana, Namibia and Zambia. Risk culture: Our risk culture supports all elements of the GRICAF by cultivating and embedding the right understanding of and attitude towards risk and risk management. 90 2019 Integrated Annual Report Group Risk, Internal Control and Assurance Framework (GRICAF) The group maintains the GRICAF based on the standard risk practices of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and Basel II/III. The GRICAF encompasses the risk management value chain, highlighting the primary activities and role-players involved in risk management. The uniqueness of each operating entity is considered when the GRICAF is applied. For example, credit risk only applies to lenders, and investment risk only applies to Capricorn Asset Management (CAM). The standard practices of the GRICAF provide a common language and understanding of risk, which allows the group to standardise and aggregate risk reporting to enable effective oversight by governance structures. Risk management Strategic value chain direction Risk assessment Risk controls Reporting Our four strategic choices Principal risks have been Control objectives are Risks profiles are define our risk appetite identified, defined and determined, designed and assessed against risk and our material matters are analysed and documented. appetite and tolerance determine priorities. measured. and reported quarterly. Controls are implemented, Risks to the strategy and evaluated and monitored. Risk indicators have clear instances of suboptimal alert thresholds (triggers) risk-taking are with defined escalation dynamically identified paths to responsible and responded to. managers, PROs and risk committees. Emerging risks are identified and monitored. Main role players 1 2 3 4 (levels of defence) Board, committees and Group and entity PROs Group and entity PROs, Group and entity PROs, executive leadership team management and group risk functions, internal risk functions and external assurance providers Risk management tools/ Group management Principal risk frameworks, Control assessment Reporting frameworks structures/policies model, material matters, risk type methodologies methods, GRC system documented strategy, policy framework and risk capacity, appetite and tolerance (RCAT) Group requirements for the identification/measurement, control and reporting of principal risks are documented according to GRICAF and implemented by business units GOVERNANCE REPORTS 91 RISK REPORT continued Oversight of risk management and group (most of the risk processes). The management model provides the management model framework for structuring in optimal ways to ensure the following: The Capricorn Group board is ultimately accountable for the • e ffective execution of business processes which consistently adequacy of the GRICAF. The board discharges its responsibilities achieve process objectives; for risk management through the group governance structure (refer •  ptimal cost efficiency and making the best use of risk resources o to the governance report on page 78) and specifically the BARC. in the group; The board is assured of the adequacy of the GRICAF through • the ability to scale with the growth of the group; and the second and third lines of defence consisting of the risk, • r emaining attuned to the local requirements of the various management assurance, compliance and internal audit functions. operating environments. In a coordinated approach, these internal functions provide the board with a view of the execution of the GRICAF practices by the Risk services are provided through an optimal mix of centralised various role players. In addition to the internal functions, the board services, such as corporate functions and centres of expertise (for draws on the perspectives of external auditors and regulators who example governance, audit, compliance and risk culture building) conduct regular reviews of the operating entities in the group. These as well as decentralised local services such as central risk teams external perspectives are combined with the views of the internal in banks. functions to provide the board with an overall evaluation of the implementation adequacy and effectiveness of the risk policies and Risk capacity, appetite and tolerance frameworks. Any improvement areas identified in the reviews are (RCAT) tracked for implementation by management to ensure the The RCAT is used by the board to set the group’s capacity, appetite continuous improvement in the GRICAF. Based on the combined and tolerance thresholds for risk. The RCAT collectively refers to assurance provided by the external and internal assurance qualitative and quantitative statements. The board sets qualitative providers, which did not highlight any material gaps in the GRICAF, risk appetite as well as quantitative risk capacity and appetite the board is satisfied that the GRICAF was adequately executed thresholds. The executive, through PROs, sets quantitative tolerance during the 2019 financial year. thresholds for each of the principal risks. Quantitative measures The group management model encompasses corporate include thresholds that, if breached, trigger a change in status that responsibilities (for example the governance model design), centres attracts a higher level of monitoring and, where required, remedial of expertise (typically central risk functions, for example, the action. The capacity and appetite statements are reviewed at least operational risk department), shared services (such as compliance annually, and measurements are reported to the risk committee, monitoring, internal audit and AML) and operating unit activities executive management team and the BARCs. 92 2019 Integrated Annual Report Risk capacity, appetite and tolerance (quantitative and qualitative) The board approves the RCAT annually. Quantitative indicators are aligned with the approved budget. Regulatory capital adequacy compared to minimum regulatory capital adequacy: • Capital adequacy ratio • Leverage ratio • Tier 1 capital compared to total capital Return on equity Capacity Debt-to-equity ratio (Capricorn Group entity) subordinated shareholder loans treated as equity Debt-to-assets ratio (Capricorn Group entity) excluding subordinated shareholder loans Ratings: • Long-term – national • Short-term – national Loan funding ratio Cost-to-income ratio Non-interest income as percentage of operating expenses Non-interest income as percentage of operating income Appetite Debt service cover ratio Cash coverage ratio (liquid assets coverage of operating expenses and interest) Non-performing loans as percentage of gross advances Various operational key risk indicators per principal risk: Tolerances • Operational losses as a percentage of net income • Overdue issues • Ethics and conduct of business • Treating customers fairly • Corporate governance • Core regulatory compliance • Code of conduct Qualitative appetite statements • Major change • Performance • Innovation • Sustainability • Reputation GOVERNANCE REPORTS 93 RISK REPORT continued Risk management oversight and governance are structured in line with the size and complexity of a subsidiary, within its legal and regulatory environment: Banking subsidiaries’ risk oversight structure CAPRICORN GROUP BOARD Group board oversight Group board Board risk and IT committee compliance committee Group internal audit services SUBSIDIARY BANK BOARD Subsidiary board oversight Board credit and board Board risk Board audit lending committee committee committee MANAGING DIRECTOR Management EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM Asset and liability oversight committee RISK COMMITTEE Liquidity and Operational risk Credit risk Technical market risk forum forum forum oversight PRINCIPAL RISK OWNER 94 2019 Integrated Annual Report Strategic and principal risks 2019 group risk profile The group risk function prepares a quarterly report to the BARC to Capricorn Group is a regional provider of financial services, and it assess emerging matters and material issues that could impact the assumes risk exposure by the very nature of its business and its successful implementation of the strategic choices within the operations. appetite set by the board as well as the aggregated risk profile and The group identified 14 main risk categories that apply across the the status of issue remediation. The report scope includes all the various operating units in all three jurisdictions (Namibia, Botswana Capricorn Group subsidiaries. The quarterly report enables better and Zambia). The main risk categories have been defined as governance of risk because it exposes the key risks to our strategy principal risks that are each managed according to the risk and identifies gaps in the risk management framework and the management framework. progress made by management to close the gaps. The detail provided in the report enables the relevant governance forums to The principal risks for 2019 are listed below. have robust discussions and make decisions when needed. 1. Strategic In addition to listing the risk profile of principal risks in the group, 2. Capital the report has been adapted to incorporate dynamic risk 3. Credit management elements that are more forward-looking in nature. 4. Liquidity The report is structured around three questions: 5. Market 1. What are the risks to the strategy of the group? 6. Reputational 2. Where are we potentially taking too much or too little risk 7. Compliance (in relation to RCAT)? 8. Finance and tax 3. What are our emerging risks? 9. Financial crime Key topics discussed by the BARC in relation to the above questions 10. Legal included: 11. Operations • Market liquidity and the cost of funding in Botswana 12. People •  egulatory compliance with electronic AML reporting to R regulators in Botswana and Namibia 13. Technology • Emerging competition from fintech companies in Botswana 14. Investment (applicable only to CAM) • Business continuity and disaster-recovery readiness • Commercial opportunities in the treasury environment • Instability of IT systems at Bank Gaborone and Cavmont Bank • Credit risk impacts of non-performing loans • The Cavmont Bank turnaround plan GOVERNANCE REPORTS 95 RISK REPORT continued Principal risk Risk trend Residual risk Strategic risk Improving Capital risk Stable Credit risk Deteriorating Liquidity risk Stable Market risk Stable Reputational risk Stable Compliance Improving Finance and tax Stable Financial crime Stable Legal Stable Operations Improving People Improving Technology Stable Investment Stable Legend: The trend reflects the direction of the risk profile during the financial year considering the effect of management actions and/or external factors on the residual risk profile. Improving = The risk profile improved during the period Stable = The risk profile remained largely unchanged over the period. Deteriorating = The risk increased during the period. Red = the risk has exceeded the board risk capacity and appetite thresholds. Amber = the risk is within appetite and closely monitored due to its proximity to the board risk capacity and appetite thresholds. For some risks, this could indicate an optimised risk/reward relationship. Green = the risk is comfortably within appetite and, for certain principal risks, this could indicate capacity for more risk taking. 96 2019 Integrated Annual Report Strategic risk Definition Strategic risk is the uncertainty and untapped opportunities created and affected by internal and external events and/or scenarios that could inhibit the achievement of the group’s strategic intent and strategic objectives. Governance oversight The group and subsidiary boards conduct annual strategy sessions and approve a strategy for the group and subsidiaries, respectively. The managing directors report progress with the implementation of the strategy at quarterly board meetings. Risk level trend IMPROVING The trend is attributed to an increasing awareness of, and action orientation towards macroand micro-competitive opportunities and risks in the markets in which we compete. How we mitigate this risk During the year, we mitigated strategic risk in three ways: • Adhering to governance as per the Capricorn Group Strategic Risk Management Framework •  dopting best-practise strategy development methodology consistently across the group, entities A and centres of expertise, thus ensuring strategic alignment • I mplementing strategy in a measurable and quantified manner, with clear metrics and performance targets adequately calibrated, to ensure that where performance fell short of targets, actions were triggered to close strategic performance gaps More information Read more in the section on our strategic landscape and material matters from page 42. Priorities for 2019 and •  e identified three key priorities for 2019 from a strategy risk perspective, namely improving W progress made customer experience, optimising business processes and becoming more data-driven in how we measure our strategy performance. We conducted research and utilised data from customers to understand customers better. • I n terms of business processes, we adopted Six Sigma, invested in building this capability as a strategic capability, started training Six Sigma practitioners and deployed the methodology in Namibia, Zambia and Botswana. • I n terms of data-driven measurement of strategy performance, we have a set of metrics and targets across customers, business processes and project execution that we measure on at least a quarterly basis. We give feedback to the group board and entity management teams on a quarterly basis and work with entities to address strategy performance gaps. Future focus areas The three primary focus areas remain the same. Material matters related to this risk Meeting customer Responding to a needs and changing regulatory and expectations operating context GOVERNANCE REPORTS 97 RISK REPORT continued Capital risk Definition Capital risk is the risk that the group will be unable to meet its capital requirements and fund business expansion when needed. It includes the risk that regulatory requirements are not adhered to and the resultant costs of non-compliance, as well as the fact that insufficient capital will adversely affect the ability to raise funds. Governance oversight Capital is tracked at group and entity asset and liability committees (ALCOs) and EMTs. How we mitigate this risk The objectives of the group when managing capital includes: • Complying with minimum regulatory capital requirements in all jurisdictions that we operate • Safeguarding the ability of the group to continue as a going concern • Maintaining a sufficient capital base to support business development Capital risk was mitigated during the year by approving thresholds for capital adequacy at board level and managing capital on a monthly basis within these parameters on a group and entity level. The parameters are set using a “Red, Amber, Green (RAG)” status indicator and a threshold above the minimum requirements set by the regulator has been applied as follows. Descriptor RAG status Red Amber Green – Regulatory capital adequacy compared to minimum Regulatory capital adequacy Capital Adequacy Ratio (K0000201) (Minimum 10% per regulator) <12.5% 12.5–14.5% >14.5% Leverage Ratio (K0000202) (Minimum 6% per regulator) <7% 7%–8% >8% – Tier 1 capital (K0000203) (Minimum 7% per regulator) <8% 8%–9% >9% Capital adequacy is calculated and reviewed and challenged at ALCO level on a monthly basis. Any emerging risks are managed proactively. 98 2019 Integrated Annual Report Capital risk continued Key risk indicators Key regulatory capital figures 2019 2018 Variation Tier 1 ratio 12.3% 13.3% (7.7%) Total capital ratio 14.9% 14.6% 2.1% Leverage ratio 10.9% 11.5% (5.3%) Tier 1 (N$’000) N$5,238 N$5,185 1.0% Total capital N$6,360 N$5,685 11.9% Risk-weighted assets (RWA) N$42,568 N$38,935 9.3% Tier 2 capital N$1,122 N$500 124.5% Total capital – Capricorn Group 8,000,000 7,000,000 6,000,000 5,000,000 N$’000 4,000,000 3,000,000 2 000 000 1,000,000 0 2019 2018 Tier 1 Tier 2 Capital More information Read more about the composition of regulatory capital and the ratios of the group for the year ended 30 June 2019 in the summary in note 3.7 of the consolidated annual financial statements from pages 151 to 287. Priorities for 2019 and A key priority is to comply with the new Basel III ratios to be implemented in Namibia. However, progress made Basel III has not been fully implemented in Namibia. Bank Windhoek currently adheres to the required ratios for Basel III in the anticipated regulation. Conducting an effective internal capital adequacy assessment process (ICAAP) and high-quality regulatory reporting were priorities. The first ICAAP regulatory report was submitted for Bank Gaborone and we maintained high-quality ICAAP analysis and reporting for Bank Windhoek and Cavmont Bank. All ICAAP reporting was completed and used for proactive risk management in all entities. Future focus areas Remain well capitalised while ensuring that all entities maintain an optimal capital position. Material matters related to this risk Credit risk management and mitigating losses due to bad debt GOVERNANCE REPORTS 99 RISK REPORT continued Credit risk Definition Credit risk is expressed as the risk that a borrower or counterparty will fail to meet an obligation when it falls due and is inherent in the group’s business activities. The realisation of credit risk can cause a considerable loss in revenue as well as a decline in the total asset value when assets are liquidated, and the exposure paid off or written off. Governance oversight Credit risk is monitored at and managed by the entity credit risk forums, EMT and risk committees, board audit and board risk and compliance committees. How we mitigate this risk The economic environment in southern Africa remained under pressure. In addition to the economic downturn, the southern African region is facing a severe and prolonged drought, which is placing additional pressure on clients and the economy. Namibia has experienced 12 quarters of negative GDP growth; the general economic slowdown continues to have a negative impact on household income and loan repayments. As a result, the non-performing loans (NPL) ratio has further deteriorated. In Botswana, the NPL ratio deteriorated in line with market movements, mainly due to overindebtedness of individuals in the market, pressure on small-business owners and government contracts that are under pressure. In Zambia, the NPL ratio remained stable. Clients’ arrears status is being managed proactively. The credit department, with the assistance of business units, is taking the necessary additional measures to ensure that credit risks are proactively managed and mitigated. IFRS 9 has been effectively implemented by all countries, and the models developed for IFRS 9 serve as additional tools for the proactive management of credit risk. Credit risk management process Credit risk is managed by monitoring the quality and concentration risk of the overall portfolio on an ongoing basis. Analyses, predictive models and stress testing are used to enhance the understanding and improve the management of credit risk. Continued focus will be placed on managing the Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) and using it in the loan application process to ensure responsible, sustainable lending. In addition to the existing credit management and collections processes, we also focused on the following additional measures to mitigate increased credit risk: • Efficiency of the collateral and collections processes • Use of the call centre and outsourcing for collections • Additional capacity in key areas • Incentivising performance with regard to NPL ratios and IFRS 9 provisions • Developing monitoring and predictive tools to help prevent the deterioration of irregular accounts • Automating the credit application and arrears management processes • Client-focused rehabilitation, client visits, recovery strategy and applicable employee training • Proof of concept development using machine learning to predict arrears • Developing portfolio-level indicators to assist with credit portfolio management (group linking, family trees, sector classification codes) • Researching the impact of the drought in Namibia 100 2019 Integrated Annual Report Credit risk continued Key risk indicators Key regulatory capital figures June 2019 June 2018 June 2017 NPL as a percentage of gross loans and advances (%) 4.14% 3.33% 2.22% IFRS 9 stage 3 provision/specific impairment provision (N$'000)* 508,727 258,411 191,412 Impairment charges in income statement (N$'000) 114,547 80,840 57,998 * 2019 saw a substantial increase mainly as a result of the implementation of IFRS 9 that adopts a forward-looking model, rather than an incurred-but-not-reported model. Total capital – Capricorn Group 5% 4% 3% 2% 1% 0% 2017 2018 2019 NPLs Impairments More information Read more about credit risk in the section on material matters from page 52. Priorities for 2019 and • Focus was maintained on NPLs, as well as early-warning mechanisms progress made • Portfolio-level analysis and credit risk management were enhanced with a focus on risk-adjusted profitability measures and optimised IFRS 9 provisions • Oversight of the group credit risk framework was improved • Client scoring was introduced at Bank Gaborone • At Cavmont Bank, monitoring and proactive management improved NPLs • Bank Windhoek is ready for Basel III although the Bank of Namibia has not implemented Basel III yet Future focus areas • Optimise credit processes further and investigate the possibility of introducing an automated credit application process • Increase focus on developing portfolio-level tools to improve credit risk monitoring, profit optimisation and concentration risk management • Further enhancement of the credit risk framework and portfolio analyses Material matters related to this risk Credit risk management and mitigating losses due to bad debt GOVERNANCE REPORTS 101 RISK REPORT continued Reputational risk Definition Reputational risk is mainly a consequence of the realisation of other risks. It is the risk of failure to understand, identify or manage events that impact negatively on the group’s reputation. The group has no appetite for conduct that places its reputation at risk. Governance oversight The group and subsidiary boards receive reports on material reputational risk issues via the BARC or board risk committee (as the case may be). Quarterly reputational risk profiles are compiled for all entities and reported to the group BARC. How we mitigate this risk A full-day training programme on media skills, crisis management and presentation skills were presented by a specialist to spokespersons, the media and communication practitioners of all our subsidiaries. Reputation risk management best practices as well as tips on dealing with a crisis from a communication and media perspective formed part of the training programme. GPRO oversight of reputation risk management and reporting of subsidiaries was enhanced. Crisis communication plans and relevant policies, including a Communication and Media Policy, was tested during a simulation exercise overseen by the Bank of Namibia. Key risk indicators Key risk indicators measured by the PROs of the subsidiaries include: • Percentage of negative, neutral or positive reporting on social media • Number of incidences not reported which had or could have had a reputational impact • Customer service survey results • Number of customer complaints • Percentage of negative media reports on the subsidiary per month More information Read more in the Group chairman’s message from page 6 and the BSEC report from page 117. Priorities for 2019 and • T  he results of a brand audit to test perceptions of stakeholders about the Capricorn Group brand progress made was presented in March 2019. Potential risks and opportunities identified in the research will be incorporated into specific action plans. •  compliance audit was conducted on the application of the group’s brand manual, and corporate A identity guidelines on the banking brands and gaps were remedied. • T  he group’s strategic stakeholder engagement plan was reviewed and enhanced, which resulted in several stakeholder engagements that support our brand position of being Connectors of Positive Change. • I nternal awareness was created on reputational risks combined with increased GPRO oversight in the management and reporting of reputational risk issues. • A  n online community (social media) guideline for employees was launched, accompanied by an animation video. These are used at training interventions and during the induction of new employees. Future focus areas • M  onitor compliance with the new brand manual (visual identity guidelines) and endorsement strategy among all entities • I mplement the brand and communication strategy to address the risks and opportunities associated with the Capricorn brand • S  upport the building of a strong ethical culture through employee communication and engagement initiatives • Maintain a strong focus on the implementation of the group’s strategic stakeholder engagement plan Material matters related to this risk Ethical leadership, Financial and Meeting customer Demand for specialist skills Responding to a management and cybercrime/ needs and driving focused development, changing regulatory and business cybersecurity expectations training and diversity operating context 102 2019 Integrated Annual Report Compliance risk Definition Compliance risk is the risk of failure to comply with applicable rules and regulations, and in so doing, exposing the group to penalties and reputational damage. Penalties received or due for non-compliance are an example of this risk. Governance oversight Monthly reporting to risk committees and a quarterly compliance report to the entity and group board risk and compliance committees. How we mitigate this risk As a leading financial services group, we face complex challenges to ensure that our activities comply with local legislation, regulations and supervisory requirements and the relevant international standards. T  he compliance function identifies, assesses, advises, monitors and reports on the compliance risk of the group and its subsidiaries with core legislation, as well as legal risk in terms of the potential impact of changes in laws and regulations. Key risk indicators Regarding the imposition of fines and penalties by regulators, from all group entities, Bank Gaborone received a fine of BWP259,000 for non-compliance with internal policies and procedures on the onboarding of clients. More information Read more in the section on material matters from page 52. Priorities for 2019 and progress made • A compliance monitoring plan has been approved for the 2019/2020 financial year • Sanction screening systems and processes have been enhanced Future focus areas • Automation of AML/CTF/CPF processes • Embedding of compliance monitoring • Identifying and resolving data quality issues that are preventing compliance Material matters related to this risk Ethical leadership, Financial and Demand for specialist skills Responding to a management and cybercrime/ driving focused development, changing regulatory and business cybersecurity training and diversity operating context GOVERNANCE REPORTS 103 RISK REPORT continued Finance and tax risk Definition The risk of failure to monitor and report on statutory financial requirements in line with the group’s requirements or failure to meet tax obligations. The restatement of the annual financial statements is an example of this risk. Governance oversight Monthly reporting to management committees and quarterly reporting to board audit committees. How we mitigate this risk Finance and tax risks are low, and the risk profile has remained stable throughout the year. The risk is mitigated through the application of generally accepted accounting practices and standards and adhering to local statutory reporting requirements which are well documented and for which the group has established and robust processes in place. Key risk indicators • Statutory reporting deadlines missed • Internal and external audit findings • Losses due to penalties Priorities for 2019 and The group has improved financial reporting from Cavmont Bank and maintained standards throughout progress made the rest of the group. Future focus areas • Optimising finance processes, especially the budget process and methods for inter-group fees • Automation of project accounting and reporting • Standardisation of management account reporting across the group Material matters related to this risk Responding to a Credit risk management changing regulatory and and mitigating losses operating context due to bad debt Financial crime Definition The risk of fraud or dishonesty, misconduct or misuse of information relating to a financial market, the handling of the proceeds of crime or the financing of terrorism. Financial crimes may involve fraud (cheque fraud or credit card fraud), theft, scams or confidence tricks, tax evasion, bribery, embezzlement, identity theft, forgery and counterfeiting, computer crime, phishing, burglary and armed robbery. Phishing attacks are an example of this risk. Governance oversight Monthly risk reports to risk committees. A quarterly risk report is compiled from the subsidiary information and reported to the group risk committee and BARC. How we mitigate this risk There has been a significant decrease in financial crime losses throughout the group against the background of deliberate efforts to reduce losses such as the group-wide implementation of Risk Culture Building Awareness training, the ethics strategy launch, fraud awareness created on social media platforms, the introduction of EMV-compliant chip cards for all card products and SMS notifications for all debit transactions. The group has developed risk management frameworks that are based on comprehensive risk assessments. The frameworks adhere to standard practices for Operational Risk in respect of risk and control assessment, key risk indicator monitoring, risk incident reporting and issue remediation. Financial crime risk is managed through proactive and reactive methods. Proactive methods use technology to identify patterns of behaviour, whereas reactive methods involve forensic investigations. The group employs specialists that are dedicated to combating financial crime. Activities to combat risks associated with money laundering, tax evasion and financing of terrorist activities are regulated, and the group has developed the necessary compliant processes. 104 2019 Integrated Annual Report Financial crime continued Key risk indicators N$ 3,000,000 2,500,000 2,000,000 1,500,000 1,000,000 500,000 0 Internal fraud External fraud Internal fraud External fraud 2018 2019 Bank Windhoek Bank Gaborone Cavmont Bank Entrepo Progress in 2019 • The GRC system implementation was completed. •  he Risk Culture Building Awareness initiative was successfully launched. The first phase included T awareness training at all levels in the group. Future focus areas • Focus on an information security risk and control framework • Enhance the proactive fraud prevention capabilities Material matters related to this risk Financial and Ethical leadership, Demand for specialist skills Enhancing and optimising cybercrime/ management and driving focused development, management and cybersecurity business training and diversity operational systems GOVERNANCE REPORTS 105 RISK REPORT continued Legal risk Definition The risk of exposure due to failure to conduct business in accordance with laws or contractual obligations. Planned and potential litigation is an example of this risk. Governance Monthly risk reports to risk committees. A quarterly risk report is compiled from the subsidiary information and oversight reported to the group risk committee and Group BARC. How we mitigate The legal risk profile has remained stable and within appetite during the year. this risk The group has developed a risk management framework to manage legal risk. The framework adheres to standard practices for operational risk in respect of risk and control assessment, key risk indicator monitoring, risk incident reporting and issue remediation. Key risk indicators Losses Priorities identified Embedding the legal system in Namibia and initiating the deployment of the system in Botswana. for 2019 and progress Future focus areas Maintaining the legal risk framework in all jurisdictions Material matters related to this risk Responding to a changing regulatory and operating context Operations risk Definition The risk of failure to deliver the intended outcome regarding customers, products and services, facilities, data, processes, business continuity, physical cash management, payment management and change execution and delivery. Losses due to payment errors or theft as a result of poor physical security are examples of this risk. Governance Monthly risk reports to risk committees. A quarterly risk report is compiled from the subsidiary information and oversight reported to the group risk committee and Group BARC. How we mitigate There has been a significant decrease in the operational risk losses in the banking subsidiaries against the this risk background of deliberate efforts to reduce losses due to errors and the group-wide implementation of Risk Culture Building Awareness training. Operations risk is managed according to the standardised approach to operational risk management under Basel II. Qualitative and quantitative tools are applied to identify and assess operations risks. Key risk indicators • Losses • Successful completion of integrated recovery tests Priorities identified •  rogress was made with the implementation of the business continuity framework, and by 30 June 2019 P for 2019 and only four business units had not completed the full implementation. progress made • The control environments for cash management and physical security were improved. • The governance risk and compliance system was implemented, which supports the operational risk management process. Future focus areas • Completion of the business continuity framework implementation • Data quality and process optimisation Material matters related to this risk Financial and Ethical leadership, Meeting customer Responding to a Enhancing and optimising Fintech, insurtech cybercrime/ management and needs and changing regulatory and management and and evolving cybersecurity business expectations operating context operational systems digital assets 106 2019 Integrated Annual Report People risk Definition The risk of failure to achieve the group’s business objectives through problems that may arise from people-related issues. Vacancies in key positions and a lack of performance management are examples of this risk. Governance oversight Monthly risk reports to risk committees. A quarterly risk report is compiled from the subsidiary information and reported to the group risk committee, Group BARC and the Group BHRC. How we mitigate this risk The people risk profile has improved during the year with key positions being filled in the IT department and at Cavmont Bank, continued focus on leadership development and talent and the improvement of various human capital processes including recruitment and performance management. The group has developed a risk management framework to manage people risk. The framework adheres to standard practices for operational risk in respect of risk and control assessment, key risk indicator monitoring, risk incident reporting and issue remediation. Key risk indicators • Vacancies in key positions • Leave and overtime • Affirmative Action measures (Namibia only) Priorities identified for 2019 • T  he Risk Culture Building Awareness initiative was successfully launched. The first phase included and progress awareness training at all levels in the group. • Improved performance management process supported by technology. • Key positions in Cavmont Bank and IT filled. Future focus areas • Embedding the technology implemented during 2019 • Process optimisation and measurement Demand for specialist skills driving focused development, Ethical leadership, training and diversity management and business GOVERNANCE REPORTS 107 RISK REPORT continued Technology risk Definition Technology risk is the risk that the strategic technology investment is not aligned to the group’s vision or business strategy, or catastrophic failure of technology to deliver secure IT services that provide critical business services. System breakdowns or systems being offline are an example of this risk. Governance oversight Technology risks are reported to subsidiary management risk committees. Quarterly risk reports are submitted to the subsidiary board risk and compliance committees, the group risk committee and BARC. Material technology risks are reported to the group board IT committee. How we mitigate this risk The information security and IT risk and compliance teams work closely with the technology GPRO and subsidiary PROs to identify risks that are communicated to members of management who are responsible for executing remediation plans. Informal and unstructured engagements are held daily, and information provided by the newly created network operations centre helps to ensure that pressing matters of the day are adequately and promptly addressed. In addition, current level 2 risks, including but not limited to cybersecurity, vendor management and non-compliance to IT standards and policies, are discussed at management meetings. These, along with other risks, are tracked and reported within the risk governance structures. Group IT is committed to maintaining a standardised architecture across the group to minimise threats and the effort required to support and maintain the systems of all the subsidiaries. International frameworks and standards from ISO, NIST and ISACA are used to augment and support internal processes, standards and policies. Key risk indicators The IT function maintains several key indicators, which include: • High-severity incidents • System uptime • Cyber attacks • Disaster-recovery failures • Support call metrics • IT change metrics More information Read more about IT governance in the governance report on page 83. Priorities identified for 2019 • A  full data centre recovery capability was built and successfully tested in Botswana. In Namibia, and progress made disaster recovery was performed successfully over a two-week period in 2018. Improvements to disaster recovery for Namibia and Zambia are in progress. •  lternative network connections have been implemented for identified branches in Botswana and A Namibia. •  he adoption of the Agile methodology has greatly increased the rate of project delivery as well as T the relevance of the projects delivered regarding the strategy. • Service level processes are being embedded. • G  roup IT has focused on reducing the complexity and single point of failure for the banks’ internal and external network equipment and connectivity. Special focus on automated recovery and increased external service availability has been introduced to ensure reduced recovery time in the event of network and internet failures. 108 2019 Integrated Annual Report Technology risk continued Future focus areas • Standardisation of technologies used across the group • Information security • Enhanced vendor management • Continued focus on strengthening cybersecurity • System stability throughout the group ecosystem • Embed the Agile methodology across the group Material matters related to this risk Financial and Fintech, insurtech Enhancing and optimising cybercrime/ and evolving management and cybersecurity digital assets operational systems Investment risk Definition The risk posed by applying a specific investment view given a certain macroeconomic and/or entityspecific view in portfolios and mandates which we manage on behalf of clients. Governance oversight Monthly performance and attribution meetings, monthly credit meetings, monthly economic meetings, monthly asset allocation meetings. Continuous portfolio-specific engagement. Monthly risk reports to above-mentioned committees. A quarterly risk report is compiled from the subsidiary information and reported to the group risk committee and BARC. How we mitigate this risk By establishing clear guidelines per portfolio based on a strategic allocation and performance risk budget. Key risk indicators • Interest rate duration • Spread risk allowance • Single-party exposure limits • Credit and liquidity ratings per instrument aggregated within each mandate • Maximum term limits if applicable • Performance measurement against peers and benchmarks/target returns Progress in 2019 The review of relevant matrices and oversight continued during the year. Future focus areas Expand the scope of credit analysis Material matters related to this risk Ethical leadership, Enhancing and optimising management and management and business operational systems GOVERNANCE REPORTS 109 REMUNERATION REPORT Part one: Background statement Consistent with previous years, we strive for appropriate transparency of our executive remuneration policies and practices Introduction and again present a three-part report. The three-part report The Capricorn Group board has embraced King IV™ and supports contains the background and context to our remuneration approach the shift to an outcomes-based approach to governance, where and governance in part one, our forward-looking remuneration remuneration contributes to positive outcomes for all stakeholders. policy in part two and the actual implementation of our policy for the year under review in part three. This allows shareholders to This report reflects our journey towards the full application of observe the way our stated policy translates into actual outcomes remuneration disclosures as required by King IV™. We are for senior management and executives. committed to remuneration that achieves the four outcomes and will continue to align our practices and enhance our disclosure Governance of remuneration accordingly. Remuneration is governed by the Remco. Details about the This report sets out the Capricorn Group remuneration philosophy committee’s roles and responsibilities are available in the and policy (the policy) and its implementation during the 2019 governance report from page 69. Executive directors attend financial year. The policy has been consistently applied in all entities committee meetings by invitation but are requested to recuse and markets, except Zambia, due to the significantly different themselves when matters are discussed that concern them. market remuneration structure. The Remco confirms that it has discharged the functions We continue to ensure that our remuneration practices and policies and complied with its terms of reference for the year ended adhere to global best practice and align executive interest strongly 30 June 2019. to those of our shareholders. PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), whom The key activities and recommendations of the Remco regarding the Group board remuneration committee (Remco) considers to remuneration during 2019 included the following: be independent and objective, annually reviews and advises •  enchmarking of executive directors’ and executive B Capricorn Group on remuneration. Benchmarking practices are management’s total reward using the annual PwC survey consistently applied across the group. primarily covering JSE-listed entities with the regional view as Attention was paid to the setting of the performance conditions for a subset the long-term incentives and, consistent with the previous year, we • B  enchmarking of non-executive directors’ fees and the approval have decided to disclose the performance conditions in this report. of fees for recommendation to the board and shareholders We are confident that the targets we have set for our performance •  onsideration of the outcome of the annual performance C conditions will stretch management, requiring strong company assessment of the committee performance to unlock rewards for participants. The Remco also considers the qualitative measures associated with the strategies of • Consideration of annual total guaranteed pay increases the various entities as part of the overall performance conditions. • A  pproval of shortand long-term incentive allocations to management 110 2019 Integrated Annual Report Non-binding advisory vote At the annual general meeting (AGM) on 30 October 2018, shareholders had the opportunity to cast a non-binding advisory vote on the remuneration policy and the remuneration of the non-executive directors for the financial year ending 30 June 2019. 0.5% 0.46% Non-executive Remuneration remuneration policy voting for the next results financial year (% of issued shares) (% of issued shares) 99.5% 99.54% Against Against Approved Approved The voting results clearly show support for the remuneration policy. ensuring that their behaviour remains consistent with Capricorn Accordingly, no changes were made to the policy. The actual Group’s values as articulated in The Capricorn Way. The group’s implementation of the policy for the year under review is reflected guiding principles for managing remuneration are as follows: in part three, allowing shareholders to observe the way the group’s • T  otal rewards mindset – Reward is viewed in a holistic manner stated policies translate into actual outcomes for senior comprising a range of monetary (fixed and variable) and management and executives. As in previous years, shareholders will non-monetary components. be requested to cast a non-binding advisory vote on the • P  erformance differentiation – There is strong differentiation remuneration policy contained in part two of this report at the based on performance, particularly for senior, specialist and forthcoming AGM. leadership roles where line of sight to strategic choices is Part two: Overview of the group evident. remuneration policy • M  anager discretion – Management discretion is central to the Capricorn Group’s remuneration philosophy and is based on the The group’s remuneration philosophy aims to ensure that all requirement that the reward must always be based on merit. employees are rewarded fairly and appropriately for their • V  ariable pay component – The variable pay component of the contribution. In setting remuneration levels, the group board human total reward increases with seniority (organisational level) as the resources and remuneration committees take appropriate market ability to impact business results increases. This is reflected in benchmarks into account, while ensuring that sufficient emphasis is the quantum of the opportunities offered by the shortand placed on pay for performance. The group board human resources long-term incentives for more senior levels compared to junior committee is responsible for the remuneration of general employees employees. while the focus of the Remco is on executive management, managing directors and non-executive directors. This approach • P  erformance aligned with strategy – Performance is the helps to attract, engage, retain and motivate key employees while cornerstone of reward practices, and there is a clear GOVERNANCE REPORTS 111 REMUNERATION REPORT continued differentiation between performers and non-performers. •  onsistency – The reward philosophy strives to be both C Performance measures are an inclusive collective process that consistent and transparent. Benchmarking is performed focuses on both the “what” and the “how”. The “what” is annually using consistent and recognised methodologies. measured using an approach that focuses on the 5Cs: Company, The differential market value of various skill groups and roles is Colleague, Citizenship, Conduct and Customer. The “how” is reflected in pay practices. measured in terms of The Capricorn Way and how the employee • A  ttraction and retention – The focus is on competitive lives the behaviours. The reward consequences for individual remuneration practices that attract, engage and retain talent employees are, as far as possible, linked to and influenced by to deliver on the business strategy. Capricorn Group did an the interests of the shareholders, the performance of the extensive review during the September 2018 increase cycle to company as a whole and the individual employee contribution. address any potential gaps between gender and race, as well • R  isk containment – Reward plans are structured to mitigate as the complexity of work. We are comfortable that we are excessive risk-taking. applying leading practices across the region. Elements of pay The table below sets out an overview of the elements of pay applicable to Capricorn Group employees: Element Detail Fixed remuneration and benefits Basic salary The fixed element of remuneration is referred to as basic salary or Total Guaranteed Pay (TGP). Benefits Benefits include membership of a pension fund and medical aid, to which contributions are made by both the employee and the company. Benefits may also include mortgage bond interest subsidies and housing, car, entertainment or other allowances, depending on the job level of the employee. Company contributions are calculated as part of the employee’s costs to company. Variable remuneration Short-term incentive (STI) plan The group operates a bonus pool short-term incentive plan, in which all employees are eligible to participate. The bonus pool is funded from the consolidated group operating profit and is varied according to the group’s performance during the year, as more fully described in the STI section on page 113. Long-term incentives (LTIs) LTI awards take the form of share appreciation rights, conditional shares or a combination of both. Most awards are subject to vesting conditions relating to company performance, measured over a three-year performance period. In instances where retention is required, conditional shares are awarded, which are subject to a vesting condition of continued tenure within the group. In addition, employees from a specified grade level may participate in the group’s share purchase scheme to purchase Capricorn Group shares at the volume-weighted average price over the previous 12 months with the option of an interest-free loan repayable over nine years. Full ownership of these shares vests after three to five years. 112 2019 Integrated Annual Report Annual remuneration adjustments are effective on 1 September tax and return on equity targets, which are set yearly in advance. every year and increases are not guaranteed. During this process, Where company performance is below the threshold level, no bonus remuneration structures and pay ranges are evaluated and adjusted pool will accrue for senior management and executives. where necessary, based on each individual’s salary compared to the Each individual’s STI is then calculated based on individual salary scales. The following aspects are considered: performance and job grade, informed by the total pool. Where an • employee’s performance review employee’s performance is assessed to be unacceptable, that • f ormal salary survey conducted to determine local and regional employee will not qualify for any STI payment during the year. pay practices The remuneration committee approves the individual performance • adjustment of salary scales to reflect any market movement scores for the executive management teams of the different Short-term incentives (STIs) entities. The group has a short-term incentive plan which aligns with market The maximum performance incentive remuneration of an employee best practice in the industry and operates in the same manner for is limited to twice the on-target incentive. all employees in the group. A bonus pool from which all STIs are Entities acquired during a financial year are gradually phased in to paid is calculated based on consolidated group profit. ensure alignment, but no disruption, to their operational success. The percentage of profit which forms the pool is modified according to company performance during the year, relative to profit before Long-term incentives (LTI) Share appreciation rights (SAR) plan Terms Detail Purpose To attract, retain and reward selected employees who can contribute to the trade of the group and to stimulate the personal involvement of these employees, encouraging their continued service. The SAR serves as a leveraged incentive to employees to promote and align the interests of employees with the shareholders of the company. Operation Participants receive conditional SAR which vest after three years, subject to the satisfaction of the performance condition and continued employment of the participant. After vesting, the SAR may be exercised up to five years after the award date. Participants Executive directors, executive managers and selected members of senior and middle management Performance period Three years Plan limits An aggregate limit applies between the SAR, the conditional share plan (CSP) and the share purchase scheme, being 7.5% of the issued shares of the company. An individual participant may not receive awards in excess of 10% of the overall company limit at any one time. Performance conditions The performance condition applicable to all awards is achievement of budgeted cumulative profit after tax (PAT) and return on equity (ROE) over the performance period. The budget, in turn, reflects the expected outcome of the strategic plans and actions. The vesting period is three years. GOVERNANCE REPORTS 113 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Conditional share plan (CSP) Terms Detail Purpose To attract, retain and reward selected employees who can contribute to the trade of the group and to stimulate the personal involvement of these employees, encouraging their continued service. Under the CSP, participants receive conditional shares that vest after three years, subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions over the performance period. Operation In certain cases, where a retention risk exists, conditional shares that vest after three years and are subject to the continued employment of the participant by the group but are not subject to performance conditions, may be awarded. Participants Executive directors, executive managers and selected members of senior and middle management Performance period Three years Plan limits An aggregate limit applies between the SAR plan and the CSP and share purchase scheme, being 7.5% of the issued shares of the company. An individual participant may not receive awards in excess of 10% of the overall company limit at any one time. Performance conditions The performance condition applicable to the performance-based awards is the achievement of budgeted cumulative PAT and ROE over the performance period. The budget, in turn, reflects the expected outcome of the strategic plans and actions. Non-executive directors’ fees The non-executive directors (NED) do not participate in any shortor long-term incentives and do not have contracts of employment with the company. Their fees are reviewed by the company and submitted to shareholders for approval on an annual basis. NED fees reflect the directors’ roles and membership of the board and its committees. The NED fees have been benchmarked against the average of the median and upper quartile of medium-cap financial services companies listed on the JSE. The resolution relating to non-executive directors’ fees for the 2019 financial year can be found in the notice of the AGM, available online. Part three: Implementation report Remuneration paid Number of SARs and CSPs awarded 986,042 656,384 608,725 607,250 532,750 493,643 458,780 485,224 455,875 369,308 331,340 318,600 09/2013 09/2014 09/2015 09/2016 09/2017 09/2018 SARs CSPs 114 2019 Integrated Annual Report Number of shares acquired under the share purchase scheme The number of shares acquired by employees in the group’s share purchase scheme in September 2018 was 1,512,750 (September 2017: 1,137,175). Dividends paid under the share benefit scheme Staff members employed at non-managerial job levels below supervisory level are beneficiaries of the Capricorn Group Employee Share Benefit Trust. Dividends earned on the shares held by the trust have been distributed every year since the establishment of the trust in 2005. Dividends to the value of N$2,175,300 were paid to 430 employees in September 2018 (September 2017: N$2,275,200 to 430 employees). Compensation paid to key management Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Executive management team N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Salaries 48,327 37,692 9,229 5,315 Short-term incentives 19,545 19,191 3,750 3,325 Long-term incentives1 11,127 7,680 6,434 2,675 Contribution to defined contribution medical schemes 1,832 1,525 195 228 Contribution to defined contribution pension schemes 3,170 2,629 360 391 Share-based payment charges 5,938 5,658 2,797 1,673 Other allowances 16,103 11,901 1,623 3,701 106,042 86,276 24,388 17,308 1 Expected value of the long-term incentives awards. Compensation paid to key management comprises remuneration and other employee benefits to the executive management team, which excludes executive directors’ emoluments. Executive directors’ emoluments Other Pension and allowances Short-term Long-term medical and fringe Salary incentives incentives2 contributions benefits Total N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 30 June 2019 Executive directors Prinsloo, M J 1,906 2,250 915 195 2,187 7,453 Esterhuyse, J J1 1,339 1,200 427 160 653 3,779 3,245 3,450 1,342 355 2,840 11,232 1 This represents the full year remuneration. Other Pension and allowances Short-term Long-term medical and fringe Salary incentives incentives2 contributions benefits Total N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 30 June 2018 Executive directors Prinsloo, M J 1,774 2,250 915 180 1,958 7,077 1,774 2,250 915 180 1,958 7,077 2 Expected value of the long-term incentives awards. The executive directors did not receive any other fees for services as directors or any emoluments other than those disclosed. GOVERNANCE REPORTS 115 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Non-executive directors’ fees Directors’ fees Paid by Paid by company subsidiaries Total N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 30 June 2019 Non-executive directors Black, K B 342 214 556 Brandt, J C 264 397 661 Fourie, D G 745 949 1,694 Gaomab II, H M 256 – 256 Menetté, G 136 – 136 Nakazibwe-Sekandi, G 420 208 628 Reyneke, D J 408 – 408 Schimming-Chase, E M 222 – 222 Swanepoel, J J (Chairman) 1,800 2,206 4,006 Total 4,593 3,974 8,567 30 June 2018 Non-executive directors Black, K B 359 234 593 Brandt, J C 229 444 673 Fourie, D G 622 930 1,552 Nakazibwe-Sekandi, G 439 201 640 Reyneke, D J 357 – 357 Schimming-Chase, E M 224 – 224 Shaetonhodi, J M 253 – 253 Shikongo, M K 223 – 223 Swanepoel, J J (Chairman) 1,900 2,291 4,191 Total 4,606 4,100 8,706 Directors’ fees consist of a quarterly retainer and a fee for attendance of meetings. No fees relating to other services (e.g. commission) were paid during the 2019 and 2018 financial years. The Remco is satisfied that the remuneration policy was applied during the year with no deviations. Gerhard Fourie Chairman: Group board remuneration committee 116 2019 Integrated Annual Report BOARD SUSTAINABILITY AND ETHICS REPORT Capricorn Group strives to be a responsible corporate citizen in the Some of the initiatives of the committee included an assessment territories where we operate. The board sustainability and ethics to determine Namibia’s living wage and whether employees in committee (BSEC) has been mandated to provide oversight and Namibia were paid according to those levels. The assessment stewardship of this role. confirmed that certain employees were earning below the living wage and as a result management took a decision to effect Our commitment to sustainability means taking a long-term, adjustments over a period of two financial years, namely 2018 and holistic view that considers the perspectives of all stakeholders. 2019, in order to bring pay of affected employees in line with the Our sustainability framework provides the structure and processes national living wage. through which we create enterprise-wide awareness and ensure aligned thinking and practices. The group explored launching a carbon footprint project in 2018. However, we chose to invest resources in promoting and expanding The BSEC’s terms of reference are set out on page 82 of the green lending as set out in Bank Windhoek’s green bond framework, governance report. Read more about the composition of the published in December 2018 to maximise our positive impact and committee on page 82 and refer to pages 72 to 75 for profiles align our sustainability efforts closer with our core business. Read of the committee members. more about the green bond in the Group CEO’s report from page 24. Milestones for 2019 The committee also recognised that, although the group is •  pproval of the group’s new corporate social responsibility (CSR) A committed to the United Nations’ sustainable development goals vision and philosophy (SDGs), further work needs to be done to prioritise and align the •  greement with relevant stakeholders on the establishment of A group’s efforts with the goals as well as with national priorities. the Capricorn Foundation The committee reviewed key performance indicators related to • Approval of a three-year ethics strategy and plan customers, procurement, society and the environment. Stakeholder • I ncorporation of ethical leadership, management and engagement reports and forward-looking stakeholder engagement business as a material matter for the group and the tracking of plans were also discussed with an emphasis on promoting related actions collaboration between the different subsidiaries in the group. Committee matters overview Corporate social responsibility vision The BSEC was established as a board committee in 2016. To assist and philosophy the committee in executing its mandate and increasing the In the previous financial year, the committee directed that committee’s level of independence, a special adviser, Dr Ven Pillay, extensive work be done on mapping the journey from corporate was appointed as a subject matter expert for one year. social investment (CSI) to CSR. This included a critical review of the internal and external practices, the group’s CSI model and the The group social investment policy, which guides corporate beneficial impact of CSI programmes. social investment activities across the group, was reviewed and revised to reflect the new vision and philosophy of the group on As a result of this work, a new CSR vision, philosophy and strategy CSR. The policy will be submitted for approval by the board in was formulated and approved by the board in November 2018. September 2019. According to the policy, each entity contributes CSR funds as part of its operational budget, with a target 1% of net profit after tax. GOVERNANCE REPORTS 117 BOARD SUSTAINABILITY AND ETHICS REPORT continued Capricorn Group CSR vision To be an inspiring Connector of Positive Change by creating economic value in a responsible way that creates sustainable opportunities for advancing and improving the economic and social conditions in the communities in which we operate. Capricorn Group CSR definition Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) refers to our sense of responsibility towards the community and the environment in which we operate and commitment to integrate social and environmental concerns into our group operations. This sense of responsibility helps us to be socially accountable to ourselves and our stakeholders and to minimise any negative effects on society so that we make an overall positive impact. For us, Corporate Social Responsibility means: Doing the right thing, for the right reasons. Capricorn Group CSR philosophy The group sees itself as an integral part of the broader society in which it operates, affording the organisation a standing in society with rights, responsibilities and obligations to the communities and regions in which it operates. Essentially, Capricorn Group needs successful communities to create demand for our products and to provide a suitable environment in which we can operate sustainably. Similarly, communities depend on the Capricorn Group’s success and sustainability, which enables the group to create sustainable value for all its stakeholders. This will enhance the competitiveness of the Capricorn Group while simultaneously advancing and improving the economic and social conditions in the communities in which it operates. As a group, we would like to make a deep and lasting impact in areas that are aligned with our strengths and competence. Our philosophy is based on our commitment to creating economic value in a way that, in turn, creates meaningful value for society by addressing its needs and challenges. This shared value requires a deep understanding and appreciation of societal needs and is in line with the group’s brand purpose of being Connectors of Positive Change. Our approach to being a responsible local, regional and global citizen is built into the DNA of all our businesses in Namibia, Botswana and Zambia and is supported through our aim to be open, transparent and accountable in reporting on our CSR activities and programmes and their impact. The Capricorn Foundation boards and the foundation. The head of the foundation will have functional reporting to and support from the group executive: brand The board approved the establishment of the Capricorn Foundation and corporate affairs. The intention is not to duplicate the efforts of in June 2019. It will be established and registered as a Section 21 subsidiary companies. Each subsidiary will still have a portfolio of company in Namibia in the next financial year. The foundation will signature CSR projects that they support within the identified key focus its activities on Namibia and will have two primary areas of focus areas, aligned with the group’s CSR vision, definition and investment: philosophy. • Economic advancement The foundation will be funded by contributions from subsidiaries • Education and training and contributions by partner organisations. The group will carry the Three supplementary primary investment focus areas are: employment cost of the head of the foundation and administrative • Sustainability programmes support. The contributions from subsidiaries will thus be 100% available for projects. • Vulnerability programmes • Health The Capricorn Foundation will have its own board and will report on its outcomes to the BSEC. The head of the foundation will be supported by a committee, which will consolidate CSR reporting from the different entities and in turn submit reports to the entity 118 2019 Integrated Annual Report Capricorn Foundation outcomes To truly live up to our brand promise of To move away from being a Connector of charitable and ad hoc Positive Change CSI to create meaningful value for society To more actively engage our stakeholders To run the foundation to identify on the principles of community needs sustainability Central coordination and clearer direction to subsidiaries on key focus areas for CSI that To partner with like-minded will support our vision foundations/institutions and philosophy To support fewer but more to address impactful CSI projects national concerns To improve the To align our measurement of CSR closer to our and reporting on the business model impact of our projects and competencies Capricorn Group ethics strategy Statement of ethical intent We believe that ethical conduct is the foundation for a sustainable We believe that good business and ethics go hand in hand. We are business. The BSEC approved a three-year strategy and plan for the committed to doing the right thing. Our Code of Ethics and Conduct governance of ethics, in part based on the outcome of the ethics risk outlines how our values and ethics shape our business and the way assessment that was conducted in March/April 2018. we work. As a group we have no appetite for unethical conduct of business and we expect the board of directors, all employees and contractors to subscribe and adhere to the Group Code of Ethics and Conduct. GOVERNANCE REPORTS 119 BOARD SUSTAINABILITY AND ETHICS REPORT continued Capricorn Group purpose, vision and values Vision To be the most trusted and inspiring Connector of Positive Change through a highly relevant, convenient and responsive omni-channel network that enables opportunities to be created, financed, transacted and secured, wherever we operate. Values The following values drive our actions and decisions: CONNECTORS OF POSITIVE CHANGE OUR PURPOSE Diversity Purpose Being ignites inspires connected quantum leadership helps us grow OUR BELIEFS leaps Inspired Open Dedicated manifesting in OUR VALUES The way we do things as individuals, teams, and as an organisation in the world (ME, WE, THE WORLD) OUR NORMS Our Workplace • Inspiring Citizens • Performance Greatness OUR BEHAVIOURS Reflecting • Context Empowers The Capricorn Way AND OUR • Working Together in our everyday lives WORKPLACE • Conscious Leadership • A Coaching Culture • Celebrating Success Ethics mandate King IV™ recommends that the governing bodies of organisations “should lead ethically and effectively”. The report further states that The board sustainability and ethics committee (BSEC) is constituted the “governing body should govern the ethics of the organisation in as a committee of the board of directors of Capricorn Group. The a way that supports the establishment of an ethical culture”. The duties and responsibilities of the members of the committee are in Ethics Institute has developed a framework for the governance of addition to those as members of the board. The role and purpose of ethics that incorporates the guidance given by King IV™ on ethics the BSEC is to provide an independent and objective body that will programmes, which the BSEC has adopted. assist the board in ensuring that Capricorn Group and its subsidiaries remain good corporate citizens through the implementation of a sustainability and ethics strategy and reporting framework. 120 2019 Integrated Annual Report The following diagram gives a schematic overview of the ethics management framework. 1. Leadership commitment CULTURE 2. Governance structures A. Ethics risk assessment E. B. Monitoring and 3. Ethics reporting Manage strategy ethics D. C. InstitutionCode and alisation policies 4. Independent assessment and external reporting Ethics strategy Ethics vision In accordance with the requirements of King IV™ regarding ethics To create an ethical organisation where our stakeholders are management and the mandate of the BSEC, a Capricorn Group motivated to live our values of openness, dedications and ethics strategy is imperative to ensure that the BSEC fulfils its inspiration. mandate and responsibilities, and contributes to the enhancement of the Capricorn Group’s organisational culture. The desired Ethics mission outcome of the ethics strategy is an ethical organisational culture in Capricorn Group is dedicated to enhancing and sustaining ethical which employees find it easy to do the right thing when no one is business practices through leadership commitment to ethical watching and embrace and live the organisational values set out business conduct and by institutionalising ethical behaviour in above. Our organisational values inform our ethical vision, mission the organisation. and management strategy. GOVERNANCE REPORTS 121 BOARD SUSTAINABILITY AND ETHICS REPORT continued Ethics management strategy To give effect to our ethics mission, Capricorn Group has four strategic focus areas, namely: • Leadership commitment to ethical behaviour • Setting ethical standards • Employee ethics awareness • Managing ethics risks Ethics focus area Action Outcome Leadership commitment Obtain leadership buy-in to put structures in To attain increased maturity in the ethical place to facilitate the establishment of an culture in three years ethical culture and demonstrate tone at the top Setting ethical standards Clearly define the organisation’s ethical To increase employees’ knowledge of standards through its Ethics Policy, values and acceptable and unacceptable behaviour and ethics-related policies ultimately reduce unethical behaviour Employee ethics awareness Promote and communicate Capricorn Group’s To design and implement a three-year ethical standards through leadership, training awareness and communication strategy to and awareness campaigns, as well as providing increase ethics awareness effective and trusted safe reporting mechanisms Manage ethics risks Manage ethics risks/opportunities as identified Identify and prioritise ethical risks/opportunities in the most recent ethics risk assessment and implement a risk management plan with remediation actions Sustainability The group’s sustainability philosophy is that credibility is key to value creation. We believe that we are part of a bigger, 1 Benchmarking interconnected global system. Our approach to being a responsible local, regional and global citizen is built into the DNA of all our businesses in Namibia, Botswana and Zambia. We aim to be 6 2 transparent and accountable in our reporting. Reporting Materiality and disclosure assessment Key sustainability challenges that Capricorn Group may potentially face in future include climate change, poverty, health issues and resource shortages, i.e. water, energy and food. In addressing these Sustainability global, regional and local issues we intend to use all our business steps lines including banking, investment and asset management, finance and property finance to address the key sustainability challenges. In the period under review, Bank Windhoek was the first bank in the 5 3 southern African region to issue a green bond. Implementation Maturity and assessment measurement Our sustainability strategy takes a holistic approach encompassing environmental, social and economic factors. 4 Strategy development 122 2019 Integrated Annual Report Bank Windhoek continued to apply its Environmental and Social Bank Gaborone will adopt a formal sustainability strategy by Management System (ESMS) to assess environmental and social 31 December 2019. The bank’s sustainability philosophy aims to risks as input to the credit process. It assists in identifying and ensure that it positively impacts the environment within which it addressing environmental and social gaps, thereby improving the operates, including interaction with customers, regulators, the overall sustainability of a client’s business. natural environment and stakeholders. Based on this philosophy, Bank Gaborone adopted initiatives focusing on, among others, Material matters provide the group with a strategic perspective managing the sustainable use of natural resources. This is achieved of risks and opportunities and assist the group in anticipating and by measuring paper, electricity and fuel usage with savings targets. addressing material risks to the strategy of the group. These Bank Gaborone also relocated to a new head office building, which matters were affirmed by our board and are set out on page 52. is in the process of achieving a green-star rating. Internally, environmental sustainability is driven by a desire Our asset management company, Capricorn Asset Management to implement sound environmental practices as part of (CAM), also supports the group’s sustainability initiatives. CAM’s The Capricorn Way. The main drive behind this perspective is to primary focus in the past year was to drive the reduction of paper shape a connected and “aware” culture and to demonstrate a usage by promoting the online platform for instructions and by commitment to the environment (earth) while ensuring that the encouraging customers to receive their statements electronically. group is proactive in its response to changes in the availability of To date 69% of customers have been converted to electronic natural resources. statements with 8.39% of transactions fully executed electronically. Major social investment initiatives Capricorn Group and its subsidiaries in Namibia, Botswana and Zambia invested more than N$25 million in internal and external social responsibility programmes and initiatives during the past year: 2.6% 4.8% 2.7% 3.5% Employee training and development 3.7% Social investment fund projects Sport development 8.2% Major social Poverty and hunger eradication investment 62.3% Arts and culture development initiatives Consumer education and financial literacy 12.2% Health Other A key focus of the group was to promote employee volunteerism Bank Windhoek, the Namibia National Cancer Outreach among employees. A total of five #Changemaker initiatives were Programme and a number of other partners. organised, giving the employees in the group an opportunity to From 2019 onwards, the project will focus on access to palliative volunteer their time and personal resources to projects supported by care, pain management and the home-based care of palliative the group in vulnerable communities. patients as key elements on the cancer journey. As part of the Bank Windhoek’s flagship project, the Bank Windhoek Cancer Apple Bank Windhoek Cancer Apple Project a national cancer outreach Project, was named as one of the “global innovative projects of programme was launched in May 2019 in the Zambezi region. hope” by the 2018 World Cancer Congress. It was also showcased The project runs until October 2019 and will conclude with a visit to as an innovative fundraising model. the Karas region. The project is in its 28th year and has raised more than N$20 million Bank Windhoek’s successful Empathy Project involved all its in aid of cancer patients. It is a multi-stakeholder effort between employees throughout Namibia to the benefit of more than GOVERNANCE REPORTS 123 BOARD SUSTAINABILITY AND ETHICS REPORT continued 50 welfare and community projects. The Empathy Project Stakeholder engagement strengthens the group’s position as Connectors of Positive Change. The group matured its strategic stakeholder engagement plan to Bank Windhoek continues to support a number of signature projects align with the material matters of the group. A key focus for the including the MSR Project that connects the unemployed with group was to promote collaboration between its subsidiary employment opportunities and Women@Work that trains and companies in hosting stakeholder events. The group believes that develops women in various skills including cooking, cleaning and frail effective stakeholder engagement will lead to sustainable care. In response to the call for aid to the farmers in Namibia, businesses and communities as reflected in the graph: Bank Windhoek donated N$500,000 to the Dare to Care Fund that was established to help farmers affected by the persistent drought. Through an adopt-a-school programme, Bank Gaborone’s employees assisted schools with books, school uniforms, sanitary Effective products and repainting of school premises. Bank Gaborone also engagement runs a daily show called “The Wiz Kid Show” on one of the country’s main stream radio stations. The show targets primary school children with an emphasis on financial education from a young age. The Bank Gaborone Diabetes Apple Project and Journey of Hope Sustainable Increase positive business and brand perception raise diabetes and breast cancer awareness. Read more about communications Bank Gaborone’s Diabetes Apple Project in the Group CEO’s report Sense and from page 24. respond Positive word Increased brand of mouth loyalty The ultimate objective of the group’s stakeholder engagement initiatives is to build strong relationships that create trust between the group and its key stakeholders: Utilise information to create dialogue Listen to their needs Build relationships Build a functional connection Create trust Learn and understand what they want 124 2019 Integrated Annual Report The group prioritises its stakeholder engagements by plotting dashboard to support the advancement and protection of human stakeholders on an “influence and interest” grid. This helps us to rights include the percentage of female permanent employees, identify the key stakeholders that have high influence and high women in middle and senior management, the percentage of interest in the group and to develop appropriate engagements employees with disabilities in the workforce, racially disadvantaged with these stakeholder groups. permanent employees and racially disadvantaged persons in middle and senior management. Capricorn Group’s signature “Inspire” stakeholder events assemble over 250 guests per session and have gained popularity among Read more about these aspects in the section on our material employees, clients and stakeholders of the group subsidiaries. Four matters from page 52. successful events were hosted under themes based on identified material matters and triggered conversations with stakeholders on Labour current global and regional topics: The group does not make use of child labour, migrant workers or forced labour. The rights of workers are protected by internal • “ Transhumanism” explored the effects that blurred boundaries policies and labour laws, which regulate employment in all between man and machine will have on the workplace of jurisdictions. The risk of violating the rights of workers is low. the future The right of workers to organise themselves through labour unions • “ Overcoming obstacles” looked at navigating the responsibilities is also protected by law. of everyday life to achieve our goals The human resource committee has oversight of labour-related • “ Cybercrime and digital security” alerted stakeholders to the matters, including the policy framework. New employees are made protection of their employees and companies against aware of policies through an induction programme, and policy cyberbullies changes are communicated to all staff as and when they occur. • “ Good governance” considered the regional fight against corruption – a current social ill A formal grievance procedure protects the rights of employees. The remuneration policy outlines the remuneration principles of We also created a unique platform to engage with the Namibian the group and is the guiding document in terms of fair and government through scheduled minister lunches, where we engage equitable remuneration. with selected ministers on matters of shared interest. Read more about these aspects in the section on material matters Capricorn Group hosted five Namibian journalists who attended from page 52 and the remuneration report from page 110. and covered the opening of the new Bank Gaborone head office, thereby supporting awareness of the group’s regional footprint. Environment The group’s operations have limited direct environmental impact as Capricorn Group’s commitment to the a financial services provider. However, through lending activities, the UNGC principles group has an indirect impact on society and the environment. The Capricorn Group reaffirmed its support of the 10 principles of the impact on the environment is managed through the Environmental United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human and Social Management System (ESMS) at Bank Windhoek, the rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Group Sustainability Framework and the Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) Policy. The ESMS requires that loans are The following examples provide a summary of the group’s assessed for social and environmental impact, and due diligence communication on progress and describe the group’s actions to must be performed on all loan applications with significant risk. continually improve the integration of the UNGC and its principles Action plans are required where gaps have been identified in the into business strategy, culture and daily operations. environmental and social performance of a business. The ESMS Human rights ensures that clients are compliant with all national environmental laws and regulations. An exclusion list was compiled for activities Human rights are enshrined in the Namibian constitution. Capricorn that are not permitted due to unacceptable social and Group is committed to upholding human rights and the laws of the environmental impacts. jurisdictions in which the group operates. Internal policies and procedures are in place to protect the human rights of employees Read more about environmental aspects in the section on material and to detect and remedy violations of the policies. Key matters from page 52 and the Group CEO’s report from page 24. performance indicators that are tracked through the sustainability GOVERNANCE REPORTS 125 BOARD SUSTAINABILITY AND ETHICS REPORT continued Anti-corruption Reporting oversight Capricorn Group is determined to maintain a culture of high ethical Members of the committee were involved in the development and and moral standards, honesty and opposition to fraud and approval of the Capricorn Group material matters, as set out on corruption. As a listed entity, Capricorn Group complies with page 53. The committee had oversight of the non-financial key King IV™ and the NamCode on Corporate Governance, which performance indicators that are linked to the material matters and requires a statement by the board confirming compliance with all was involved in the process of reviewing and recommending the applicable laws. This includes the Namibian Anti-Corruption integrated annual report for approval to the board. The committee Act, 8 of 2003, which criminalises corrupt conduct and practices. recommended the inclusion of the 2018 integrated report in annual The board audit, risk and compliance committee (BARC) has feedback to the UNGC. oversight of ethics and compliance reporting. The group has various policies in place to prevent corruption internally and externally, Compliance statement including the Group Code of Ethics and Conduct Policy, Group There were no substantive areas of non-compliance with legislation Procurement Policy, Group Whistleblower Policy, the Bank Windhoek and regulation, nor was any non-adherence with codes of best Forensic Policy and the Group Financial Crime Risk Framework. practice applicable to the areas within the committee’s mandate The Procurement Policy includes a suppliers’ code of conduct, which brought to the committee’s attention. The committee has no reason requires suppliers to adhere to standards of good conduct towards to believe that any such non-compliance or non-adherence has employees and the environment and in relation to anti-bribery, occurred. corruption, reporting and disclosure. The committee is satisfied that it fulfilled its responsibilities in Awareness of anti-corruption is created through induction training, accordance with its terms of reference. internal communication and annual conferences held for branch administrators that cover issues on anti-corruption. No cases of corruption or bribery were reported or investigated within the group or against the group. Gida Nakazibwe-Sekandi Chairperson: Board sustainability and ethics committee Read more about ethics in the group chairman’s message from page 6, in the section on material matters from page 52 and in the 11 September 2019 governance report from page 69. Future focus areas • The establishment of the Capricorn Foundation • I mplementation of a new reporting template for subsidiaries to report on their CSR and stakeholder engagement initiatives with a focus on the impact that these initiatives have made • D  evelopment of a reporting template for all subsidiaries on sustainability and ethics indicators •  xpanding the group’s understanding of ethics and doing the E right things in practice •  racking the appropriate actions to support ethical leadership, T management and business as a material matter for the group 126 2019 Integrated Annual Report “We are improving our ability to predict customer needs, to anticipate their behaviour and to use our strong personal relationships to enhance their experiences.” – Johan Swanepoel, Group chairman Okavango Delta GOVERNANCE REPORTS 127 8 ABOUT THIS REPORT Our reporting approach and suite This is the fourth Capricorn Group integrated annual report: a reflection on the value created by the group during the 2019 financial year from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The report is aimed at providers of financial capital but takes a holistic and stakeholderoriented view of the environmental, social and governance aspects related to the group’s activities and performance. The financial and non-financial information contained in this report relates to the entities that constitute the group, as set out on page 15. Therefore, 97% of net profit after tax was derived from Namibia as reporting priority was given to Bank Windhoek as the significant contributor to the group. The principle of materiality guided the content of this integrated annual report (read more about the process we followed on page 52). Additional information targeted at a wider audience including shareholders, investors, analysts and media, is available online at www.capricorn.com.na/Pages/Reporting-Centre.aspx as part of the full suite of financial reporting elements. Element Reporting dates Integrated annual report with consolidated annual financial statements 30 September 2019 Online notice of annual general meeting 30 September 2019 Investor presentation 23 August 2019 Performance summary 30 September 2019 Interim results Annually in February Trading updates and NENS announcements Continuously For more information or feedback on this report or Forward-looking information any of the other elements listed above, please contact Marlize Horn This report contains certain forward-looking statements regarding on investorrelations@capricorn.com.na or +264 (61) 299 1226. the results and operations of the Capricorn Group, which by their Reporting frameworks nature involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events Capricorn Group’s financial reporting adheres to the following and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the requirements: future. These forward-looking statements have not been reviewed or reported on by the group’s external auditors. • NamCode/Namibian King IV™ • Companies Act, 28 of 2004 • NSX Listing Requirements • International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) • Namibia Banking Institutions Act, 2 of 1998 • Botswana Banking Act, 2 of 1995 • Zambia Banking and Financial Services Act, 7 of 2017 Capricorn Group has also chosen to be guided in its reporting by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) <IR> Framework. 128 2019 Integrated Annual Report 9APPENDICES SHARE ANALYSIS AND DETAIL FOR 2019 Below is detail related to the Capricorn Group’s share trading and profile as at 30 June 2019. Shareholding analysis Number of shares in issue Number of shares traded Value of shares traded Closing price (N$ per share) High (N$ per share) Low (N$ per share) Price-to-earnings ratio (HEPS) Price-to-book ratio 2019 519,184,399 13,144,003 207,702,375 16.00 17.18 15.40 8.8 1.4 2018 519,184,399 8,055,822 145,458,846 17.23 18.18 16.90 9.5 1.6 Percentage Percentage Number of of total Number of of issued Public and non-public shareholding shareholders shareholders shares in issue share capital Public 4,231 99.3 134,898,671 26.0 Non-public 28 0.7 384,285,728 74.0 Total 4,259 100 519,184,399 100 Percentage Percentage Number of of total Number of of issued Distribution of shareholders per category shareholders shareholders shares in issue share capital Individuals 3,998 93.9 44,964,199 8.7 Corporate bodies 85 2.0 275,425,847 53.0 Nominees and trusts 149 3.5 170,769,333 32.9 Pension funds and medical aid societies 27 0.6 28,025,020 5.4 Percentage Percentage Number of of total Number of of issued Shareholder spread by beneficial owner shareholders shareholders shares in issue share capital 1 – 1,000 1,746 41.0 1,109,813 0.2 1,001 – 50,000 2,327 54.6 19,267,508 3.7 50,001 – 100,000 54 1.3 3,948,156 0.8 100,001 – 10,000,000 128 3.0 79,993,393 15.4 10,000,000 and above 4 0.1 414,865,529 79.9 Total 4,259 100 519,184,399 100 APPENDICES 129 FINANCIAL VALUE-ADDED STATEMENT Capricorn Group uses, creates and distributes financial capital through its business activities, to the benefit of a range of stakeholders. ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED for the year ended 30 June 2019 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 Direct economic value generated Interest and similar income 4,740,554 4,244,215 Impairment charges on loans and advances (114,547) (80,840) Non-interest income 1,359,484 1,225,168 Share of joint arrangements and associates results 76,332 84,384 Attributable to non-controlling interest (85,410) (11,879) 5,976,413 5,461,048 Economic value distributed To suppliers 556,800 516,915 To employees 1,122,223 959,206 Dividends to shareholders 307,555 346,744 Preference dividends 48,986 39,374 Interest and similar expenses 2,607,681 2,425,318 To providers of funds 2,964,222 2,811,436 Normal tax 428,648 325,659 Value added and other indirect taxes 167,569 135,019 Skills development levies 8,446 7,282 Stamp duty 20,184 16,616 To government 624 847 484,576 To the community 25,487 23,608 5,293,579 4,795,741 Economic value retained for expansions and growth Retained income 611,497 554,345 Depreciation and amortisation 102,343 97,088 Deferred tax (41,843) (7,593) 671,997 643,840 Regulatory reserves Credit risk reserve 10,837 21,467 Total value distributed and retained 5,976,413 5,461,048 130 2019 Integrated Annual Report “Capricorn Group performed well in difficult circumstances characterised by relentless pressure on consumers, expanding regulatory measures and fierce competition.” – Johan Swanepoel, Group chairman South Luangwa National Park APPENDICES 131 “By delivering on our strategy, diversifying investment and keeping our focus on operational excellence, we will be able to continue creating value and contributing to positive change.” – Thinus Prinsloo, Group CEO 132 2019 Integrated Annual Report Chobe River 10 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS 1 2 3 Statement of responsibility by the board of directors Independent auditor’s report Directors’ report 134 135 141 4 Consolidated and separate statements of comprehensive income 146 5 Consolidated and separate statements of financial position 147 6 Consolidated and separate statements of changes in equity 148 7 Consolidated and separate statements of cash flows 150 8 Notes to the consolidated annual financial statements 151 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 133 STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS for the year ended 30 June 2019 The directors are responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of the financial statements that fairly present the state of affairs of the company and the group at the end of the financial year, the profit and cash flow for the year and other information contained in this report. To enable the directors to meet these responsibilities: • the board and management set standards and management implements systems of internal control, accounting and information systems aimed at providing reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and the risk of error, fraud or loss is reduced in a cost-effective manner. These controls, contained in established policies and procedures, include the proper delegation of responsibilities and authorities within a clearly defined framework, effective accounting procedures and adequate segregation of duties; • the group’s internal audit function, which operates unimpeded and independently from operational management, and has unrestricted access to the various group board audit, risk and compliance committees, appraises, evaluates and, when necessary, recommends improvements in the systems of internal control and accounting practices, based on audit plans that take cognisance of the relative degrees of risk of each function or aspect of the business; and • the board audit, risk and compliance committees of the group subsidiaries, together with the external and internal auditors, play an integral role in matters relating to financial and internal control, accounting policies, reporting and disclosure. To the best of their knowledge and belief, based on the above, the directors are satisfied that no material breakdown in the operation of the systems of internal control and procedures has occurred during the year under review. The group consistently adopts appropriate and recognised accounting policies and these are supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates on a consistent basis. The financial statements presented on pages 141 to 287 have been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Namibian Companies Act and comply with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The directors have no reason to believe that the company and the group as a whole will not be going concerns in the year ahead, based on forecasts and available cash resources. These financial statements have accordingly been prepared on a going concern basis. Comprehensive insurance cover is in place as required by the Bank of Namibia BID 14 – Determinations on Minimum Insurance for Banking Institutions. The financial statements have been audited by the independent auditing firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers, who was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, the board of directors and committees of the board. The directors believe that all representations made to the independent auditor during the audit were valid and appropriate. The independent auditor’s report is presented on page 135 to 140. The financial statements, set out on pages 141 to 287, were authorised and approved for issue by the board of directors on 11 September 2019 and are signed on their behalf: J J Swanepoel M J Prinsloo Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer 134 2019 Integrated Annual Report INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the members of Capricorn Investment Group Limited Our opinion In our opinion, the consolidated and separate financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated and separate financial position of Capricorn Investment Group Limited (the company) and its subsidiaries (together the group) as at 30 June 2019, and its consolidated and separate financial performance and its consolidated and separate cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act of Namibia. What we have audited Capricorn Investment Group Limited’s consolidated and separate financial statements set out on pages 141 to 287 comprise: • the directors’ report for the year ended 30 June 2019; • the consolidated and separate statements of financial position as at 30 June 2019; • the consolidated and separate statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended; • the consolidated and separate statements of changes in equity for the year then ended; • the consolidated and separate statements of cash flows for the year then ended; and • the notes to the consolidated annual financial statements, which include notes to the company’s financial statements and a summary of significant accounting policies. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Independence We are independent of the group in accordance with sections 290 and 291 of the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (Revised July 2016), parts 1 and 3 of the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (Revised July 2018) (Code of Conduct) and other independence requirements applicable to performing audits of financial statements in Namibia. We have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code of Conduct and in accordance with other ethical requirements applicable to performing audits in Namibia. Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality • Overall group materiality: N$70,105,220, which represents 5% of profit before tax Materiality Group audit scope • The group audit scope included the audit of Capricorn Investment Group Limited and its subsidiaries. Group scope Capricorn Investment Group Limited, Bank Windhoek Limited, Entrepo Holdings Limited, Capricorn Investment Holdings (Botswana) Limited and Capricorn Asset Management (Proprietary) Limited were identified as financially significant components. Key audit matters Key audit matters • Expected credit losses (“ECL”) on loans and advances and financial assets at amortised cost As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated and separate financial statements. In particular, we considered where the directors made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters, consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 135 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED) To the members of Capricorn Investment Group Limited Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated financial statements. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole. Overall group materiality N$70,105,220 How we determined it 5% of profit before tax Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied We chose profit before tax as the benchmark because, in our view, it is the benchmark against which the performance of the group is most commonly measured by users, and is a generally accepted benchmark. We chose 5% which is consistent with quantitative materiality thresholds used for profit-oriented public interest companies in this sector. How we tailored our group audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. Our scoping assessment, for group reporting purposes included consideration of financially significant components identified based on indicators such as the component’s contribution to profit before tax or total asset value of the group. The significant components identified included Capricorn Investment Group Limited, Bank Windhoek Limited, Entrepo Holdings Limited, Capricorn Investment Holdings (Botswana) Limited and Capricorn Asset Management (Proprietary) Limited. These entities were subjected to a full scope audit. Entities included in our audit scope operate in Namibia, Botswana and Zambia. Full scope audits were also performed on non-significant components due to statutory requirements and analytical review procedures were performed over the non-significant associates. In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed by component auditors from other PwC network firms, operating under our instruction, in order to issue our audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements of the group. Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement necessary in the audit work at those components to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 136 2019 Integrated Annual Report INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED) To the members of Capricorn Investment Group Limited KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Expected credit losses (ECL) on loans and advances and financial assets at amortised cost Refer to the key management assumptions note, note 4 (Critical Our audit procedures addressed the key areas of significant accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting judgement and estimation in determining the ECL on loans and policies), note 17 (Loans and advances to customers), note 14 advances and financial assets at amortised cost as follows: (Financial assets at amortised cost) and note 3.2 (Credit risk) to the financial statements. Evaluation of SICR • We recalculated the impact of SICR, applying the assumptions This key audit matter is applicable to the consolidated and separate and data included in management’s model. financial statements. • We tested the performance of SICR thresholds applied and At 30 June 2019, gross loans and advances amounted to the resultant transfer ratio into stage 2 for SICR. This included N$38.9 billion against which allowance for credit losses of benchmarking of the volume of up to date accounts transferred N$1.2 billion was raised for the group. to stage 2 based on history. • We performed a sensitivity analysis of SICR to determine the Gross financial assets at amortised cost amounted to N$897.2 million impact of change in SICR thresholds on the ECL recognised. against which allowance for credit losses of N$36.9 million was raised for the group. Gross financial assets at amortised cost • We evaluated management’s supporting documentation for amounted to N$272.8 million against which allowance for credit the generation of the CG master rating scale and the correlation losses of N$17.1 million was raised for the company. of these to default rates. The expected credit losses (ECL) was calculated by applying IFRS 9 – Determination of write-off point Financial Instruments, as described in the notes to the financial • We evaluated management’s assessment of historical post statements, which was adopted for the first time on 1 July 2018. write-off recoveries, to determine the point at which there was no reasonable expectation of further recovery. In calculating the ECL, the key areas of significant management • Through recalculation, we tested the application of the IFRS 9 judgement and estimation included: write-off policy, including the exclusion of post write-off • Determining whether evidence exists that there has been a recoveries from the Loss Given Default (LGD). significant increase in credit risk (SICR) since initial recognition of the loans and advances, by considering credit scores, Inclusion of forward looking information and macro-economic back-stops and qualitative factors and determining whether a variables in the ECL 12 month or lifetime ECL is recognised. Loans and advances • We considered the assumptions used in the forward looking move from Stage 1 to Stage 2 if there has been a significant economic model, specifically around the forward-looking increase in credit risk (“SICR”) since initial recognition, based on scenarios used, the macro-economic variables considered as relative score movements as per the Capricorn Group (“CG”) well as the macro-economic outlook. We compared these to master rating scale, or if more than 30 days past due. our own actuarial statistics and independent market data. • Determination of the write-off point. The group and company • We tested the performance and sensitivity of the forward applies judgement in determining the point at which there is no looking model in order to evaluate whether the chosen reasonable expectation of further recovery to be made. macro-economic factors and model fit provide a reasonable Indicators that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery representation of the impact of macro-economic changes on include (i) ceasing enforcement activity and (ii) where the the ECL results. group’s recovery method is foreclosing on collateral and value of the collateral is such that there is no reasonable expectation of recovering in full. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 137 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED) To the members of Capricorn Investment Group Limited KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER • Determining and weighting of assumptions used in the Assessment of ECL raised for stage 3 exposures forward-looking economic model. Three forward-looking • Where ECL was raised for individual exposures, we considered scenarios are probability weighted by management to uncertainties and assumptions made by management in their determine the ECL (Base, Upper and Lower scenario). assessment of the recoverability of the exposure. For a sample These scenarios are then linked to probabilities of default (PDs) of stage 3 exposures, we independently recalculated the ECL and losses given default (LGDs) to derive a forward looking ECL. based on our assessment of the expected cash flows and • Calibrating of the ECL statistical model components (Probability recoverability of collateral at an individual exposure level. of Default “PD”, Exposure at Default “EAD”, Loss Given default • On a sample basis, we assessed whether the loss event (that is “LGD”) used to estimate the timing and amount of the the point at which exposures are classified as credit-impaired) forecasted cash flows based on historical default data, roll rates had been identified in a timely manner by considering watch and recoveries. Management judgement is required to consider lists as well as credit committee meeting minutes. how historical data is used to project ECL. • For collateral held, we inspected legal agreements and • Management applies its internal credit risk management supporting documentation to confirm the existence and legal approach and definitions to determine the recoverable amounts right to collateral. (including collateral) and timing of the future cash flows for stage 3 exposures at an individual exposure level. Calibrating of ECL statistical model components (PD, EAD, LGD) • We obtained an understanding of the methodologies and We determined the ECL on loans and advances and financial assets at assumptions used by management in the various ECL model amortised cost to be a matter of most significance to our current year components and how these were calibrated to use historical audit due to the following: information and forward looking information to estimate future • the first time adoption of IFRS 9 by the group and company; cash flows. and • In gaining this understanding, we utilised our actuarial expertise • the degree of judgement and estimation applied by to re-perform the ECL model. management in determining the ECL. We found the accounting policies and the credit impairment methodologies applied by management to loans and advances and financial assets at amortised cost to be in accordance with IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments. Other information The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the document titled “Capricorn Group 2019 Integrated Annual Report”. The other information does not include the consolidated or separate financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the consolidated and separate financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express an audit opinion or any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated and separate financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. 138 2019 Integrated Annual Report INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED) To the members of Capricorn Investment Group Limited Responsibilities of the directors for the consolidated and separate financial statements The directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated and separate financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act of Namibia, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated and separate financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated and separate financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and the company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group and/or the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated and separate financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated and separate financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated and separate financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s and the company’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the directors. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the group’s and the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated and separate financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the group and/or company to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated and separate financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated and separate financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 139 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED) To the members of Capricorn Investment Group Limited We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. PricewaterhouseCoopers Registered Accountants and Auditors Chartered Accountants (Namibia) Per: Nangula R Uaandja Partner Windhoek 13 September 2019 140 2019 Integrated Annual Report DIRECTORS’ REPORT for the year ended 30 June 2019 The directors herewith submit their report with the annual financial statements of Capricorn Investment Group Ltd (“Capricorn Group” or “the company”) for the year ended 30 June 2019. 1. GENERAL REVIEW Capricorn Group is a Namibian registered holding company and has been listed on the Namibian Stock Exchange (NSX) since 20 June 2013. Its investments comprised 100% shareholdings in Bank Windhoek Ltd, Capricorn Asset Management (Pty) Ltd, Capricorn Unit Trust Management Company Ltd, Mukumbi Investments Ltd, Capricorn Capital (Pty) Ltd, Capricorn Investment Group (Pty) Ltd, Capricorn Mobile (Pty) Ltd and Namib Bou (Pty) Ltd, an effective 97.9% shareholding in Cavmont Capital Holdings Zambia Plc, a 55.5% shareholding in Entrepo Holdings (Pty) Ltd and an 84.3% shareholding in Capricorn Investment Holdings (Botswana) Ltd, throughout the year under review. The company has 29.5% shareholding in Sanlam Namibia Holdings (Pty) Ltd, 28% in Santam Namibia Ltd and 30% in Nimbus Infrastructure Ltd. 2. BUSINESS ACTIVITIES The following business activities are conducted through the company’s subsidiaries and associates: Subsidiaries: • Bank Windhoek Ltd (BW) –– Banking • Namib Bou (Pty) Ltd –– Property development and property valuation • Capricorn Unit Trust Management Company Ltd (CUTM) –– Unit trust management • Capricorn Asset Management (Pty) Ltd (CAM) –– Asset management • Capricorn Group Employee Share Ownership Trust –– Special purpose entity for share incentive scheme • Capricorn Group Employee Share Benefit Trust –– Special purpose entity for share incentive scheme • Capricorn Investment Holdings (Botswana) Ltd (CIHB) –– Investment holding company • Cavmont Capital Holdings Zambia Plc (CCHZ) –– Investment holding company • Capricorn Capital (Pty) Ltd (CAP) –– Financial consultancy • Mukumbi Investments Ltd (Mukumbi) –– Investment holding company • Entrepo Holdings (Pty) Ltd (Entrepo) –– Investment holding company • Capricorn Investment Group (Pty) Ltd –– Group support services • Capricorn Mobile (Pty) Ltd –– Mobile telecommunication services Subsidiaries of Bank Windhoek Ltd: • Bank Windhoek Nominees (Pty) Ltd –– Custodian of third-party investments • BW Finance (Pty) Ltd –– Microlending • Bank Windhoek Properties (Pty) Ltd –– Property investment CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 141 DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. BUSINESS ACTIVITIES (continued) Subsidiaries of Capricorn Investment Holdings (Botswana) Ltd: • Bank Gaborone Ltd (BG) –– Banking • BG Insurance Agency (Pty) Ltd (subsidiary of BG) –– Insurance • Penrich Employee Benefits (Pty) Ltd (PEB) –– Microlending • Peo Micro (Pty) Ltd –– Microlending • Capricorn Asset Management (Botswana) (Pty) Ltd –– Asset management Subsidiary of Cavmont Capital Holdings Zambia Plc: • Cavmont Bank Ltd (CB) –– Banking Subsidiaries of Entrepo Holdings (Pty) Ltd • Entrepo Finance (Pty) Ltd –– Microlending • Entrepo Life Ltd –– Insurance company Associates: • Sanlam Namibia Holdings (Pty) Ltd –– Long-term insurance • Santam Namibia Ltd –– Short-term insurance • Nimbus Infrastructure Ltd –– Special purpose acquisition company for infrastructure development Joint arrangement of Bank Windhoek Ltd: • Namclear (Pty) Ltd –– Payment clearing services Registered address of Capricorn Investment Group Ltd: 6th floor Capricorn Group Building Kasino Street Windhoek Namibia Company registration number: 96/300 Country of incorporation: Republic of Namibia 142 2019 Integrated Annual Report DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The directors report that the group’s net profit after taxation from the above business activities for the year ended 30 June 2019 amounted to: 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 Profit for the year 1,015,299 934,435 Normal dividends of N$311.5 million (2018: N$351.5 million) were declared and paid by the company during the year under review. Refer to note 36 to the consolidated annual financial statements for details on dividends per share. Full details of the financial results of the company and the group are set out on pages 146 to 287. 4. SHARE CAPITAL 4.1 Ordinary shares The company’s authorised share capital is 600,000,000 ordinary shares of 2.5 cents each. For full details on the changes to issued ordinary share capital, refer to note 31 to the consolidated annual financial statements. 4.2 Preference shares The company has 1,000,000 authorised preference shares of 1 cent each, 35,000 authorised Class A preference shares and 30,000 Class B preference shares both of 1 cent each. For full details on the issued preference share capital and the change to issued preference share capital, refer to notes 26 and 31 to the consolidated annual financial statements. 4.3 Share analysis – ordinary shares The following shareholders have a beneficial interest of 5% or more of the issued ordinary shares of the company at year-end: 2019 2018 % % Capricorn Investment Holdings Ltd 43.1 41.0 Government Institutions Pension Fund 25.9 25.9 Nam-mic Financial Services Holdings (Pty) Ltd 8.0 10.2 Held by the public (93,208,870 ordinary shares (2018: 98,861,577)) 18.0 19.0 Held by other non-public shareholders 5.0 3.9 – Directors and executive managements’ direct and indirect shareholding other than companies mentioned above (14,991,915 ordinary shares (2018: 10,310,637)) 2.9 2.0 – Capricorn Group Employee Share Ownership Trust (8,034,134 ordinary shares (2018: 6,753,334)) 1.5 1.3 – Capricorn Group Employee Share Benefit Trust (3,420,000 ordinary shares (2018: 3,420,000)) 0.6 0.6 4.4 Share analysis – preference shares Santam Namibia Ltd 2.3 4.8 Standard Bank Namibia Nominees (Pty) Ltd (on behalf of Capricorn Corporate Fund) – 19.0 Capricorn Investment Holdings Ltd 37.2 76.2 First National Bank of Namibia Ltd 60.5 – CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 143 DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 4. SHARE CAPITAL (continued) 4.5 Share incentive plans The group operates two equity-settled share-based compensation plans: (1) a share appreciation rights plan (SAR) and (2) a conditional share plan (CSP), under which the entities within the group receive services from employees as consideration for equity instruments (shares) of Capricorn Group. All grants under the SAR and CSP plans are subject to approval by the Remco. Refer to note 33 to the consolidated annual financial statements and the remuneration report (unaudited) for more information. The group also operates a share purchase scheme (note 17 to the consolidated annual financial statements) and the Capricorn Group Employee Share Benefit Trust. The Capricorn Group Employee Share Benefit Trust is intended as an incentive to employees on lower job levels to promote the continued growth of the group by giving them an opportunity to share in dividends distributed by the company, without beneficial rights to the shares. 4.6 Directors’ interest in company shares For details of the directors’ holdings in the issued ordinary shares of Capricorn Group, refer to note 40 to the consolidated annual financial statements. 5. SUBSIDIARIES For details relating to the subsidiaries of Capricorn Group refer to note 19 to the consolidated annual financial statements. 6. ASSOCIATES For details relating to the associates of Capricorn Group, refer to note 20 to the consolidated annual financial statements. 7. JOINT ARRANGEMENTS For details relating to the joint arrangements of Capricorn Group, refer to note 21 to the consolidated annual financial statements. 8. MANAGEMENT BY THIRD PARTY No business of the company or any part thereof or of a subsidiary has been managed by a third person or a company in which a director has an interest. 9. DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY The Capricorn Group board composition during the year was as follows: Non-executive Nationality Date appointed Date resigned J J Swanepoel Chairman Namibian 1 July 1999 J C Brandt Namibian 5 September 1996 K B Black Namibian 13 June 2007 G Nakazibwe-Sekandi Ugandan 30 November 2004 M K Shikongo Namibian 27 November 2001 30 November 2018 E M Schimming-Chase Namibian 4 March 2013 D G Fourie Namibian 29 October 2015 D J Reyneke South African 19 May 2017 H M Gaomab II Namibian 20 August 2018 G Menetté Namibian 23 November 2018 Executive M J Prinsloo Group CEO South African 14 March 2013 J J Esterhuyse Financial Director South African 1 September 2018 144 2019 Integrated Annual Report DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 9. DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY (continued) At the annual general meeting held on 30 October 2018, Messrs Brandt and Fourie were unanimously re-elected as directors. All directors appointed since a previous annual general meeting have to be confirmed at the next annual general meeting, and the appointments of Messrs Gaomab II and Esterhuyse were unanimously confirmed. The authorised but unissued number of ordinary and preference shares of the company subject to the provisions of the Banking Institutions Act, section 229 of the Companies Act and the listing requirements of the Namibian Stock Exchange, are under the control of the directors of Capricorn Group. This authority expires at the forthcoming annual general meeting on 29 October 2019, when this authority can be renewed. H G von Ludwiger was the company secretary during the year under review. The business and postal addresses of the company secretary are: Capricorn Group Building Kasino Street Windhoek Namibia PO Box 15 Windhoek Namibia 10. DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS The directors’ interests are disclosed in the corporate governance report. 11. AUDITOR PricewaterhouseCoopers will continue in office as auditor, until the next annual general meeting, in accordance with the Companies Act of Namibia. 12. EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO YEAR-END (1) On 20 August 2019, a final dividend of 36 cents per ordinary share was declared for the year ended 30 June 2019, payable on 27 September 2019. (2) On 1 July 2019, the group concluded a 30% acquisition in Paratus Group Holdings Limited. Paratus Group Holdings and its subsidiaries and associates operate in 24 African countries, the most significant of which are Angola, Namibia, Zambia and Botswana. No other matters which are material to the financial affairs of the company and group have occurred between year-end and the date of approval of the consolidated annual financial statements. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 145 CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 30 June 2019 Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Notes N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Interest and similar income 4,740,554 4,244,215 65,994 68,351 Interest and similar expenses (2,607,681) (2,425,318) (126,904) (76,019) Net interest income 5 2,132,873 1,818,897 (60,910) (7,668) Credit impairment losses 6 (114,547) (80,840) (15,721) – Net interest income after credit impairment losses 2,018,326 1,738,057 (76,631) (7,668) Non-interest income 7. 1,359,484 1,225,168 994,668 492,447 Fee and commission income 7.1 959,965 885,446 – – Net trading income 7.2 143,793 98,724 8,340 (10,767) Other operating income 7.3 34,030 139,768 986,328 503,214 Net insurance premium income 7.4 130,050 – – – Net claims and benefits paid 7.5 (26,541) – – – Asset management and administration fees 7.6 118,187 101,230 – – Operating income 3,377,810 2,963,225 918,037 484,779 Operating expenses 9 (2,052,038) (1,795,108) (237,412) (97,899) Operating profit 1,325,772 1,168,117 680,625 386,880 Share of joint arrangement’s results after tax 21 3,675 1,148 – – Share of associates’ results after tax 10 72,657 83,236 – – Profit before income tax 1,402,104 1,252,501 680,625 386,880 Income tax expense 11 (386,805) (318,066) 8,333 6,245 Profit for the year 1,015,299 934,435 688,958 393,125 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Change in value of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – 44,026 – – Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1,339 7,779 – – Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Change in value of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 7,263 – – – Total comprehensive income for the year 1,023,901 986,240 688,958 393,125 Profit attributable to: Equity holders of the parent entity 929,889 922,556 688,958 393,125 Non-controlling interests 85,410 11,879 – – 1,015,299 934,435 688,958 393,125 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of the parent entity 937,616 974,259 688,958 393,125 Non-controlling interests 86,285 11,981 – – 1,023,901 986,240 688,958 393,125 Earnings per ordinary share for the profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent entity during the year: Basic (cents) 12 181.6 180.6 Fully diluted (cents) 12 181.3 180.3 146 2019 Integrated Annual Report CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION as at 30 June 2019 Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Notes N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 ASSETS Cash and balances with the central bank 13 1,572,616 1,642,557 663,895 104,123 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 14 2,037,188 5,245,981 428,092 553,173 Financial assets at amortised cost 14 860,314 874,252 255,650 202,060 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 15 4,742,725 134,028 476,153 – Due from other banks 16 1,724,043 1,773,529 – – Loans and advances to customers 17 38,049,583 36,234,418 – – Other assets 18 554,420 612,470 165,209 123,446 Current tax asset 109,549 62,722 2,717 1,558 Investment in subsidiaries 19 – – 1,411,348 1,523,700 Investment in associates 20 348,716 282,511 198,932 144,656 Interest in joint arrangement 21 11,016 7,341 – – Intangible assets 22 275,839 283,933 – – Property and equipment 23 284,444 238,446 – – Deferred tax asset 29 107,502 41,498 22,376 6,245 Total assets 50,677,955 47,433,686 3,624,372 2,658,961 LIABILITIES Due to other banks 24 245,703 252,683 – – Other borrowings 25 996,372 1,313,433 141,726 95,923 Debt securities in issue 26 5,670,974 4,777,074 1,769,729 1,038,272 Deposits 27 36,984,725 33,948,091 – – Other liabilities 28 605,119 1,232,189 44,647 217,227 Current tax liability 2,052 381 – – Deferred tax liability 29 – 7,205 – – Post-employment benefits 30 12,232 11,440 – – Total liabilities 44,517,177 41,542,496 1,956,102 1,351,422 EQUITY Share capital and premium 31 720,302 724,507 765,507 769,933 Non-distributable reserves 34 85,954 269,653 – – Distributable reserves 35 5,009,140 4,620,531 902,763 537,606 5,815,396 5,614,691 1,668,270 1,307,539 Non-controlling interests in equity 345,382 276,499 – – Total shareholders’ equity 6,160,778 5,891,190 1,668,270 1,307,539 Total equity and liabilities 50,677,955 47,433,686 3,624,372 2,658,961 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 147 CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 30 June 2019 Non-distributable reserves Distributable reserves Share capital Insurance Credit Fair General Nonand fund risk value banking Retained controlling Total premium reserve reserve SBCR* reserve reserve FCTR** earnings interests equity Notes N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 GROUP Balance at 1 July 2017 684,665 50,536 197,650 16,294 145,165 3,354,609 (873) 608,336 154,533 5,210,915 Issue of shares 31 41,508 – – – – – – – – 41,508 Movement in treasury shares (10,034) – – – – – – – – (10,034) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 44,026 – 7,677 922,556 11,981 986,240 Profit for the year – – – – – – – 922,556 11,879 934,435 Other comprehensive income – – – – 44,026 – 7,677 – 102 51,805 Share-based payment charges 35 – – – 8,921 – – – – – 8,921 Vesting of shares 8,368 – – (8,368) – – – – – – Profit on sale of treasury shares – – – – – – – 2,690 – 2,690 Transfer between reserves 35 – 3,206 18,261 – – 460,270 – (481,737) – – Reclassification to profit and loss – – – – (59,380) – – – – (59,380) Acquisition of subsidiaries – – – – – – – – 142,338 142,338 Change in ownership interest in subsidiary – – – – – – – (50,643) (32,373) (83,016) Transfer of FCTR – – – – – – (2,268) – 2,268 – Dividends 36 – – – – – – – (346,744) (2,248) (348,992) Balance at 30 June 2018 724,507 53,742 215,911 16,847 129,811 3,814,879 4,536 654,458 276,499 5,891,190 Balance at 1 July 2018 724,507 53,742 215,911 16,847 129,811 3,814,879 4,536 654,458 276,499 5,891,190 Credit risk reserve transfer to retained earnings – IFRS 9 – – (194,536) – – – – 194,536 – – IFRS 9 transitional adjustment – impairment – – – – – – – (322,274) – (322,274) IFRS 9 transitional adjustment – effective interest rate – – – – – – – (108,209) – (108,209) Adjusted balance at the beginning of the year 724,507 53,742 21,375 16,847 129,811 3,814,879 4,536 418,511 276,499 5,460,707 Movement in treasury shares (9,633) – – – – – – – – (9,633) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 7,263 – 464 929,889 86,285 1,023,901 Profit for the year – – – – – – – 929,889 85,410 1,015,299 Other comprehensive income – – – – 7,263 – 464 – 875 8,602 Share-based payment charges 35 – – – 11,802 – – – – – 11,802 Vesting of shares 5,428 – – (5,428) – – – – – – Profit on sale of treasury shares – – – – – – – (1,042) – (1,042) Transfer between reserves – (2,617) 13,454 – – 28,918 – (39,755) – – Reclassification to retained earnings – – – – (136,379) – – 136,379 – – Dividends 36 – – – – – – – (307,555) (17,402) (324,957) Balance at 30 June 2019 720,302 51,125 34,829 23,221 695 3,843,797 5,000 1,136,427 345,382 6,160,778 * Share-based compensation reserve (SBCR) ** Foreign currency translation reserve (FCTR) 148 2019 Integrated Annual Report CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 Non-distributable reserves Distributable reserves Share capital Insurance Credit Fair General Nonand fund risk value banking Retained controlling Total premium reserve reserve SBCR* reserve reserve FCTR** earnings interests equity Notes N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 COMPANY Balance at 1 July 2017 727,264 – – 10,293 – – – 485,318 – 1,222,875 Issue of shares 41,508 – – – – – – – – 41,508 Movement in treasury shares (842) – – – – – – – – (842) Share-based payment charges 35 – – – 2,350 – – – – – 2,350 Vesting of shares 2,003 – – (2,003) – – – – – – Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – – – – 393,125 – 393,125 Dividends 36 – – – – – – – (351,477) – (351,477) Balance at 30 June 2018 769,933 – – 10,640 – – – 526,966 – 1,307,539 Balance at 1 July 2018 769,933 – – 10,640 – – – 526,966 – 1,307,539 IFRS 9 transitional adjustment – – – – – – – (16,572) – (16,572) Adjusted balance at the beginning of the year 769,933 – – 10,640 – – – 510,394 – 1,290,967 Movement in treasury shares (5,225) – – – – – – – – (5,225) Share-based payment charges 35 – – – 5,081 – – – – – 5,081 Vesting of shares 799 – – (799) – – – – – – Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – – – – 688,958 – 688,958 Dividends 36 – – – – – – – (311,511) – (311,511) Balance at 30 June 2019 765,507 – – 14,922 – – – 887,841 – 1,668,270 * Share-based compensation reserve (SBCR) ** Foreign currency translation reserve (FCTR) CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 149 CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS for the year ended 30 June 2019 Group Company 2018 2018 2019 (Restated)1 2019 (Restated)1 Notes N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Cash flows from operating activities Cash receipts from customers 37.1 5,964,107 5,494,123 59,882 47,057 Cash paid to customers, suppliers and employees 37.2 (4,429,840) (4,041,541) (236,656) (165,764) Cash generated from/(utilised in) operations 37.3 1,534,267 1,452,582 (176,774) (118,707) (Increase)/decrease in operating assets Financial assets at fair value (620,179) (1,082,037) (88,681) (179,227) Financial assets at amortised cost 4,061 (574,565) 85,126 11,585 Loans and advances to customers and central bank mandatory reserve (2,615,189) (1,979,117) – – Other assets 62,914 (152,806) (43,251) (47,743) Increase/(decrease) in operating liabilities Deposits from customers 2,963,440 2,307,696 – – Other liabilities (361,468) 51,985 (172,580) 193,751 Net cash generated from/(utilised in) operations 967,846 23,738 (396,160) (140,341) Dividends received 90,703 88,951 931,664 402,918 Other interest received 702 402 28,249 4,775 Income taxes paid 37.4 (473,804) (316,220) – – Net cash generated from/(utilised in) operating activities 585,447 (203,129) 563,753 267,352 Cash flows from investing activities Additions to property, plant and equipment 23 (76,234) (45,826) – – Proceeds on sale of property, plant and equipment 37.3 1,229 2,192 – – Additions to intangible assets 22 (64,329) (53,099) – – Acquisition of subsidiaries 37.5 – (172,766) – (280,193) Acquisition of associate (54,276) (34,461) (54,276) (34,461) Net cash utilised in investing activities (193,610) (303,960) (54,276) (314,654) Cash flows from financing activities Treasury shares acquired (36,572) (35,153) (5,225) – Treasury shares sold 23,607 27,809 – – Proceeds from other borrowings 25 451,360 309,651 396,360 90,651 Redemption of other borrowings 25 (770,874) (169,726) (353,601) – Redemption of debt securities in issue 26 (993,816) (1,341,584) (100,000) (930,000) Proceeds from the issue of debt securities 26 1,826,392 1,993,885 820,392 1,030,000 Dividends paid 36 (324,957) (348,992) (311,511) (351,477) Net cash generated from/(utilised in) financing activities 175,140 435,890 446,415 (160,826) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 566,977 (71,199) 955,892 (208,128) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 5,201,402 5,291,456 136,095 344,223 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 23,271 (18,855) – – Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 39 5,791,650 5,201,402 1,091,987 136,095 ¹ Reclassified interest payments on other borrowings and debt securities in issue from financing activities to operating activities in order to disclose all interest payments as operating activities. Capricorn Group has restated the disclosure in the cash flow statement to show the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents held or due in a foreign currency in terms of IAS 7. 150 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION The consolidated annual financial statements of Capricorn Group (the group or the company) for the year ended 30 June 2019 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) effective at the time of preparing these statements and in the manner required by the Namibian Companies Act and the Namibian Stock Exchange. The consolidated annual financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial assets at fair value through profit and loss, financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income and financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss and all derivative contracts. The preparation of consolidated annual financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise their judgement in the process of applying the group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated annual financial statements, are disclosed in note 4. 1.1 Going concern The group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the group should be able to operate within the level of its current financing. The group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated annual financial statements. 1.2 Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). The consolidated annual financial statements are presented in Namibian dollar, which is the functional and presentation currency of the company and the presentation currency of the group. 1.3 Standards and interpretations issued 1.3.1 Standards and interpretations issued affecting amounts reported and disclosures in the current year Mandatory application date/ Title of Date of adoption standard Nature of change Impact by group IFRS 9 Details of requirements of IFRS 9 that will The group has adopted IFRS 9 as issued Mandatory for Financial impact the group: by the IASB in July 2014 with the date of financial years Instruments transition of 1 July 2018, which resulted commencing on or Classification and measurement in changes in accounting policies and after 1 January IFRS 9 requires all financial assets to be adjustments to the amounts previously 2019. classified and measured on the basis of the recognised in the financial statements. entity’s business model for managing the The group did not early adopt any of Expected date of financial assets and its contractual cash flow IFRS 9 in previous periods. adoption by the characteristics. group: 1 July 2019. The group has elected not to restate Financial assets are measured at amortised comparative figures, as permitted by cost if they are held within a business model the transitional provisions of IFRS 9. whose objective is to hold these assets solely Accordingly, any differences between for collecting on contractual cash flows, previous IAS 39 and new IFRS 9 carrying where these contractual cash flows comprise amounts were recognised in opening solely payments of principal and interest. retained earnings and other reserves as at 1 July 2018. Financial assets are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income Consequently, for notes disclosures, the (FVOCI) if they are held within a business consequential amendments to IFRS 7 model whose objective is achieved by both disclosures have only been applied to the collecting on contractual cash flows and by current period. The comparative period selling these financial assets. Contractual notes disclosures repeat those made in the cash flows should comprise solely payments prior year. of principal and interest. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 151 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) 1.3 Standards and interpretations issued (continued) 1.3.1 Standards and interpretations issued affecting amounts reported and disclosures in the current year (continued) Mandatory application date/ Title of Date of adoption standard Nature of change Impact by group IFRS 9 The remaining financial assets, including The adoption of IFRS 9 has resulted in Financial derivatives, are measured at fair value through changes in our accounting policies for Instruments profit or loss (FVTPL). recognition, classification and measurement (continued) of financial assets and financial liabilities For equity investments that are neither held and impairment of financial assets. IFRS 9 for trading nor contingent consideration, the also significantly amends other standards group may irrevocably elect to present dealing with financial instruments such as subsequent changes in fair value of these IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. equity investments in other comprehensive income (OCI). Set out below are disclosures relating to the impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 on the Where the equity investment is derecognised, group. Further details of the specific IFRS 9 the cumulative gain or loss previously accounting policies applied in the current recognised in OCI is not reclassified from period(as well as the previous IAS 39 equity to profit or loss. However, it may be accounting policies applied in the reclassified within equity. comparative period) are described in more detail in section 2.3 below. The accounting for financial liabilities remains largely unchanged. Classification and measurement The measurements category and the Impairments carrying amount of financial assets and Under IFRS 9, impairments are determined liabilities in accordance with IAS 39 and based on an expected credit loss (ECL) model IFRS 9 at 1 July are disclosed in 1.3.1(a). rather than the incurred loss model used under IAS 39. Reconciliation of balances from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 The group is required to recognise The group performed a detailed analysis of impairments for either a 12-month or lifetime its business models for managing financial ECL on all financial assets measured at assets and analysis of their cash flow amortised cost and FVOCI, depending on characteristics. whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of the Please refer to 2.3.1 for more detailed financial asset. information regarding the new classification requirements of IFRS 9. Forward-looking information based on expected macroeconomic conditions and 1.3.1(b) reconciles the carrying amounts specific factors that are expected to impact of financial assets from their previous individual portfolios are used when measurement category in accordance with determining ECLs. IAS 39 to their new measurement categories upon transition to IFRS 9 on 1 July 2018. Impairment allowance balance from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 1.3.1(c) reconciles the prior period’s closing impairment allowance measure in accordance with the IAS 39 incurred loss model to the new impairment allowance measured in accordance with the IFRS 9 expected loss model at 1 July 2018. 152 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) 1.3 Standards and interpretations issued (continued) 1.3.1 Standards and interpretations issued affecting amounts reported and disclosures in the current year (continued) Mandatory application date/ Title of Date of adoption standard Nature of change Impact by group IFRS 15 The FASB and IASB issued their long awaited The group has adopted IFRS 15 as issued by Mandatory for Revenue converged standard on revenue recognition on the IASB in May 2014 with the date of financial years from 29 May 2014. It is a single, comprehensive transition of 1 July 2018, which resulted in commencing Contracts revenue recognition model for all contracts adjustments to the amounts previously on or after with with customers to achieve greater consistency recognised in the financial statements. 1 January 2018. Customers in the recognition and presentation of revenue. Revenue is recognised based on the IFRS 15 did not have an impact on the Adoption date by satisfaction of performance obligations, which timing or amounts of the group’s income. the group: occurs when control of goods or services The impact of IFRS 15 was limited to the 1 July 2018. transfers to a customer. new disclosure requirements. The IASB has amended IFRS 15 to clarify the guidance, but there were no major changes to the standard itself. The amendments comprise clarifications of the guidance on identifying performance obligations, accounting for licences of intellectual property and the principal versus agent assessment (gross versus net revenue presentation). New and amended illustrative examples have been added for each of these areas of guidance. The IASB has also included additional practical expedients related to transition to the new revenue standard. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 153 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) 1.3 Standards and interpretations issued (continued) 1.3.1 Standards and interpretations issued affecting amounts reported and disclosures in the current year (continued) 1.3.1 (a) Classification and measurement of financial instruments IAS 39 IFRS 9 Carrying Carrying Measurement amount Measurement amount Group category N$’000 category N$’000 Financial assets Cash and balances with the central bank Loans and receivables 1,642,557 Amortised cost 1,642,557 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVPL (Designated) 5,245,981 FVPL (Mandatory) 1,133,882 Financial assets at amortised cost Held-to-maturity 874,252 Amortised cost 854,556 Investments securities FVOCI (Available-for-sale) 134,028 FVOCI 134,028 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Not applicable – FVOCI 4,112,099 Due from other banks Loans and receivables 1,773,529 Amortised cost 1,773,529 Loans and advances to customers Loans and receivables 36,234,418 Amortised cost 35,711,659 Other assets Loans and receivables 489,326 Amortised cost 489,326 Financial liabilities Due to other banks Amortised cost 252,683 Amortised cost 252,683 Other borrowings Amortised cost 1,313,433 Amortised cost 1,313,433 Debt securities in issue Amortised cost 4,777,074 Amortised cost 4,777,074 Deposits Amortised cost 33,948,091 Amortised cost 33,948,091 Other liabilities Amortised cost 1,198,794 Amortised cost 1,198,794 Derivatives FVPL (Held for trading) 5,535 FVPL (Mandatory) 5,535 IAS 39 IFRS 9 Carrying Carrying Measurement amount Measurement amount Company category N$’000 category N$’000 Financial assets Cash and bank balances Loans and receivables 104,123 Amortised cost 104,123 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVPL (Designated) 553,173 FVPL (Mandatory) 31,972 Financial assets at amortised cost Held-to-maturity 202,060 Amortised cost 200,649 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Not applicable – FVOCI 521,201 Other assets Loans and receivables 122,972 Amortised cost 100,577 Financial liabilities Other borrowings Amortised cost 95,923 Amortised cost 95,923 Debt securities in issue Amortised cost 1,038,272 Amortised cost 1,038,272 Other liabilities Amortised cost 217,227 Amortised cost 217,227 154 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) 1.3 Standards and interpretations issued (continued) 1.3.1 Standards and interpretations issued affecting amounts reported and disclosures in the current year (continued) 1.3.1(b) Reconciliation of statement of financial position balances from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 The following table reconciles the carrying amounts of financial assets, from their previous measurement category in accordance with IAS 39 to their new measurement categories upon the transition of IFRS 9 on 1 July 2018: IAS 39 IFRS 9 carrying carrying amount ReclassiRemeasureamount 30 June 2018 fications ments 1 July 2018 Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Amortised cost Cash and balances with the central bank Opening balance under IAS 39 and restated opening balance under IFRS 9 1,642,557 – – 1,642,557 Financial assets at amortised cost Opening balance under IAS 39 874,252 Remeasurement: ECL allowance – (19,696) Restated opening balance under IFRS 9 854,556 Due from other banks Opening balance under IAS 39 and restated opening balance under IFRS 9 1,773,529 – – 1,773,529 Loans and advances to customers Opening balance under IAS 39 36,234,418 Remeasurement: Effective interest rate impact² (108,209) Remeasurement: ECL allowance – (414,550) Restated opening balance under IFRS 9 35,711,659 Other assets Opening balance under IAS 39 and restated opening balance under IFRS 9 489,326 – – 489,326 Due to other banks Opening balance under IAS 39 and restated opening balance under IFRS 9 252,683 – – 252,683 Other borrowings Opening balance under IAS 39 and restated opening balance under IFRS 9 1,313,433 – – 1,313,433 Debt securities in issue Opening balance under IAS 39 and restated opening balance under IFRS 9 4,777,074 – – 4,777,074 Deposits Opening balance under IAS 39 and restated opening balance under IFRS 9 33,948,091 – – 33,948,091 Other liabilities Opening balance under IAS 39 and restated opening balance under IFRS 9 1,198,794 – – 1,198,794 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 155 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) 1.3 Standards and interpretations issued (continued) 1.3.1 Standards and interpretations issued affecting amounts reported and disclosures in the current year (continued) 1.3.1(b) Reconciliation of statement of financial position balances from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 (continued) IAS 39 IFRS 9 carrying carrying amount ReclassiRemeasureamount 30 June 2018 fications ments 1 July 2018 Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Fair value through profit and loss (FVPL) Financial assets at FVPL Opening balance under IAS 39 5,245,981 Reclassification to fair value through other comprehensive income1 (4,112,099) – Restated opening balance under IFRS 9 1,133,882 Derivatives Opening balance under IAS 39 and restated opening balance under IFRS 9 5,535 – – 5,535 Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) Investment securities Opening balance under IAS 39 and restated opening balance under IFRS 9 134,028 – – 134,028 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Opening balance under IAS 39 – Reclassification from FVPL1 4,112,099 – Restated opening balance under IFRS 9 4,112,099 Company Amortised cost Cash and bank balances Opening balance under IAS 39 and restated opening balance under IFRS 9 104,124 – – 104,123 Financial assets at amortised cost Opening balance under IAS 39 202,060 Remeasurement: ECL allowance – (1,411) Restated opening balance under IFRS 9 200,649 Other assets Opening balance under IAS 39 122,972 Remeasurement: ECL allowance (22,395) Restated opening balance under IFRS 9 100,577 Other borrowings Opening balance under IAS 39 and restated opening balance under IFRS 9 95,923 – – 95,923 Debt securities in issue Opening balance under IAS 39 and restated opening balance under IFRS 9 1,038,272 – – 1,038,272 Other liabilities Opening balance under IAS 39 and restated opening balance under IFRS 9 217,227 – – 217,227 156 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) 1.3 Standards and interpretations issued (continued) 1.3.1 Standards and interpretations issued affecting amounts reported and disclosures in the current year (continued) 1.3.1(b) Reconciliation of statement of financial position balances from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 (continued) IAS 39 IFRS 9 carrying carrying amount ReclassiRemeasureamount 30 June 2018 fications ments 1 July 2018 Company N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Fair value through profit and loss (FVPL) Financial assets at FVPL Opening balance under IAS 39 553,173 Reclassification to fair value through other comprehensive income1 (521,201) – Restated opening balance under IFRS 9 31,972 Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Opening balance under IAS 39 – Reclassification from FVPL1 521,201 – Restated opening balance under IFRS 9 521,201 ¹ Reclassifications of debt instruments that are held within a business model of collection of contractual cash flows and selling the assets. The treasury bills, government stock and tradable instruments were previously designated at fair value through profit or loss as they were managed on a fair-value basis. As part of the transition to IFRS 9, these instruments are held with a view to collect contractual cash flows and to sell and thus have been reclassified to measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. The effective interest rate of these debt instruments is in the range of 6.8% and 9.9% per annum and N$272.0 million of interest income has been recognised during the year. ² Fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate are treated as an adjustment to the effective interest rate (EIR). The IFRS 9 requirements on EIR for financial assets remain unchanged from IAS 39; however, the Group prior to 1 July 2018 used to compute the original EIR on loans at a very aggregated level and the adjustment was never material for adjustment in the financial statements. For IFRS 9 ECL calculation purposes, the original EIR is used to discount ECL. As a result, the assumptions applied in the EIR model were refined and data points used were at a more disaggregated level. This refinement in the EIR calculation resulted in a difference in the effective interest rate calculated in prior years. As it is impractical to determine what part of the adjustment is an error and what part relates to the transition to IFRS 9 without using hindsight, both are accounted for as a cumulative catch-up in opening retained earnings. The EIR adjustment is included as part of the carrying amount of loans and advances in Note 17. 1.3.1(c) Reconciliation of impairment allowance from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 Loan loss Loan loss allowance ReclassiRemeasureallowance under IAS39 fication ment under IFRS 9 Measurement category N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Group Loans and receivables (IAS 39)/Financial assets at amortised cost (IFRS 9) Financial assets at amortised cost 19,696 19,696 Loans and advances to customers 366,567 – 414,550 781,117 Total 366,567 – 434,246 800,813 Current and deferred tax impact (111,972) Net impact per statement of changes in equity 322,274 Company Loans and receivables (IAS 39)/Financial assets at amortised cost (IFRS 9) Financial assets at amortised cost – – 1,411 1,411 Other assets – – 22,395 22,395 Total – – 23,806 23,806 Current and deferred tax impact (7,234) Net impact per statement of changes in equity 16,572 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 157 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) 1.3 Standards and interpretations issued (continued) 1.3.1 Standards and interpretations issued affecting amounts reported and disclosures in the current year (continued) 1.3.1(b) Reconciliation of statement of financial position balances from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 (continued) Mandatory application date/ Title of Date of adoption standard Nature of change Impact by group IFRS 16 This standard replaces the current guidance in IAS 17 and is a The group elected Mandatory for Leases far reaching change in accounting by lessees in particular. to apply IFRS 16 financial years retrospectively without commencing Under IAS 17, lessees were required to make a distinction restating comparative on or after between a finance lease (on balance sheet) and an operating periods. Comparative 1 January 2019. lease (off balance sheet). IFRS 16 now requires lessees to figures will be presented recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a in terms of IAS 17. Expected date “right-of-use asset” for virtually all lease contracts. The IASB has of adoption by the included an optional exemption for certain short-term leases and A transition adjustment group: 1 July 2019. leases of low-value assets; however, this exemption can only be from IAS 17 to IFRS 16 applied by lessees. was posted on 1 July 2019. For lessors, the accounting stays almost the same. However, as the IASB has updated the guidance on the definition of a lease (as As at 1 July 2019, IFRS well as the guidance on the combination and separation of 16 is expected to have contracts), lessors will also be affected by the new standard. an increase of approximately N$189.0 At the very least, the new accounting model for lessees is expected million in total assets to impact negotiations between lessors and lessees. Under IFRS and total liabilities, 16, a contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the which reflects the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in present value of exchange for consideration. remaining contractual lease payments as IFRS 16 supersedes IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an required by IFRS 16. As Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC 15 Operating Leases – a lessee, the group Incentives and SIC 27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions elects to use a number Involving the Legal Form of a Lease. of practical expedients. IFRS 17 The IASB issued IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts, and thereby started a The group is currently Mandatory for Insurance new epoch of accounting for insurers. Whereas the current assessing the impact of financial years Contracts standard, IFRS 4, allows insurers to use their local GAAP, IFRS 17 the new rules. commencing defines clear and consistent rules that will significantly increase the on or after comparability of financial statements. For insurers, the transition to 1 January 2021. IFRS 17 will have an impact on financial statements and on key performance indicators. Expected date of adoption by the Under IFRS 17, the general model requires entities to measure an group: 1 July 2021. insurance contract at initial recognition at the total of the fulfilment cash flows (comprising the estimated future cash flows, an adjustment to reflect the time value of money and an explicit risk adjustment for non-financial risk) and the contractual service margin. The fulfilment cash flows are remeasured on a current basis each reporting period. The unearned profit (contractual service margin) is recognised over the coverage period. Aside from this general model, the standard provides, as a simplification, the premium allocation approach. This simplified approach is applicable for certain types of contract, including those with a coverage period of one year or less. For insurance contracts with direct participation features, the variable fee approach applies. The variable fee approach is a variation on the general model. When applying the variable fee approach, the entity’s share of the fair value changes of the underlying items is included in the contractual service margin. As a consequence, the fair value changes are not recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they occur but over the remaining life of the contract. 158 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated annual financial statements, which complies with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the Companies Act of Namibia, are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 2.1 Consolidation 2.1.1 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the group has control. The group controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. The group applies the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree at the non‑controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising from such re-measurement are recognised in profit or loss. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39, either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not re-measured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in profit or loss. Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group. In the company, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less impairment. Cost is adjusted to reflect changes in consideration arising from contingent consideration amendments. Cost also includes directly attributable costs of investment. 2.1.2 Common control transactions A common control transaction is defined as a business combination in which all of the combining entities are ultimately controlled by the same party, both before and after the business combination, and control is not transitory. Common control transactions fall outside the scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations, and therefore the group has elected to apply predecessor accounting in the accounting of these transactions. The cost of an acquisition of a subsidiary under common control is measured at fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. Any costs directly attributable to the acquisition are written off against reserves. On acquisition, the carrying values of assets and liabilities are not restated to fair value. The acquirer incorporates assets and liabilities at their pre-combination carrying amounts at the highest level of consolidation prior to transfer. Any excess or deficit of the purchase price over the pre-combination recorded ultimate holding company’s net asset value of the subsidiary is adjusted directly to equity. Any differences to values of the subsidiary’s underlying assets and liabilities compared with those presented by the ultimate holding company and adjustments to achieve harmonisation of accounting policies will be adjusted in the records of the acquired company prior to consolidation. In common control transactions, the group has elected to incorporate the acquired entity’s results from the date of the business combination. As a consequence, comparative information is not restated. The principles of when control arises are the same as those for interests in subsidiaries, where purchase price accounting is applied. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 159 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.1.3 Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change of control Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions – that is, as transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference between the fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant shares acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity. Interests in the equity of subsidiaries not attributable to the parent are reported in consolidated equity as non-controlling interest. Profits or losses attributable to non-controlling interests are reported in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as profit or loss attributable to non-controlling interests. 2.1.4 Disposal of subsidiaries When the group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the change in the carrying amount recognised in profit or loss. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. 2.1.5 Associates Associates are all entities over which the group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investor’s share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition. The group’s investment in associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition. If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate. The group’s share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in profit or loss and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment. When the group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. The group determines, at each reporting date, whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired. If this is the case, the group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value and recognises the amount adjacent to “share of associates” results’ in profit or loss. Profits and losses resulting from upstream and downstream transactions between the group and its associate are recognised in the consolidated annual financial statements only to the extent of unrelated investor’s interests in the associates. Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group. Dilution gains and losses arising in investments in associates are recognised in profit or loss. Investments in associates are measured at cost less impairment in the company’s financial statements. For summarised financial information on the group’s associates accounted for on the equity method, refer to note 20. When the group increases its stake in an associate it applies the “cost-of-each-purchase” method. Under this method the cost of an associate acquired in stages is measured as the sum of the consideration paid for each purchase plus a share of the investee’s profits and other equity movements. Any acquisition-related costs are treated as part of the investment in the associate. 160 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.1.6 Joint arrangements Under IFRS 11, investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor. Refer to note 21 for the group’s joint arrangements. Joint arrangements are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint arrangements are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the group’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in other comprehensive income. When the group’s share of losses in a joint arrangement equals or exceeds its interests in the joint arrangement (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the group’s net investment in the joint arrangement), the group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint arrangement. Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its joint arrangement are eliminated to the extent of the group’s interest in the joint arrangement. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of the joint arrangement have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group. Investments in joint arrangements are measured at cost less impairment in the company’s financial statements. 2.2 Foreign currency translation Items included in the financial statements of each of the group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). The consolidated annual financial statements are presented in Namibian dollar (N$), which is the group’s presentation currency. Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are re-measured. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss under trading income, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities, such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL), are recognised in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss. Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets, such as equities classified as available-for-sale, are included in other comprehensive income. 2.3 Financial instruments IFRS 9 – Applicable to the current period figures 2.3.1 Measurement methods Amortised cost and effective interest The amortised cost is the at which the financial assets or financial liability is measured at initial recognition minus the principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest method of any difference between the initial amount and the maturity amount and, for financial assets, adjusted for any loss allowance. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial asset or financial liability to the gross carrying amount of a financial asset (i.e. its amortised cost before any impairment allowance) or to the amortised cost of a financial liability. The calculation does not consider the expected credit losses and includes transaction costs, premiums or discounts and fees paid or received that are integral to the effective interest rate, such as origination fees. When the group revises the estimates of future cash flows, the carrying amount of the respective financial assets or financial liability is adjusted to reflect the new estimate discounted using the original effective interest rate. Any changes are recognised in profit or loss. The carrying value of loans and advances to customers is based on the calculation of the effective interest rate (EIR). This EIR is used in the IFRS 9 expected credit loss model for calculating provisions and to amortise any unearned loan origination fees over the contractual life of loans and advances. The loan repayment calculation is based on the contractual rate, term, and capital amount including the loan origination fee. This adjusted instalment, including the loan origination fee, is used to determine the effective interest rate of the loan. The carrying value of loans and advances to customers is calculated using this effective interest rate. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 161 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.3 Financial instruments (continued) 2.3.1 Measurement methods (continued) Interest income Interest income is calculated by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of the financial assets. Initial recognition and measurement Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the entity becomes a part to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on trade-date, the date on which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset. At initial recognition, the group measures a financial asset or financial liability at its fair value plus or minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at FVPL, transaction costs that are incremental and directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial liability, such as fees and commissions. Transaction costs of financial assets and financial liabilities carried at FVPL are expensed in profit or loss. Immediately after initial recognition, an expected credit loss (ECL) allowance is recognised for financial assets measured at amortised cost, which results in an accounting loss being recognised in profit or loss when an asset is newly originated. When the fair value of financial assets and liabilities differs from the transaction price on initial recognition, the entity recognises the difference immediately when the fair value is based on quoted price in an active market for an identical asset of liability (i.e. a level 1 input) or based on a valuation technique that uses only data from observable markets, the difference is recognised as a gain or loss. In the event that fair value is not based on level 1 inputs, the fair value adjustment is deferred. The deferral is then amortised over the life of the instrument or realised when settled. For financial assets that have subsequently become credit-impaired (or “stage 3”), interest revenue is calculated by applying the effective interest rate to their amortised cost (i.e. net of the ECL provision). 2.3.2 Financial assets (i) Classification and subsequent measurement From 1 July 2018, the group has applied IFRS 9 and classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories: • Fair value through profit or loss (FVPL); • Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI); or • Amortised cost. The classification requirements for debt and equity instruments are described below: Debt instruments Debt instruments are those instruments that meet the definition of a financial liability from the issuer’s perspective, such as loans, government and corporate bonds. Classification and subsequent measurement of debt instruments depend on: • The group’s business model for managing the asset; and • The cash flow characteristics of the asset. Based on these factors, the group classifies its debt instruments into one of the following three measurement categories: • Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI), and that are not designated at FVPL, are measured at amortised cost. The carrying amount of these assets is adjusted by any ECL allowance at recognition date. Interest income from these financial assets is included in “Interest and similar income” using the effective interest rate method. • Fair value through profit or loss (FVPL): Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost are measured at FVPL. A gain or loss on a debt instruments that is subsequently measured at FVPL and is not part of a hedging relationship is recognised in profit or loss and presented within the “Non-operating income” in the period in which it arises. The group may also irrevocably designate financial assets at fair value through profit or loss if doing so significantly reduces or eliminates a mismatch created by assets and liabilities being measured on different bases. Interest income from these financial assets is included in “Interest and similar income” using the effective interest rate method. • Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI): Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest that are not designated at FVPL are measured at FVOCI. Movements in the carrying amount are taken through OCI, except for the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest revenue and foreign exchange gains or losses on the instrument’s amortised cost which are recognised in profit or loss. When the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or loss and recognised in “Non-operating income”. Interest income from these financial assets is included in “Interest and similar income” using the effective interest rate method. 162 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.3 Financial instruments (continued) 2.3.2 Measurement methods (continued) (i) Classification and subsequent measurement (continued) Business model: the business model reflects how the group manages the assets in order to generate cash flows. That is, whether the group’s objective is solely to collect the contractual cash flows from the assets or is to collect both the contractual cash flows arising from the sale of assets. If neither is applicable (e.g. financial assets are held for trading purposes), then the financial assets are classified as part of “other” business model and measured at FVPL. Factors considered by the group in determining the business model for a group of assets include past experience on how the cash flows for these assets were collected, how the asset’s performance is evaluated and reported to key management personnel, how risks are assessed and managed and how managers are compensated. SPPI: Where the business model is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows or to collect contractual cash flows and sell, the group assesses whether the financial instruments’ cash flow represent solely payments of principal and interest (the SPPI test). In making this assessment, the group considers whether the contractual cash flows are consistent with a basic lending arrangement i.e. interest includes only consideration for the time value of money, credit risk, other basic lending risks and a profit margin that is consistent with a basic lending arrangement. Where the contractual terms introduce exposure to risk or volatility that are inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement, the related financial asset is classified and measured at FVPL. Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their cash flows are solely payment of principal and interest. The group reclassifies debt instruments when and only when its business model for managing those assets changes. The reclassification takes place from the start of the first reporting period following the change. Such changes are expected to be very infrequent and none occurred during the period. Equity instruments Equity instruments are instruments that meet the definition of equity from the issuer’s perspective; that is, instruments that do not contain a contractual obligation to pay and that evidence a residual interest in the issuer’s net assets. The group’s management has elected, at initial recognition, to irrevocably designate the investment security portfolio at FVOCI. These investments are held for purposes other than to generate investment returns. Fair value gains and losses are recognised in OCI and are not subsequently reclassified to profit or loss, including on disposal. Impairment losses (and reversal of impairment losses) are not reported separately from other changes in fair value. Dividends, when representing a return on such investments, continue to be recognised in profit or loss as other income when the group’s right to receive payments is established. (ii) Impairment The group assesses on a forward-looking basis the expected credit losses (ECL) associated with its debt instrument assets carried at amortised cost and with the exposure arising from loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts. The group recognises a loss allowance for such losses at each reporting date. The measurement of ECL reflects: • An unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is determined by using the transition matrix methodology; • The time value of money; and • Reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort at the reporting date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions. Note 3.2.2 provides more detail of how the expected credit loss allowance is measured. (iii) Modification of loans The group sometimes renegotiates or otherwise modifies the contractual cash flows of loans to customers. A substantial modification of the contractual cash flows results in the group derecognising the original financial asset and recognising a “new asset” at fair value and recalculating a new effective interest rate for the asset. If modified contractual cash flows differ by more than 10% from original contractual cash flows, the modification will be deemed to be substantial. The date of renegotiation is consequently considered to the date of initial recognition for impairment calculation purposes, including for the purpose of determining whether a significant increase in credit risk has occurred. However, the group also assesses whether the new financial asset recognised is deemed to be creditimpaired at initial recognition, especially in circumstances where the renegotiation was driven by the debtor being unable to make the originally agreed payments. Differences in the carrying amount are also recognised in profit or loss as a gain or loss on derecognition. If the terms are not substantially different, the renegotiation or modification does not result in derecognition, and the group recalculates the gross carrying amount based on the revised cash flows of the financial asset and recognises a modification gain or loss in profit or loss. The new gross carrying amount is recalculated by discounting the modified cash flows at the original effective interest rate. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 163 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.3 Financial instruments (continued) 2.3.2 Measurement methods (continued) (iv) Derecognition other than on a modification Financial assets, or a portion thereof, are derecognised when the contractual rights to receive the cash flows from the assets have expired, or when they have been transferred and whether (i) the group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, or (ii) the group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and the group has not retained control. Collateral furnished by the group under standard repurchase agreements and securities lending and borrowing transactions are not derecognised because the group retains substantially all the risks and rewards on the basis of the predetermined repurchase price and the criteria for derecognition are therefore not met. 2.3.3 Financial liabilities (i) Classification and subsequent measurement In both the current and prior period, financial liabilities are classified as subsequently measured at amortised cost, except for financial liabilities at FVPL: this classification is applied to derivatives. Financial guarantee contracts and loan commitments (see note 2.13) (ii) Derecognition Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished (i.e. when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires). The exchange between the group and its original lenders of debt instruments with substantially different terms, as well as substantial modifications of the terms of existing financial liabilities, are accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability. IFRS 9 – Applicable to the current period figures 2.3.4 Financial assets The group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: • financial assets at FVPL; • loans and receivables; • held-to-maturity investments; and • available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition. Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at FVPL. Financial assets carried at FVPL are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in profit or loss. Purchases and sales of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity and available-for-sale, are recognised on trade-date – the date on which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Loans are recognised when cash is advanced to the borrowers. (i) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category has two subcategories: financial assets held for trading; and those designated at FVPL at inception. The designation cannot be changed subsequently. A financial asset is classified as held for trading if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking. Derivatives are categorised as held for trading, unless they are designated as hedges. Financial assets are designated at FVPL when: • doing so significantly reduces measurement inconsistencies that would arise if the related derivatives were treated as held for trading and the underlying financial instruments were carried at amortised cost for loans and advances to customers or banks and debt securities in issue; • they are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy and reported to key management personnel on that basis; or • financial instruments, such as debt securities held, containing one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows, are designated at FVPL. 164 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.3 Financial instruments (continued) 2.3.4 Financial assets (continued) (i) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (continued) Treasury bills, government stock, unit trust investments, money market investments, derivative financial instruments and other debt securities are classified in this category. Financial assets at FVPL are subsequently carried at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are included under net gain from financial instruments designated at FVPL in profit or loss and in the period in which they arise. Interest income and dividend income are included in “net interest income” or “other operating income”, respectively. (ii) Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They arise when the group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable. Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Interest calculated using the effective interest rate method is recognised in profit or loss. Loans and advances to customers, due from other banks, cash and balances with the central bank and other assets are classified in this category. (iii) Held-to-maturity Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the group’s management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. If the group were to sell other than an insignificant amount of held-to-maturity assets, the entire category would be tainted and reclassified as available-for-sale. Held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Interest calculated using the effective interest rate method is recognised in profit or loss. Treasury bills, government stock and preference shares, not held for trading, are classified in this category. (iv) Available-for-sale Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories. Available-for-sale instruments are intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices or that are not classified as loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets at FVPL. Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently carried at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in other comprehensive income. When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in profit or loss. Interest on available-for-sale securities calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in profit or loss. Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss in “other operating income” when the group’s right to receive payments is established. Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in other comprehensive income. Investment securities are classified in this category. 2.3.5 Financial liabilities The group recognises a financial liability when it becomes a party to the contractual terms of the financial instrument. The group classifies its financial liabilities in the following categories: • at amortised cost; and • financial liabilities at FVPL. Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, being its issue proceeds (fair value of consideration received) net of transaction costs incurred, for all financial liabilities not carried at FVPL. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 165 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.3 Financial instruments (continued) 2.3.5 Financial liabilities (continued) (i) At amortised cost The liability is subsequently stated at amortised cost. Any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in profit or loss over the period of the liability using the effective interest rate method. The dividends on preference shares are recognised in profit or loss as interest expenses on an amortised cost basis, using the effective interest rate method. The fair value of the liability portion of a convertible bond is determined using a market interest rate for an equivalent nonconvertible bond. This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds. The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option. This is recognised and included in shareholders’ equity, net of income tax effects. Classified in this category are amounts due to other banks, other borrowings, debt securities in issue and deposits and other liabilities. (ii) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss This category comprises two subcategories, namely: • financial liabilities classified as held for trading; and • financial liabilities designated by the group as at FVPL upon initial recognition. A financial liability is classified as held for trading if it is acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing it in the near term or, if it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges. Financial liabilities held for trading also include obligations to deliver financial assets borrowed by a short seller. Those financial instruments are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position as “financial liabilities held for trading”. Classified in this category are derivative financial instruments. 2.3.6 Determination of fair value Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: • the use of quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments; • the fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on observable yield curves; • the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date; and • the fair value of the remaining financial instruments is determined using discounted cash flow analysis. 2.3.7 Derecognition The group derecognises a financial asset when: • the contractual rights to the asset expire; or where there is a transfer of the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset and substantially all of the risks and rewards related to the ownership of the financial asset are transferred; or • the group retains the contractual rights of the assets but assumes a corresponding liability to transfer these contractual rights to another party and consequently transfers substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the asset. Where the group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, the group continues to recognise the financial asset in its entirety and recognises a financial liability for the consideration received. These financial assets and the related financial liabilities may not be offset. Where the group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, the group determines whether it has retained control of the financial asset. In this case: • if the group has not retained control, it derecognises the financial asset and recognises separately as assets or liabilities any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer; or • if the group has retained control, it continues to recognise the financial asset to the extent of its continuing involvement in the financial asset. The group derecognises a financial liability when it is extinguished, i.e. when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired. A substantial modification of the terms and conditions of an existing financial liability or part of an existing financial liability is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and recognition of a new one. A substantial modification to the terms occurs where the discounted present value of the cash flows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees received and discounted using the original effective interest rate, is at least 10% different from the discounted present value of the remaining cash flows of the original financial liability. 166 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.3 Financial instruments (continued) 2.3.8 Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty. 2.3.9 Derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value. Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, including recent market transactions and valuation techniques, which include discounted cash flow models and option pricing models, as appropriate. All derivatives are carried as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative. The best evidence of the fair value of a derivative at initial recognition is the transaction price (i.e. the fair value of the consideration given or received) unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument (i.e. without modification or repackaging), or based on a valuation technique the variables of which include only data from observable markets. When such evidence exists, the group recognises profits on day one. Certain derivatives embedded in other financial instruments are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value through profit or loss. These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss. The group’s derivative financial instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in profit or loss and the derivatives are included in other assets/liabilities in the statement of financial position. 2.4 Impairment of financial assets A financial asset is considered as impaired when there is objective evidence of impairment. 2.4.1 Financial assets carried at amortised cost The group assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a “loss event”) and that loss event (or events), has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. Objective evidence that a financial asset or group of assets is impaired, includes observable data that comes to the attention of the group about the following loss events: (i) significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligator; (ii) a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments; (iii) the group granting to the borrower, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, a concession that the lender would not otherwise consider; (iv) it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation; (v) the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties; or (vi) observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows from a group of financial assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the group, including: • adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the group; or • national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the group. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 167 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.4 Impairment of financial assets (continued) 2.4.1 Financial assets carried at amortised cost (continued) The group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If the group determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised, are not included in a collective assessment of impairment. If, there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised (such as an improvement in the debtor’s credit rating), the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss. Impairment of loans and advances Impairment losses are recognised promptly when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has occurred. Impairment losses are calculated on individual loans and on groups of loans assessed collectively. Impairment losses are recorded as charges to profit or loss. The carrying amount of impaired loans on the statement of financial position is reduced through the use of impairment allowance accounts. Losses expected from future events are not recognised. The group employs scientific techniques to determine the specific and portfolio impairment of its loans and advances. (i) Individually assessed loans and advances All loans and advances are assessed on a case-by-case basis at each reporting date as to whether there is any objective evidence that a loan is impaired. Loans and advances are individually assessed for impairment when they have been flagged as being past due more than 90 days. Furthermore, the criteria used to determine that there is such objective evidence, include the loss events described above. For loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, impairment losses are determined considering the aggregate exposure to the client and the realisable value of security (or other credit mitigants) and the likelihood of successful repossession. Due from other banks have not been impaired as these placements are made to banks that have high credit standing and, by policy, limits the amounts of credit exposure to any one financial institution. Refer to note 3.2.6. (ii) Collectively assessed loans and advances Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of loss has been specifically identified on an individual basis are grouped together according to their credit risk characteristics for the purpose of calculating an estimated portfolio impairment. The calculation is based on the incurred but not reported (IBNR) model, which takes into account that it may take a period of time before management becomes aware of an objective evidence that a loan is impaired. Key inputs into this model are the historical average of probability of default and the historic average loss given default. The emergence period is also factored into the model, which represents management’s view of how long it takes for the objective evidence to become known to management. To the extent that the unidentified impairments are insufficient to meet the minimum regulatory portfolio impairment, such shortfall is accommodated by a transfer of the applicable amount from distributable (retained earnings) to non-distributable reserves (statutory credit risk reserve). When a loan is uncollectable, it is written off against the loan impairment. Such loans are written off after all the necessary procedures have been completed and the amount of the loss has been determined. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of the loan impairment in profit or loss. For more detailed procedures followed by the group on collectively assessed loans and advances, refer to the risk and compliance report. 168 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.4 Impairment of financial assets (continued) 2.4.2 Financial assets carried at fair value The group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the assets are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss, measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss, is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss on equity instruments are not reversed through profit or loss. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss. 2.4.3 Renegotiated loans Financial assets that would otherwise be past due that have been renegotiated are separately classified as neither past due nor impaired assets. Renegotiated loans are loans where, due to deterioration in the counterparty’s financial condition, the group granted a concession where the original terms and conditions of the facility were amended and the counterparty is within the new terms of the loan. Loans are only classified as renegotiated if the terms of the renegotiated contract have not yet expired and remain classified as such until the terms of the renegotiated contract expire. Where the loans are reclassified as neither past due nor impaired the adherence to the new terms and conditions is closely monitored. 2.5 Sale and repurchase agreements Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements (repos) are reclassified in the consolidated annual financial statements as pledged assets when the transferee has the right, by contract or custom, to sell or repledge the collateral; the counterparty liability is included in amounts due to other banks, deposits from banks, other deposits or deposits due to customers, as appropriate. Securities purchased under agreements to resell (reverse repos) are recorded as loans and advances to other banks or customers, as appropriate. The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the life of the agreements using the effective interest rate method. Securities borrowed are not recognised in the consolidated annual financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the purchase and sale are recorded with the gain or loss included in trading income. The obligation to return them is recorded at fair value as a trading liability. 2.6 Intangible assets 2.6.1 Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the group’s interest in net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree and the fair value of the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in “intangible assets” and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment. The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of the value in use and the fair value less costs of disposal. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the cash-generatingunits (CGUs), or groups of CGUs, that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Goodwill is monitored at the operating segment level. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 169 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.6 Intangible asset (continued) 2.6.2 Computer software and development costs Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred. Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the group are recognised as intangible assets when the following criteria are met: • it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it will be available for use; • management intends to complete the software product and use or sell it; • there is an ability to use or sell the software product; • it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate probable future economic benefits; • adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the software product are available; and • the expenditure attributable to the software product during its development can be reliably measured. Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the software product include the software development employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads. Other development expenditures that do not meet these criteria are recognised as an expense as incurred. Development costs previously recognised as expenses are not recognised as assets in a subsequent period. The cost of a separately acquired intangible asset comprises its purchase price, including import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade discounts and rebates; and any directly attributable cost of preparing the asset for its intended use. Recognition of costs in the carrying amount of an intangible asset ceases when the asset is in the condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised using the straight-line method over their useful lives as follows: • Purchased software 3 years • Internally generated software 5–7 years 2.7 Property and equipment Land and buildings mainly comprise branches and offices. All property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or are recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the financial period in which they are incurred. Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Motor vehicles 5 years Furniture, fittings and other office equipment 6.67–8.3 years Computer and other equipment 3–5 years Buildings 24–50 years The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting period. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within “other operating income” in profit or loss. Investment properties held by group companies and which are occupied by other group companies are recognised as property, plant and equipment in the consolidated annual financial statements. 170 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.8 Repossessed property In certain circumstances, property is repossessed following the foreclosure on loans that are in default. Repossessed property is included under other assets as inventory as it is held for sale in the ordinary course of business, at the lower of cost or net realisable value, and is derecognised when the asset is sold to a third party. 2.9 Impairment of non-financial assets Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life or intangible assets not ready to use are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). Prior impairments of non-financial assets (other than goodwill) are reviewed for possible reversal at each reporting date. 2.10 Leases 2.10.1 A group company is the lessee Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. The leases entered into by the group are primarily operating leases. Payments, including prepayments, made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. When an operating lease is terminated before the lease period has expired, any payment required to be made to the lessor by way of penalty is recognised as an expense in the period in which termination takes place. 2.10.2 A group company is the lessor Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in payables. The interest element of the finance cost is charged to profit or loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term. 2.11 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are stated at cost which approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments. For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, balances with less than three months’ maturity from the reporting date, including cash and non-restricted balances with the central bank, treasury bills and other eligible bills, placements with other banks, short-term government securities, money market investments and short-term borrowings from other banks. In the statement of financial position, bank overdrafts are shown within “due to other banks” as liabilities. 2.12 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably estimated. Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in provision due to passage of time is recognised as an interest expense. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 171 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.13 Financial guarantee contracts IFRS 9 – Applicable to the current period figures Financial guarantee contracts are contracts that require the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payments when due, in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument. Such financial guarantees are given to banks, financial institutions and other bodies on behalf of customers to secure loans, overdrafts and other banking facilities. Financial guarantee contracts are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at the higher of: • The amount of the loss allowance (calculated as described in note 3.2.2); and • The premium received on initial recognition less income recognised in accordance with the principles of IFRS 15. Loan commitments provided by the group are measured as the amount of the loss allowance (calculated as described in note 3.2.2). The Group has not provided any commitment to provide loans at a below-market interest rate, or that can be settled net in cash or by delivering or issuing another financial instrument. IAS 39 – Applicable to the comparative period figures Financial guarantee contracts are contracts that require the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payments when due, in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument. Such financial guarantees are given to banks, financial institutions and other bodies on behalf of customers to secure loans, overdrafts and other banking facilities. Financial guarantees are initially recognised in the financial statements at fair value on the date the guarantee was given. The fair value of a financial guarantee at the time of signature is zero because all guarantees are agreed on arm’s length terms and the value of the premium agreed corresponds to the value of the guarantee obligation. No receivable for the future premiums is recognised. Subsequent to initial recognition, the group’s liabilities under such guarantees are measured at the higher of the initial amount, less amortisation of fees recognised in accordance with IAS 18, and the best estimate of the amount required to settle the guarantee. These estimates are determined based on experience of similar transactions and history or past losses, supplemented by the judgement of management. Any increase in the liability relating to financial guarantees is taken to profit or loss under operating expenses. 2.14 Employee benefits 2.14.1 Pension obligations The group operates a defined contribution plan. The plan is generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expenses when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as assets to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available. The group provides no other post-retirement benefits to their retirees. 2.14.2 Severance pay provision In terms of the Labour Act of 2007, the group is required to make payments (or provide other benefits) to employees when it terminates their employment. The implication of this requirement is that severance pay has to be paid to all employees when the employee: (i) is dismissed (except if due to misconduct or poor performance); (ii) dies while employed; (iii) retires upon reaching the age of 65. The group therefore has an obligation, more specifically a defined benefit, in terms of IAS 19 “Employee benefits”. The benefit is unfunded and is valued using the projected unit credit method as prescribed by IAS 19 “Employee benefits”. Refer to note 30 for assumptions made in the determination of the group’s liability with respect to severance pay. 172 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.14 Employee benefits (continued) 2.14.3 Leave pay Employee benefits in the form of annual leave entitlements are provided for when they accrue to employees with reference to services rendered up to the reporting date. 2.14.4 Performance bonuses The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses, based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit before tax after certain adjustments. The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation. 2.15 Share-based payments The group operates two equity-settled share-based compensation plans: 1) a share appreciation rights plan (SAR); and 2) a conditional share plan (CSP), under which the entities within the group receive services from employees as consideration for equity instruments (shares) of Capricorn Investment Group Ltd (refer to the directors’ report and remuneration report (unaudited) for more details of each plan). Equity-settled share purchase schemes are valued at grant date. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares and share options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares and share options granted: • including any market performance conditions (e.g. an entity’s share price); • excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions (e.g. profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period); and • including the impact of any non-vesting conditions (e.g. the requirement for employees to save). The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. At the end of each reporting period, the group revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. 2.16 Current and deferred income tax The tax expense for the period comprises of current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. 2.16.1 Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated annual financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that, at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. The principal temporary differences arise from depreciation of property, plant and equipment, revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative contracts and tax losses carried forward and, in relation to acquisitions, from the difference between the fair values of the net assets acquired and their tax base. Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred income tax liabilities are provided on taxable temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements, except for deferred income tax liabilities, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Generally, the group is unable to control the reversal of the temporary difference for associates. Only where there is an agreement in place that gives the group the ability to control the reversal of the temporary difference not recognised. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 173 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.16 Current and deferred income tax (continued) 2.16.1 Deferred income tax (continued) Deferred income tax assets are recognised on deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the future and there is sufficient taxable profit available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities, where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis. Deferred tax related to fair value re-measurement of available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedges, which are recognised in other comprehensive income, is also recognised in other comprehensive income and is subsequently recognised in profit or loss together with the deferred gain or loss. 2.16.2 Current income tax The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date in the countries where the company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions, where appropriate, on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. The tax effects of income tax losses available for carry forward are recognised as an asset when it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which these losses can be utilised. 2.17 Revenue recognition IFRS 15 – Applicable to the current period figures Revenue from customers is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The Group recognises revenue when it transfers control over a service to a customer. The following table provides information about the nature and timing of the satisfaction of performance obligations in contracts with customers, including significant payment terms, and the related revenue recognition policies. Nature and timing of satisfaction of performance Type of service obligations, including significant payment terms Revenue recognition under IFRS 15 Retail, microlending The group provides banking services to retail and corporate Revenue from account service and and corporate banking customers, including account management, provision of servicing fees is recognised over time as services overdraft facilities, foreign currency transactions, credit card the services are provided. and servicing fees. Revenue related to transactions is Fees for ongoing account management are charged to the recognised at the point in time when customer’s account on a monthly basis. The group sets the rates separately for retail and corporate banking customers in the transaction takes place. each jurisdiction on an annual basis. Transaction-based fees for interchange, foreign currency transactions and overdrafts are charged to the customer’s account when the transaction takes place. Servicing fees are charged on a monthly basis and are based on fixed rates reviewed annually by the group. Asset management The group provides asset management services. Revenue from asset management service services is recognised over time as Fees for asset management services are calculated based on a the services are provided. fixed percentage of the value of assets managed and deducted from the customer’s account balance on a monthly basis. 174 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.17 Revenue recognition (continued) IAS 18 – Applicable to the comparative and current period figures Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the group’s activities. Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the group. The group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured; it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity; and when specific criteria have been met for each of the group’s activities as described below. The group bases its estimates on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specifics of each arrangement. 2.17.1 Net trading income Net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities held for trading as well as foreign exchange gains and losses arising from instruments held for trading. 2.17.2 Interest income and expenses Interest income and expenses are recognised in profit or loss for all instruments measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, the group estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument (e.g. prepayment options) but does not consider future credit losses. The calculation includes all fees and points paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts. Interest income and dividend income on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) are included in “net interest income” or “dividend income”, respectively. When a loan and receivable is impaired, the group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income. Interest income on impaired loans and receivables is recognised using the original effective interest rate. 2.17.3 Fee and commission income Fees and commissions are generally recognised on an accrual basis when the service has been provided. Loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be drawn down are deferred (together with related direct costs) and recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate on the loan. Loan syndication fees are recognised as revenue when the syndication has been completed and the group retained no part of the loan package for itself or retained a part at the same effective interest rate for the other participants. Commission and fees arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of, a transaction for a third party, such as the arrangement of the acquisition of shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses, are recognised on completion of the underlying transaction. Portfolio and other management advisory and service fees are recognised based on the applicable service contracts, usually on a time-apportionment basis. Asset management fees related to investment funds are recognised over the period the service is provided. The same principle is applied for wealth management, financial planning and custody services that are continuously provided over an extended period of time. 2.17.4 Other income Royalty income is recognised on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements. Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. Other income from the sale of residential units comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates and discounts. Income is recognised on a stage-of-completion basis. Other income from consultations and valuations are recognised as services are delivered. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 175 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.18 Share capital 2.18.1 Share issue Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Mandatorily redeemable preference shares are classified as liabilities. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options, or to the acquisition of a business, are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 2.18.2 Treasury shares Where any group company purchases the company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to the company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued. Where such ordinary shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the company’s equity holders. Shares held by the employee share trusts and other group companies, which form part of the consolidated group, are deducted from total shareholders’ equity until the shares are sold. 2.19 Inventory (residential units) Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out (FIFO) method. The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises design costs, raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads (based on normal operating capacity). It excludes borrowing costs. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses. Costs of inventory include the transfer from equity of any gains/losses on qualifying cash flow hedges for purchases of raw materials. 2.20 Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the consolidated annual financial statements in the period in which the dividends are declared by the board of directors. Dividends for the year that are declared after the reporting date are dealt with in the events subsequent to year-end note in the directors’ report. 2.21 Fiduciary activities The group commonly acts as trustee and in other fiduciary capacities that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans and other institutions. These assets and income arising thereon are excluded from these consolidated annual financial statements, as they are not assets of the group. 2.22 Operating segments The group considers its banking operations in Namibia and Botswana as two operating segments; the other major operating segment is the microlending activities in Namibia. Other components include property development, asset management, unit trust management and the Zambian banking operations. However these components each contribute less than 10% to the group revenue, assets and profit for the year. Therefore, the group has no significant components other than banking in Namibia and Botswana. This is in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker, identified as the Chief Executive Officer of the group. The chief operating decision-maker is the person that allocates resources to and assesses the performance of the operating segment(s) of an entity. In assessing the performance of the banking operations, the Group Chief Executive Officer reviews the various aggregated revenue streams, the total costs and the assets and liabilities related to the banking activities, which have been disclosed in the various notes to the consolidated annual financial statements. 176 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 2.23 Insurance contracts 2.23.1 Policyholder insurance contracts Policyholder insurance contracts are classified in accordance with IFRS 4. The Entrepo group is licensed as a long-term insurer in Namibia in accordance with the Long-term Insurance Act (the Act) of 1998, as amended. The Act requires the determination of assets, liabilities and capital requirements for statutory purposes in accordance with generally accepted actuarial standards and principles. In terms of IFRS 4, defined insurance liabilities are allowed to be measured under existing local practice. The group has adopted the Namibian Standards of Actuarial Practice (NSAP) issued by the Society of Actuaries of Namibia (SAN) to determine the liability in respect of insurance contracts. The following NSAP is relevant to the determination of policyholder liabilities: NSAP 104 Calculation of the Value of the Assets, Liabilities and Solvency Capital Requirement of Long-term Insurers. Where applicable, the NSAPs are referred to in the accounting policies and notes to the financial statements. Classification of insurance contracts The group issued contracts which transfer insurance risk. The group classifies these contracts as insurance contracts. Insurance contracts Insurance contracts are those contracts under which the group (as insurer) accepts significant insurance risk from another party (the policyholder) by agreeing to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event (the insured event) adversely affects them. Such contracts may also transfer financial risk. As a general guideline, the group defines as significant insurance risk the possibility of having to pay benefits on the occurrence of an insured event that are at least 10% more than the benefits payable if the insured event did not occur. Profit and loss impact of movements Adjustments to the amounts of policyholder liabilities for policies established in prior years are reflected in the financial statements for the period in which the adjustments are made and disclosed separately if material. Outstanding insurance contract claims Provision is made on a prudent basis for the estimated final costs of claims notified but not settled at year end, using the best information available at that time. The estimate includes an amount of the direct claims expenses and assessment charges arising from the settlement of claims. 2.23.2 Gross premiums Gross premiums written comprise the premiums on contracts entered into during the year. Includes all premiums for the period of risk covered by the policy, regardless of whether or not these are due for payment in the accounting period. 2.23.3 Claims paid Claims paid are recognised in the financial statements when the liability arises and are expensed accordingly. 2.23.4 Interest capitalised on stage 3 impaired loans and advances IFRS 9 requires that interest income for loans and advances classified as Stage 3 be calculated on the net carrying amount; this results in a portion of contractual interest being suspended. IFRS 9 requires that this suspended contractual interest be presented as part of the loans and advances’ gross carrying amount. The group has applied this requirement by presenting interest capitalised on stage 3 loans and advances as a separate reconciling item when calculating the loans and advances’ total value. Interest capitalised on stage 3 loans and advances, therefore, does not impact the net carrying amount of the loans and advances as presented on the statement of financial position. However, this change in presentation has resulted in an increased gross carrying amount of the loans and advances when compared to IAS 39. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 177 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Any business that requires a return on capital investment is exposed to financial risks. Managing these risks continues to play a pivotal role within the group to ensure an appropriate balance is reached between risks and returns. The board of directors is ultimately responsible to manage risks that may either have a positive or negative impact on its financial performance, and which may ultimately have an adverse effect on the continued operations of the group. However, it is the responsibility of management to identify risks, whether real or anticipated, within their business units, and take appropriate actions. Management’s approach to risk management is to ensure all significant risks are identified and managed, and the returns are balanced with the risks taken. Compliance with a set of comprehensive risk management policies is an integral part of the group’s day-to-day activities and systems of internal controls have been implemented to prevent and detect risks. The key principles forming the foundation of the group’s risk management process include: • adoption of a risk management framework which applies to all business units and risk types; • risk assessment, measurement, monitoring and reporting; • independent reviews and assessment; and • risk governance processes. The following subcommittees have been formed to assist the board audit, risk and compliance committee (BARC) to manage risks: Board credit committee (BCC) and board lending committee (BLC) One of the group’s primary activities is lending to retail and commercial borrowers. The group accepts deposits from customers or borrows money from investors at both fixed and floating rates, and for various periods, and seeks to earn above-average interest margins by investing these funds in quality assets. The BCC and BLC are tasked to ensure this objective is achieved through the sanctioning of credit and thereby ensuring credit exposures remain within an acceptable range of credit standing. Such exposures involve not just loans and advances reflected on the statement of financial position, but also guarantees and other commitments such as letters of credit. Asset and liability committee (ALCO) The primary responsibility of the ALCO is the management of market and liquidity risks within set risk capacity, appetite and tolerance thresholds while at the same time optimising the group’s profitability and capital position. The ALCO reviews the macro-economic environment, as well as historical financial and strategic performance as inputs in a strategy development process, which is supported by simulations and forecasting. The group trades in financial instruments where it takes positions in traded instruments, including derivatives, to take advantage of, and hedge against adverse, short-term market movements in bonds and in foreign currency, interest rate and commodity prices. Among other responsibilities, ALCO is tasked to monitor the risks associated with these activities. Risk management includes the setting of trading limits on the level of exposure that can be taken in relation to both overnight and intra-day market positions. In addition, with the exception of specific hedging arrangements, foreign exchange and interest rate exposures associated with these derivatives are normally offset by entering into counterbalancing positions, thereby controlling the variability in the net cash amounts required to liquidate market positions. The ALCO also carries the primary responsibility of monitoring the group’s liquidity position, as well as formulating the funding strategy. The interest rate subcommittee reviews the economic environment and recommends interest rate views to ALCO. ALCO activities are reported to the BARC. Risk committee In addition to the mentioned committees, the risk committee, comprising of members of the executive management team and reporting to the BARC, was established. Its primary responsibilities are to: • evaluate the risk management model employed by the group in terms of effectiveness and efficient deployment of resources (i.e. cost versus benefit); • discuss and identify gaps and weaknesses in the management information system to enable management to make the correct decisions; • discuss the findings and recommendations of the group’s risk functions and evaluate whether appropriate action has been taken when necessary; • enhance general risk awareness within the group; • monitor the management of risks to ensure that the group complies with the Bank of Namibia’s guidelines for effective risk management; and • discuss in detail any identified, unidentified and potential risks that are material to the group. 178 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) Credit risk forum (CRF) The purpose of the CRF is to have an oversight of credit risk management in accordance with the board-approved credit risk framework, in order to achieve and maintain an acceptable credit risk profile and an adequate risk and control framework. On portfolio credit risk level, the scope of the CRF includes: • portfolio analysis and performance; • key risk indicators and trends; • risk adjusted pricing performance on portfolio level; • discuss and review credit portfolio risk and recommend to the business units risk enhancement; • product and pricing strategies; • discuss and review of annual risk appetites and stress testing of the credit portfolio before submission to the risk committee; and • discuss and review collateral and recommend necessary improvements. The CRF facilitates compliance with: • Basel and other best practices for credit risk management; • applicable legislative acts; • Bank of Namibia determinations; and • group credit policies. IFRS 9 committee The IFRS 9 committee is the main forum where specific matters that can cause deterioration in credit risk will be discussed. At this meeting decisions will also be made on the risk associated with the prevailing and forecasted macroeconomic conditions and the impact on specific sectors in the applicable economies. The IFRS 9 committee is established to make the following decisions at each reporting period in terms of the impairment allowance model utilised by the group: 1. Assumptions 2. Inputs, including macro-economic variables 3. Results 4. Movements in sectors/regions 5. Sign off total impairments for the reporting period Significant risks to which the group are exposed are discussed below. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 179 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.1 Analysis of assets and liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured either at fair value or at amortised cost. The principal accounting policies on pages 159 to 177 describe how the classes of financial instruments are measured and how income and expenses, including fair value gains and losses, are recognised. The following table analyses the financial assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position per category of financial instrument to which they are assigned and therefore measured. The table includes non-financial assets and liabilities to reconcile to the statement of financial position: 2019 Financial Financial assets/ Financial assets at liabilities at assets/ fair value fair value liabilities at through other Non-financial through amortised comprehensive assets/ profit or loss cost income liabilities Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 ASSETS Cash and balances with the central bank – 1,572,616 – – 1,572,616 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2,037,188 – – – 2,037,188 Financial assets at amortised cost – 860,314 – – 860,314 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – – 4,742,725 – 4,742,725 Due from other banks – 1,724,043 – – 1,724,043 Loans and advances to customers – 38,049,583 – – 38,049,583 Other assets 357 412,383 – 141,680 554,420 Current tax asset – – – 109,549 109,549 Investment in associates – – – 348,716 348,716 Interest in joint arrangements – – – 11,016 11,016 Intangible assets – – – 275,839 275,839 Property, plant and equipment – – – 284,444 284,444 Deferred tax asset – – – 107,502 107,502 Total assets 2,037,545 42,618,939 4,742,725 1,278,746 50,677,955 LIABILITIES Due to other banks – 245,703 – – 245,703 Other borrowings – 996,372 – – 996,372 Debt securities in issue – 5,670,974 – – 5,670,974 Deposits – 36,984,725 – – 36,984,725 Other liabilities 5,959 566,532 – 32,628 605,119 Current tax liability – – – 2,052 2,052 Post-employment benefits – – – 12,232 12,232 Total liabilities 5,959 44,464,306 – 46,912 44,517,177 180 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.1 Analysis of assets and liabilities (continued) 2019 Financial Financial assets/ Financial assets at liabilities at assets/ fair value fair value liabilities at through other Non-financial through amortised comprehensive assets/ profit or loss cost income liabilities Total Company N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 ASSETS Cash and bank balances – 663,895 – – 663,895 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 428,092 – – – 428,092 Financial assets at amortised cost – 255,650 – – 255,650 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 476,153 – – – 476,153 Other assets – 61,009 – 104,200 165,209 Current tax asset – – – 2,717 2,717 Investment in subsidiaries – – – 1,411,348 1,411,348 Investment in associates – – – 198,932 198,932 Deferred tax – – – 22,376 22,376 Total assets 904,245 980,554 – 1,739,573 3,624,372 LIABILITIES Other borrowings – 141,726 – – 141,726 Debt securities in issue – 1,769,729 – – 1,769,729 Other liabilities – 44,162 – 485 44,647 Total liabilities – 1,955,617 – 485 1,956,102 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 181 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.1 Analysis of assets and liabilities (continued) 2018 Financial Designated assets/ at fair Availableliabilities Nonvalue for-sale at financial Held for through Loans and financial amortised assets/ trading profit/loss receivables assets cost liabilities Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 ASSETS Cash and balances with the central bank – – 1,642,557 – – – 1,642,557 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss – 5,245,981 – – – – 5,245,981 Financial assets at amortised cost – – – – 874,252 – 874,252 Investment securities – – – 134,028 – – 134,028 Due from other banks – – 1,773,529 – – – 1,773,529 Loans and advances to customers – – 36,234,418 – – – 36,234,418 Other assets – – 489,326 – – 123,144 612,470 Current tax asset – – – – – 62,722 62,722 Investment in associates – – – – – 282,511 282,511 Interest in joint arrangements – – – – – 7,341 7,341 Intangible assets – – – – – 283,933 283,933 Property, plant and equipment – – – – – 238,446 238,446 Deferred tax asset – – – – – 41,498 41,498 Total assets – 5,245,981 40,139,830 134,028 874,252 1,039,595 47,433,686 LIABILITIES Due to other banks – – – – 252,683 – 252,683 Other borrowings – – – – 1,313,433 – 1,313,433 Debt securities in issue – – – – 4,777,074 – 4,777,074 Deposits – – – – 33,948,091 – 33,948,091 Other liabilities 5,535 – – – 1,198,794 27,860 1,232,189 Current tax liability – – – – – 381 381 Deferred tax liability – – – – – 7,205 7,205 Post-employment benefits – – – – – 11,440 11,440 Total liabilities 5,535 – – – 41,490,075 46,886 41,542,496 182 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.1 Analysis of assets and liabilities (continued) 2018 Financial Designated assets/ at fair Availableliabilities Nonvalue for-sale at financial Held for through Loans and financial amortised assets/ trading profit/loss receivables assets cost liabilities Total Company N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 ASSETS Cash and bank balances – – 104,123 – – – 104,123 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss – 553,173 – – – – 553,173 Financial assets at amortised cost – – – – 202,060 – 202,060 Other assets – – 122,972 – – 474 123,446 Current tax asset – – – – – 1,558 1,558 Investment in subsidiaries – – – – – 1,523,700 1,523,700 Investment in associates – – – – – 144,656 144,656 Deferred tax – – – – – 6,245 6,245 Total assets – 553,173 227,095 – 202,060 1,676,633 2,658,961 LIABILITIES Other borrowings – – – – 95,923 – 95,923 Debt securities in issue – – – – 1,038,272 – 1,038,272 Other liabilities – – – – 217,227 – 217,227 Total liabilities – – – – 1,351,422 – 1,351,422 3.2 Credit risk The group takes on exposure to credit risk, which is the risk that a counterparty will be unable to pay amounts in full when due. Significant changes in the economy of a particular industry segment that represents a concentration in the group’s portfolio, could result in losses that are different from those provided for at the reporting date. Credit risk, together with large exposures, is monitored by the BARC. I n addition to credit risk through a loan, the group is exposed to counterparty credit risk, which is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction could default before the final settlement of the transaction’s cash flows. Unlike credit exposures to loans, exposures to counterparty credit could result in a positive or negative impact to the financial performance of the group, depending on the underlying market factors. Such risk is associated primarily with derivative transactions. 3.2.1 Credit risk measurement (a) Loans and advances (including loan commitments and guarantees) The estimation of credit exposure is complex and requires the use of models, as the value of a product varies with changes in market variables, expected cash flows and the passage of time. The assessment of credit risk of a portfolio of assets entails further estimations as to the likelihood of defaults occurring, of the associated loss ratios and of default correlations between counterparties. T  he group has developed statistical models to support the quantification of credit risk. These quantitative models are in use for all key credit portfolios and form the basis for measuring default risks. In measuring the credit risk of loans and advances at a counterparty level, the group considers three components, namely: (i) the “probability of default” (PD) by the client or counterparty on its contractual obligations; (ii) current exposures to the counterparty and its likely future development, from which the group derives the “exposure at default” (EAD); and (iii) the expected loss on the defaulted obligations the “loss given default” (LGD). This is similar to the approach used for the purposes of measuring expected credit loss (ECL) under IFRS 9 (note 3.2.2).  hese credit risk measurements, which reflect expected loss (the expected loss model), are required by the Basel committee T on banking regulations and the supervisory practices (the Basel committee) and are embedded in the group’s daily operational management. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 183 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.1 Credit risk measurement (continued) (a) Loans and advances (including loan commitments and guarantees) (continued) (i) Probability of default (PD) The probability of default is an indication of the probability that a given loan will default. Under Basel II and IFRS 9 the elements that make up a loss are defined as economic loss and will include direct and indirect costs associated with collecting on the exposure such as allocations of internal overheads and other non-cash costs. The PD in Basel II and IFRS 9 is calculated using historical data of defaults. (ii) Exposure at default (EAD) The exposure at default under Basel II and IFRS 9 will take into account an expectation of future draw-downs until the default event has occurred by utilising loan run down for amortising products and a credit conversion factor for non-amortising products. For example, for a loan this is the face value at the default date. For a commitment, the group includes any amount already drawn plus the further amount that may have been drawn by the time of default, should it occur. (iii) L oss given default (LGD) Loss given default or loss severity represents the group’s expectation of the extent of loss on a claim should default occur (1 – recovery rate). It is expressed as percentage loss per unit of exposure. It typically varies by type of counterparty, type and seniority of claim and availability of collateral or other credit support. The measurement of exposure at default and loss given default is based on the risk parameters standard under Basel II and IFRS 9. (b) Financial assets measured at amortised cost Assets in this category mainly relate to investments in financial instruments that have an external credit rating. Implied probability of defaults have been benchmarked against published estimates by external credit rating agencies. LGDs were benchmarked against Basel best practice. The implied PDs and LGDs are used to calculate expected credit losses for these assets. IFRS 9 – Applicable to the current period figures C  redit risk grading The group uses internal credit risk gradings that reflect its assessment of the PD individual counterparties. The group use internal rating models tailored to the various categories of counterparty. Borrower and loan specific information collected at the time of is fed into the rating model. This is supplemented with external data such as credit bureau scoring information on individual borrowers. The credit grades are calibrated such that the risk of default increases exponentially at each risk grade. The following are additional considerations for each type of portfolio held by the group: Retail After the date of initial recognition, for retail business, the payment behaviour of the borrower is monitored on a periodic basis to develop a behavioural score. Any other known information about the borrower which impacts their creditworthiness – such as unemployment and previous delinquency history – is also incorporated into the behavioural score. This score is mapped to a PD. Corporate For wholesale business, the rating is determined at the borrower level. A relationship manager will incorporate any updated or new information/credit assessments into the credit systems on an ongoing basis. In addition, the relationship manager will also update information about the creditworthiness of the borrower every year from sources such as public financial statements. This will determine the updated internal credit rating and PD. T  he group’s rating method comprises nine rating levels for instruments not in default (CG1to CG9). The rating methods are subject to an annual validation and recalibration so that they reflect the latest projections in the light of all actually observed defaults. Rating Meaning Implied PD CG1 Virtually no risk 1.75% CG2 Low risk 2.05% CG3 Moderate risk 2.83% CG4 Acceptable risk 4.50% CG5 Borderline 5.08% CG6 Special mention 27.41% CG7 Substandard 68.02% CG8 Doubtful 78.77% CG9 Loss 95.72% 184 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.2 Expected credit loss measurement IFRS 9 outlines a “three-stage” model for impairment based on changes on credit quality since initial recognition as summarised below: • A financial instrument that is not credit-impaired on initial recognition is classified in “stage 1” and has its credit risk continuously monitored by the group. • If a significant increase in credit risk (SICR) since initial recognition is identified, the financial instrument is moved to “stage 2” but is not yet deemed to be credit-impaired. Please refer to note 3.2.2.1 for a description of how the group determines when a significant increase in credit risk has occurred. • If the financial instrument is credit-impaired, the financial instrument is then moved to “stage 3”. Please refer to note 3.2.2.2 for a description of how the group defines credit-impaired and default. • Financial instruments in stage 1 have their ECL measured at an amount equal to the portion of lifetime expected credit losses that result from default events possible within the next 12 months. Instruments in stages 2 or 3 have their ECL measured based on expected credit losses on a lifetime basis. Please refer to note 3.2.2.3 for a description of inputs, assumptions and estimation techniques used in measuring the ECL. • A pervasive concept in measuring ECL in accordance with IFRS 9 is that it should be carried forward-looking information. Note 3.2.2.4 includes an explanation of how the group has incorporated this in its ECL models. F  urther explanation is also provided of how the group determines appropriate groupings when ECL is measured on a collective basis (refer to note 3.2.2.5). The following diagram summarises the impairment requirements under IFRS 9: Change in credit quality since initial recognition Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 (Significant increase in credit risk since (Initial recognition) (Credit-impaired assets) initial recognition) 12-month expected credit losses Lifetime expected credit losses Lifetime expected credit losses CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.2 Expected credit loss measurement (continued) The key judgements and assumptions adopted by the group in addressing the requirements of the standard are discussed below: 3.2.2.1 Significant increase in credit risk The group considers a financial instrument to have experienced a significant increase in credit risk when one or more of the following quantitative, qualitative or backstop criteria have been met: Quantitative criteria The credit rating at the reporting date has deteriorated significantly (moved down two rating levels e.g. CG1 to CG3), compared to the credit rating at initial recognition of the account. The thresholds for the significant increase in credit risk is determined by mapping the SICR roll rates to the actual historical arrears roll rates. An account can move back to stage 1 if its credit score improves again. Qualitative criteria Accounts are classified on a watch list when there is qualitative information available on the client’s credit risk increasing. These accounts are moved over to stage 2. The qualitative criteria used to determine whether accounts have increased in credit risk include, but is not limited to: • Repayment ability of clients • Collateral valuations • Sector in which the client operates • Natural events (i.e. drought) • Debtors not paying across industries The criteria used to identify SICR are monitored and reviewed periodically for the appropriateness by the independent Credit Risk team. Once the above matters improved sufficiently, an account can be moved back to stage 1. Backstop A backstop is applied and the financial instruments considered to have experienced a significant increase in credit risk if the borrower is more than 30 days past due on its contractual payments. An account can move back to stage 1 if it is less than 30 days past due. The group has not used the low credit risk exemption for any financial instruments in the year ended 30 June 2019. This was also not applied at transition. 3.2.2.2 Definition of default and credit-impaired assets The group defines a financial instrument as in default, which is fully aligned with the definition of credit-impaired, when it meets one or more of the following criteria: Qualitative criteria The borrower is more than 90 days past due on its contractual payments. Quantitative criteria The borrower meets unlikeliness to pay criteria, which indicates the borrower is in significant financial difficulty. These are instances where: • The borrower is in long-term forbearance • The borrower is deceased • The borrower is insolvent • The borrower is in breach of financial covenants • It is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy The criteria above have been applied to all financial instruments held by the group and are consistent with the definition of default used for internal credit risk management purposes. The default definition has been applied consistently to model the probability of default (PD), exposure at default (EAD) and loss given default (LGD) throughout the group’s expected loss calculations. An instrument is considered to no longer be in default (i.e. to have cured) when it no longer meets any of the default criteria and it is fully paid up for a consecutive period of six months. This period of six months has been determined based on an analysis which considers the likelihood of a financial instrument returning to default status after cure using different possible cure definitions. This is in line with regulatory requirements. When an account has been fully paid up for six months it is moved back to stage 1. 186 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.2 Expected credit loss measurement (continued) 3.2.2.3 Measuring ECL – Explanation of inputs, assumptions and estimation techniques The expected credit loss (ECL) is measured on either a 12-month (12M) or Lifetime basis depending on whether a significant increase in credit has occurred since initial recognition or whether an asset is considered to be credit-impaired. Expected credit losses are the discounted product of the probability of default (PD), exposure at default (EAD) and loss given default (LGD), defined as follows: • The PD represents the likelihood of a borrower defaulting on its financial obligation, either over the next 12 months, or over the remaining lifetime of the obligation. • EAD is based on the amount the group expects to be owed at the time of default, over the next 12 months (12M EAD) or over the remaining lifetime (Lifetime EAD). For a revolving commitment, the group includes the current drawn balance plus any further amount that is to be expected to be drawn up to the current contractual limit by the time of default, should it occur. • Loss given default (LGD) represents the group’s expectation of the extent of loss on a defaulted exposure. LGD varies by type of counterparty. LGD is expressed as a percentage loss per unit of exposure at the time of default (EAD). LGD is calculated on a 12-month or lifetime basis, where 12-month LGD is the percentage of loss expected to be made if the default occurs in the next 12 months and Lifetime LGD is the percentage of loss expected to be made if the default occurs over the remaining expected lifetime of the loan. The ECL is determined by projecting the PD, LGD and EAD for each future month and for each individual exposure or collective segment. These three components are multiplied together and adjusted for the likelihood of survival. This effectively calculates an ECL for each future month, which is then discounted back to the reporting date and summed. The discount rate used in the ECL calculation is the original effective interest rate or an approximation thereof. The Lifetime PD is developed by applying a maturity profile to the current 12 month PD. The maturity profile looks at how defaults develop on a portfolio from the point of observation throughout the remainder of the lifetime of the loans. The maturity profile is based on historical observed data and is assumed to be the same across all assets within a portfolio segment. This is supported by historical analysis. The 12-month and lifetime EADs are determined based on the expected payment profile, which varies by product type. • For amortisation products and bullet repayment loans, this is based on the contractual repayments owed by the borrower over a 12-month or lifetime basis. This will also be adjusted for any expected overpayments made by the borrower. Early repayment/ refinance assumptions are also incorporated into the calculation. • For revolving products, the EAD is predicted by taking current drawn balance and adding a “credit conversion factor” which allows for the expected drawdown of the remaining limit by the time of default. These assumptions vary by product type and current limit utilisation band, based on analysis of the group’s recent default data. The 12-month and lifetime LGDs are determined based on the factors which impact the recoveries made post default. These vary by product type. This is supported by historical analysis of recoveries per portfolio segment, including the discounting of the recoveries to the default date as well as the recovery costs accounted for. The assumptions underlying the ECL calculation are monitored and reviewed on a quarterly basis. There have been no significant changes in estimation techniques or significant assumptions made during the reporting period. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 187 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.2 Expected credit loss measurement (continued) 3.2.2.4 Forward-looking information incorporated in the ECL models The assessment of SICR and the calculation of ECL both incorporate forward-looking information. The group has performed historical analysis and identified the key economic variables impacting credit risk and expected credit losses for each portfolio. The forecast of economic variables, regression analysis and expert judgement is applied and confirmed through internal governance structures in order to apply a Base, Upper and Lower scenario of the forward looking view for the ECL calculation. The following table shows the main macroeconomic factors used to estimate the allowances for credit losses on loan. The model is based on a weighting of 50/40/10 for the Base, Upper and Lower scenario. The remaining forecast period is a 20-year forecast to allow for all longer-term loans.: Base Scenario Lower Scenario Upper Scenario Remaining Remaining Remaining Next forecast Next forecast Next forecast Macroeconomic factors 12 months period 12 months period 12 months period Namibia Inflation 4.54% 5.93% 3.63% 4.75% 5.45% 7.12% Real GDP 1.73% 3.77% 1.39% 3.02% 2.08% 4.52% Prime Rate 10.17% 11.92% 9.92% 11.67% 10.42% 12.17% Botswana Inflation 3.60% 4.90% 2.20% 2.90% 8.10% 6.80% Real GDP 3.90% 4.50% 3.50% 3.70% 4.60% 4.30% Prime Rate 6.50% 8.50% 6.00% 6.20% 8.50% 7.50% Zambia Inflation 9.8% 10.1% 8.73% 7.00% 10.67% 10.67% Real GDP 3.1% 2.7% 4.03% 4.03% 2.86% 2.86% Prime Rate 10.3% 10.3% 9.75% 9.75% 12.45% 12.45% The following table shows a comparison of the group’s allowances for credit losses on non-impaired exposures under IFRS 9 as at 30 June 2019 based on the probability weightings of above-mentioned three scenarios with allowances for credit losses resulting from simulations of each scenario weighted at 100%. For the sensitivity analysis on the SICR rules the quantitative SICR rules were adjusted. The SICR movements per scenario is shown below: Base – 2 credit grades move downwards since origination Lower – 3 credit grades move downwards since origination (less stringent) Upper – 1 credit grade move downwards since origination (more stringent) Allowances for credit % Change losses of total loss Sensitivity analysis (N$’000) allowance ECL 763,519 0.00% SICR rules Lower 752,218 (1.48%) Upper 800,111 4.79% Forward-looking view Base 753,383 (1.33%) Lower 759,135 (0.57%) Upper 773,128 1.26% 188 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.2 Expected credit loss measurement (continued) 3.2.2.5 Grouping of instruments for losses measured on a collective basis For expected credit loss provisions modelled on a collective basis, a grouping of exposures is performed on the basis of shared risk characteristics, such that risk exposures within the group are homogeneous. In performing this grouping, there must be sufficient information for the group to be statistically credible. Where sufficient information is not available internally, the group has considered benchmarking internal/external supplementary data to use for modelling purposes. The characteristics and any supplementary data used to determine groupings are outlined below: • Product type • Repayment type • Collateral type The groupings above only apply to stage 1 and stage 2 credit impairments. All stage 3 exposures are assessed individually. The appropriateness of groupings is monitored and reviewed on a periodic basis by the IFRS 9 committee. 3.2.3 Loss allowance The loss allowance recognised in the period is impacted by a variety of factors, as described below: • Transfers between stage 1 and stages 2 or 3 due to financial instruments experiencing significant increases (or decreases) of credit risk or becoming credit-impaired in the period, and the consequent “step up” (or “step down”) between 12-month and Lifetime ECL; • Additional allowances for new financial instruments recognised during the period, as well as releases for financial instruments de-recognised in the period; • Impact on the measurement of ECL due to changes in PDs, EADs and LGDs in the period, arising from regular refreshing of inputs to models; • Impacts on the measurement of ECL due to changes made to models and assumptions; • Discount unwind within ECL due to the passage of time, as ECL is measured on a present value basis; • Foreign exchange retranslations for assets denominated in foreign currencies and other movements; and • Financial assets derecognised during the period and write-offs of allowances related to assets that were written off during the period (see note 3.2.10) CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 189 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.3 Loss allowance (continued) The following table explain the changes in the loss allowance between the beginning and the end of the annual period due to these factors: Total Opening transfer Net Impaired Exchange Closing ECL between impairments accounts and other ECL Group 1 July 2018 stages raised written off movements 30 June 2019 Overdrafts 177,223 – 25,301 (4,886) – 197,638 Stage 1 38,684 (517) (4,605) (1) 518 34,079 Stage 2 31,072 (4,318) 7,830 (42) 4,360 38,902 Stage 3 107,467 4,835 22,076 (4,843) (4,878) 124,657 Term loans 182,495 – 73,529 (42,630) (3,627) 209,767 Stage 1 34,454 (461) 15,166 (10,819) 1,939 40,279 Stage 2 21,364 (2,969) 2,110 (2,706) 5,675 23,474 Stage 3 126,677 3,430 56,253 (29,105) (11,241) 146,014 Mortgages 152,269 – 12,974 (402) – 164,841 Stage 1 16,514 (221) (3,116) 13,177 Stage 2 18,267 (2,539) (3,563) 2,760 14,925 Stage 3 117,488 2,760 19,653 (402) (2,760) 136,739 Instalment finance 269,130 – (2,946) (25,075) (49,836) 191,273 Stage 1 64,341 (862) 11,473 (1) (9,950) 65,001 Stage 2 72,423 (10,065) (31,528) (14) (5,861) 24,955 Stage 3 132,366 10,927 17,109 (25,060) (34,025) 101,317 Total loans and advances 781,117 – 108,858 (72,993) (53,463) 763,519 Other financial instruments 19,696 – 17,177 – – 36,873 Stage 1 729 – 168 – – 897 Stage 2 18,967 – 17,009 – – 35,976 Total 800,813 – 126,035 (72,993) (53,463) 800,392 Total Opening transfer Net Impaired Exchange Closing ECL between impairments accounts and other ECL Company 1 July 2018 stages raised written off movements 30 June 2019 Financial assets at amortised cost 1,411 – 15,721 – – 17,132 Stage 1 1,411 (1,411) – – – – Stage 2 – 1,411 15,721 – – 17,132 Other assets 22,395 – – – (6,092) 16,303 Stage 3 22,395 – – – (6,092) 16,303 Total 23,806 – 15,721 – (6,092) 33,435 190 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.3 Loss allowance (continued) Significant changes in the gross carrying amount of financial assets that contributed to changes in the loss allowance were as follows: Overdrafts • Gross overdrafts increase by N$114.4 million (2.1%) from the prior period, which led to stage 1 and stage 2 expected credit losses to remain relatively flat year-on-year. • Non-performing overdrafts increased by N$158.5 million year-on-year, which resulted in an increase in stage 3 expected credit losses of N$17.2 million. The non-performing overdrafts are well secured with a fair value of security of N$283.7 million. Term loans • Term loans increased by N$1.9 billion (19.0%) from the prior period, mainly driven by growth in commercial loans. • The write-off of term loans with a gross carrying value of N$42.6 million resulted in the reduction of the expected credit loss allowance with the same amount. Mortgages • Mortgages grew by N$500.2 million (2.9%) over the prior period. • Expected loss allowances grew by 8.3% mainly as a result of an increase in well-collateralised non-performing mortgage loans of N$102.3 million. Instalment finance • Due to the current economic environment, the demand for instalment finance has subsided, with gross instalment finance loans shrinking by N$152.6 million (4.5%) year-on-year. • This is coupled with a deteriorating exchange rate of the Zambian kwacha leading to the majority of the N$49.8 million foreign exchange difference of the expected credit losses. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 191 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.4 Maximum exposure to credit risk before collateral held or other credit enhancements 3.2.4.1 Maximum exposure to credit risk – All financial instruments Maximum exposure 2019 2018 Group Notes N$’000 N$’000 Credit risk exposures relating to on-statement of financial position assets are as follows: Cash and balances with the central bank 13 1,572,616 1,642,557 Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss 14 2,037,188 5,245,981 – Treasury bills – 3,221,439 – Government stock – 438,741 – Unit trust investments 2,037,188 42,056 – Money market investments – 1,091,826 – Tradable instruments – 411,707 – Corporate bonds – 40,212 Gross financial assets at amortised cost 14 897,187 874,252 – Treasury bills 208,367 249,537 – Government stock 688,820 624,715 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 15 4,742,725 134,028 – Investment securities 3,160 134,028 – Treasury bills 3,494,404 – – Government stock 728,510 – – Tradable instruments 476,153 – – Corporate bonds 40,498 – Due from other banks 16 1,724,043 1,773,529 Gross loans and advances to customers1 17 38,946,115 36,600,985 – Overdrafts 5,576,472 5,462,041 – Term loans 12,001,762 10,083,575 – Mortgages 17,748,863 17,248,618 – Instalment finance 3,209,275 3,361,848 – Preference shares 409,743 444,903 Other assets* 18 412,740 489,326 Total exposure on-statement of financial position 50,332,614 46,760,658 Credit risk exposure relating to off-statement of financial position items are as follows: Liabilities under guarantees 38 1,280,854 1,380,115 Letters of credit 38 230,143 315,491 Loan commitments 38 1,699,163 1,714,759 Total exposure off-statement of financial position 3,210,160 3,410,365 Total credit risk exposure 53,542,774 50,171,023 192 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.4 Maximum exposure to credit risk before collateral held or other credit enhancements (continued) 3.2.4.1 Maximum exposure to credit risk – All financial instruments (continued) Maximum exposure 2019 2018 Company Notes N$’000 N$’000 Cash and bank balances 13 663,895 104,123 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 14 428,092 553,173 – Money market investments 428,092 31,972 – Government stock 109,494 – Tradable instruments 411,707 Gross financial assets at amortised cost 14 272,782 202,060 – Preference shares 272,782 202,060 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 15 476,153 – – Tradable instruments 476,153 – Other assets* 77,312 122,972 Total exposure on statement of financial position 1,918,234 982,328 Total credit risk exposure 1,918,234 982,328 ¹ Excludes the impact of interest in suspense and the IFRS 9 effective interest rate impact. * Other assets exposed to credit risk include insurance fund asset, accounts receivable, derivatives as well as clearing and settlement accounts. The table represents a worst-case scenario of credit risk exposure to the group as at 30 June 2019 and 2018, without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements attached. For all assets listed on the statement of financial position, the exposures set out above are based on carrying amounts as reported. The most significant exposures are derived from loans and advances to banks and customers. Management is confident in its ability to continue to control and sustain minimal exposure of credit risk to the group resulting from both its loans and advances portfolio and other securities based on the following: • The group employs a range of policies and practices to mitigate credit risk. Refer to note 3.2.3. • Mortgage loans, which represent the biggest group in the loans and advances to customers portfolio, are backed by collateral. • All financial assets, other than loans and advances, are neither past due nor impaired. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 193 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.4 Maximum exposure to credit risk before collateral held or other credit enhancements (continued) 3.2.4.2 Maximum exposure to credit risk – Financial instruments subject to the impairment The following table contains an analysis of the credit risk exposure of financial instruments for which an ECL allowance is recognised. The gross carrying amount of financial assets below also represents the group’s maximum exposure to credit risk on these assets. 2019 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 12-month ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL Total N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Credit grade Not rated 75,760 23,402 163,829 262,991 Low risk (CG1 – CG2) 33,278 21,238 1,174 55,690 Medium risk (CG3 – CG5) 41,851 44,375 92,765 178,991 Special monitoring (CG6 – CG7) 1,639 13,074 223,102 237,815 Doubtful (CG8 – CG9) 8 167 27,857 28,032 Gross carrying amount¹ 35,614,458 1,718,866 1,612,791 38,946,115 Loss allowance (152,536) (102,256) (508,727) (763,519) Carrying amount¹ 35,461,922 1,616,610 1,104,064 38,182,596 ¹ Excludes the impact of interest in suspense and the IFRS 9 effective interest rate adjustment. Financial instruments at amortised cost Credit grade Non-rated 897 35,976 – 36,873 Gross carrying amount 191,834 705,353 – 897,187 Loss allowance (897) (35,976) – (36,873) Carrying amount 190,937 669,377 – 860,314 Information on how the expected credit loss (ECL) is measured and how the three stages above are determined is included in note 3.2.2 “Expected credit loss measurement”. 194 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.5 Risk limit control and mitigation policies The group structures the levels of credit risk it undertakes by placing limits on the amount of risk accepted in relation to one borrower, or groups of borrowers, and to industry segments. Such risks are monitored on a monthly basis and are subject to regular review. Limits on the level of credit risk by country are approved by the board of directors. The exposure to any one borrower, including banks and brokers, is further restricted by sublimits covering on and off-statement of financial position exposures and daily delivery risk limits in relation to trading items such as forward foreign exchange contracts. Exposure to credit risk is managed up-front when an application for credit is received. The credit risk management model is utilised by the group and assesses the three components of safety, desirability and profitability. Throughout the lifespan of the credit facility, regular analyses of the ability of borrowers and potential borrowers to meet interest and capital repayment obligations are assessed and lending limits are changed where appropriate. Exposure to credit risk is also managed in part by obtaining collateral, insurance and corporate and personal guarantees. The amount the group is willing to lend unsecured is restricted and approved by the board. Placements with banks, including loans and advances to banks, are subject to the normal credit process. The credit limits to these banks take into consideration ratings performed by external rating agencies. Other specific control and mitigation measures are outlined below: (a) Collateral The group employs a range of policies and practices to mitigate credit risk. The most traditional of these is the taking of security for funds advanced, which is common practice. Within the credit risk area, mandates are predetermined in order to ensure that the applicable level of authority provides guidance and approval for advances. Risk exposure to advances is reduced by obtaining approved security as defined by the board credit committee and listed in the advance instruction manual. The group implements guidelines on the acceptability of specific classes of collateral or credit risk mitigation and the principal collateral types for loans and advances are: • cash deposited with and ceded to the group; • deposits with any registered financial institution and ceded to the group; • life insurance policies with a confirmed surrender value; and • any other form of tangible collateral security subject to approval by the board credit committee. Collateral per class of loans and advances: Mortgages: • first, second and third covering bond; and • cession of fire policy. Instalment finance: • the instalment finance contract binds the underlying article as security. The following security can be given for any loan class depending on the circumstances and purpose of the loan: • suretyships; • registered cession of life insurance policy; • any other form of tangible collateral security subject to approval by the board credit committee; and • cession of fixed deposits, notice deposits, bills, bonds, shares, investments or debtors. Valuation methodologies (which include applying a hair-cut to the fair value of collateral depending on a number of factors) and the period of validity on collateral are outlined in established policies, which are approved by the board. The group’s policies regarding obtaining collateral have not significantly changed during the reporting period and there has been no significant change in the overall quality of the collateral held by the group since the prior period. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 195 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.5 Risk limit control and mitigation policies (continued) IFRS 9 – Applicable to current period figures The group closely monitors collateral held for financial assets considered to be credit-impaired, as it becomes more likely that the group will take possession of collateral to mitigate potential credit losses. Financial assets that are credit-impaired and related collateral held in order to mitigate potential losses are shown below: Gross Impairment Carrying Fair value of exposure allowance amount collateral held N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Credit-impaired assets – Overdrafts 382,321 (124,657) 257,664 283,662 – Term loans 355,436 (146,014) 209,422 248,959 – Mortgages 767,494 (136,739) 630,755 669,801 – Instalment finance 107,540 (101,317) 6,223 55,662 Total credit-impaired assets 1,612,791 (508,727) 1,104,064 1,258,084 Property valuation In the case where a property is offered as security in the form of covering a mortgage bond, the valuation of the property is valid for two years in the banking book (excluding residential properties offered for home loans). A revaluation of the property needs to be done when there is an indication that the value of the property has declined. A revaluation of the property by an approved valuator is required when a further advance or additional mortgage is applied for, when the mortgage defaults, when an application for the release of collateral or any additional security is received or for properties in possession. Homeowners comprehensive insurance is compulsory for all mortgage loans. All articles financed by the group must be comprehensively insured. Life insurance valuation Life insurance that is used as security for loans taken out at the group is ceded to the group and the cession is registered by the insurance company. The values of the life insurance policies ceded to the group must be updated at least annually to determine the security value and to establish whether premiums are up to date. Credit life insurance In the case of microloans, the customer signs a formal loan agreement and sufficient credit life insurance is ceded to the group. A formal payroll agreement between the applicant’s employer and the group is also signed. Non-government applicants must sign an acknowledgement of debt and cede their surplus benefits (e.g. unpaid leave) payable on termination of service to the group. Long-term finance and lending to corporate entities are generally secured. In addition, in order to minimise the credit loss, the group will seek additional collateral from the counterparty as soon as impairment indicators are noticed for the relevant individual loans and advances. Although revolving individual credit facilities are generally unsecured, these are only granted to clients after stringent credit reviews. 196 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.5 Risk limit control and mitigation policies (continued) (b) Financial instruments subject to master netting arrangements (MNA) and similar agreements In accordance with IAS 32 the group offsets financial assets and financial liabilities and presents the net amount in the statement of financial position only if there is both a legally enforceable right to offset and there is an intention to settle the amounts on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The group is subject to an MNA in the form of ISDA agreements with counterparties. ISDA agreements, under which swaps and derivatives are traded, may not be legally enforceable as one transaction to enforce post insolvency set-off and netting within Namibia, thus the IAS 32 set off requirements are not met. Consequently no financial assets and financial liabilities, subject to MNAs, have been presented on the net amount in the statement of financial position. (c) Derivatives The group maintains strict control limits on net open derivative positions (i.e. the difference between purchase and sale contracts), by both amount and term. At any one time, the amount subject to credit risk is limited to the current fair value of instruments that are favourable to the group (i.e. assets where their fair value is positive), which in relation to derivatives is only a small fraction of the contract, or notional values used to express the volume of instruments outstanding. This credit risk exposure is managed as part of the overall lending limits with customers, together with potential exposures from market movements. Collateral or other security is not usually obtained for credit risk exposures on these instruments, except where the group requires margin deposits from counterparties. (d) Credit-related commitments The primary purpose of these instruments is to ensure that funds are available to a customer as required. Guarantees and standby letters of credit, which represent irrevocable assurance that the group will make payments in the event that a customer cannot meet its obligations to third parties, carry the same credit risk as loans. Documentary and commercial letters of credit, which are written undertakings by the group on behalf of a customer authorising a third party to draw drafts on the group up to a stipulated amount under specific terms and conditions, are collateralised by the underlying shipments of goods to which they relate and therefore carry less risk than a direct borrowing. 3.2.6 Credit quality of loans and advances and other financial instruments (i) Credit quality and management of loans and advances Initial applications The banks (Bank Windhoek, Bank Gaborone and Cavmont Bank) are the largest contributors to the group’s credit risk. The banks apply a standardised approach when assessing applications for credit. All applications are completed according to the banks’ risk model, which covers all information required to make an informed decision when granting advances. The risk model has the main components of safety, desirability and profitability which is further broken down as: • background; • needs; • financial position; • security; • desirability; • profitability; and • recommendation – positive/negative aspects. No internal scoring models are used except for the microloans book, where the Delphi score forms part of the assessment. Assessments on all other loan classes are performed on a judgemental basis. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 197 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.6 Credit quality of loans and advances and other financial instruments (continued) (i) Credit quality and management of loans and advances (continued) Subsequent credit assessments Management information system reports were developed over time in order to effectively monitor and manage the quality of the loan portfolio and pro-actively identify problem accounts and trends. The following reports are generated: • Excesses are reported on a daily basis and reviewed annually. • The branches submit a monthly report on specific issues in order to take remedial actions on dormant accounts, suspended accounts, irregular accounts (outstanding 30 days and longer), outstanding security, special mention accounts, guarantees, letters of credit and foreign exchange contracts, floor plans, savings accounts in overdraft and bad debts written off within branch mandates. • The credit department submits a monthly report to the executive management team and a more detailed report to the board of directors on a quarterly basis regarding the status of the credit portfolio of the group. • Monthly statistics per product are used to monitor the quality and management of the loan portfolio per branch. • All clients with exposures approved above branch level are interviewed by credit before non-performing accounts are transferred to the legal collections branch. • All transfers to the legal collections branch with a material impairment are scrutinised by the credit department and categorised under: –– poor assessment; –– poor management; –– poor collateral management; –– economic reasons; and –– other. The banks have a process to proactively manage potential problem accounts to prevent possible losses. These advances are identified with assistance of the branches and are part of monthly credit reporting processes. Impairments on these active accounts are raised in accordance with regulatory requirements under the special mention category. 198 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.6 Credit quality of loans and advances and other financial instruments (continued) (i) Credit quality and management of loans and advances (continued) Subsequent credit assessments (continued) The table below shows the loans and advances age analysis as required by the Banking Institutions Act: Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 0–30 31–60 61–90 More than Not past days days days 90 days Total Group due N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2019 Overdrafts 4,654,126 495,685 12,883 31,457 382,321 5,576,472 Term loans 11,363,218 139,865 47,933 95,310 355,436 12,001,762 Mortgages 16,148,436 525,174 198,244 109,515 767,494 17,748,863 Instalment finance 3,038,935 43,793 7,560 11,447 107,540 3,209,275 Preference shares 409,743 – – – – 409,743 Total gross loans and advances1 35,614,458 1,204,517 266,620 247,729 1,612,791 38,946,115 Impairments raised (152,536) (71,657) (15,861) (14,738) (508,727) (763,519) Net loans and advance1 35,461,922 1,132,860 250,759 232,991 1,104,064 38,182,596 ¹ Excludes the impact of interest in suspense and the IFRS 9 effective interest rate impact. NonNeither Special mention performing past Past due nor due not 0–30 31–60 61–90 More than impaired impaired days days days 90 days Total N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2018 Overdrafts 4,903,361 143,077 80,879 9,021 101,902 223,801 5,462,041 Term loans 9,260,775 156,278 73,836 108,427 82,131 402,128 10,083,575 Mortgages 16,374,236 213,617 58,264 34,739 39,309 528,453 17,248,618 Instalment finance 3,241,103 18,760 3,039 10,619 5,014 83,313 3,361,848 Preference shares 444,903 – – – – – 444,903 Total gross loans and advances 34,224,378 531,732 216,018 162,806 228,356 1,237,695 36,600,985 Specific impairment raised against unsecured amount* – – (9,768) (7,357) (1,723) (239,563) (258,411) Total loans and advances after specific impairments 34,224,378 531,732 206,250 155,449 226,633 998,132 36,342,574 Security held against past due not impaired and impaired loans – (156,934) (151,383) (155,449) (104,962) (998,132) (1,566,860) 34,224,378 374,798 54,867 – 121,671 – 34,775,714 * The specific impairment raised against the 0–30 days, 31–60 days and 61–90 days categories relates to a number of clients with future possible loss indicators. Further information of the impairment allowance for loans and advances to customers is provided in note 17. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 199 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.6 Credit quality of loans and advances and other financial instruments (continued) (ii) Non-performing loans and advances Loans and advances are managed with reference to the days in arrears. Days in arrears are calculated based on the amount past due relative to the instalment amount. Loans and advances outstanding for longer than 90 days are considered non-performing and are included in stage 3 for the loss allowance calculation. As determined by the regulatory requirements, any asset which is overdue 30 days or more but less than 90 days shall be classified as special mention, at a minimum and is subject to impairment in accordance with the stage 2 calculations. The group follows a more conservative approach than the regulators and already classifies loans in 0–30 days on a watchlist, where, on a case-by-case basis, indicators of a possible future loss event exist. Additionally, loans that are made to a specific industry or individuals that are not past due, but we deem to be risky are assessed and in certain instances subject to impairment in accordance with the stage 2 calculations. Loans categorised on the watchlist are performing but subject to the impairment in accordance to the IFRS 9 calculations. Non-performing loans and advances to customers before taking into consideration the cash flows from collateral held is N$1612.8 million (2018: N$749.4 million). The increase in non-performing loans and advances is mainly due to the deterioration of the macro-economic environment. The breakdown of the gross amounts of non-performing loans and advances by class, along with the value of related tangible collateral held by the group as security, is as follows: Instalment Overdrafts Term loans Mortgages finance Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2018 Non-performing loans 223,801 402,128 528,453 83,313 1,237,695 Value of tangible collateral 184,327 297,649 469,190 46,966 998,132 Impairment raised against unsecured amount (Capped at net carrying value) 39,474 104,479 59,263 36,347 239,563 Net exposure – – – – – The value of tangible collateral disclosed above is limited to the outstanding balance, therefore any over-collateralised portion of a loan is excluded from the value of tangible collateral. Impairments are raised for under-collateralised non-performing loans, resulting in a net exposure of nil. Refer to note 3.2.3 a) for the range of collateral policies and practices in place. (iii) Non-performing loans and advances by geographical area 2019 2018 Geographical area N$’000 N$’000 Namibia 1,222,936 829,389 Botswana 278,585 275,713 Zambia 111,270 132,593 1,612,791 1,237,695 200 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.6 Credit quality of loans and advances and other financial instruments (continued) (iv) Credit quality of financial assets other than loans and advances As at 30 June the following financial instruments are neither past due nor impaired: Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Cash and balances with the central bank 1,572,616 1,642,557 663,895 104,123 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2,037,188 5,245,981 428,092 553,173 Financial assets at amortised cost 897,187 874,252 272,782 202,060 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 4,742,725 134,028 476,153 – Due from other banks 1,724,043 1,773,529 – – Other assets 412,740 489,326 61,009 122,972 Balances with the central bank, treasury bills and government stock (financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income) are subject to counterparty limits. Balances due from other banks are also subject to counterparty limits and together with credit ratings are factors in determining the investment decision. The group applies credit ratings in line with regulatory requirements to reflect the credit risk of financial instruments. External credit ratings from reputable international rating agencies are utilised for cross border exposures, which is augmented with thorough internal credit and financial analyses in the determination and setting of exposure limits. Distinction between two broad credit quality classes are made, i.e. investment grade (AAA to BBB) and speculative/high-yield (BB and lower). Fitch ratings are utilised as far as possible. If Fitch ratings are not available, Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s ratings are used for classification. If no ratings are available (i.e. certain African countries) these exposures are classified as unrated and are subject to much stricter lending criteria. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 201 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.6 Credit quality of loans and advances and other financial instruments (continued) (iv) Credit quality of financial assets other than loans and advances (continued) The following section summarises the credit quality of financial assets and exposures to corresponding and counterparty banks for 30 June. Investment Speculative/ Carrying grade high-yield value (AAA to BBB) (BB and lower) Unrated Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2019 Balances with the central bank – – 1,188,613 – 1,188,613 Cash balances – – – 384,003 384,003 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – – 2,037,188 – 2,037,188 – Unit trust and money market investments – – 2,037,188 – 2,037,188 Financial assets at amortised cost – 643,678 216,636 – 860,314 – Treasury bills – – 193,059 – 193,059 – Government stock – 643,678 23,577 – 667,255 – Preference shares – – – – – Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – – 4,741,333 1,392 4,742,725 – Investment securities – – 1,768 1,392 3,160 – Treasury bills – – 3,494,404 – 3,494,404 – Government stock – – 728,510 – 728,510 – Tradable instruments – – 476,153 – 476,153 – Other securities – – 40,498 – 40,498 Due from other banks – 554,081 16,795 1,153,167 1,724,043 Other assets – – – 412,740 412,740 Non-financial assets 1,278,746 – – – 1,278,746 Total assets (excluding loans and advances) 1,278,746 1,197,759 8,200,565 1,951,301 12,628,372 202 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.6 Credit quality of loans and advances and other financial instruments (continued) (iv) Credit quality of financial assets other than loans and advances (continued) Investment Speculative/ Carrying grade high-yield value (AAA to BBB) (BB and lower) Unrated Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2018 Balances with the central bank – – 1,278,640 – 1,278,640 Cash balances – – – 363,917 363,917 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss – – 5,245,981 – 5,245,981 – Treasury bills – – 3,221,439 – 3,221,439 – Government stock – – 438,741 – 438,741 – Unit trust and money market investments – – 1,091,826 – 1,091,826 – Tradable instruments – – 411,707 – 411,707 – Other securities – – 82,268 – 82,268 Financial assets at amortised cost – 624,715 249,537 – 874,252 – Treasury bills – – 249,537 – 249,537 – Government stock – 624,715 – – 624,715 – Preference shares – – – – – Investment securities – 134,028 – – 134,028 Due from other banks – 917,324 77,733 778,472 1,773,529 Other assets – – – 489,326 489,326 Non-financial assets 1,039,595 – – – 1,039,595 Total assets (excluding loans and advances) 1,039,595 1,676,067 6,851,891 1,631,715 11,199,268 Unrated exposures consist mainly of cash balances, due from other banks and other assets, which are short-term and highly liquid in nature. The creditworthiness of government and large commercial banks’ money market instruments are of high quality, which poses low credit risk. Other assets consist of accounts receivable, insurance fund asset, derivatives as well as clearing and settlement accounts. Rated and unrated exposures are not collateralised and foreign currency exposures are hedged. For the company, all financial assets are rated at investment grade (AAA to BBB) for the current period and prior period, except for preference shares and other assets, which are unrated. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 203 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.6 Credit quality of loans and advances and other financial instruments (continued) (iv) Credit quality of financial assets other than loans and advances (continued) The following risk weightings are applied for due from other banks when calculating the risk-based capital ratios: (a) Long-term claims Exposures to banks assigned a credit risk assessment rating of AAA to AA20% Exposures to banks assigned a credit assessment rating of A+ to BBBor unrated 50% Exposures to banks assigned a credit assessment rating of BB+ to B100% Exposures to banks assigned a credit assessment rating of below B150% (b) Short-term claims Claims denominated and funded in domestic currency with an original maturity of three months or less, assigned a credit assessment rating of AAA to BBBor unrated 20% Exposures to banks assigned a credit risk assessment rating of AAA to AA20% Exposures to banks assigned a credit assessment rating of A+ to BBBor unrated 20% Claims to banks assigned a credit assessment rating of BB+ to Bor unrated 50% Claims to banks assigned a credit assessment rating of below B150% Unchanged from prior period risk weightings. 3.2.7 Repossessed collateral The group obtains assets by taking possession of collateral held as security. The value of the assets still on the statement of financial position for 30 June 2019 was N$8.8 million (30 June 2018: nil.) Repossessed properties are sold as soon as practicable with the proceeds used to reduce the outstanding indebtedness. Repossessed property is classified in the statement of financial position as other assets. 204 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.8 Credit risk-weighted amounts The following risk-weighted amounts, including related impairments and write-offs, have been assigned to the components of credit risk for the group, as defined in BID 5 – Determination on Capital Adequacy. The figures below will not reconcile to the statement of financial position as it represents statutory, risk-weighted amounts. Risk-weighted Exposure Impairment amounts Written off N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2019 Counterparties Sovereign and central bank 5,407,179 – 206,751 – Security firms 8,682 – 8,682 – Public sector entities 363,609 – 123,450 – Banks 2,133,868 – 606,932 – Corporate 12,296,584 97,872 12,321,977 – Retail 7,161,050 162,498 5,347,680 72,591 Residential mortgage properties 10,624,876 41,361 5,480,627 402 Commercial real estate 7,436,085 47,861 7,462,825 – Other assets 6,472,113 – 4,345,012 – Included in other assets: – Listed shares 3,160 – 3,160 – 51,904,046 349,592 35,903,936 72,993 Commitments 3,003,896 – 1,301,996 – As at 30 June 2018 Counterparties Sovereign and central bank 5,044,406 – – – Public sector entities 466,487 – 152,223 – Banks 1,721,411 – 360,870 – Corporate 8,950,348 12,506 9,929,610 – Retail 8,261,673 117,948 6,212,652 35,662 Residential mortgage properties 10,112,577 47,631 5,227,930 5,285 Commercial real estate 7,136,041 7,281 7,389,207 66 Other assets 4,720,248 – 3,102,373 – Included in other assets: – Listed shares 134,028 – 134,028 – 46,413,191 185,366 32,374,865 41,013 Commitments 3,412,153 – 1,231,578 – CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 205 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.8 Credit risk-weighted amounts (continued) Only claims on banks are risk-weighted based on external credit assessment for capital adequacy calculations. The group utilises available external rating agencies’ ratings on both short-term and long-term exposures. No amounts are deducted from the group’s capital. The Bank of Namibia does not have its own credit rating. The sovereign and central bank credit risk weighting has been 0% for local currency issued and controlled by the central bank. The long-term country credit ratings by an external credit rating agency for Namibia, Botswana and Zambia were as follows: 2019 2018 Namibia long-term local currency issuer default rating BB+ BB+ Namibia long-term issuer default rating BB+ BB+ Botswana long-term local currency issuer default rating AABotswana long-term issuer default rating AAZambia long-term local currency issuer default rating CCCB Zambia long-term issuer default rating CCCB 3.2.9 Credit concentration risk The group manages credit concentration risk by imposing credit risk concentration caps on the exposure for different loans and advances classifications, such as product classes, regions and industry. The credit risk concentration caps are directly linked to the board-approved risk capacity, appetite and tolerance thresholds, and are managed as part of the risk management process. The credit concentration risk is also further assessed using stress testing and scenario analyses quantitative models. 206 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.9 Credit concentration risk (continued) The following table breaks down the group’s main credit exposure at their gross amounts, as categorised by the industry sectors of counterparties: Financial assets at fair value Financial Cash and through assets at Financial balances other fair value assets at Loans and with the comprehensive through amortised Due from advances Other central bank income profit or loss cost other banks to customers assets2 Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2019 Agriculture and forestry – – – – – 2,140,681 – 2,140,681 Fishing – – – – – 685,374 – 685,374 Mining – – – – – 956,961 – 956,961 Manufacturing – – – – – 866,729 – 866,729 Building and construction – – – – – 1,366,829 – 1,366,829 Electricity, gas and water – – – – – 1,681,518 – 1,681,518 Trade and accommodation1 – – – – – 3,990,379 – 3,990,379 Transport and communication – – – – – 1,245,644 – 1,245,644 Finance and insurance 384,003 405,265 2,037,188 – 1,724,043 3,790,759 357 8,341,615 Real estate and business services – – – – – 4,783,496 – 4,783,496 Government 1,188,613 4,337,460 – 897,187 – 4,920,377 – 11,343,637 Individuals – – – – – 11,526,129 – 11,526,129 Other – – – – – 858,226 412,383 1,270,609 Impairment – – – (36,873) – (763,519) – (800,392) 1,572,616 4,742,725 2,037,188 860,314 1,724,043 38,049,583 412,740 49,399,209 1 Trade and accommodation includes all loans and advances granted to individuals that acquire property for residential purposes through closed corporation entity types, e.g. residential mortgage loans and advances granted to hotels, lodges, restaurants and the related. 2 Other assets include the insurance fund asset, accounts receivable, derivatives as well as clearing and settlement accounts. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 207 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.9 Credit concentration risk (continued) Financial Cash and assets at Financial balances fair value assets at Loans and with the Investment through amortised Due from advances to Other central bank securities profit or loss cost other banks customers assets2 Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2018 Agriculture and forestry – – – – – 2,242,881 – 2,242,881 Fishing – – – – – 137,901 – 137,901 Mining – – – – – 468,627 – 468,627 Manufacturing – – – – – 581,193 – 581,193 Building and construction – – – – – 2,077,507 – 2,077,507 Electricity, gas and water – – – – – 135,680 – 135,680 Trade and accommodation1 – – – – – 13,487,064 – 13,487,064 Transport and communication – – – – – 583,201 – 583,201 Finance and insurance 363,917 134,028 1,695,294 – 1,773,529 650,259 – 4,617,027 Real estate and business services – – – – – 9,309,596 – 9,309,596 Government 1,278,640 – 3,550,687 874,252 – 314,191 – 6,017,770 Individuals – – – – – 6,345,989 – 6,345,989 Other – – – – – 266,896 489,326 756,222 Impairment – – – – – (366,567) – (366,567) 1,642,557 134,028 5,245,981 874,252 1,773,529 36,234,418 489,326 46,394,091 1 Trade and accommodation includes all loans and advances granted to individuals that acquire property for residential purposes through closed corporation entity types, e.g. residential mortgage loans and advances granted to hotels, lodges, restaurants and the related. 2 Other assets include the insurance fund asset, accounts receivable, derivatives as well as clearing and settlement accounts. 208 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.10 Credit risk concentration by geographical area Financial assets at Cash and fair value Financial balances through assets at Financial with the other fair value Loans and assets at central comprehensive through Due from advances to amortised Other bank income profit or loss other banks customers cost assets Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2019 Namibia 1,089,394 3,535,669 2,024,867 2,986 31,803,077 643,678 255,261 39,354,932 Botswana 335,258 730,904 12,321 811,106 5,476,856 – 113,837 7,480,282 South Africa – 476,152 – 51,634 – – 357 528,143 United Kingdom – – – 13,818 – – – 13,818 United States of America – – – 743,561 – – – 743,561 Zambia 147,964 – – 3,761 769,650 216,636 43,285 1,181,296 Other countries2 – – – 97,177 – – – 97,177 1,572,616 4,742,725 2,037,188 1,724,043 38,049,583 860,314 412,740 49,399,209 Cash and Financial balances assets at Financial with the fair value Loans and assets at central Investment through Due from advances to amortised Other bank securities profit or loss other banks customers cost assets Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2018 Namibia 1,225,633 – 4,172,157 2,750 30,611,673 624,715 349,115 36,986,043 Botswana 259,360 – 519,127 892,644 4,739,865 – 84,558 6,495,554 South Africa – – 548,608 89,862 – – – 638,470 United Kingdom – – 918 9,044 – – – 9,962 United States of America – 134,028 3,238 562,581 – – – 699,847 Zambia 157,564 – – 112,192 882,880 249,537 55,653 1,457,826 Other countries1 – – 1,933 104,456 – – – 106,389 1,642,557 134,028 5,245,981 1,773,529 36,234,418 874,252 489,326 46,394,091 There are no exposures to other foreign countries which are not recorded on the statement of financial position. 1 Other foreign currency exposures relate mainly to exposures to the European Union euro: N$104 million due from other banks. 2 Other foreign currency exposures relate mainly to exposures to the European Union euro: N$97.0 million due from other banks. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 209 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.2 Credit risk (continued) 3.2.11 Write-off policy The group writes off financial assets, in whole or in part, when it has exhausted all practical recovery efforts and has concluded there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery include (i) ceasing enforcement activity and (ii) where the group’s recovery method is foreclosing on collateral and value of the collateral is such that there is no reasonable expectation of recovering in full. 3.2.12 Modification of financial assets The group sometimes modifies the terms of loans provided to customers due to commercial renegotiations, or for distressed loans, with a view to maximising recovery. Such restructuring activities include extended payment term arrangements, payment holidays and payment forgiveness. Restructuring policies and practices are based on indicators or criteria which, in the judgement of management, indicate that payment will most likely continue. These policies are kept under continuous review. Restructuring is most commonly applied to the term loans. The risk of default of such assets after modification is assessed at the reporting date and compared with the risk under the under the original terms at initial recognition, when the modifications is not substantial and so does not result in derecognition of the original asset. The group monitors the subsequent performance of modified assets. The group may determine that the credit risk has significantly improved after the restructuring, so that the assets are moved from stage 3 to stage 2 (Lifetime ECL) to stage 1 (12-month ECL). This is only the case for assets which have been performed in accordance with the new terms for six consecutive months or more. The group continues to monitor if there is a subsequent significant increase in credit risk in relation to such assets through the use of specific models for modified assets. 3.3 Market risk The group takes on exposure to market risks. Market risks arise from net open positions in interest rate, foreign currency and commodity products, all of which are exposed to general and specific market movements. It is the group’s policy not to enter into long-term, unhedged fixed interest rate contracts for loans and advances. Interest rate structures of deposits reflect the interest rate view and strategy of the ALCO and maturity structures of term deposits are in line with the ALCO policy. Interest rate structures are addressed on a monthly basis by the ALCO. External market resources are used in the determination of interest rate views by the interest rate subcommittee. 3.3.1 Market risk measurement techniques The group employs several measurement techniques to assess potential exposures to market change. Sensitivity analysis is applied to measure the impact of changes in interest rates. This measure is of importance in assessing the exposure of the group’s trading portfolio and the effect of such changes on the interest margin. Other measurement techniques include comprehensive analysis of maturities, both from the advances and funding perspective. 3.3.2 Foreign currency risk The group takes on exposure to the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its financial position and cash flows. Foreign currency risk is managed through the market risk framework as well as the treasury dealing policy, both of which are approved by the board. Market risk is managed by closely monitoring the limits as set out in the market risk framework. The group follows a conservative approach to the products it deals with, and the approved products as well as the limits thereof are detailed in the dealing limits policy. The board sets limits on the level of exposure by currency and in total for both overnight and intra-day positions, which are monitored continuously. The traders’ limits are a function of responsibility, experience and qualifications. Foreign currency risk management is achieved through an automated risk management system, and the limit management is independently administered by the middle office risk function within the risk department. All traders are required to sign off on the applicable policies, must be knowledgeable on its contents, and have them on hand when trading. All excesses on limits are immediately flagged, investigated, mitigated, and escalated if required. Models and stress tests are used to gain an increased understanding of the market risk environment. In addition, foreign exchange positions are managed via stop-loss orders and closing or hedging out unwanted exposure via derivatives or in the spot market. Additionally, it is the group’s policy to close out all forward and option foreign currency transactions via back-to-back forward and option foreign currency transactions with counterparty banks, which is also diligently monitored by the independent middle office risk function. 210 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.3 Market risk (continued) 3.3.2 Foreign currency risk (continued) The table below summarises the group’s exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk at year-end. Included in the table are the group’s financial instruments at the carrying amounts, categorised by currency: Concentration of foreign currency denominated financial instruments NAD ZMW US$ € BWP ZAR1 Other Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2019 ASSETS Cash and balances with the central bank 1,089,394 147,964 – – 335,258 – – 1,572,616 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2,024,867 – – – 12,321 – – 2,037,188 Financial assets at amortised cost 643,678 216,636 – – – – – 860,314 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 3,535,669 – – – 730,904 476,152 – 4,742,725 Due from other banks 2,986 – 910,411 33,514 592,608 72,789 111,735 1,724,043 Loans and advances to customers 31,816,441 426,966 351,884 – 5,452,348 – 1,944 38,049,583 Other assets 255,261 43,285 – – 113,837 357 – 412,740 Total financial assets 39,368,296 834,851 1,262,295 33,514 7,237,276 549,298 113,679 49,399,209 Non-financial assets 1,278,746 – – – – – – 1,278,746 Total assets 40,647,042 834,851 1,262,295 33,514 7,237,276 549,298 113,679 50,677,955 LIABILITIES Due to other banks 72,623 33,029 140,047 – 4 – – 245,703 Other borrowings 55,000 – 141,726 – – 799,646 – 996,372 Debt securities in issue 4,176,819 – – – 328,598 1,165,557 – 5,670,974 Deposits 28,909,789 705,583 939,364 85,479 6,317,755 20,831 5,924 36,984,725 Other liabilities 457,261 27,109 – – 82,162 5,959 – 572,491 Total financial liabilities 33,671,492 765,721 1,221,137 85,479 6,728,519 1,991,993 5,924 44,470,265 Non-financial liabilities 46,912 – – – – – – 46,912 Total liabilities 33,718,404 765,721 1,221,137 85,479 6,728,519 1,991,993 5,924 44,517,177 Total equity (including NCI) 6,160,778 – – – – – – 6,160,778 Total equity and liabilities 39,879,182 765,721 1,221,137 85,479 6,728,519 1,991,993 5,924 50,677,955 Net financial position of financial instruments 5,696,804 69,130 41,158 (51,965) 508,757 (1,442,695) 107,755 4,928,944 Credit commitments – – 106,049 5,303 – 18,337 – 129,689 1 The Namibian dollar is pegged to the South African rand and is therefore not exposed to currency risk. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 211 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.3 Market risk (continued) 3.3.2 Foreign currency risk (continued) NAD ZMW US$ € BWP ZAR1 Other Total Company N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2019 ASSETS Cash and bank balances 328,980 – 266,909 – 68,006 – – 663,895 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 428,092 – – – – – – 428,092 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – – – – – 476,153 – 476,153 Financial assets at amortised cost – 121,030 – – 134,620 – – 255,650 Other assets 44,937 16,072 – – – – – 61,009 Total financial assets 802,009 137,102 266,909 – 202,626 476,153 – 1,884,799 Non-financial assets 1,739,573 – – – – – – 1,739,573 Total assets 2,541,582 137,102 266,909 – 202,626 476,153 – 3,624,372 LIABILITIES Other borrowings – – 141,726 – – – – 141,726 Debt securities in issue 1,595,772 – – – 173,957 – – 1,769,729 Other liabilities 44,162 – – – – – – 44,162 Total financial liabilities 1,639,934 – 141,726 – 173,957 – – 1,955,617 Non-financial liabilities 485 – – – – – – 485 Total liabilities 1,640,419 – 141,726 – 173,957 – – 1,956,102 Total equity (including NCI) 1,668,270 – – – – – – 1,668,270 Total equity and liabilities 3,308,689 – 141,726 – 173,957 – – 3,624,372 Net financial position of financial instruments (837,925) 137,102 125,183 – 28,669 476,153 – (70,818) 1 The Namibian dollar is pegged to the South African rand and is therefore not exposed to currency risk. 212 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.3 Market risk (continued) 3.3.2 Foreign currency risk (continued) NAD ZMW US$ € BWP ZAR1 Other Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2018 ASSETS Financial assets 36,936,663 1,067,196 1,313,180 158,454 6,215,740 686,213 16,645 46,394,091 Non-financial assets 927,643 111,952 – – – – – 1,039,595 Total assets 37,864,306 1,179,148 1,313,180 158,454 6,215,740 686,213 16,645 47,433,686 LIABILITIES Financial liabilities 31,895,388 1,289,176 806,076 137,795 5,482,560 1,796,884 87,731 41,495,610 Non-financial liabilities 46,886 – – – – – – 46,886 Total liabilities 31,942,274 1,289,176 806,076 137,795 5,482,560 1,796,884 87,731 41,542,496 Total equity 5,891,190 – – – – – – 5,891,190 Total equity and liabilities 37,833,464 1,289,176 806,076 137,795 5,482,560 1,796,884 87,731 47,433,686 Net financial position of financial instruments 5,041,275 (221,980) 507,104 20,659 733,180 (1,110,671) (71,086) 4,898,481 Credit commitments – – 114,524 3,294 7,370 48,186 180 173,554 NAD ZMW US$ € BWP ZAR1 Other Total Company N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2018 ASSETS Cash and balances with the central bank 7,239 – 96,884 – – – – 104,123 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 8,881 – – – – 544,292 – 553,173 Financial assets at amortised cost – 69,738 – – 132,322 – – 202,060 Other assets 122,972 – – – – – – 122,972 Total financial assets 139,092 69,738 96,884 – 132,322 544,292 – 982,328 Non-financial assets 1,676,633 – – – – – – 1,676,633 Total assets 1,815,725 69,738 96,884 – 132,322 544,292 – 2,658,961 LIABILITIES Other borrowings – – 95,923 – – – – 95,923 Debt securities in issue 1,038,272 – – – – – – 1,038,272 Other liabilities 217,227 – – – – – – 217,227 Total financial liabilities 1,255,499 – 95,923 – – – – 1,351,422 Total equity (including NCI) 1,307,539 – – – – – – 1,307,539 Total equity and liabilities 2,563,038 – 95,923 – – – – 2,658,961 Net financial position of financial instruments (1,116,407) 69,738 961 – 132,322 544,292 – (369,094) 1 The Namibian dollar is pegged to the South African rand and is therefore not exposed to currency risk. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 213 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.3 Market risk (continued) 3.3.2 Foreign currency risk (continued) The following exchange rates (number of units of Namibian dollar per unit of foreign currency) were used on conversion of foreign currency monetary items at the reporting date: 2019 2018 USD 14.17 13.82 GBP 17.99 18.18 EUR 16.12 16.09 ZAR 1.00 1.00 ZMW 1.10 1.37 BWP 1.33 1.31 Group Company Effect on profit for the year Effect on profit for the year The following is a sensitivity analysis, monitored on the following major currencies of non-equity instruments, 2019 2018 2019 2018 had a 5% change arisen on the various currencies: N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 US dollar/Namibian dollar 1,661 7,572 3,154 36 – Foreign currency financial assets 35,581 34,254 9,095 3,633 – Foreign currency financial liabilities (33,920) (26,682) (5,941) (3,597) Euro/Namibian dollar 2,001 1,371 – – – Foreign currency financial assets 4,601 5,304 – – – Foreign currency financial liabilities (2,600) (3,933) – – Group Effect on other comprehensive income 2019 2018 The following effect of 5% change would arise on equity instruments: N$’000 N$’000 Effect of US dollar denominated equity instrument – 6,669 3.3.3 Interest rate risk Cash flow interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. Fair value interest rate risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The group takes on exposure to the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market interest rates on both its fair value and cash flow risks. Interest margins may increase as a result of such changes but may reduce or create losses in the event that unexpected movements arise. The board sets limits on the level of mismatch of interest rate repricing that may be undertaken, which is monitored monthly. Assets and liabilities are classified as interest sensitive if the interest rate is floating (classified in the “up to 1 month” bucket), or if the interest rate applied to the outstanding principal balance fluctuates contractually during its lifespan (classified at the earliest of reprise or maturity). The key assumption made is that when an asset or liability matures within a certain bucket, the principal amount will be reprised. If an asset matures the proceeds are reinvested and when any liability matures the liability is replaced with new funding. Balances classified as “non-interest sensitive” are not affected by changes in interest rates, e.g. statutory cash balances with the Bank of Namibia, which carries no interest. The balances included in the buckets are therefore exposed to both cash flow risk (to the extent that interest rates are floating) and fair value risk (to the extent that interest rates are fixed until reprised). This is in the manner consistent with information communicated to key management. 214 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.3 Market risk (continued) 3.3.3 Interest rate risk (continued) The table below summarises the group’s exposure to interest rate risks. It includes the group’s financial instruments at carrying amounts, categorised by the earlier of contractual repricing or maturity dates: (i) Interest rate risk analysis Up to 1 1–3 3–12 More than Non-interest month months months 1 year sensitive Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2019 ASSETS Cash and balances with the central bank 481,510 – – – 1,091,106 1,572,616 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2,021,101 16,087 2,037,188 Financial assets at amortised cost – 23,231 274,073 599,883 (36,873) 860,314 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 1,640,635 449,421 2,357,279 292,230 3,160 4,742,725 Due from other banks 1,724,043 – – – – 1,724,043 Loans and advances to customers 30,624,318 181,567 797,741 5,751,160 694,797 38,049,583 Other assets 89,123 – 78,678 – 244,939 412,740 Total financial assets 36,580,730 654,219 3,507,771 6,643,273 2,013,216 49,399,209 Non-financial assets – – – – 1,278,746 1,278,746 Total assets 36,580,730 654,219 3,507,771 6,643,273 3,291,962 50,677,955 LIABILITIES Due to other banks 245,703 – – – – 245,703 Other borrowings – 996,372 – – – 996,372 Debt securities in issue 136,672 789,877 200,044 4,544,381 – 5,670,974 Deposits 16,784,464 4,211,006 10,801,457 5,187,798 – 36,984,725 Other liabilities 5,959 – – – 566,532 572,491 Total financial liabilities 17,172,798 5,997,255 11,001,501 9,732,179 566,532 44,470,265 Total non-financial liabilities – – – – 46,912 46,912 Total liabilities 17,172,798 5,997,255 11,001,501 9,732,179 613,444 44,517,177 Total equity (including NCI) – – – – 6,160,778 6,160,778 Total equity and liabilities 17,172,798 5,997,255 11,001,501 9,732,179 6,774,222 50,677,955 Interest sensitivity gap (financial instruments) 19,407,932 (5,343,036) (7,493,730) (3,088,906) 1,446,684 4,928,944 Cumulative interest sensitivity gap (financial instruments) 19,407,932 14,064,896 6,571,166 3,482,260 4,928,944 As at 30 June 2018 Interest sensitivity gap (financial instruments) 18,618,596 (5,163,764) (9,928,194) 814,501 557,342 4,898,481 Cumulative interest sensitivity gap (financial instruments) 18,618,596 13,454,832 3,526,638 4,341,139 4,898,481 The interest rate sensitivity gap is determined based on methodology applied when reviewing interest rate risk. The interest rate sensitivity gap is measured and monitored at the ALCO monthly. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 215 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.3 Market risk (continued) 3.3.3 Interest rate risk (continued) (ii) Interest rate sensitivity analysis An interest sensitivity analysis shows how net interest income will perform under a variety of scenarios. The sensitivities below measure the effect of overall changes in interest rates on profit or loss (net interest income) as defined by the banks’ interest rate modelling tool. The extent of the shock (50, 100 or 200 basis points) is applied to all interest rates in the system and the effects of these shocks are detailed below. Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 The following interest rate sensitivity is based on the effect of changes to the interest rate over a twelve-month period on net interest income: 50 basis points increase 60,674 55,658 (2,287) (687) – Increase in interest income 243,507 223,854 5,327 4,240 – Increase in interest expense (182,833) (168,196) (7,614) (4,927) 50 basis points decrease (49,635) (48,371) 2,287 687 – Decrease in interest income (229,480) (165,671) (5,327) (4,240) – Decrease in interest expense 179,845 117,300 7,614 4,927 100 basis points increase 120,275 111,009 (4,575) (1,373) – Increase in interest income 487,530 448,366 10,654 8,481 – Increase in interest expense (367,255) (337,357) (15,228) (9,854) 100 basis points decrease (100,562) (97,861) 4,575 1,373 – Decrease in interest income (458,354) (427,759) (10,654) (8,481) – Decrease in interest expense 357,792 329,898 15,228 9,854 200 basis points increase 239,951 222,453 (9,149) (2,746) – Increase in interest income 977,341 899,313 21,307 16,961 – Increase in interest expense (737,390) (676,860) (30,457) (19,707) 200 basis points decrease (238,777) (228,679) 9,149 2,746 – Decrease in interest income (915,330) (853,637) (21,307) (16,961) – Decrease in interest expense 676,553 624,958 30,457 19,707 216 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.3 Market risk (continued) 3.3.4 Price risk The following fair value financial instruments expose the group to price risk: derivative financial instruments, treasury bills, government stock and unit trust investments measured at fair value through profit or loss and equity securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. The equity securities are listed on the FTSE and NYSE and are included in “Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income” on the statement of financial position. The group generally does not undertake equity exposure. The exposure arose due to specific circumstances and are managed individually. Group 2019 2018 Sensitivity analysis N$’000 N$’000 (i) Investment securities The following is a sensitivity analysis showing the increase/(decrease) in the fair value of equity securities had the following changes arisen on the significant inputs: 10% increase in share price (effect on other comprehensive income) – 13,338 10% decrease in share price (effect on other comprehensive income) – (13,338) (ii) Derivative financial instruments The following is a sensitivity analysis showing the increase/(decrease) in the fair value of derivative instruments had the following changes arisen on the significant inputs: 100 basis points increase in discount rate (effect on profit or loss) 285 – 100 basis points decrease in discount rate (effect on profit or loss) (285) – (iii) Financial assets at fair value The following is a sensitivity analysis showing the increase/(decrease) in the fair value of treasury bills had the following changes arisen on the significant inputs: 100 basis points increase in discount rate (effect on profit or loss) (12,998) (11,067) 100 basis points decrease in discount rate (effect on profit or loss) 13,134 11,198 The following is a sensitivity analysis showing the increase/(decrease) in the fair value of government stock had the following changes arisen on the significant inputs: 100 basis points increase in discount rate (effect on profit or loss) (5,407) (5,940) 100 basis points decrease in discount rate (effect on profit or loss) 12,564 6,152 3.3.5 Market risk capital charge The following capital charges have been assigned to the components of market risk for the banking group, as defined in BID 5 – Determination on Capital Adequacy: Capital charges 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 Interest rate risk 45,018 41,366 Foreign exchange risk 3,861 8,656 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 217 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.4 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the group is unable to meet its payment obligations associated with its financial liabilities when they fall due and to replace funds when they are withdrawn. Liquidity risk is inherent in the group’s business endeavours and represents the ability of the group to fund increases in assets and meet its financial obligations in a timely manner as they come due without incurring excessive costs, while complying with all statutory and regulatory requirements. The banks are the largest contributors to the group’s liquidity risk. The liquidity risk framework and Contingency Funding Plan (CFP) sets out the minimum liquidity risk management requirements for the banks, and explains the low-level internal control processes. Under the policy, the banks are required to manage current and future liquidity positions in a prudent manner. This framework formalises the liquidity risk management processes of the banks, the goal of which is to: • maintain liquidity risk at a manageable level through assessment and monitoring; • assess and advise against any permanent or temporary adverse changes to the liquidity position of the banks; • set and monitor limits for funding mix, investment products and client exposures; • monitor all applicable financial and statutory ratios; and • identify those liquidity triggers that may entail the activation of the CFP. The framework sets out rules to effectively control liquidity risk within the risk-return parameters dictated by the board of directors’ risk appetite. The banks also, from time to time, conduct external-assisted CFP testing to evaluate the effectiveness thereof, while also continuously enhancing the risk management processes. The framework aims to protect depositors, creditors, shareholders and other stakeholders of the banks by establishing rules and directions for identifying and managing the resolution of possible serious liquidity problems. Asset liquidity risk represents the availability of sufficient assets in liquid form to meet pressing obligations. In situations where liquid assets on hand could be utilised to earn a higher return instead of paying current obligations, the opportunity cost also plays a role (i.e. potential higher return less the cost of obtaining replacement liquidity). Liquidity management must attempt to match the most appropriate available liquidity to the most appropriate maturing liabilities. Funding liquidity risk relates to an enterprise’s capability to generate funding at short notice at reasonable expense to meet pressing liquidity requirements. The group’s liquidity management process is outlined in the group liquidity risk framework which includes, inter alia, the group’s funding strategy. Procedures, as set out in this policy, include the: • daily monitoring of liquid assets; • proactive identification of liquidity requirements and maturing assets; • liquid asset minimum limit; • proactive identification of short, medium and long-term liquidity requirements; and • relationship management with other financial institutions. In general the banks do not engage in complex activities or structures and therefore it is considered unnecessary to employ sophisticated and expensive models when determining liquidity needs under various scenarios. A basic but thorough forwardlooking analysis is conducted in the day-to-day, as well as monthly analysis of liquidity positions, needs and risks. Limits and rules stipulated in the liquidity risk management policy and by ALCO form the basis for daily quotes on deposits to ensure that an optimal mix and concentrations are maintained. 218 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.4 Liquidity risk (continued) As part of the banks’ strategy, the banks continuously focuses on diversifying their funding sources and reducing their reliance on large depositors, which is a common occurrence in the southern African financial markets. That said, the banks utilise a broad range of deposit and funding products to attract all spheres of clients and has strong market share representation in all categories. Refer to note 25 for other borrowings obtained during the year and, note 26 for the redemption and additions to debt securities. The banks must at all times hold an adequate liquid asset surplus which: • includes a buffer portion; • is additional to credit lines; • is adequate to cater for unexpected outflows; and • is simultaneously limiting the effect this surplus has on interest margins. Liquidity risk analysis The table below presents the cash flows payable by the group by remaining contractual maturities at the date of the statement of financial position. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, hence it does not reconcile to the values reflected on the statement of financial position: Contractual undiscounted cash flows Call to 1–3 3–12 1–5 Over 5 1 month months months years years Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2019 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Due to other banks 245,703 – – – – 245,703 Other borrowings 493 160,985 221,356 718,839 113,260 1,214,933 Debt securities in issue 14,465 214,365 1,073,487 3,610,438 2,798,509 7,711,264 Deposits 16,979,424 3,474,076 11,940,131 4,683,117 1,430,019 38,506,767 Other liabilities 571,162 – 608 9,355 – 581,125 Total liabilities (contractual maturity dates) 17,811,247 3,849,426 13,235,582 9,021,749 4,341,788 48,259,792 Commitments 3,104,835 – – – – 3,104,835 Loan commitments 1,699,163 – – – – 1,699,163 Liabilities under guarantees 1,280,854 – – – – 1,280,854 Letters of credit 124,818 – – – – 124,818 Contractual undiscounted cash flows Call to 1–3 3–12 1–5 Over 5 1 month months months years years Total Company N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2019 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Other borrowings – 141,726 – – – 141,726 Debt securities in issue 8,880 19,804 74,187 1,377,545 1,086,996 2,567,412 Other liabilities 19,593 24,569 – – – 44,162 Total liabilities (contractual maturity dates) 28,473 186,099 74,187 1,377,545 1,086,996 2,753,300 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 219 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.4 Liquidity risk (continued) Liquidity risk analysis (continued) Contractual undiscounted cash flows Call to 1–3 3–12 1–5 Over 5 1 month months months years years Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2018 Due to other banks 252,683 – – – – 252,683 Other borrowings – 95,923 167,273 1,225,947 240,230 1,729,373 Debt securities in issue 13,272 132,184 1,352,167 1,937,268 1,766,084 5,200,975 Deposits 19,622,634 4,262,254 9,774,173 1,455,516 – 35,114,577 Other liabilities 832,972 280,760 – 90,597 – 1,204,329 Total liabilities (contractual maturity dates) 20,721,561 4,771,121 11,293,613 4,709,328 2,006,314 43,501,937 Commitments 3,410,365 – – – – 3,410,365 Loan commitments 1,714,759 – – – – 1,714,759 Liabilities under guarantees 1,380,115 – – – – 1,380,115 Letters of credit 315,491 – – – – 315,491 Contractual undiscounted cash flows Call to 1–3 3–12 1–5 Over 5 1 month months months years years Total Company N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2018 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Other borrowings – 95,923 – – – 95,923 Debt securities in issue 6,844 21,319 471,723 289,663 573,902 1,363,451 Other liabilities 3,305 213,922 – – – 217,227 Total liabilities (contractual maturity dates) 10,149 331,164 471,723 289,663 573,902 1,676,601 220 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.4 Liquidity risk (continued) Liquidity risk analysis (continued) In terms of BID 18 – Public Disclosures for Banking Institutions the maturity breakdown of a banking institution’s whole credit portfolio should be disclosed. This disclosure, for Capricorn Group, is detailed below: Contractual discounted cash flows Carrying Call to 1–3 3–12 1–5 Over value 1 month months months years 5 years Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2019 ASSETS Cash and balances with the central bank – 1,572,616 – – – – 1,572,616 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – 2,037,188 – – – – 2,037,188 Financial assets at amortised cost – – 5,481 310,259 54,982 526,465 897,187 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – 1,275,831 609,381 2,357,279 499,416 818 4,742,725 Due from other banks – 1,724,043 – – – – 1,724,043 Gross loans and advances to customers – 5,704,097 125,148 503,542 11,219,831 21,393,497 38,946,115 Other assets – 407,195 29 328 5,188 – 412,740 Non-financial instruments 1,278,746 – – – – – 1,278,746 Effective interest rate impact (133,013) – – – – – (133,013) Impairment (800,392) – – – – – (800,392) Total assets 345,341 12,720,970 740,039 3,171,408 11,779,417 21,920,780 50,677,955 LIABILITIES Due to other banks – 245,703 – – – – 245,703 Other borrowings – – 141,726 219,267 574,271 61,108 996,372 Debt securities in issue – – 138,202 583,349 3,241,411 1,708,012 5,670,974 Deposits – 16,784,464 3,496,477 11,515,986 4,235,247 952,551 36,984,725 Other liabilities – 563,249 – 608 8,634 – 572,491 Non-financial instruments 46,912 – – – – – 46,912 Total liabilities 46,912 17,593,416 3,776,405 12,319,210 8,059,563 2,721,671 44,517,177 Net liquidity gap 298,429 (4,872,446) (3,036,366) (9,147,802) 3,719,854 19,199,109 6,160,778 Cumulative liquidity gap 298,429 (4,574,017) (7,610,383) (16,758,185) (13,038,331) 6,160,778 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 221 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.4 Liquidity risk (continued) Liquidity risk analysis (continued) Carrying Call to 1 1–3 3–12 1–5 Over 5 value month months months years years Total Company N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2019 ASSETS Cash and bank balances – 663,895 – – – – 663,895 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – 428,092 – – – – 428,092 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – 476,153 – – – – 476,153 Financial assets at amortised cost – – – – – 255,650 255,650 Other assets – 61,009 – – – – 61,009 Non-financial instruments 1,739,573 – – – – – 1,739,573 Total assets 1,739,573 1,629,149 – – – 255,650 3,624,372 LIABILITIES Other borrowings – – 141,726 – – – 141,726 Debt securities in issue – – 24,729 – 845,000 900,000 1,769,729 Other liabilities – 19,593 24,569 – – – 44,162 Non-financial instruments 485 – – – – – 485 Total liabilities 485 19,593 191,024 – 845,000 900,000 1,956,102 Net liquidity gap 1,739,088 1,609,556 (191,024) – (845,000) (644,350) 1,668,270 Cumulative liquidity gap 1,739,088 3,348,644 3,157,620 3,157,620 2,312,620 1,668,270 222 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.4 Liquidity risk (continued) Liquidity risk analysis (continued) Contractual discounted cash flows Carrying Call to 1–3 3–12 1–5 Over 5 value 1 month months months years years Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2018 ASSETS Cash and balances with the central bank – 1,642,557 – – – – 1,642,557 Financial assets designated at Fair value through profit or loss – 2,551,960 669,016 713,425 1,253,641 57,939 5,245,981 Financial assets at amortised cost – – – 360,568 513,684 – 874,252 Investment securities – 134,028 – – – – 134,028 Due from other banks – 1,773,529 – – – – 1,773,529 Gross loans and advances to customers – 4,946,417 620,218 1,627,789 11,252,479 18,154,082 36,600,985 Other assets – 435,554 – 30 53,742 – 489,326 Non-financial instruments 1,039,595 – – – – – 1,039,595 Impairment (366,567) – – – – – (366,567) Total assets 673,028 11,484,045 1,289,234 2,701,812 13,073,546 18,212,021 47,433,686 LIABILITIES Due to other banks – 252,683 – – – – 252,683 Other borrowings – – 95,923 167,273 898,062 152,175 1,313,433 Debt securities in issue – 13,272 132,184 1,352,167 1,715,520 1,563,931 4,777,074 Deposits – 19,622,634 3,962,912 9,072,983 1,289,562 – 33,948,091 Other liabilities – 832,972 280,760 – 90,597 – 1,204,329 Non-financial instruments 46,886 – – – – – 46,886 Total liabilities 46,886 20,721,561 4,471,779 10,592,423 3,993,741 1,716,106 41,542,496 Net liquidity gap 626,142 (9,237,516) (3,182,545) (7,890,611) 9,079,805 16,495,915 5,891,190 Cumulative liquidity gap 626,142 (8,611,374) (11,793,919) (19,684,530) (10,604,725) 5,891,190 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 223 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.4 Liquidity risk (continued) Liquidity risk analysis (continued) Carrying Call to 1–3 3–12 1–5 Over 5 value 1 month months months years years Total Company N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2018 ASSETS Cash and balances with the central bank – 104,123 – – – – 104,123 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss – 32,080 – 86,097 325,503 109,493 553,173 Financial assets at amortised cost – – – – – 202,060 202,060 Other assets – 122,972 – – – – 122,972 Non-financial instruments 1,676,633 – – – – – 1,676,633 Total assets 1,676,633 259,175 – 86,097 325,503 311,553 2,658,961 LIABILITIES Other borrowings – – 95,923 – – – 95,923 Debt securities in issue – 6,844 6,428 425,000 100,000 500,000 1,038,272 Other liabilities – 3,305 213,922 – – – 217,227 Total liabilities – 10,149 316,273 425,000 100,000 500,000 1,351,422 Net liquidity gap 1,676,633 249,026 (316,273) (338,903) 225,503 (188,447) 1,307,539 Cumulative liquidity gap 1,676,633 1,925,659 1,609,386 1,270,483 1,495,986 1,307,539 The table above represents the group’s maturity mismatch between assets and liabilities based on contractual maturities, which represents a worst-case scenario and is therefore not representative of business as usual. Policies and procedures are in place to mitigate liquidity risk, which is detailed in the narrative above, as well as the risk and compliance report. Due to the composition of the liquidity market in Namibia, a negative maturity mismatch between assets and liabilities is an industry norm. 224 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.5 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities (a) Fair value estimation The group is presumed to be a going concern and the fair value methodology is therefore appropriate. Fair value is the current price to purchase an asset or to transfer a liability. Such a transaction is characterised by an arm's length and orderly transaction in a free market (neither party is compelled to act), between hypothetical willing, able and well-informed market participants. In addition, the fair value methodology is utilised to accurately reflect the current market conditions and the appropriate market price of such a transaction on the reporting date. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities traded in active markets (such as publicly traded derivatives, trading and availablefor-sale securities) is based on quoted market prices at the reporting date. The active market should be characterised by sufficient supply and demand by market participants, supported by adequate frequency and volumes to accurately approximate the true market price of such a transaction on an ongoing basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the group is the price within the current bid-ask price, which is the most representative of fair value. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques to approximate the fair value. The group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each reporting date. These valuation techniques include quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments in active and inactive markets, and discounted cash flow valuation techniques. (i) Cash and balances with the central bank Due to its short-term nature, the carrying amount approximates the fair value of these financial assets. (ii) Derivative financial instruments (included in other assets/liabilities) Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value through profit or loss using valuation techniques supported by observable market prices or rates (exchange traded). Over-the-counter (OTC) transactions are also measured at fair value based on the following valuation techniques: • Forward contracts are valued based on the daily mark-to-market value of the forward contract. The market rates are obtained from the Thompson Reuters foreign currency rate platform. Spot foreign currency transactions not yet matured are marked-tomarket based on end of trading day quoted Thompson Reuters market rates. • Interest rate swaps are valued by discounting the expected future fixed and floating interest rate cash flow streams with the applicable South African money market yield curves. The future fixed rate cash flows are based on the terms of the contractual agreements, while the floating rate cash flows are approximated using the estimated forward rate yield curve in line with contractual agreements. • Option contract values are determined using the Black-Scholes pricing model, utilising real-time market data on the required inputs. (iii) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Treasury bills Treasury bills are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income based on the discounted valuation technique using quoted market prices and rates. Government stock Government stock and other bonds guaranteed by the Namibian, South African or Botswana governments are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income based on the discounted valuation technique using quoted market prices. The Bond Exchange of South Africa bond pricing model is utilised to determine the fair value. Unit trust investments The fair value of unit trust investments is determined with reference to the daily published market prices. Money market investments For money market investments, the carrying value approximates its fair value. Other debt securities Repo investments Repo investments are designated at fair value using discounted valuation techniques and available dealer quotes for similar instruments. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 225 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.5 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities (continued) (a) Fair value estimation (continued) (iii) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (continued) Corporate bonds Corporate bonds guaranteed by the respective corporates are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income based on the discounted valuation technique using quoted market prices. (iv) Financial assets at amortised cost Treasury bills Treasury bills, without the intention to trade, are classified as held-to-maturity and recognised at amortised costs. The fair value is determined for disclosure purposes based on the discounted valuation technique using quoted market prices and rates. Government stock Government stock and other bonds guaranteed by either the Namibian, South African or Zambian governments, without the intention to trade, are classified as held-to-maturity and recognised at amortised costs. The fair value is determined for disclosure purposes based on the discounted valuation technique using quoted market prices. The Bond Exchange of South Africa bond pricing model is utilised to determine the fair value. (v) Investment securities Listed For listed investment securities, the fair value is derived by using stock market prices, adjusted for any restrictions on its tradability. (vi) Due to and from other banks Amounts due to and from other banks include interbank placements. The carrying amount of overnight deposits represents its fair value, as it is short-term and callable on demand. (vii) Loans and advances to customers The loans and advances to customers are recognised at amortised cost. The fair value is determined for disclosure purposes by discounting the future expected cash flows using observable market inputs, such as the prime rate, as appropriate. For short maturity loans and advances the carrying value approximates the fair value. Unobservable market inputs are developed using the best information available that market participants would use when pricing the loan. The credit risk will be approximated by the carrying values of defaulted and impaired accounts. Refer to note 3.5(b) for the disclosure of the fair value of loans and advances. (viii) Other assets and liabilities The nominal values less impairment of other assets and liabilities are assumed to approximate their fair value, due to the short-term nature of these assets and liabilities. (ix) Other borrowings Other borrowings are recognised at amortised cost. The fair value is determined for disclosure purposes by discounting the future expected cash flows using observable market inputs, such as the JIBAR money market rate, as appropriate. Refer to note 3.5(b) for the disclosure of the fair value of other borrowings. (x) Debt securities in issue Financial instruments included in this category include senior debt, callable bonds and preference shares issued. The fair value of issued debt securities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the available market interest rate. Quoted prices for similar instruments are utilised in the event that active prices are not available. The fair values of these instruments were N$4.7 billion (2018: N$4.0 billion), refer to note 3.5(b). The fair value of the issued preference shares approximates the carrying value, due to the floating rate nature of the instruments. Refer to note 26. (xi) Deposits The carrying amount approximates the fair value of these financial liabilities, except for promissory notes and replica notes. The fair value of promissory notes and replica notes for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the available market interest rate. Quoted prices for similar instruments are utilised in the event that active prices are not available. The fair value of these instruments is N$389.4 million (2018: N$625.4 million), refer to note 3.5(b). 226 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.5 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities (continued) (a) Fair value estimation (continued) (xii) Financial instruments not recorded on the statement of financial position The estimated fair values of the financial instruments not recorded on the statement of financial position are based on market prices for similar facilities. When this information is not available, fair value is estimated using discounted cash flow analysis. (b) Fair value hierarchy IFRS specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on whether the inputs to those valuation techniques are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources; unobservable inputs reflect the group's market assumptions. These two types of inputs have created the following fair value hierarchy: • Level 1 – quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. This level includes listed equity securities and debt instruments on exchanges. • Level 2 – inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices). This level includes the majority of OTC derivative contracts, traded loans and issued structured debt. The sources of input parameters like JIBAR yield curve or counterparty credit risk are Bloomberg and Reuters. • Level 3 – inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). This level includes equity investments and debt instruments with significant unobservable components. This hierarchy requires the use of observable market data when available. The group considers relevant and observable market prices in its valuations where possible. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 227 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.5 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities (continued) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2019 Financial assets measured at fair value Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Unit trust and money market investments 673,150 1,364,038 – 2,037,188 Derivative financial instruments (included in other assets) – 357 – 357 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 1,768 4,739,565 1,392 4,742,725 Treasury bills – 3,494,404 – 3,494,404 Government stock – 728,511 – 728,511 Corporate bonds – 40,498 – 40,498 Tradable instruments – 476,152 – 476,152 Investment securities – listed 1,768 – – 1,768 Investment securities – unlisted – – 1,392 1,392 674,918 6,103,960 1,392 6,780,270 Financial assets for which the fair value is disclosed Loans and advances to customers – – 39,383,373 39,383,373 Financial assets at amortised cost – 927,876 – 927,876 Treasury bills – 237,760 – 237,760 Government stock – 690,116 – 690,116 Director’s valuation of investment in associates 88,737 727,501 – 816,238 Director’s valuation of investment in joint arrangement – – 11,016 11,016 88,737 1,655,377 39,394,389 41,138,503 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial instruments (included in other liabilities) – 5,959 – 5,959 Financial liabilities for which the fair value is disclosed Other borrowings – – 1,014,814 1,014,814 Debt securities in issue – – 4,738,778 4,738,778 Five-year callable bonds – – 248,057 248,057 Senior debt – – 3,452,449 3,452,449 Preference shares – – 530,883 530,883 Debentures – – 507,389 507,389 Deposits – – 389,416 389,416 Promissory notes – – 389,416 389,416 – – 6,143,008 6,143,008 228 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.5 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities (continued) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2018 Financial assets measured at fair value Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 1,091,826 4,154,155 – 5,245,981 Treasury bills – 3,221,439 – 3,221,439 Government stock – 438,741 – 438,741 Unit trust investments – 42,056 – 42,056 Money market investments 1,091,826 – – 1,091,826 Tradable instruments – 411,707 – 411,707 Other instruments – 40,212 – 40,212 Available-for-sale financial assets Investment securities – listed 134,028 – – 134,028 1,225,854 4,154,155 – 5,380,009 Financial assets for which the fair value is disclosed Loans and advances to customers – – 36,897,068 36,897,068 Financial assets at amortised cost – 954,753 – 954,753 Treasury bills – 244,647 – 244,647 Government stock – 710,106 – 710,106 – 954,753 36,897,068 37,851,821 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial instruments (included in other liabilities) – 5,535 – 5,535 Financial liabilities for which the fair value is disclosed Other borrowings – – 1,352,570 1,352,570 Debt securities in issue – – 4,738,778 4,738,778 Five-year callable bonds – – 248,057 248,057 Senior debt – – 3,452,449 3,452,449 Preference shares – – 530,883 530,883 Debentures – – 507,389 507,389 Deposits – – 974,680 974,680 Promissory notes – – 918,626 918,626 Replica notes – – 56,054 56,054 – – 7,066,028 7,066,028 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 229 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.5 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities (continued) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Company N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 As at 30 June 2019 Financial assets measured at fair value Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Unit trust and money market investments 48,438 379,654 – 428,092 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Tradable instruments – 476,153 – 476,153 48,438 855,807 – 904,245 Financial assets for which the fair value is disclosed Financial assets at amortised cost Preference shares – – 255,650 255,650 – – 255,650 255,650 Financial liabilities for which the fair value is disclosed Other borrowings – – 141,726 141,726 Debt securities in issue – – 1,769,729 1,769,729 Preference shares – – 1,088,076 1,088,076 Bonds and debentures – – 681,653 681,653 – – 1,911,455 1,911,455 As at 30 June 2018 Financial assets measured at fair value Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 31,972 521,201 – 553 173 Government stock – 109,494 – 109,494 Money market investments 31,972 – – 31 972 Tradable instruments – 411,707 – 411,707 31,972 521,201 – 553 173 Financial assets for which the fair value is disclosed Financial assets at amortised cost Preference shares – – 202,060 202,060 – – 202,060 202,060 Financial liabilities for which the fair value is disclosed Other borrowings – – 95,923 95,923 Debt securities in issue – – 1,038,272 1,038,272 Preference shares – – 530,883 530,883 Debentures – – 507,389 507,389 – – 1,134,195 1,134,195 No transfers between level 1, level 2 or level 3 fair value measurements occurred during the year under review. 230 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.5 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities (continued) (c) Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis performed below are for financial instruments for which the fair value is disclosed. Sensitivity analysis performed on financial instruments recognised at fair value are included in note 3.3.4. Group 2019 2018 N$'000 N$'000 The following is a sensitivity analysis showing the increase/(decrease) in the fair value of loans and advances had the following changes arisen on the significant inputs: 100 basis points increase in discount rate (1,162,344) (1,129,745) 100 basis points decrease in discount rate 1,549,895 1,218,697 100 basis points increase in earnings rate 197,669 148,343 100 basis points decrease in earnings rate (209,117) (148,343) 1 month increase in term to maturity (124,190) (55,481) 1 month decrease in term to maturity 128,068 53,446 The following is a sensitivity analysis showing the increase/(decrease) in the fair value of treasury bills at amortised cost had the following changes arisen on the significant inputs: 100 basis points increase in discount rate (934) (243) 100 basis points decrease in discount rate 944 248 The following is a sensitivity analysis showing the increase/(decrease) in the fair value of government stock at amortised cost had the following changes arisen on the significant inputs: 100 basis points increase in discount rate (1,182) (1,043) 100 basis points decrease in discount rate 857 1,056 The following is a sensitivity analysis showing the increase/(decrease) in the fair value of other borrowings had the following changes arisen on the significant inputs: 100 basis points increase in discount rate (71,847) (49,257) 100 basis points decrease in discount rate 75,499 9,590 100 basis points increase in coupon rate 72,791 27,089 100 basis points decrease in coupon rate (72,791) (39,089) The following is a sensitivity analysis showing the increase/(decrease) in the fair value of debt securities had the following changes arisen on the significant inputs: 100 basis points increase in discount rate (103,895) (82,243) 100 basis points decrease in discount rate 109,176 86,324 100 basis points increase in coupon rate 106,442 87,805 100 basis points decrease in coupon rate (106,442) (87,805) The following is a sensitivity analysis showing the increase/(decrease) in the fair value of promissory notes had the following changes arisen on the significant inputs: 100 basis points increase in discount rate (1,290) (5,723) 100 basis points decrease in discount rate 1,727 6,951 The following is a sensitivity analysis showing the increase/(decrease) in the fair value of replica notes had the following changes arisen on the significant inputs: 100 basis points increase in discount rate – (23) 100 basis points decrease in discount rate – 23 100 basis points increase in coupon rate – 140 100 basis points decrease in coupon rate – (140) CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 231 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.5 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities (continued) (d) Details of level 2 and level 3 fair value instruments Types of Valuation inputs (ranges) Valuation valuation technique inputs 2019 2018 Financial assets measured at fair value Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and at fair value through other comprehensive income Treasury bills Income approach* Note 1 BW: 6.8% – 7.9% BW:6.8% – 8.2% BG: 1.2% – 1.5% BG: 1.2% – 1.5% Government stock Income approach* Note 1 BW & Entrepo: 7.3% – 9.9% BW & Entrepo: 7.3% – 10.4% Unit trust investments Market approach** Note 4 BW 7.1% – 7.7% Note 4 – OTC currency options Income approach* Note 1 EUR16.3 – 17.1 EUR14.5 – 16.6 US$13.6 – 17.6 US$11.9 – 12.1 Other debt securities – Corporate bonds Income approach* Note 1 BW 8.9% BW: 8.9% Financial assets for which the fair value is disclosed Loans and advances to customers Income approach* – Discount rate Note 1 BW: 10.5% BW: 10.5% BG: 6.5% BG: 6.5% CB: 12.0% and 29.8 % CB: 10.0% and 29.3% Entrepo: 21.5% Entrepo: 18.5% – 21.5 – Earnings rate Note 2 BW: 6.3% – 19.7% BW: 6.3% – 19.7% BG: 4.5% – 32.0% BG: 4.5% – 32.0% CB: 0.0% – 30.5% CB: 0.0% – 33.5% Entrepo: 18.5% – 21.5% Entrepo: 18.5% – 21.5% – Term to maturity Note 3 3 – 360 mth 3 – 360 mth Financial assets at amortised cost Treasury bills Income approach* Note 1 BW: 7.9% – 10.7% BW: 6.4% – 8.2% CB: 13.6% – 20.9% CB: 4.8% – 15.5% Government stock Income approach* Note 1 BW: 7.5% – 15.2% BW: 7.3% – 10.1% CB: 16.0% – 25.5% CB: 16.0% – 25.0% 232 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.5 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities (continued) (d) Details of level 2 and level 3 fair value instruments (continued) Types of Valuation inputs (ranges) Valuation valuation technique inputs 2019 2018 Derivative financial instruments Income approach* Note 1 BW: 7.7% – 8.5% BW: 7.2% – 8.5% Financial liabilities for which the fair value is disclosed Other borrowings Income approach* – Discount rate Note 1 BW: 7.9% – 10.7% BW: 7.6% – 11.8% CG: 4.9%*** CG: 4.3%*** – Earnings rate Note 1 BW: 7.5% – 15.2% BW: 8.2% – 12.0% CG: 4.9%*** CG: 4.3%*** Debt securities in issue Five-year callable bonds Income approach* Note 1 BW: 8.3% BW: 9.8% BG: 5.8% BG: 5.8% Senior debt – unsecured Income approach* Note 1 BW: 5.2% – 9.2% BW: 7.0% – 11.3% BG: 3.2% – 7.8% BG: 3.2% – 7.8% Debentures Income approach* Note 1 BW: 7.2% – 7.8% BW: 7.0% – 11.3% BG: 3.2% – 7.8% Deposits Promissory notes Income approach* Note 1 BW: 7.3% – 7.9% BW: 7.5% – 8.2% Replica notes Income approach* Note 1 n/a BW: 7.3% For the relationship of observable inputs to fair value refer to note 3.3.4 for items measured at fair value and note 3.5 c) for items disclosed at fair value. * Present value of expected future cash flows. ** The fair value is determined with reference to the daily published market prices. *** Loan denominated in US dollars. Note 1: Observable interest rates and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals. Note 2: Contractual interest rates per transaction observable on the banking system. Note 3: Contractual maturities per transaction observable on the banking system. Note 4: Valuations are performed per fund based on the net asset value of the underlying assets. BW: Bank Windhoek Ltd BG: Bank Gaborone Ltd CB: Cavmont Bank Ltd CG: Capricorn Group 3.6 Insurance risk The group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts, under which the group agrees to compensate the policyholder or other beneficiary if a specified uncertain future event (the insured event) affecting the policyholder occurs. Insurance risk includes mortality and morbidity risk. For accounting purposes insurance risk is defined as risk other than financial risk. Contracts issued by the group may include both insurance and financial risk; contracts with significant insurance are classified as insurance contracts, while contracts with no or insignificant insurance risk are classified as investment contracts. The group effectively manages its insurance risk through the following mechanisms: • The maintenance and use of sophisticated management information systems, which provide current data on the risks to which the business is exposed and the quantification of such risks. • Guidelines for concluding insurance contracts and assuming insurance risks. These include underwriting principles and product pricing procedures. • The mix of assets, which is driven by the nature and term of the insurance liabilities. The management of assets and liabilities is closely monitored to ensure that there are sufficient interest bearing assets to match the guaranteed portion of liabilities. All insurance contracts issued by the group are entered into with individuals. These are low-value high-volume contracts, thus limiting single-party exposure. The policyholder liability was calculated with the following assumptions: • a discount rate of 6%; • a tax assumption of 40% of investment income being taxed at a rate of 32%; • expense inflation of 6%; and • the incurred-but-not-reported (IBNR) liability was determined using the Bornhuetter-Ferguson method. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 233 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.7 Capital management The group’s objectives when managing capital, which is a broader concept than the “equity” on the face of the statement of financial position, are to: • comply with the capital requirements set by the regulators of the banking markets where the entities within the group operate; • safeguard the group’s ability to continue as a going concern so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders; and • maintain a strong capital base to support the development of its business. Capital management for the banking group The Bank of Namibia requires each bank or banking group to maintain the following capital adequacy ratios: • Tier 1 capital to total assets, as reported in the statutory return, at a minimum of 6%, referred to as the leverage capital ratio; • Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets at a minimum of 7%, referred to as Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio; and • Total regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets at a minimum of 10%, referred to as total risk-based capital ratio. The group’s regulatory capital is divided into three tiers: • Tier 1 capital: share capital (net of any book values of the treasury shares, if any), non-controlling interest arising on consolidation from interests in permanent shareholders’ equity, retained earnings and reserves created by appropriations of retained earnings. The book value of goodwill is deducted in arriving at Tier 1 capital; • Tier 2 capital: qualifying subordinated loan capital and collective impairment allowances; and • Tier 3 capital: includes short-term subordinated debt that may be used only to cover a portion of the banking institution’s capital charges for market risk. The Bank of Namibia has adopted a standardised approach to Basel II, with risk-weighted assets being measured at three different levels, operational risk, market risk and credit risk. During 2012, the Bank of Namibia introduced BID 24 – Consolidated Supervision, which denotes consolidation rules only for the purposes of computing regulatory minimum capital requirements. These rules do not impact on accounting consolidation of banking groups, which is done in accordance with IFRS. Although regulatory consolidation may track the accounting consolidation, it is not identical because of a different approach that is prescribed or required for treatment of certain types of transactions and/or subsidiaries. According to the statutory framework, the group entities are treated as follows in the Capricorn Group: Subsidiaries Consolidated supervision approach Accounting consolidation approach Bank Windhoek Ltd Full consolidation Full consolidation Namib Bou (Pty) Ltd Deduction approach Full consolidation Capricorn Unit Trust Management Company Ltd Deduction approach Full consolidation Capricorn Asset Management (Pty) Ltd Deduction approach Full consolidation Capricorn Investment Holdings (Botswana) Ltd (CIHB) Full consolidation Full consolidation Cavmont Capital Holdings Zambia Plc (CCHZ) Full consolidation Full consolidation Capricorn Capital (Pty) Ltd Deduction approach Full consolidation Mukumbi Investments (Pty) Ltd Deduction approach Full consolidation Associates Consolidated supervision approach Accounting consolidation approach Sanlam Namibia Holdings (Pty) Ltd Deduction approach Equity-accounted associates Santam Namibia Ltd Deduction approach Equity-accounted associates Nimbus Infrastructure Ltd Deduction approach Equity-accounted associates 234 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 3.7 Capital management (continued) Deduction approach means deductions of 50 percent of the cost of investment in the affiliate is made from Tier 1 capital and 50 percent from Tier 2 capital. The table below summarises the composition of regulatory capital and the ratios of Capricorn Group for the years ended 30 June, at consolidated supervision level. During these two years, the individual entities within the group complied with all externally-imposed capital requirements to which they are subjected. Group 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 Tier 1 capital Share capital and premium 765,507 769,933 General banking reserves 3,843,797 3,814,879 Retained earnings 1,580,520 1,388,980 Minority interests 345,382 276,499 Subtotal 6,535,206 6,250,291 Deduct: 50% investments in group entities Goodwill (101,489) (101,489) 50% investments in deconsolidated financial subsidiaries, significant minority and majority insurance entities and significant commercial entities (298,837) (310,919) Net total Tier 1 capital 6,134,880 5,837,883 Tier 2 capital Subordinated debt 310,750 253,158 Five-year callable bonds 310,750 253,158 Subtotal 310,750 253,158 Deduct: 50% investments in group entities 50% investments in deconsolidated financial subsidiaries, significant minority and majority insurance entities and significant commercial entities (255,753) (133,588) Net total Tier 2 capital 54,997 119,570 Total regulatory capital 6,189,877 5,957,453 Risk-weighted assets: Operational risk 4,866,635 4,623,353 Credit risk 37,205,932 33,606,443 Market risk 495,551 500,225 Total risk-weighted assets 42,568,118 38,730,021 The increase in risk-weighted assets during the year is mainly attributable to the increase in credit risk, which relates to the growth in loans and advances and the acquisition of Entrepo during the year under review. Capital adequacy ratios: Leverage capital ratio 10.9% 11.8% Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 12.3% 15.1% Total risk-based capital ratio 14.9% 15.4% In addition to the above minimum capital requirements, the Bank of Namibia requires the group to perform an internal capital adequacy and assessment process (ICAAP) in terms of Pillar II of Basel II, which has been documented and approved by the board. The process results in: • the identification of all significant risk exposures to the banking group; • the quantification of risk appetites for the major risks identified; and • control measures to mitigate the major risks. Based on the ICAAP assessment performed on 30 November 2018, which includes a capital projection for the next five years, it is envisaged that the group will be able to maintain its capital ratios and will not require additional capital. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 235 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 4. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES The group makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. (a) Impairment losses on loans and advances Estimates in assessing the portfolio impairment are dependent on the analysis of historical data relating to probability of default, emergence period and loss given default. Specific impairment is triggered for individual non-performing loans and special mention accounts. Non-performing loans comprise loans due and unpaid for longer than 90 days. The methodology and assumptions used for estimating both the amount and timing of future cash flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience. Refer to notes 2.4 and 3.2.6 for more information on assumptions and judgements applied when determining the impairment of loans and advances. (b) Fair value of financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments requires the use of estimates and judgements. Refer to note 3.5 for methodology and assumptions applied. (c) Post-employment benefits The present value of the severance pay liability depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of the liability. The assumptions used in determining the net cost include the discount rate. The group determined this discount rate based on the yield of South African government bonds. Other key assumptions are based on generally accepted demographic tables. Refer to note 30. (d) Share-based payments For share-based payment transactions among group entities, in its separate or group financial statements, the entity receiving the services shall measure the services received as either an equity-settled or a cash-settled share-based payment transaction by assessing: • the nature of the awards granted; and • its own rights and obligations. The amount recognised by the entity receiving the services may differ from the amount recognised by the consolidated group or by another group entity settling the share-based payment transaction. The entity receiving the services shall measure the services received as an equity-settled share-based payment transaction when: • the awards granted are its own equity instruments; or • the entity has no obligation to settle the share-based payment transaction. In terms of the share scheme arrangements, the awards granted are Capricorn Group shares, thus the share schemes are treated as equity-settled. IFRS 2 requires an entity to measure the fair value of the employee services received by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted. This fair value depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis, at grant date, using a number of assumptions. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the expense and share-based compensation reserve created at grant date. For assumptions made in the valuation of share-based payments refer to note 33. (e) Impairment of goodwill The recoverable amount of goodwill is tested annually for impairment in accordance with the stated accounting policy. The recoverable amount of the cash-generating units (CGU) has been determined based on value-in-use calculations, being the net present value of the discounted cash flows of the CGU. Refer to note 22. Treatment of income and expenses As a result of the above, Capricorn Group’s operating model changed during the year under review to include its role as lender and provider of funding to banking entities in the group. Consequently the finance costs paid and investment income received by Capricorn Group on its group financing activities, are treated as revenue in the company and consolidated financial statements, similar to that of a banking entity, and disclosed as interest expense and interest income respectively. 236 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 4. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) (f) Treatment of income and expenses Capricorn Group’s operating model is that of a lender and provider of funding to banking entities in the group. Consequently the finance costs paid and investment income received by Capricorn Group on its group financing activities, are treated as revenue in the company and consolidated financial statements, similar to that of a banking entity, and disclosed as interest expense and interest income respectively. (g) Policyholder liability Policyholder benefit payments are generally fixed or relatively easy to estimate, thereby limiting the uncertainty as to the expected liability of a particular policy. The reinsurance terms of each policy are also known in advance and the allowance for reinsurance recoveries is readily ascertainable, although the timing of benefit payments must be estimated. The estimate of this timing is based on the probability that a policy will be in force and the probability of the claim arising in the future from the valuation date until the expiry of the term of the policy, modified for past experience. For each policy the present value of the expected benefit payment is estimated based on the future surrender, mortality, retrenchment, medical and morbidity rates of policyholders, modified to reflect the recent claims experience of the group. The assumptions used are generally best estimate assumptions with compulsory margins and, where appropriate, discretionary margins being provided to cater for uncertainty. The discount rate used to capitalise the policyholder benefit values is also based on current economic conditions but reflects the group’s asset mix with an allowance for mismatching risk. (h) Measurement of expected credit loss The measurement of the expected credit loss allowance for financial assets measured at amortised cost and FVOCI is an area that requires the use of complex models and significant assumptions about future economic conditions and credit behaviour (e.g. the likelihood of customers defaulting and the resulting losses). Explanation of the inputs, assumptions and estimation techniques used in measuring ECL is further detailed in note 3.2.2.2., which also sets out key sensitivities of the ECL to changes in these elements. A number of significant judgements are also required in applying the accounting requirements for measuring ECL, such as: • Determining criteria for significant increase in credit risk; • Choosing appropriate models and assumptions for the measurement of ECL; • Establishing the number and relative weightings of forward-looking scenarios for each type of product/market and the associated ECL; and • Establishing groups of similar financial assets for the purposes of measuring ECL. Detailed information about the judgements and estimates made by the group in the above areas is set out in note 3.2.1. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 237 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 5. NET INTEREST INCOME Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Interest and similar income Amortised cost Loans and advances 4,216,507 3,743,277 – – Cash and short-term funds 108,759 133,635 57,727 3,626 Financial assets at amortised cost 143,311 64,255 8,267 13,234 Treasury bills 39,187 33,481 – – Government stock and other investments 104,124 30,774 – – Preference shares from subsidiaries – – 8,267 13,234 Fair value Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss – 303,048 – 51,491 Treasury bills – 192,311 – – Government stock and other investments – 110,737 – 51,491 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 271,977 – – – Treasury bills 250,361 – – – Government stock and other investments 21,616 – – – Total interest and similar income 4,740,554 4,244,215 65,994 68,351 Interest and similar expenses Amortised cost Demand deposits 247,870 239,118 – – Term and notice deposits 790,027 779,300 – – Negotiable certificates of deposits 602,122 547,128 – – Cheque deposits 210,687 199,998 – – Debt securities in issue 426,934 343,000 96,531 36,645 Savings deposits 67,934 67,323 – – Deposits from banks and financial institutions 38,271 20,914 – – Other borrowings 140,202 127,473 30,227 2,454 Promissory notes 73,068 55,468 – – Other 10,566 45,596 146 36,920 Total interest and similar expenses 2,607,681 2,425,318 126,904 76,019 Net interest income 2,132,873 1,818,897 (60,910) (7,668) 6. CREDIT IMPAIRMENT LOSSES Increase in credit impairment losses on loans and advances (note 17) 35,865 61,337 – – Increase in credit impairment losses on financial assets at amortised cost (note 14) 17,177 – 15,721 Amounts written off as uncollectable 72,993 33,607 – – Amounts recovered during the year (11,488) (14,104) – – 114,547 80,840 15,721 – 238 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 7. NON-INTEREST INCOME Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 7.1 Fee and commission income Transaction and related fees 908,081 827,344 Cards and electronic channels 391,053 341,074 Transaction-based fee income 424,933 407,538 Lending activities 78,535 67,735 Other charges 13,560 10,997 Commissions 40,706 42,931 Trust and fiduciary fees 11,178 15,171 959,965 885,446 7.2 Net trading income Net foreign exchange gains and losses 38,202 89,695 – – Net gain from financial instruments at fair value 100,319 9,029 8,340 (10,767) Net investment income 5,272 – – – 143,793 98,724 8,340 (10,767) Net foreign exchange gains and losses from trading assets includes gains and losses from spot and forward exchange contracts and translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities. Net gain from financial instruments at fair value includes the gains and losses from treasury bills, government stock and derivative financial instruments. 7.3 Other operating income Commission and insurance-related income 3,049 865 2,328 865 Contingent consideration and indemnities received – – – 8,000 Dividend received 28,236 16,283 941,802 444,919 Gain on bargain purchase of subsidiary – 38,837 – – Interest received – – 19,390 1,142 Net foreign exchange gains and losses – – (24,608) 1,223 Profit on sale of investment securities – 77,330 – – Support services rendered 364 – 46,054 46,458 Other 2,381 6,453 1,362 607 34,030 139,768 986,328 503,214 7.4 Net insurance premium income Gross written premiums 192,430 – – – Change in unearned premium provision (62,380) – – – 130,050 – – – 7.5 Net claims and benefits paid Gross insurance contract claims (25,540) – – – Transfer to provision for IBNR claims (1,001) – – – (26,541) – – – 7.6 Asset management and administration fees Asset management and administration fees 118,187 101,230 – – 118,187 101,230 – – Total non-interest income 1,359,484 1,225,168 994,668 492,447 7.7 Types of revenue from contracts with customers Fee and commission income 959,965 885,446 – – Other operating income 3,413 865 48,382 47,323 Asset management and administration fees 118,187 101,230 – – Income other than from contracts with customers 277,919 237,627 946,286 445,124 Total revenue 1,359,484 1,225,168 994,668 492,447 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 239 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 7. NON-INTEREST INCOME (continued) Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 7.8 Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers (a) Over time Transaction and related fees 92,095 78,732 – – Lending activities 78,535 67,735 – – Other charges 13,560 10,997 – – Commission and insurance related income 3,049 865 2,328 865 Support services rendered 364 – 46,054 46,458 Asset management and administration fees 118,187 101,230 – – 213,695 180,827 48,382 47,323 (b) At a specific point in time Transaction and related fees 815,986 748,612 – – Cards and electronic channels 391,053 341,074 – – Transaction based fee income 424,933 407,538 – – Commissions 40,706 42,931 – – Trust and fiduciary fees 11,178 15,171 – – 867,870 806,714 – – (c) Income other than from contracts with customers 277,919 237,627 946,286 445,124 Total 1,359,484 1,225,168 994,668 492,447 8. STAFF COSTS Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Salaries and wages 1,024,314 874,101 72,489 57,123 Share-based payment expense 11,802 8,921 5,081 2,350 Staff training costs 23,652 18,450 4,508 3,011 Pension costs – defined contribution plan 61,094 54,559 3,570 3,278 Adjustment to fair value for interest-free loans – 483 – – Severance pay liability (note 30) 2,267 2,692 – – 1,123,129 959,206 85,648 65,762 240 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 9. OPERATING EXPENSES Expenses by nature 9.1 Normal operating expenses Advertising and marketing 43,916 34,560 5,125 5,055 Amortisation of intangible assets (note 22) 35,430 49,827 – – Asset management fees 2,516 – – – Auditor’s remuneration – – – – Audit fees 10,253 8,875 665 460 – Fees for other services 1,123 893 270 176 – Non-executive directors’ emoluments 8,567 8,706 4,593 4,606 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 23) 66,913 47,261 – – Finance costs – 2,805 – 2,454 Impairment on investments – – 112,352 – Insurance costs 14,286 6,608 – – Motor vehicle costs 4,871 3,285 – – Office expense 6,491 6,057 300 300 Operating lease rentals – immovable property 119,285 103,069 – 15 Professional services 93,195 75,962 18,698 12,350 Repairs and maintenance 53,199 46,494 – – Security expenses 15,874 23,318 – – Staff costs (note 8) 1,123,129 959,206 85,648 65,762 Stamp duty 20,184 16,616 1,900 506 Stationery and printing 16,215 18,394 22 68 Subscription fees 10,832 8,934 220 186 Technology costs 109,858 91,691 – 199 Telephone, postage and courier costs 19,096 17,085 185 51 Travelling 18,489 12,719 2,846 2,029 Valuation fees 14,014 8,145 – – Water and electricity 25,263 24,753 – – Other expenses 36,013 61,805 4,588 3,682 1,869,012 1,637,068 237,412 97,899 9.2 Fee and commission expenses Association transaction fees 122,128 103,409 – – Commission 10,977 7,142 – – Cash handling fees 12,515 9,395 – – Other retail banking expenses 37,406 38,094 – – 183,026 158,040 – – Total operating expenses 2,052,038 1,795,108 237,412 97,899 During the year under review, the company impaired the entire carrying amount of its investment in Cavmont Capital Holdings Zambia Plc and Mukumbi Investments (Pty) Ltd. The impairment was triggered due to losses suffered. The two subsidiaries had a combined carrying value of N$112.4 million before the impairment. The value in use of these entities was determined using the present value of expected dividend receipts. The value in use was determined to be nil. No goodwill was carried in relation to these two entities on a consolidated level and thus no impairment relating to goodwill was identified. Research and development costs of N$1.2 million (2018: N$0.4 million) are included in operating expenses above. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 241 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 10. SHARE OF ASSOCIATES’ RESULTS AFTER TAX The following represents Capricorn Group’s share of the associates’ after tax results: Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Profit before taxation 84,289 104,498 Taxation (11,632) (21,262) 72,657 83,236 11. INCOME TAX EXPENSE 11.1 Normal tax Current tax 428,648 325,659 – – – current year 428,648 325,659 – – – prior year – – – – Deferred tax (41,843) (7,593) (8,333) (6,245) – current year (41,843) (7,593) (8,333) (6,245) – prior year – – – – Total normal tax 386,805 318,066 (8,333) (6,245) 11.2 Tax rate reconciliation The tax on the operating profit differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the basic tax rate as follows: Profit before tax and share of associates’ results after tax 1,329,447 1,169,265 680,625 386,880 Tax at the applicable tax rate of 32% (2018: 32%) 425,423 374,165 217,800 123,802 Dividends received (45,974) (38,198) (301,376) (142,423) Fair value adjustment on interest-free staff loans and investments 2,713 – – – Other non-taxable income (76,389) (42,601) (5,412) (4,555) Non-deductible expenses 77,107 36,376 80,655 20,202 Derecognise previously recognised deferred tax asset 2,723 – – – Unrecognised deferred tax asset 2,823 – – – Expired assessed loss 5,798 – – – Utilised tax loss previously not recognised – (3,271) – (3,271) Difference in tax rates (7,419) (8,405) – – Income tax expense 386,805 318,066 (8,333) (6,245) Effective tax rate 29.1% 27.2% (1.2%) (1.6%) 242 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 12. EARNINGS AND HEADLINE EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the group’s profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent entity for the year, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the company and held as treasury shares. Headline earnings per share is calculated by dividing the group’s profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the parent entity after excluding identifiable remeasurements, net of tax, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the company and held as treasury shares. 2019 Gross Taxation Net Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Earnings Profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the parent entity 929,889 Headline adjustments (566) – (566) Other (566) – (566) Headline earnings 929,323 2018 Gross Taxation Net N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Earnings Profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the parent entity 922,556 Headline adjustments (116,273) – (116,273) Gain on bargain purchase (38,837) – (38,837) Fair value gain on disposal of shares (77,300) – (77,300) Other (136) – (136) Headline earnings 806,283 Group 2019 2018 Number of ordinary shares in issue at year-end (’000) (note 31) 512,116 512,496 Adjusted for shares issued during the year (’000) – (1,730) Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year (’000) 512,116 510,766 Adjusted for effect of future share-based payment transactions (’000) 818 880 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year (’000) 512,934 511,646 Earnings per ordinary share (cents) Basic 181.6 180.6 Fully diluted 181.3 180.3 Headline earnings per ordinary share (cents) Basic 181.5 157.9 Fully diluted 181.2 157.6 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 243 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 13. CASH AND BALANCES WITH THE CENTRAL BANK Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Cash balances 384,003 363,917 – – Bank balances – – 663,895 104,123 Balances with the central bank other than mandatory reserve deposits 481,510 653,615 – – Included in cash and cash equivalents 865,513 1,017,532 663,895 104,123 Mandatory reserve deposits with the respective central banks 707,103 625,025 – – 1,572,616 1,642,557 663,895 104,123 Mandatory reserve deposits are not available for use in the group’s day-to-day operations. Balances with the central bank other than mandatory deposits are interest sensitive. Cash balances as well as mandatory reserve deposits with the central bank are non-interest-bearing. Bank balances for the company reflects bank balances with Bank Windhoek Ltd. 14. FINANCIAL ASSETS Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Treasury bills – 3,221,439 – – Government stock – 438,741 – 109,494 Unit trust and money market investments 2,037,188 1,133,882 428,092 31,972 Tradable instruments – 411,707 – 411,707 Corporate bonds – 40,212 – – 2,037,188 5,245,981 428,092 553,173 Current 2,037,188 3,934,401 428,092 118,177 Non-current – 1,311,580 – 434,996 2,037,188 5,245,981 428,092 553,173 Financial assets at amortised cost Treasury bills 208,367 249,537 – – Government stock 688,820 624,715 – – Preference shares – – 272,782 202,060 897,187 874,252 272,782 202,060 Less expected credit loss allowance (36,873) (17,132) Net financial assets at amortised cost 860,314 874,252 255,650 202,060 Current 300,431 360,568 – – Non-current 559,883 513,684 255,650 202,060 860,314 874,252 255,650 202,060 Movement in impairment on financial assets at amortised cost is as follows for the group: IFRS 9 initial adoption 19,696 – 1,411 – Restated opening balance 19,696 – 1,411 – Impairment charge for the year 17,177 – 15,721 – Closing balance 36,873 – 17,132 – 244 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 14. FINANCIAL ASSETS (continued) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are presented within “operating activities” in the statement of cash flows. Changes in fair values of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recorded in “net gain/(loss) from financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss” in the statement of comprehensive income (note 7.2.). Treasury bills (including Bank of Botswana certificates) and government stocks are securities issued by the Namibian treasury department and Bank of Botswana for a term of 14 days, three months, six months, a year or longer. Treasury bills and government stock with a maturity of less than 90 days from the reporting date, as well as money market investments, are included in cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the cash flow statement. Refer to note 39. Treasury bills with a nominal value of N$230 million (2018: N$290 million) are available at the Bank of Namibia for collateral should the need arise. At year-end, there were no treasury bills utilised for security purposes (2018: NIL) at the Bank of Namibia. Bank of Botswana certificates with a nominal value of N$138 million (2018: N$165 million) are pledged as security with the Bank of Botswana. At 30 June 2018 no treasury bills have been collateralised under a sale-and-buyback agreement (2018: nil). Refer to note 3.5 for fair value methodology used. 15. FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Debt instruments Treasury bills 3,494,404 – – – Government stock 728,510 – – – Tradable instruments 476,153 – 476,153 – Corporate bonds 40,498 – – – Equity instruments Investment securities – listed¹, 2 1,768 134,028 – – Investment securities – unlisted 1,392 – – – 4,742,725 134,028 476,153 – Current 4,242,491 134,028 476,153 – Non-current 500,234 – – – 4,742,725 134,028 476,153 – Refer to note 3.5 for fair value methodology used. All debt instruments are unlisted. The following represents the amortised cost of instruments where this differs from the fair value: Treasury bills 3,492,915 – – – Government stock 719,123 – – – Refer to note 3.5 for fair value methodology used. ¹ Listed ordinary shares are held as follows: 6,583,247 shares in Weatherley International Plc, 13,035 shares in Dundee Precious Metals Inc, 28,308 shares in China Africa Resources Plc and nil shares in Visa Inc (2018: 18,182). The election was made to recognise the equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income. 2 During the period under review, the remaining 18,182 (2018: 12,122) shares of an initially held 30,304 shares in Visa Inc were sold. The realised fair value gains of N$136.4m were directly taken from Fair value reserve to Retained earnings in the statement of changes in equity. The investment was disposed of as it did not form part of the core business of the group. 16. DUE FROM OTHER BANKS Placement with other banks 1,724,043 1,773,529 Placements with other banks are callable on demand and are therefore current assets. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 245 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 17. LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS Group 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 Overdrafts 5,576,472 5,462,041 Term loans 12,001,762 10,083,575 Mortgages 17,748,863 17,248,618 – Residential mortgages 10,626,992 10,112,577 – Commercial mortgages 7,121,871 7,136,041 Instalment finance 3,209,275 3,361,848 Preference shares 409,743 444,903 Gross loans and advances 38,946,115 36,600,985 Less impairment Specific impairment – (258,411) Portfolio impairment – (108,156) Stage 1 (152,536) – Stage 2 (102,256) – Stage 3 (508,727) – 38,182,596 36,234,418 Effective interest rate impact per IFRS 9 (133,013) 38,049,583 Value of loans and advances as per IFRS 9 Gross loans and advances 38,946,115 – Effective interest rate impact per IFRS 9 (133,013) Interest in suspense (contractual interest suspended on non-performing loans) 346,836 Interest capitalised on stage 3 impaired loans and advances 114,692 – Value of loans and advances 39,274,630 – Value of impairments as per IFRS 9 Gross impairments (763,519) – Interest in suspense (contractual interest suspended on non-performing loans) (346,836) Additional impairment on stage 3 capitalised interest (114,692) Value of impairments (1,225,047) – Loans and advances 38,049,583 – 246 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 17. LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS (continued) Movement in impairment on loans and advances to customers is as follows for the group: Instalment Overdrafts Term loans Mortgages finance Total N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 30 June 2019 Balance at the beginning of the year 74,737 163,073 72,676 56,081 366,567 – Specific impairment 49,300 108,013 60,438 40,660 258,411 – Portfolio impairment 25,437 55,060 12,238 15,421 108,156 IFRS 9 initial adoption 102,486 19,422 79,593 213,049 414,550 IFRS 9 adjusted balance at the beginning of the year 177,223 182,495 152,269 269,130 781,117 – Stage 1 38,684 34,454 16,514 64,341 153,993 – Stage 2 31,072 21,364 18,267 72,423 143,126 – Stage 3 107,467 126,677 117,488 132,366 483,998 Loan impairments 25,301 73,529 12,974 (2,946) 108,858 Foreign exchange differences – (3,627) – (49,836) (53,463) Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible (4,886) (42,630) (402) (25,075) (72,993) Balance at the end of the year 197,638 209,767 164,841 191,273 763,519 – Stage 1 34,079 40,279 13,177 65,001 152,536 – Stage 2 38,902 23,474 14,925 24,955 102,256 – Stage 3 124,657 146,014 136,739 101,317 508,727 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 247 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 17. LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS (continued) Instalment Overdrafts Term loans Mortgages finance Total N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 30 June 2018 Balance at the beginning of the year 48,799 130,022 81,318 52,497 312,636 – Specific impairment 32,306 81,410 46,826 30,870 191,412 – Portfolio impairment 16,493 48,612 34,492 21,627 121,224 Loan impairment – specific 21,011 52,727 17,896 16,378 108,012 Loan impairment – portfolio 8,944 6,448 (22,254) (6,206) (13,068) Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible (4,017) (26,124) (4,284) (6,588) (41,013) Balance at the end of the year 74,737 163,073 72,676 56,081 366,567 – Specific impairment 49,300 108,013 60,438 40,660 258,411 – Portfolio impairment 25,437 55,060 12,238 15,421 108,156 Group 2019 2018 N$’000 % N$’000 % Total impairment by geographical area Namibia 505,328 230,314 Botswana 159,268 121,011 Zambia 98,923 15,242 763,519 366,567 Maturity analysis of loans and advances to customers for the group were as follows: Repayable within 1 month 5,704,097 14.6 4,946,417 13.5 Repayable after 1 month but within 3 months 125,148 0.3 620,218 1.7 Repayable after 3 months but within 6 months 173,879 0.5 763,862 2.1 Repayable after 6 months but within 12 months 329,663 0.9 863,927 2.4 Repayable after 12 months 32,613,328 83.7 29,406,561 80.3 38,946,115 100.0 36,600,985 100.0 248 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 17. LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS (continued) Group 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 The loans and advances to customers include instalment finance receivables which are analysed as follows: Repayable within 1 year 157,581 193,954 Repayable after 1 year but within 5 years 3,551,382 3,825,092 Repayable after 5 years 20,517 14,380 Gross investment in instalment finances 3,729,480 4,033,426 Unearned future finance income on instalment finances (520,205) (746,656) Net investment in instalment finances 3,209,275 3,286,770 Under the terms of lease agreements, no contingent rentals are payable. These agreements relate to motor vehicles and equipment. The group has a share purchase scheme in which it has a mechanism to allow employees to purchase shares in Capricorn Group at a value that approximates fair value at the date of sale of shares. The shares are sold via an interest-free loan provided by Bank Windhoek Ltd. Such loans are full recourse loans and if not repaid, Bank Windhoek Ltd may legally take possession of the employee’s personal assets. Thus the share purchase scheme does not fall within the scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. The benefit employees receive relating to the interest-free element of the loan is taken directly to the employee loan accounts. Included in term loans is an amount of N$46.6 million (2018: N$43.5 million) relating to the above-mentioned scheme. The movements on these staff loans were as follows: Group 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 Opening balance 43,496 39,942 New loans advanced during the year 20,832 22,382 Loans redeemed during the year (16,076) (18,736) Staff costs (adjustment to fair value) (6,657) (5,473) Effective interest charged 5,030 5,381 Closing balance 46,625 43,496 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 249 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 18. OTHER ASSETS Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Insurance fund asset 51,125 53,742 – – Accounts receivable 187,852 333,801 77,312 75,663 Dividends receivable – 5,300 – 47,309 Clearing, settlement and internal accounts 224,531 96,483 – – Prepayments 42,654 73,265 104,200 253 Other taxes 1,085 1,841 – 221 Inventory 46,816 48,038 – – Derivative financial instruments – interest rate swaps 357 – – – 554,420 612,470 181,512 123,446 Less expected credit loss allowance – – (16,303) Net other assets 554,420 612,470 165,209 123,446 Current 502,822 510,690 165,209 123,446 Non-current 51,598 101,780 – – 554,420 612,470 165,209 123,446 Movement in impairment on other assets IFRS 9 initial adoption – – 22,395 – Restated opening balance – – 22,395 – Foreign exchange gain – – (6,092) – Closing balance – – 16,303 – Interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange one set of cash flows for another and result in an economic exchange of a fixed rate for a floating rate or vice versa. No exchange of principal takes place. The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts, included above and in other liabilities (note 28), at 30 June 2019 was N$260.0 million (2018: N$420.0 million). Refer to note 3.2.6 for credit quality disclosure of financial instruments included in other assets. 250 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 19. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES The following information relates to the company’s financial interests in its unlisted subsidiaries: Issued ordinary share Effective holding Principal Number of capital and place of shares held premium 2019 2018 business ’000 N$’000 % % Subsidiaries of Capricorn Group Bank Windhoek Ltd Namibia 4,920 485,000 100 100 Namib Bou (Pty) Ltd Namibia 600 23,000 100 100 Capricorn Asset Management (Pty) Ltd Namibia 55 1,001 100 100 Capricorn Unit Trust Management Company Ltd Namibia 2,000 2,000 100 100 Capricorn Capital (Pty) Ltd Namibia 4 100 100 100 Capricorn Investment Holdings (Botswana) Ltd Botswana 52,598 318,858 84.3 84.3 Cavmont Capital Holdings Zambia Plc Zambia 111,625 207,340 97.9 97.9 Mukumbi Investments (Pty) Ltd Zambia 5 33 100 100 Entrepo Holdings (Pty) Ltd Namibia 15 130,000 55.5 55.5 Capricorn Mobile (Pty) Ltd Namibia 0 0 100.0 100.0 Capricorn Investment Group (Pty) Ltd South Africa 0 0 100.0 100.0 Subsidiaries of Bank Windhoek Ltd Bank Windhoek Nominees (Pty) Ltd Namibia 0.1 0.1 100 100 BW Finance (Pty) Ltd Namibia 0.1 0.1 100 100 Bank Windhoek Properties (Pty) Ltd Namibia 1 1 100 100 Subsidiaries of Capricorn Investment Holdings (Botswana) Ltd Bank Gaborone Ltd (BG) Botswana 220,000 297,309 100 100 Penrich Employee Benefits (Pty) Ltd Botswana 1 8,124 100 100 Capricorn Asset Management (Botswana) (Pty) Ltd Botswana 1 2,579 100 100 Peo Micro (Pty) Ltd Botswana 30 30 100 100 Subsidiaries of Cavmont Capital Holdings Zambia Plc Cavmont Bank Ltd Zambia 19,075 26,445 100 100 Subsidiaries of Entrepo Holdings (Pty) Ltd Entrepo Life Ltd Namibia 4 4,200 100 100 Entrepo Finance (Pty) Ltd Namibia 4 4 100 100 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 251 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 19. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (continued) Aggregate income of subsidiaries (after tax) Total investment 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Financial details of subsidiaries Subsidiaries of Capricorn Group Bank Windhoek Ltd (consolidated) 797,714 796,766 520,440 520,440 Namib Bou (Pty) Ltd 1,853 2,282 23,000 23,000 Capricorn Asset Management (Pty) Ltd 25,753 23,154 127,954 127,954 Capricorn Unit Trust Management Company Ltd 23,042 19,668 64,750 64,750 Capricorn Capital (Pty) Ltd (10,293) (5,779) 163 163 Capricorn Investment Holdings (Botswana) Ltd 59,655 46,551 436,361 436,361 Cavmont Capital Holdings Zambia Plc (19,853) (52,130) – 57,170 Mukumbi Investments (Pty) Ltd 25 (55) – 55,182 Entrepo Holdings Ltd 171,823 – 238,680 238,680 Capricorn Mobile (Pty) Ltd (914) – 0.1 – Capricorn Investment Group (Pty) Ltd (299) – 0.1 – 1,048,506 830,457 1,411,348 1,523,700 Non-current 1,411,348 1,523,700 The at-acquisition exchange rates of BWP1.289 and ZMW1.386 have been applied to the conversion of the investment. Average exchange rates for the year of BWP1.323 (2018: BWP1.293) and ZMW1.234 (2018: ZMW1.324) have been applied on the conversion of the aggregate income. All subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidation. The proportion of the voting rights in the subsidiary undertakings held by the parent company do not differ from the proportion of ordinary shares held. Refer to note 14 for the parent company’s shareholding in the preference shares of subsidiary undertakings included in the group. Refer to note 40 for related-party transactions and balances with subsidiaries. 252 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 20. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES Set out below are the associates of the group as at 30 June 2019. The associates as listed below have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are held directly by the group. Issued ordinary Effective holding Shares at cost Number of share capital shares held and premium 2019 2018 2019 2018 ’000 N$’000 % % N$’000 N$’000 Associates of Capricorn Group Santam Namibia Ltd 1,230 8,307 28.0 28.0 62,905 62,905 Sanlam Namibia Holdings (Pty) Ltd 30 160,665 29.5 29.5 47,290 47,290 Nimbus Infrastructure Ltd 8,615 28,711 30.0 18.3 88,737 34,461 198,932 144,656 20.1 Santam Namibia Ltd The company holds a 28% interest in Santam Namibia Ltd, a short-term insurance company. Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Carrying value of investment in associate Investment at cost 62,905 62,905 62,905 62,905 Share of current year’s retained income 20,270 41,134 – Profit before tax 29,474 59,108 – Current and deferred tax (9,204) (17,974) Dividends paid (15,949) (38,438) Post-acquisition retained income at the beginning of the year 66,327 63,631 133,553 129,232 62,905 62,905 Directors’ valuation 217,043 310,468 217,043 310,468 Technique used for directors’ valuation: Santam Namibia Ltd is not listed on a stock exchange and therefore has no quoted market price available for its shares. The directors’ valuation was determined by using its price-to-book-value basis of valuation. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 253 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 20. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES (continued) 20.1 Santam Namibia Ltd (continued) Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Summarised financial information (unaudited) Revenue (net earned premium) 899,478 858,672 Profit after tax 72,391 147,147 Total comprehensive income 72,391 147,147 Non-current assets 546,511 468,351 Technical assets 324,055 336,361 Current assets 229,571 237,532 Technical liabilities (481,820) (488,073) Current liabilities (224,135) (175,447) Net asset value 394,182 378,724 Interest in associate (28%) 110,193 105,872 Goodwill on acquisition 23,360 23,360 Carrying value of investment in associate 133,553 129,232 20.2 Sanlam Namibia Holdings (Pty) Ltd The company holds an effective 29.5% in Sanlam Namibia Holdings (Pty) Ltd, a Namibian company providing a variety of financial services. Carrying value of investment in associate Investment at cost 47,290 47,290 47,290 47,290 Share of current year’s retained income 49,621 41,808 – Profit before tax 52,049 45,026 – Current and deferred tax (2,428) (3,218) Dividends paid (44,779) (42,530) Post-acquisition retained income at the beginning of the year 71,234 71,956 123,366 118,524 47,290 47,290 Directors’ valuation 510,458 455,354 510,458 455,354 254 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 20. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES (continued) 20.2 Sanlam Namibia Holdings (Pty) Ltd (continued) Technique used for directors’ valuation: Sanlam Namibia Holdings (Pty) Ltd is a private company and there is no quoted market price available for its shares. The directors’ valuation was determined by using the price to embedded value basis of valuation. Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Summarised financial information (unaudited) Revenue (net insurance income) 1,032,937 995,434 Profit after tax 168,435 141,917 Total comprehensive income 168,435 141,917 Non-current assets 5,010,795 4,470,969 Current assets 621,131 338,844 Non-current liabilities (4,744,744) (3,967,205) Current liabilities (531,582) (503,444) Net asset value 355,600 339,164 Interest in associate (29.5%) 104,760 99,918 Goodwill on acquisition 18,606 18,606 Carrying value of investment in associate 123,366 118,524 The associates above have December financial year-ends and are incorporated in Namibia. The country of incorporation/registration is also their principal place of business. The results of associates are equity accounted. Management accounts as at 30 June 2019 have been used for equity accounting the share of results of associates for their half year ended 30 June 2019. 20.3 Nimbus Infrastructure Limited The company holds a 30% interest in Nimbus Infrastructure Ltd, a Capital Pool Company with the objective of pursuing investments in the Information Communication and Technology Sector. Carrying value of investment in associate Investment at cost 88,737 34,461 88,737 34,461 Share of current year’s retained income 2,766 294 – Profit before tax 2,766 364 – Current and deferred tax – (70) Post-acquisition retained income at the beginning of the year 294 91,797 34,755 88,737 34,461 Valuation 88,737 37,941 88,737 37,941 On 13 July 2018, the group acquired an additional 12% stake in Nimbus Infrastructure Limited for a consideration of N$54.3 million. The cost of the acquisition was equal to the share of the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition and thus no goodwill or gain-on-bargain purchase was recognised. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 255 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 20. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES (continued) 20.3 Nimbus Infrastructure Limited (continued) Technique used for directors’ valuation: Nimbus Infrastructure Ltd is listed on the Namibia Stock Exchange (NSX) and therefore has a quoted market price available for its shares. Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Summarised financial information (unaudited) Revenue 6,998 2,282 Profit after tax 9,220 1,609 Total comprehensive income 9,220 1,609 Non-current assets 199,516 189,752 Current assets 106,627 701 Current liabilities (212) (535) Net asset value 305,931 189,918 Interest in associate (30%) (2018: 18.3%) 91,797 34,755 Carrying value of investment in associate 91,797 34,755 Total investment in associates (non-current) 348,716 282,511 198,932 144,656 Refer to note 40 for related-party transactions and balances with associates. 256 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 21. INTEREST IN JOINT ARRANGEMENT Joint venture The joint venture was incorporated in Namibia. The country of incorporation or registration is also its principal place of business. The results of the joint venture are equity accounted. Management accounts as at 30 June 2019 have been used for equity accounting the share of results for the year ended 30 June 2019. The value of the group’s share in assets, liabilities, income and expenditure is not significant to the group as a whole. The joint venture listed below has share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are held directly by the group. The group obtained a 25% interest in Namclear (Pty) Ltd during 2005. According to the joint venture agreement, a unanimous vote from all four shareholders is required to effect a resolution. Namclear (Pty) Ltd has a December year-end. Effective Issued holding Shares at cost ordinary Number of share capital 2019 shares held and premium and 2018 2019 2018 ’000 N$’000 % N$’000 N$’000 Namclear (Pty) Ltd 4 4,616 25 1,154 1,154 Group 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 Opening balance 7,341 6,193 The group’s share of the profit in the joint venture 3,675 1,148 Closing balance 11,016 7,341 Non-current 11,016 7,341 Directors’ valuation 11,016 7,341 Technique used for directors’ valuation: The directors’ valuation was determined by using its net asset value. Aggregated summarised financial information of Namclear (Pty) Ltd Profit after tax 14,700 4,592 Total comprehensive income 14,700 4,592 Non-current assets 52,656 45,115 Current assets 49,983 28,790 Non-current liabilities (40,709) (35,075) Current liabilities (17,866) (9,466) Net asset value 44,064 29,364 Interest in joint arrangement (25%) (2018: 25%) 11,016 7,341 Carrying value of joint arrangement 11,016 7,341 Refer to note 40 for related-party transactions and balances with joint ventures. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 257 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 22. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible Internally Purchased assets in generated Goodwill1 software development software Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 30 June 2019 Cost Cost at 1 July 2018 71,068 113,801 28,325 247,631 460,825 Transfers – – (63,118) 31,054 (32,064) Additions – 322 60,582 3,425 64,329 Exchange differences – (4,892) 260 (148) (4,780) Cost at 30 June 2019 71,068 109,231 26,049 281,962 488,310 Amortisation Amortisation at 1 July 2018 – (94,538) (6,760) (75,594) (176,892) Charge for the year – (3,103) – (32,327) (35,430) Exchange differences – 224 (115) (258) (149) Amortisation at 30 June 2019 – (97,417) (6,875) (108,179) (212,471) Net book value at 30 June 2019 71,068 11,814 19,174 173,783 275,839 30 June 2018 Cost Cost at 1 July 2017 71,068 112,630 20,151 214,510 418,359 Transfers – 1,171 (39,646) 27,674 (10,801) Additions – – 49,060 4,039 53,099 Exchange differences – – (1,240) 1,408 168 Cost at 30 June 2018 71,068 113,801 28,325 247,631 460,825 Amortisation Amortisation at 1 July 2017 – (93,734) (6,843) (26,102) (126,679) Charge for the year – (804) – (49,023) (49,827) Exchange differences – – 83 (469) (386) Amortisation at 30 June 2018 – (94,538) (6,760) (75,594) (176,892) Net book value at 30 June 2018 71,068 19,263 21,565 172,037 283,933 All intangible assets are held by the group, none by the company and all are classified as non-current assets. No assets were encumbered at 30 June 2019 nor 30 June 2018. ¹ Goodwill is tested for impairment on annual basis as per the requirements of IAS 36. Goodwill is allocated to each subsidiary based on its initial acquisition. Each subsidiary is deemed to be an individual cash-generating unit (CGU). The recoverable amount of the CGUs was determined using fair value calculations of the individual companies that gave rise to the goodwill asset. No instance was detected which indicated the impairment of the goodwill. 258 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 23. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Furniture, Freehold Computer fittings and land and and other Motor other office buildings equipment vehicles equipment Total Group N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 30 June 2019 Cost Cost at 1 July 2018 79,932 236,851 30,744 285,237 632,764 Additions – 62,009 5,983 8,242 76,234 Transfers – 8,057 – 24,007 32,064 Exchange differences 1,233 5,786 956 4,640 12,615 Disposals – (1,326) (5,930) (9,930) (17,186) Cost at 30 June 2019 81,165 311,377 31,753 312,196 736,491 Depreciation Accumulated depreciation at 1 July 2018 (30,136) (154,543) (19,565) (190,074) (394,318) Charge for the year (1,875) (39,825) (2,149) (23,064) (66,913) Exchange differences (475) (2,087) (826) (3,951) (7,339) Depreciation on disposals – 1,322 5,535 9,666 16,523 Accumulated depreciation at 30 June 2019 (32,486) (195,133) (17,005) (207,423) (452,047) Net book value at 30 June 2019 48,679 116,244 14,748 104,773 284,444 30 June 2018 Cost Cost at 1 July 2017 82,745 205,091 28,541 265,448 581,825 Additions – 21,154 2,657 22,015 45,826 Transfers – 10,801 – – 10,801 Acquisition of subsidiaries – 3,858 – 1,183 5,041 Exchange differences (2,813) 980 (454) (2,986) (5,273) Disposals – (5,033) – (423) (5,456) Cost at 30 June 2018 79,932 236,851 30,744 285,237 632,764 Depreciation Accumulated depreciation at 1 July 2017 (28,964) (126,064) (17,689) (176,300) (349,017) Charge for the year (1,604) (28,164) (2,018) (15,475) (47,261) Exchange differences 432 (801) 142 1,775 1,548 Acquisition of subsidiaries – (2,302) – (484) (2,786) Depreciation on disposals – 2,788 – 410 3,198 Accumulated depreciation at 30 June 2018 (30,136) (154,543) (19,565) (190,074) (394,318) Net book value at 30 June 2018 49,796 82,308 11,179 95,163 238,446 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 259 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 23. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (continued) There was no material change in the nature of property, plant and equipment or in the policy regarding its use during the year. Details regarding the fixed properties as required in terms of Schedule 4 of the Companies Act are available to shareholders at the registered office of the group. This information will be open for inspection in terms of the provisions of section 120 of the Companies Act, 2004. The company does not own any property, plant and equipment. No assets were encumbered at 30 June 2019 nor 30 June 2018. All property, plant and equipment are classified as non-current assets. 24. DUE TO OTHER BANKS Group 2019 2018 N$'000 N$'000 Current accounts 72,756 63,037 Borrowings from other banks – in the normal course of business 172,947 189,646 245,703 252,683 Current 245,703 252,683 Due to other banks are unsecured with no fixed repayment terms and bears interest at market-related interest rates. 25. OTHER BORROWINGS Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Balance as at 1 July 1,313,433 1,165,064 95,923 – Additions 451,360 309,651 396,360 90,651 Redemptions (770,874) (169,726) (353,601) – Accrued interest 140,202 127,473 30,227 2,454 Coupon repayments (140,793) (124,301) (30,227) (2,454) Foreign exchange movement 3,044 5,272 3,044 5,272 Balance as at 30 June 996,372 1,313,433 141,726 95,923 Current 360,993 263,196 141,726 95,923 Non-current 635,379 1,050,237 – – 996,372 1,313,433 141,726 95,923 Other borrowings consist of N$920 million long-term funding with IFC (International Finance Corporation), of which N$346 million has been repaid to date, as well as a long-term loan from AFD (Agence Française de Développement) of N$219 million. The balance is further made up of a Bank One loan of N$142 million and a loan from the Caliber Capital Trust of N$55 million. N$250 million long-term funding from DEG (Deutsche Investitionsund Entwicklungsgesellschaft) has been repaid in full in December 2018. 260 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 25. OTHER BORROWINGS (continued) The IFC loan is repayable semi-annually over a seven-year term with quarterly interest repayments. The first capital repayment was made in December 2017. Interest on the IFC loans is charged at three-month JIBAR plus an average spread of 2.95%. The AFD loan is repayable semi-annually over a seven-year term with quarterly interest repayments. The first capital repayment is due in December 2020. Interest on the AFD loan is charged at three-month JIBAR plus a spread of 1.131%. The interest on the Bank One loan is repayable quarterly over the one-year term of the loan with the capital amount being repayable at the end of the loan. Interest on the Bank One loan is charged at three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 2.3%. The Caliber Capital Trust loan bears interest at Namibian prime plus 3.5% and is repayable at the end of the loan term. The group complied with all debt covenant requirements relating to these loans in the current financial year. 26. DEBT SECURITIES IN ISSUE Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Balance as at 1 July 4,777,074 4,105,577 1,038,272 932,469 Redemptions (993,816) (1,341,584) (100,000) (930,000) Additions 1,826,392 1,993,885 820,392 1,030,000 Effective interest 437,055 375,957 96,531 76,019 Coupon payments (379,811) (356,761) (86,450) (70,216) Forex gain 4,080 – 984 – Balance as at 30 June 5,670,974 4,777,074 1,769,729 1,038,272 Current 721,551 1,497,623 24,729 438,272 Non-current 4,949,423 3,279,451 1,745,000 600,000 5,670,974 4,777,074 1,769,729 1,038,272 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 261 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 26. DEBT SECURITIES IN ISSUE (continued) Group 2019 2018 Debt instruments Interest rate Maturity date Notes N$’000 N$’000 Five-year callable bonds BW25 9.75% 18-Aug-25 26.1 187,533 187,533 Bonds issued by Bank Gaborone 3 mth BoBC rate + 2.1% 31-Oct-21 26.1 66,681 65,625 254,214 253,158 Senior debt – unsecured BWFj18 fixed rate note 9.55% 25-Oct-18 26.2 – 105,819 BWZj18 floating rate note 3 mth JIBAR + 180bps 19-Nov-18 26.2 606,150 BWFd19 fixed rate note 9.43% 25-Apr-19 26.2 – 101,725 BWFh19 fixed rate note 8.86% 22-Aug-19 26.2 113,473 113,473 BWJj19 floating rate note 3 mth JIBAR + 175bps 25-Oct-19 26.2 121,949 121,850 BWZj19 floating rate note 3 mth JIBAR + 205bps 10-Nov-19 26.2 162,099 162,040 BWZ20A floating rate note 3 mth JIBAR + 215bps 27-Mar-20 26.2 299,300 299,297 BWi20 floating rate note 3mth JIBAR + 180bps 18-Sep-20 26.2 265,857 265,863 BWJL21G Floating rate note 3 mth JIBAR + 150bps 6-Dec-21 26.2 66,387 – BWRj21 fixed rate note 7.75% 15-Oct-21 26.2 58,285 57,112 BWZj21 floating rate note 3 mth JIBAR + 230bps 10-Nov-21 26.2 60,808 60,786 BWJd21 floating rate note 3mth JIBAR + 185bps 20-Apr-21 26.2 132,460 132,477 BWZ21B floating rate note 3mth JIBAR + 205bps 27-Mar-21 26.2 300,299 300,296 BWFh22 fixed rate note 9.50% 18-Aug-22 26.2 285,545 155,254 BWJh22 floating rate note 3mth JIBAR + 195bps 19-May-27 26.2 136,672 60,544 BWFK22 fixed rate note 9.98% 21-Nov-22 26.2 247,724 – BWJK22 floating rate note 3 mth JIBAR + 187 bps 21-Nov-22 26.2 156,572 – BWZJ23 floating rate note 3 mth JIBAR + 190 bps 19-Nov-22 26.2 343,628 – BWJ1e27 floating rate note 3 mth JIBAR + 215bps 19-May-27 26.2 505,483 505,331 BWJ2e27 floating rate note 3 mth JIBAR 19-May-27 26.2 302,530 302,440 CGL001 floating rate note Botswana bank rate + 160bps 8-Apr-24 26.2 174,035 – Senior debt issued by Bank Gaborone 7.3% – 7.5% June 2028; June 2027 26.2 87,960 135,187 3,821,066 3,485,644 Preference shares (floating rate note) 2,500 Preference shares – Santam Namibia Ltd 64.5% of prime 1-Dec-21 26.3 25,139 25,144 10,000 Preference Shares – Capricorn Corporate 3mth JIBAR + 185 bps Fund 15-Feb-21 26.3 – 101,126 40,000 Preference Shares – Capricorn 3mth JIBAR Investment Holdings Limited 23-Mar-27 26.3 404,785 404,613 35,000 Preference Shares – First National Bank 72.1% of of Namibia Namibian prime 15-Mar-24 26.3 354,412 – 30,000 Preference Shares – First National Bank 71.4% of of Namibia Namibian prime 15-Mar-24 26.3 303,759 – 1,088,095 530,883 262 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 26. DEBT SECURITIES IN ISSUE (continued) Group 2019 2018 Debt instruments Interest rate Maturity date Notes N$’000 N$’000 Debentures Various funds administered by Capricorn Asset 3 mth JIBAR + 195bps Management (Pty) Ltd 30-Apr-20 26.4 406,088 405,843 Capricorn Investment Holdings Ltd 3 mth JIBAR + 235bps 31-Dec-27 26.4 101,511 101,546 507,599 507,389 Total debt securities in issue at the end of the year 5,670,974 4,777,074 Listed debt securities 3,920,561 3,537,990 Unlisted debt securities 1,750,413 1,239,084 5,670,974 4,777,074 26.1 Five-year callable bonds The five-year callable bond BW25, issued on 15 August 2015, interest is paid semi-annually in February and August of each year. This bond qualifies as Tier II capital for the group. BW 25 was issued under Bank Windhoek’s Medium Term Note Programme, a programme registered with the Johannesburg and Namibian Stock Exchanges. The five-year callable bond issued by Bank Gaborone bear interest at Bank of Botswana Certificate rate plus 1.6% per annum for the first five years plus a stepped up margin of 2.1% thereafter and mature on 31 October 2021. Interest is paid quarterly in arrears. The debt is guaranteed by the shareholder of reference, Capricorn Investment Holdings Limited. 26.2 Senior debt – unsecured New debt securities issued in the current year include BWJL21G, BWFK22, BWJK22, BWZJ23 and CGL001. Interest on CGL001, BWZj18, BWJj19, BWZj19, BWZ20A, BWJi20, BWJl21G, BWZj21, BWJd21, BWZ21B, BWJH22, BWJK22, BWZJ23, BWJ1e27 and BWJ2e27 is paid quarterly. Interest on BWFj18, BWFd19 and BWFH22 are paid semi-annually on 25 April and 25 October, while interest on BWFh19 is paid semi-annually on 22 February and 22 August. Interest on BWRj21 is paid semi-annually on 15 April and 15 October, while interest on BWFk22 is paid semi-annually on 21 May and 21 November. The instruments mentioned above are under Bank Windhoek’s Medium Term Note Programme, a programme registered with the Johannesburg and Namibian Stock Exchanges. CGL001 mentioned above is under the Capricorn Group Medium Term Note Programme, a programme registered with the Johannesburg, Botswana and Namibian Stock Exchanges. Interest is paid quarterly on 8 January, 8 April, 8 July and 8 October. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 263 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 26. DEBT SECURITIES IN ISSUE (continued) 26.3 Preference shares The company issued 65,000 new preference shares on 15 March 2019. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears on the last working day of January, April, July and October. Interest on the 40,000 preference shares issued to Capricorn Investment Holdings Ltd is payable quarterly in arrears on the last working day of January, April, July and October. Interest on the 2,500 preference shares issued to Santam Namibia Ltd is payable quarterly in arrears on the last working date of February, May, August and November. 26.4 Debentures Interest on the debentures is paid quarterly in arrears. Debt securities in issue comprises subordinated debt, senior debt, preference shares and debentures with a combined nominal value of N$4.6 billion (2018: N$4.8 billion). 27. DEPOSITS Group 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 Current accounts 6,218,646 7,483,375 Savings accounts 2,276,992 2,438,471 Demand deposits 4,571,695 4,606,282 Term and notice deposits 13,172,707 12,129,974 Negotiable certificates of deposits (NCDs) 9,035,899 5,692,596 Other deposits 1,708,786 1,597,393 36,984,725 33,948,091 Group 2019 2018 N$’000 % N$’000 % Maturity analysis within the customer current, savings, deposit account portfolio for the group were as follows: Withdrawable on demand 13,486,633 36.5 15,233,526 44.9 Maturing within 1 month 3,297,831 8.9 4,389,108 12.9 Maturing after 1 month but within 6 months 8,030,380 21.7 8,353,506 24.6 Maturing after 6 months but within 12 months 6,982,083 18.9 4,682,389 13.8 Maturing after 12 months 5,187,798 14.0 1,289,562 3.8 36,984,725 100.0 33,948,091 100.0 264 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 28. OTHER LIABILITIES Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Accounts payable and other accruals 162,762 893,722 17,994 201,880 Employee liabilities 191,275 129,267 26,168 15,347 – Leave pay accrual 49,028 46,753 3,621 3,305 – Provision for performance bonuses 110,131 65,213 22,547 12,042 – Provision for share-based payment liability 10,550 – – – – PAYE payable 8,833 9,618 – – – Medical aid payable 6,861 6,766 – – – Pension payable – 331 – – – Other 5,872 586 – – Other taxes 32,628 27,860 485 – Derivative financial instruments – interest rate swaps 5,959 5,535 – – Policyholder liability (see Note 28.1) 153,978 90,597 – – Clearing, settlement and internal accounts 58,517 85,208 – – 605,119 1,232,189 44,647 217,227 Current 451,141 1,141,592 44,647 217,227 Non-current 153,978 90,597 – – 605,119 1,232,189 44,647 217,227 The provision for performance bonuses is payable in September after the financial year-end. Interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange one set of cash flows for another and result in an economic exchange of a fixed rate for a floating rate or vice versa. No exchange of principal takes place. The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts, included above and in other assets (note 18) at 30 June 2019 was N$420.0 million (2018: N$420.0 million). 28.1 Policyholder liabilities The policyholder liability at year-end comprises: Claims IBNR liability 8,495 7,494 – – Unearned premium reserve 145,483 83,103 – – 153,978 90,597 – – Reconciliation of the policyholder liability: Opening balance 90,597 – – – Acquisition of subsidiary – 90,597 Allocation to the IBNR liability 1,001 – – – Transfer to unearned premium reserve 62,380 – – – 153,978 90,597 – – CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 265 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 29. DEFERRED INCOME TAX Deferred income taxes are calculated on all temporary differences under the liability method using a principal tax rate of 32% (2018: 32%). The movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Deferred tax (asset)/liability as at 1 July (34,293) (24,467) (6,245) – IFRS 9 first time adoption (31,366) – (7,798) – Restated opening as at 1 July (65,659) (24,467) (14,043) – Acquisition of subsidiaries – (2,233) – – Charge to profit or loss (note 11) (41,843) (7,593) (8,333) (6,245) Accelerated tax depreciation and amortisation 4,731 26,708 – – Loans and receivables 11,368 (27,262) – – Government stock and other securities 14,099 (2,094) – – Prepaid expenses 4,938 (2,329) – (6,245) Accruals (3,129) 15,146 (3,870) – Loan loss impairment (82,750) 9,858 (2,902) – Change in the tax rate 108 – – – Assessed loss 11,123 (10,462) (2,340) – Other (2,331) (17,158) 779 – Deferred tax asset as at 30 June (107,502) (34,293) (22,376) (6,245) Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following items: Deferred income tax liability Accelerated tax depreciation and amortisation 89,215 84,484 – – Government stock and other securities 17,516 3,417 – – Prepaid expenses 11,266 6,328 – – Change in the tax rate 108 – – – 118,105 94,229 – – Deferred income tax asset Accruals 25,778 22,649 8,781 4,911 Loan loss impairment 133,900 19,785 10,700 – Assessed loss 27,430 38,553 2,895 555 Derivative financial instruments 6,814 1,963 – – Unrealised foreign exchange gains or losses 14,441 17,356 – – Loans and receivables 15,894 27,262 – – Other temporary differences 1,350 954 – 779 225,607 128,522 22,376 6,245 Net deferred income tax asset (107,502) (34,293) (22,376) (6,245) 266 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 29. DEFERRED INCOME TAX (continued) Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis. Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Deferred tax liability Current 28,890 17,139 – – Non-current 89,215 77,090 – – Total 118,105 94,229 – – Deferred tax asset Current 141,085 105,645 22,376 6,245 Non-current 84,522 22,877 – – Total 225,607 128,522 22,376 6,245 30. POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS Group 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 30.1 Severance pay liability A valuation was performed for 30 June 2019 by an independent actuary on the group’s liability with respect to severance pay. The benefit is not funded. The amount recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position is determined as follows: Present value of unfunded obligation (non-current) 12,232 11,440 The movement in the severance pay obligation over the year is as follows: As at 1 July 11,440 10,191 Current service costs 1,302 1,196 Interest cost 965 945 Past service cost – 551 Benefits paid (1,475) (112) Actuarial gain – (1,331) As at 30 June 12,232 11,440 The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows: Current service costs 1,302 1,196 Past service cost – 551 Interest cost 965 945 2,267 2,692 The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: % % Discount rate 8.5 8.5 Inflation rate 5.4 6.4 Salary increases 6.4 6.4 The following sensitivity of the overall liability to changes in principal assumption is: Salary increase 1% lower per annum 565 565 Salary increase 1% higher per annum 636 636 Inflation increase 1% lower per annum 477 477 Inflation increase 1% higher per annum 537 537 Discount increase 1% lower per annum 750 750 Discount increase 1% higher per annum 845 845 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 267 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 30. POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS (continued) 30.2 Medical aid scheme The group has no liability in respect of post-retirement medical aid contributions. 30.3 Pension schemes All full-time permanent employees are members of the CIH Group Retirement Fund, a defined contribution plan, which has been registered in Namibia in accordance with the requirements of the Pension Funds Act. The fund is governed by the Pension Funds Act, 1956, which requires a statutory actuarial valuation every three years. The latest statutory actuarial valuation was carried out on 31 March 2018 and in the actuary’s opinion the fund was in a sound financial position at that date. The valuation confirmed that the value of the assets in the fund exceeded the value of the actuarially determined liabilities. The group currently contributes 12% of basic salary to the fund, while the members contribute 7.5%. Post-employment benefits are classified as non-current liabilities. 31. SHARE CAPITAL AND PREMIUM Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Authorised share capital 600,000,000 ordinary shares of 2.5 cents each 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 1,000,000 redeemable preference shares of 1 cent each 10 10 10 10 35,000 Class A preference shares of 1 cent each 0.35 – 0.35 – 30,000 Class B preference shares of 1 cent each 0.30 – 0.30 – Issued ordinary share capital Balance as at 1 July 12,980 12,922 12,980 12,922 Shares issued during the year – 58 – 58 Balance as at 30 June 12,980 12,980 12,980 12,980 Share premium Balance as at 1 July 765,566 724,116 765,566 724,116 Shares issued during the year – 41,450 – 41,450 Balance at 30 June 765,566 765,566 765,566 765,566 Less: Treasury shares (58,244) (54,039) (13,039) (8,613) Total ordinary share capital and premium 720,302 724,507 765,507 769,933 Issued number of ordinary shares reconciliation (’000): Issued number of shares at the beginning of the year 519,184 516,878 519,184 516,878 Shares issued during the year – 2,306 – 2,306 Issued number of shares at the end of the year 519,184 519,184 519,184 519,184 Less: Treasury shares (7,068) (6,688) (951) (716) Total number of ordinary shares issued at year-end 512,116 512,496 518,233 518,468 268 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 31. SHARE CAPITAL AND PREMIUM (continued) Issued preference share capital The company issued 35,000 Class A and 30,000 Class B preference shares on 15 March 2019. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears at the end of January, April, July and October. Unissued shares All the unissued shares are under the control of the directors in terms of a general authority to allot and issue them on such terms and conditions and at such time as they deem fit. This authority expires at the forthcoming annual general meeting on 29 October 2019, when the authority can be renewed. Refer to the directors’ report. The company’s total number of issued ordinary shares at year-end was 519,184,399 (2018: 519,184,399). All issued shares are fully paid up. 32. NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE Group 2019 2018 Net asset value per ordinary share (cents) Net assets (excluding NCI) (N$’000) 5,815,396 5,614,691 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year (’000) 512,116 510,766 Net asset value per share (cents) 1,136 1,099 33. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The group operates two equity-settled share-based compensation plans: (1) a share appreciation rights plan and (2) a conditional share plan, under which the entities within the group receive services from employees as consideration for equity instruments (shares) of Capricorn Group (refer to the remuneration report (unaudited) for details of each plan). The total expense for the share-based compensation plans is N$11.8 million in 2019 (2018: N$8.9 million), refer to note 8. Share appreciation rights (SAR) Share appreciation rights (SAR) are granted to executive directors and to selected employees for no consideration (exercise price of zero). The number of Capricorn Group shares to which each employee is entitled upon the exercise of the SAR will be calculated with reference to the increase in the value of the employer company or Capricorn Group’s share price over the period from grant date to the exercise date. SAR are conditional on the employee completing three years of service after grant date (the vesting period), and subject to the relevant employer company achieving its pre-determined performance conditions over the performance period. SAR are exercisable from the vesting date and have a contractual term of five years. The group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the SAR in cash. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 269 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 33. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (continued) Share appreciation rights (SAR) (continued) Details of the number of SAR outstanding (’000) are as follows: Capricorn Capricorn Capricorn Investment Capricorn Bank Asset Unit Trust Holdings Group Windhoek Management Management (Botswana) Total 30 June 2019 Opening balance 477 552 130 36 131 1,326 Granted 210 240 95 – 62 607 Vested (62) (75) (51) (36) (47) (271) Forfeitures (40) (50) – – – (90) Closing balance 585 667 174 – 146 1,572 30 June 2018 Opening balance 466 578 150 78 180 1,452 Granted 269 257 42 – 41 609 Vested (130) (72) (61) – (11) (274) Forfeitures (128) (211) (1) (42) (79) (461) Closing balance 477 552 130 36 131 1,326 SARs issued in September 2015 vested in September 2018 and were exercised during the current financial year. No SAR expired during the periods covered by the above tables. SARs outstanding (’000) at the end of the year have the following vesting and expiry dates: Grant date Vest date Expiry date 2019 2018 September 2015 September 2018 September 2020 – 362 September 2016 September 2019 September 2021 356 356 September 2017 September 2020 September 2022 608 608 September 2018 September 2021 September 2023 608 – 1,572 1,326 The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of the year 3.2 years 3.2 years 270 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 33. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (continued) Share appreciation rights (SAR) (continued) The fair value of SAR granted during the year was determined by using the American Call Option valuation model. The significant inputs into the model are summarised in the table below. Refer to note 8 for the total expense recognised in profit or loss for SAR granted to directors and employees. Capricorn Group 30 June 2019 Spot and strike price (N$) 16.89 Risk-free rate 8.4% Dividend yield 3.8% Volatility 30% Membership attrition 5% 30 June 2018 Spot and strike price (N$) 18.10 Risk-free rate 7.7% Dividend yield 3.8% Volatility 30% Membership attrition 5% Conditional share plan (CSP) Capricorn Group shares are granted to selected employees for no consideration. The allocation of shares are conditional on the employee completing three years of service after grant date (the vesting period). The group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the shares in cash. Details of the number of shares outstanding are as follows: 2019 2018 No. of CSPs No. of CSPs ’000 ’000 Opening balance 1,354 1,322 Granted 986 646 Vested (306) (426) Forfeited (308) (188) Closing balance 1,726 1,354 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 271 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 33. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (continued) Conditional share plan (CSP) (continued) Outstanding number of CSPs (’000) expected to vest as follows: Grant date Vest date 2019 2018 September 2015 September 2018 – 366 September 2016 September 2019 221 466 September 2017 September 2020 519 522 September 2018 September 2021 986 – 1,726 1,354 The fair value of shares granted during the year was determined with reference to the listed share price at grant date of N$16.89 (2018: N$18.10) and taking into account a membership attrition of 5% (2018: 5%). Refer to note 8 for the total expense recognised in profit or loss for shares granted to executive directors and employees. 34. NON-DISTRIBUTABLE RESERVES Group 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 34.1 Credit risk reserve Balance at 1 July 215,911 197,650 Transfer to retained earnings: Initial adoption of IFRS 9 (194,536) – Adjusted balance at 1 July 21,375 197,650 Transfer from retained earnings 13,454 18,261 Balance as at 30 June 34,829 215,911 The regulatory credit risk reserve was introduced in order to meet the regulatory requirements for the loan loss portfolio impairment of Bank Windhoek Ltd. 34.2 Insurance fund reserve Balance at 1 July 53,742 50,536 Transfer from retained earnings (2,617) 3,206 Balance as at 30 June 51,125 53,742 The insurance reserve was created to fund a portion, net of deferred tax, of the regulatory requirement to hold a certain level of insurance specific for banking risk. Total non-distributable reserves 85,954 269,653 272 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 35. DISTRIBUTABLE RESERVES Group 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 35.1 Fair value reserve Balance as at 1 July 129,811 145,165 Change in value of financial assets at FVOCI/Revaluation of available-for-sale equity instruments 7,263 44,026 Reclassification to retained earnings/profit or loss (136,379) (59,380) Balance as at 30 June 695 129,811 35.2 General banking reserve Balance as at 1 July 3,814,879 3,354,609 Transfer from retained earnings 28,918 460,270 Balance as at 30 June 3,843,797 3,814,879 The general banking reserve is maintained to fund future expansion. 35.3 Foreign currency translation reserve Balance as at 1 July 4,536 (873) Revaluation for the year 1,339 7,779 Change in shareholding – (2,268) Non-controlling interest (875) (102) Balance as at 30 June 5,000 4,536 Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 35.4 Retained earnings Balance as at 1 July 654,458 608,336 526,966 485,318 Initial adoption – IFRS 9 (235,947) – (16,572) – Restated balance at the beginning of the reporting period 418,511 608,336 510,394 485,318 Profit for the year 929,889 922,556 688,958 393,125 Transfer to reserves (39,755) (481,737) – – Transfer from reserves – Reclassifications to retained earnings 136,379 – – – Profit on sale of treasury shares (1,042) 2,690 – – Dividends paid (307,555) (346,744) (311,511) (351,477) Change in ownership interest in subsidiary – (50,643) – – Balance as at 30 June 1,136,427 654,458 887,841 526,966 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 273 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 35. DISTRIBUTABLE RESERVES (continued) Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 35.5 Share-based compensation reserve Balance as at 1 July 16,847 16,294 10,640 10,293 Share-based payment charges recognised in equity 11,802 8,921 5,081 2,350 Vesting of shares (5,428) (8,368) (799) (2,003) Balance as at 30 June 23,221 16,847 14,922 10,640 The share-based compensation reserve is used to recognise: • the grant date fair value of share appreciation rights issued to employees but not exercised (refer to note 33); and • the grant date fair value of conditional shares issued to employees (refer to note 33). Total distributable reserves 5,009,140 4,620,531 902,763 537,606 36. DIVIDENDS PER SHARE Normal dividends amounting to N$311.5 million (2018: N$333.5 million) were declared and paid by the company during the year under review. The normal dividends declared represent interim and final dividends per share as follows: Declared during the financial year Interim dividend per share (cents) 30 30 Declared after the financial year Final dividend per share (cents)* 36 30 Total dividend per share (cents) 66 60 Dividends declared during the year 324,957 348,992 311,511 351,477 Dividends paid during the year (324,957) (348,992) (311,511) (351,477) Dividends payable at year-end – – – – * Refer also to events subsequent to year-end in the directors’ report for details of the final dividend declared after year-end. 274 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 37. STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS DISCLOSURE INFORMATION Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 37.1 Receipts from customers Interest receipts 4,345,343 4,199,223 – – Commission and fee receipts 959,965 885,446 – – Other income received 466,273 409,454 59,882 47,057 Gross written premiums 192,526 – – – 5,964,107 5,494,123 59,882 47,057 37.2 Payments to customers, suppliers and employees Interest payments 1,957,230 1,875,809 – – Cash payments to employees and suppliers 1,926,466 1,684,670 119,979 93,094 Gross insurance contract claims 25,540 – – – Other borrowings coupon payments 140,793 124,301 30,227 2,454 Debt securities coupon payments 379,811 356,761 86,450 70,216 4,429,840 4,041,541 236,656 165,764 37.3 Cash generated from/(utilised in) operations Profit before income tax 1,402,104 1,252,501 680,625 386,880 Dividends received (30,236) (12,201) (941,802) (444,919) Other borrowings coupon payments (140,793) (124,301) (30,227) (2,454) Debt securities coupon payments (379,811) (356,761) (86,450) (70,216) Adjusted for non-cash items: – Effective interest on debt securities 437,055 375,957 96,531 76,019 – Effective interest on deposits 67,934 68,834 – – – Accrued interest on other borrowings 140,202 127,473 30,227 2,454 – Interest receivable – – (65,994) (68,351) – Adjustment to fair value of financial instruments (100,319) 10,767 (8,340) 10,767 – Amortisation of intangible assets 35,430 49,827 – – – Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 66,913 47,261 – – – Share-based payment expense 11,802 8,921 5,081 2,350 – Profit on sale of residential units (1,822) (5,600) – – – Gain on bargain purchase – (38,837) – – – Loss/(Profit) on sale of property, plant and equipment (566) 66 – – – Impairment charges on investments – – 112,352 – – Credit impairment losses 114,547 80,840 15,721 – – Provision for post-employment benefits 2,267 2,692 – – – Share of associates' results after tax (72,657) (83,236) – – – Share of joint arrangements' results after tax (3,675) (1,148) – – – Other (14,108) 49,527 15,502 (11,237) 1,534,267 1,452,582 (176,774) (118,707) In the statement of cash flows, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment comprise of: Net book value (note 23) 663 2,258 – – Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 566 (66) – – Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1,229 2,192 – – CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 275 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 37. STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS DISCLOSURE INFORMATION (continued) Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 37.4 Income taxes paid Amounts receivable/(payable) as at 1 July 62,341 71,780 1,558 685 Current tax charged to profit or loss (428,648) (325,659) – – Taxes not yet received – – 1,159 873 Amounts (receivable)/payable as at 30 June (107,497) (62,341) (2,717) (1,558) Income taxes paid during the year (473,804) (316,220) – – 37.5 Acquisition of subsidiaries Non-cash portion Acquisition by means of equity – 41,508 – 41,508 – 41,508 – 41,508 Cash portion Cash consideration paid – (280,193) – (280,193) Subsidiary cash and cash equivalents acquired – 107,427 – – Net cash in/(outflow) on acquisition of subsidiary – (172,766) – (280,193) 276 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 38. CONTINGENT ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS Group 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 38.1 Capital commitments Authorised but not contracted for: Property, plant and equipment 81,670 67,887 Intangible assets 110,975 117,446 Contracted for but not yet incurred: For completion of residential units – Ondangwa phase 3 1,743 9,393 194,388 194,726 Capital commitments for Ondangwa phase 3 relate to the development of residential units by Namib Bou (Pty) Ltd. Funds to meet these commitments will be provided from group resources. 38.2 Letters of credit 230,143 315,491 38.3 Liabilities under guarantees 1,280,854 1,380,115 Guarantees mainly consist of endorsements and performance guarantees. 38.4 Loan commitments 1,699,163 1,714,759 38.5 Operating lease commitments Office premises – Not later than 1 year 91,545 61,962 – Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 111,362 87,165 – Later than 5 years 642 – 203,549 149,127 Notice periods on operating lease contracts vary between 1 to 6 months (2018: 1 to 6 months), operating lease contracts are not fixed and escalation clauses range between 6% and 10% (2018: 6% and 12%). The group has various operating lease agreements, of which the majority contain renewal options. The lease terms do not contain restrictions on the group’s activities concerning further leasing, distribution of dividends or obtaining additional funding. 38.6 Pending litigations There are a few pending legal or potential claims against the group, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen. These claims are not regarded as material, either on an individual or aggregate basis. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 277 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 39. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following balances with less than 90 days maturity: Cash and balances with the central banks – excluding mandatory reserve (note 13) 865,513 1,017,532 663,895 104,123 Treasury bills and government stock with a maturity of less than 90 days 1,410,609 1,571,198 – – Unit trusts and money market investments (note 14) 2,037,188 1,091,826 428,092 31,972 Placement with other banks (note 16) 1,724,043 1,773,529 – – Borrowings from other banks (note 24) (245,703) (252,683) – – 5,791,650 5,201,402 1,091,987 136,095 40. RELATED PARTIES In accordance with IAS 24, the group defines related parties as: (i) the parent company; (ii) subsidiaries; (iii) associate companies; (iv) entities that have significant influence over the group. If an investor has significant influence over the group that investor and its subsidiaries are related parties of the group. The group is Capricorn Group and its subsidiaries; (v) post-retirement benefit funds (pension fund); (vi) key management personnel being the Capricorn Group board of directors and the group’s executive management team; (vii) close family members of key management personnel (individual’s spouse/domestic partner and children; domestic partner’s children and dependants of individual or domestic partner); and (viii) entities controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by any individual referred to in (vi) and (vii). Capricorn Group is listed on the Namibian Stock Exchange and is 43.1% (2018: 41.0%) owned by Capricorn Investment Holdings Ltd, which is incorporated in Namibia and 25.9% (2018: 25.9%) owned by Government Institutions Pension Fund, its non-listed major shareholders. Details of subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements are disclosed in notes 19, 20 and 21. A number of banking transactions are entered into with related parties in the normal course of business. These include loans, deposits and foreign currency transactions. No specific impairment has been recognised in respect of loans granted to key management personnel during the year under review (2018: nil). 278 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 40. RELATED PARTIES (continued) During the year, the group and company transacted with the following related parties: Entity Relationship Type of transaction Capricorn Investment Holdings Ltd Major shareholder Support services Banking relationship Government Institutions Pension Fund Major shareholder Support services Banking relationship Bank Windhoek Ltd Subsidiary Support services Banking relationship Bank Windhoek Properties (Pty) Ltd Subsidiary Rental BW Finance (Pty) Ltd Subsidiary Support services Banking relationship Bank Windhoek Nominees (Pty) Ltd Subsidiary Custodian of third-party relationships Capricorn Investment Holdings (Botswana) Ltd Subsidiary Banking relationship Bank Gaborone Ltd Subsidiary Support services Banking relationship Peo Micro (Pty) Ltd Subsidiary Banking relationship Penrich Employee Benefits (Pty) Ltd Subsidiary Banking relationship Capricorn Asset Management (Botswana) (Pty) Ltd Subsidiary Banking relationship BG Insurance Agency (Pty) Ltd Subsidiary Banking relationship Entrepo Holdings (Pty) Ltd Subsidiary Banking relationship Support services Entrepo Life Ltd Subsidiary Banking relationship Entrepo Finance (Pty) Ltd Subsidiary Banking relationship Capricorn Asset Management (Pty) Ltd Subsidiary Support services Banking relationship Capricorn Unit Trust Management Company Ltd Subsidiary Banking relationship Capricorn Capital (Pty) Ltd Subsidiary Support services Banking relationship Cavmont Capital Holdings Zambia Plc Subsidiary Support services Banking relationship Mukumbi Investments Ltd Subsidiary Banking relationship Cavmont Bank Ltd Subsidiary Support services Banking relationship Namib Bou (Pty) Ltd Subsidiary Support services Banking relationship Capricorn Mobile (Pty) Ltd Subsidiary Banking relationship Capricorn Investment Group (Pty) Ltd Subsidiary Support services Nimbus Infrastructure Ltd Associate Banking relationship Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd Other related party Banking relationship Santam Namibia Ltd Associate Dividends Banking relationship Insurance relationship Sanlam Namibia Holdings (Pty) Ltd Associate Dividends Banking relationship Insurance relationship Namclear (Pty) Ltd Joint venture Technology services Capricorn Group Employee Share Ownership Trust Special purpose entity Banking relationship Capricorn Group Employee Share Benefit Trust Special purpose entity Banking relationship CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 279 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 40. RELATED PARTIES (continued) Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 The volumes of related-party transactions and outstanding balances at year-end are as follows: 40.1 Trade and other receivables from related parties Major shareholders – 34 – – Subsidiaries – – 17 43,445 Other indirect related parties 11,590 5,847 11,558 5,326 40.2 Loans and advances to related parties Subsidiaries – – 52,060 54,181 Other indirect related parties 17,025 13,578 17,096 18,617 Key management personnel 37,327 35,480 – – 40.3 Cash and cash equivalents held by related parties Subsidiaries – – 663,895 104,119 40.4 Preference shares advanced to related parties Subsidiaries – – 272,782 202,060 40.5 Trade and other payables to related parties Major shareholders – 190,710 – 190,710 Subsidiaries – – 18,521 5,634 Other indirect related parties 1,418 1,836 – 1,151 40.6 Deposits from related parties Major shareholders 250,551 162,864 – – Other indirect related parties 109,523 262,430 – – Key management personnel 1,207 1,095 – – 40.7 Debt securities issued to related parties Major shareholders 1,381,285 1,313,929 506,374 506,158 Other indirect related parties 431,227 532,114 431,227 532,114 40.8 Expenses paid to related parties Subsidiaries – – 1,576 175 Other indirect related parties – 11,482 – – 280 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 40. RELATED PARTIES (continued) Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 40.9 Interest and similar expenses paid to related parties Major shareholders 120,399 109,221 37,406 68,574 Other indirect related parties 71,724 22,596 39,146 10,883 Key management personnel 33 7 – – 40.10 Income received from related-party transactions Major shareholders 1,032 1,267 1,019 1,267 Fellow subsidiaries – – – 583 Subsidiaries – – 45,367 42,382 Other indirect related parties 20,017 13,290 19,698 12,864 Income received from related-party transactions mainly relates to insurance-related income and inter-group charges. 40.11 Interest and similar income received from related parties Major shareholders – 96 – – Subsidiaries – – 37,357 15,916 Other indirect related parties 21,266 4,830 – 978 Key management personnel 24,528 2,047 – – 40.12 Dividends received on ordinary shares from related parties Subsidiaries – – 853,653 347,779 Other indirect related parties 60,434 92,730 60,434 92,730 40.13 Compensation paid to key management 40.13.1 Executive management team Salaries 48,327 37,692 9,229 5,315 Short-term incentives 19,545 19,191 3,750 3,325 Long-term incentives1 11,127 7,680 6,434 2,675 Contribution to defined contribution medical schemes 1,832 1,525 195 228 Contribution to defined contribution pension schemes 3,170 2,629 360 391 Share-based payment charges 5,938 5,658 2,797 1,673 Other allowances 16,103 11,901 1,623 3,701 106,042 86,276 24,388 17,308 1 Expected value of the long-term incentives awards. Compensation paid to key management comprises remuneration and other employee benefits to the executive management team, which excludes executive directors’ emoluments. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 281 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 40. RELATED PARTIES (continued) 40.13 Compensation paid to key management (continued) 40.13.2 Non-executive directors’ emoluments Directors’ fees Paid by Paid by company subsidiary Total N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 30 June 2019 Non-executive directors Black, K B 342 214 556 Brandt, J C 264 397 661 Fourie, D G 745 949 1,694 Gaomab II, H M 256 – 256 Menetté, G 136 – 136 Nakazibwe-Sekandi, G 420 208 628 Reyneke, D J 408 – 408 Schimming-Chase, E M 222 – 222 Swanepoel, J J (Chairman) 1,800 2,206 4,006 Total 4,593 3,974 8,567 30 June 2018 Non-executive directors Black, K B 359 234 593 Brandt, J C 229 444 673 Fourie, D G 622 930 1,552 Nakazibwe-Sekandi, G 439 201 640 Reyneke, D J 357 – 357 Schimming-Chase, E M 224 – 224 Shaetonhodi, J M 253 – 253 Shikongo, M K 223 – 223 Swanepoel, J J (Chairman) 1,900 2,291 4,191 Total 4,606 4,100 8,706 Directors’ fees consist of a quarterly retainer and a fee for attendance of meetings. No fees relating to other services (e.g. commission) have been paid during the 2019 and 2018 financial years. 282 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 40. RELATED PARTIES (continued) 40.13 Compensation paid to key management (continued) 40.13.3 Executive directors’ emoluments Other Pension and allowances Short-term Long-term medical and fringe Salary incentives incentives2 contributions benefits Total N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 30 June 2019 Executive directors Prinsloo, M J 1,906 2,250 915 195 2,187 7,453 Esterhuyse, J J1 1,339 1,200 427 160 653 3,779 3,245 3,450 1,342 355 2,840 11,232 1 This represents the full year remuneration. Other Pension and allowances Salary and Short-term Long-term medical and fringe bonuses incentive incentives2 contributions benefits Total N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 30 June 2018 Executive directors Prinsloo, M J 1,774 2,250 915 180 1,958 7,077 1,774 2,250 915 180 1,958 7,077 2 Expected value of the long-term incentives awards. The executive director did not receive any other fees for services as directors or any emoluments other than that disclosed. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 283 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 40. RELATED PARTIES (continued) 40.14 Directors’ holdings in Capricorn Group shares 2019 2018 Number of ordinary shares acquired/ Number of Number of (sold) during ordinary ordinary the current shares at shares at year year-end % held year-end % held Direct holding: Black, K B 8,154 46,970 0.01% 38,636 0.01% Esterhuyse J J¹ 13,432 468,277 0.09% 454,845 0.09% Fourie, D G 114,300 150,000 0.03% 35,700 0.01% Gaomab II, H M 2,000 2,000 0.00% – 0.00% Nakazibwe-Sekandi, G (350,000) 1,445,784 0.28% 1,795,784 0.35% Prinsloo, M J¹ 48,898 2,314,748 0.45% 2,265,850 0.44% Schimming-Chase, E M – 1,200 0.00% 1,200 0.00% Indirect holding: Swanepoel, J J (Chairman) 4.15% 4.25% Brandt, J C 20.62% 21.16% Prinsloo, M J 0.11% 0.13% ¹ Movement due to maturing of shares under the share purchase scheme. All shareholdings are beneficial. Following the expiry of the closed trading period, the indirect shareholding of Mr J C Brandt reduced from 20.62% to 18.36% and the indirect shareholding of Mr J J Swanepoel reduced from 4.15% to 1.82%. Other than that, no change occurred to the above shareholdings between year-end and not more than one month prior to the date of the notice of the AGM. 284 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 41. ASSETS UNDER CUSTODY As at year-end, the group has no assets under custody (2018: nil). 42. CONSOLIDATED STRUCTURED ENTITIES The group assesses whether it has control over structured entities in terms of IFRS 10. Where the group has control over a structured entity it is consolidated in terms of IFRS 10. The group’s structured entities are the Capricorn Group Employee Share Ownership Trust and Capricorn Group Employee Share Benefit Trust. The group has control over these structured entities, as the trustees are appointed by the group’s board of directors. The structured entities are therefore consolidated. No contractual obligation exists for the group to provide any financial or other support to the consolidated structured entities. The group will provide financial support from time to time for the purchase of shares for the share incentive schemes. As at the end of the 2019 financial year, the group was providing financial support of N$17.1 million (2018: N$18.6 million) to the Capricorn Group Employee Share Ownership Trust. 43. SEGMENT INFORMATION The group considers its banking operations in Namibia and Botswana as major operating segments; the other major operating segment is the microlending activities in Namibia. Other components include property development, asset management, unit trust management and the Zambian banking operations. However, these components each contribute less than 10% to the group’s revenue, assets and profit for the year. Therefore, the group has no significant components other than banking and microlending in Namibia and banking in Botswana.. This is in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker, identified as the Chief Executive Officer of the group. The chief operating decision-maker is the person that allocates resources to and assesses the performance of the operating segment(s) of an entity. In assessing the performance of the banking operations, the Group Chief Executive Officer reviews the various aggregated revenue streams, the total costs and the assets and liabilities related to the banking activities. The financial information included below is based on the banks’ audited annual financial statements which complies with IFRS measurement and recognition criteria. In order to reconcile to the statement of comprehensive income and statement of financial position all entities that do not qualify as separate segments, as well as consolidation journal entries, are included in the “other” column. 43.1 Entity-wide disclosures 43.1.1 Products and services Operating segments Banking operations – Namibia Microlending and related activities – Namibia Banking operations – Botswana Brand Bank Windhoek Ltd (BW) Entrepo Holdings (Pty) Ltd Bank Gaborone Ltd (BG) Description (BW & BG) – Corporate and executive banking, retail banking services and specialist finance. Entrepo – Microlending and life insurance services. Product and services Bank Windhoek Ltd and Bank Gaborone Ltd conduct business as registered banks and provide comprehensive banking services. Clients include both individuals and corporate clients. Entrepo is an investment holding company, its subsidiaries are engaged in life insurance and financial services in Namibia. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 285 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 43. SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) 43.1.2 Geographical segments There are no other material segment operations outside Namibia and Botswana. 43.1.3 Major customers Segment reporting requires the disclosure of an entity's reliance on its major customers, if revenue from transactions with a single customer is 10% or more of the entity's revenue. The group does not have customers that contribute 10% or more to its revenue and is therefore not reliant on a single major customer. 43.2 Financial information Microlending and related Banking – Namibia activities – Namibia Banking – Botswana Other Group 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 Net interest income – external 1,610,378 1,513,457 82,017 – 233,481 232,036 206,997 73,404 2,132,873 1,818,897 Net interest income – internal (31,969) (3,367) 66,829 – 8,631 – (43,491) 3,367 – – Impairment charges on loans and advances (94,726) (58,069) (15,460) – (13,512) (24,377) 9,151 1,606 (114,547) (80,840) Net interest income after loan impairment charges 1,483,683 1,452,021 133,386 – 228,600 207,659 172,657 78,377 2,018,326 1,738,057 Non-interest income 1,041,600 937,509 103,878 38,837 79,083 57,926 134,923 190,896 1,359,484 1,225,168 Fee and commission income 865,657 797,990 – – 49,101 36,692 45,207 50,764 959,965 885,446 Net trading income 160,259 57,059 – – 21,321 13,330 (37,787) 28,335 143,793 98,724 Other operating income 15,684 82,460 369 38,837 6,287 7,904 11,690 10,567 34,030 139,768 Net insurance premium income – – 130,149 – – – – – 130,150 – Net claims and benefits paid – – (26,640) – – – – – (26,641) – Asset management and administration fee – – – – 2,374 – 115,813 101,230 118,187 101,230 Operating income 2,525,283 2,389,530 237,264 38,837 307,683 265,585 307,580 269,273 3,377,810 2,963,225 Operating expenses (1,404,415) (1,296,349) (40,447) – (228,836) (196,306) (378,340) (302,453) (2,052,038) (1,795,108) Operating profit 1,120,868 1,093,181 196,817 38,837 78,847 69,279 (70,760) (33,180) 1,325,772 1,168,117 Share of joint arrangement and associates' results after tax 3,675 1,148 – – – – 72,657 83,236 76,332 84,384 Profit before income tax 1,124,543 1,094,329 196,817 38,837 78,847 69,279 1,897 50,056 1,402,104 1,252,501 Income tax expense (326,828) (297,557) (24,994) – (19,192) (17,149) (15,791) (3,360) (386,805) (318,066) Profit for the year 797,715 796,772 171,823 38,837 59,655 52,130 (13,894) 46,696 1,015,299 934,435 Change in value of FVOCI 7,263 44,026 – – – – – – 7,263 44,026 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – – – – – – 1,339 7,779 1,339 7,779 Total comprehensive income 804,978 840,798 171,823 38,837 59,655 52,130 (12,555) 54,475 1,023,901 986,240 286 2019 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) for the year ended 30 June 2019 43. SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) 43.2 Financial information (continued) Microlending and related Banking – Namibia activities – Namibia Banking – Botswana Other Group 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 N$’000 ASSETS Cash and balances with the central bank 1,095,599 1,221,703 (4,168) 7,427 335,258 259,360 145,927 154,067 1,572,616 1,642,557 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 1,336,392 4,166,953 215,261 102,859 12,322 395,333 473,213 580,836 2,037,188 5,245,981 Financial assets at amortised cost 643,678 624,715 – – – – 216,636 249,537 860,314 874,252 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 3,521,978 134,028 13,692 – 730,903 – 476,152 – 4,742,725 134,028 Due from other banks 862,394 749,021 – – 811,027 892,695 50,622 131,813 1,724,043 1,773,529 Loans and advances to customers 31,290,543 29,763,659 1,030,432 848,014 5,456,672 4,739,865 271,936 882,880 38,049,583 36,234,418 Other assets 291,020 274,478 2,554 159 37,834 55,653 223,012 282,180 554,420 612,470 Current tax asset 76,919 44,282 – – 9,649 974 22,981 17,466 109,549 62,722 Investment in associates – – – – – – 348,716 282,511 348,716 282,511 Interest in joint arrangements 11,016 7,341 – – – – – – 11,016 7,341 Intangible assets 181,776 182,476 1,557 – 25,664 26,372 66,842 75,085 275,839 283,933 Property, plant and equipment 199,658 172,955 1,042 2,255 65,439 29,968 18,305 33,268 284,444 238,446 Deferred tax asset 26,318 – 4,014 2,233 2,068 2,033 75,102 37,232 107,502 41,498 Total assets 39,537,291 37,341,611 1,264,384 962,947 7,486,836 6,402,253 2,389,444 2,726,875 50,677,955 47,433,686 LIABILITIES Due to other banks 72,756 63,037 – – 4 26 172,943 189,620 245,703 252,683 Other borrowings 799,646 1,217,510 55,000 – – – 141,726 95,923 996,372 1,313,433 Debt securities in issue 3,746,604 3,537,990 – – 289,261 333,134 1,635,109 905,950 5,670,974 4,777,074 Deposits 30,073,810 27,408,878 – – 6,562,837 5,433,578 348,078 1,105,635 36,984,725 33,948,091 Other liabilities 327,339 314,200 655,200 643,087 60,413 98,526 (437,833) 176,376 605,119 1,232,189 Current tax liability – – – – – – 2,052 381 2,052 381 Deferred tax liability – 7,205 – – – – – – – 7,205 Post-employment benefits 12,232 11,440 – – – – – – 12,232 11,440 Total liabilities 35,032,387 32,560,260 710,200 643,087 6,912,515 5,865,264 1,862,075 2,473,885 44,517,177 41,542,496 EQUITY Share capital and premium 485,000 485,000 130,005 30,000 318,858 318,858 (213,561) (109,351) 720,302 724,507 Non-distributable reserves 85,954 269,653 – – – – – – 85,954 269,653 Distributable reserves 3,933,950 4,026,698 424,179 289,860 255,463 218,131 395,548 85,842 5,009,140 4,620,531 4,504,904 4,781,351 554,184 319,860 574,321 536,989 181,987 (23,509) 5,815,396 5,614,691 Non-controlling interests in equity – – – – – – 345,382 276,499 345,382 276,499 Total shareholders' equity 4,504,904 4,781,351 554,184 319,860 574,321 536,989 527,369 252,990 6,160,778 5,891,190 Total equity and liabilities 39,537,291 37,341,611 1,264,384 962,947 7,486,836 6,402,253 2,389,444 2,726,875 50,677,955 47,433,686 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 287 GLOSSARY OF TERMS BASEL II The capital adequacy framework issued by the Bank for International Settlements aimed at aligning banks’ capital requirements with relevant risk profile and risk practices. CAPITAL ADEQUACY REQUIREMENT (CAR) The minimum amount of capital required to be held, as determined by the Bank of Namibia. COST TO INCOME RATIO (%) Operating expenses, divided by total operating income. EARNINGS PER SHARE (CENTS) The group profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the parent entity divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. FAIR VALUE Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. HEADLINE EARNINGS Profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the parent entity from trading operations, excluding goodwill gain or losses, capital profits and losses and recycled profits or losses on available-for-sale financial instruments. Headline earnings do not measure sustainable earnings. HEADLINE EARNINGS PER SHARE (CENTS) Headline earnings divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE (CENTS) Net assets excluding non-controlling interest (NCI) divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. PRICE EARNINGS RATIO Closing share price (cents) divided by earnings per share (cents). PRICE TO BOOK RATIO Closing share price (cents) divided by net asset value per share (cents). RETURN ON AVERAGE ASSETS (ROA) (%) Group profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the parent entity divided by average total assets. RETURN ON AVERAGE SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY (ROE) (%) Group profit for the year divided by average total shareholders’ equity. TIER I CAPITAL RATIO Net total Tier I capital (after deduction of goodwill and 50% of cost of investments in affiliates) divided by total risk-weighted assets. TIER II CAPITAL RATIO Net total Tier II capital (after deduction of 50% of cost of investments in affiliates) divided by total risk-weighted assets. TOTAL RISK-BASED CAPITAL RATIO Total regulatory capital (Tier I, II and III capital) divided by total risk-weighted assets. TIER I LEVERAGE RATIO Net total Tier I capital (after deduction of goodwill and 50% of cost of investments in affiliates) divided by gross assets (total assets plus specific and general impairment). THE CENTRAL BANK The Bank of Namibia (BoN). 288 2019 Integrated Annual Report GREYMATTER & FINCH #13175 www.capricorn.com.na
