ANNUAL REPORT Contents At Cerealto Siro Foods we continue to cultivate a 3 A Word from the Chairman better future together, with dedication and passion 4 A Word from the CEO 5 Growth 6 Cerealto Siro Foods in figures 7 About us 10 Working to fulfil our goal: cultivating dreams to nourish more people every day 13 Consumer perspective Nutrition and Healthy Lifestyle 17 Cerealto Siro Foods Innovation Model 18 Smart foods 19 Reliable, robust and attractive operations 20 Our Operational Model 21 Quality and food safety 22 Digital transformation in pursuit of competitiveness 24 Safe environments 25 Our Value Chain 26 Alma Prima 27 Leading the Circular Economy 31 Share the commitment 32 Leadership model and culture 33 Cerealto Siro Foods profile 34 Committed to our co-workers’ development 36 Integrating cultures, generating commitment 37 Social value 38 Grupo Siro Foundation. A better future 40 Key players in social development 43 A better future 2 A word from the Chairman We cultivate dreams to nourish more people every day, a goal that demands the bold, daring spirit, capable of making the impossible a reality, for which we have always stood out” I write these words at a difficult and An independent external body has confirmed that all our plants in Spain and uncertain time, marked by the Covid-19 Portugal are considered to be “zero waste”. The by-products generated at pandemic which has triggered a plants are converted into animal feed, energy for our own plants huge health and socio-economic crisis. It is worth briefly reflecting Thanks to our Alma Prima project we are in a position to distribute value across first of all on the considerable level all links in the chain: from farmer to consumer. This project not only helps us of responsibility, efficiency and extend our understanding and development of the value chain of strategic solidarity that the agri-food sector raw materials for the company, so we can develop efficient, sustainable has shown during these months, and traceable local value chains, but also allows us to offer our clients and and in particular all our people, consumers the very best produce in the biscuits, cereals, snacks and pasta giving of their best and setting a categories, while likewise generating wealth and lending greater stability to clear example of their ability to our farmers. react to unprecedented changes in consumption, in the operational I am especially proud of the work undertaken by the Grupo Siro Foundation capacity of the supply chain and to benefit people at risk of social exclusion, and in particular differently able the capillarity and efficiency of people, a category to which more than 11% of our workforce belong. And then distribution. there are also the countless social initiatives supported by our Foundation: training excellence bursaries, exceptional medical treatments for our coHaving said that, during the 2019 financial workers and their relatives, and the restoration of historical, artistic and year the process of integrating Grupo Siro environmental heritage, demonstrating the reality of a long-term commitment and Cerealto into one single multinational to the surroundings within which we operate food group made successful progress, thanks to which we have the co-workers and leaders we Everything that we do is done with the aim of fulfilling our goal: “cultivating need in order to be able to take on new challenges, dreams to nourish more people every day”. I would encourage you to explore with the bold, daring spirit capable of making the through the pages of this report the efforts made by the company in our various impossible a reality for which we have always stood out. managerial fields, with a renewed commitment to the ten principles of the Global Compact, aware of the contribution made by our operations in advancing towards Our sustainable management model continues to permeate the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) established in the 2030 Agenda. all our actions and decisions in order to create value for each of our stakeholders. With this goal in mind, our sustainability strategy focuses on the nutritional enhancement of our products and the promotion of healthier Juan Manuel González Serna lifestyles, diversity and the inclusion of groups at risk of social exclusion, CHAIRMAN a leading role in the circular economy in the agri-food industry, support for a sustainable agricultural model for the primary sector, and ethical management. At Cerealto Siro Foods we are leading the transition to the circular economy in our sector with a model which involves repurposing and granting a second lease of life to our by-products, thereby minimising environmental impacts and generating an economic return, while also contributing to reduced food waste. 3 Our dedication to innovation can be seen in the 17 million euros invested A Word from the CEO in innovation projects and the continuous improvement of our products, representing 3% of turnover. This year we successfully launched 220 products in the different markets where we operate” In 2019 the Cerealto Siro Foods business The Cerealto Siro Foods team have put in place all the resources we need in order better to project continued to advance towards understand our clients and consumers and to anticipate their needs, tastes and demands. We our goal of positioning ourselves in the base our approach in this regard on a rigorous analysis of consumer trends at the global level, global food market and fulfilling our the markets in which we operate and our competitors, leading on to the definition of specific 2030 Vision: concentrating on the plans for each of our product categories. global Biscuits, Cereals, Snacks and Pasta categories, 30 significant Our dedication to innovation can be seen in the 17 million euros invested in innovation projects strategic clients worldwide, in and the continuous improvement of our products, representing 3% of turnover. This year we the retail and B2B sector, giving successfully launched 220 products in the different markets where we operate. us potential to increase our turnover by 2 billion euros Business and operational growth will remain our major challenges and two of the levers on by 2030, with a particular which the new 2020-2023 Strategic Plan is based. focus on nutrition and a clear commitment to innovation, In 2019 we defined certain shared values and a leadership style aligned with the 2030 quality, food safety and Vision and a highly complex global context, to ensure that our co-workers and leaders act as operational efficiency, with a guarantors in fulfilling the goals we have set. sustainable financial model. The level of commitment by our people and the efforts dedicated to communication at In order to continue every level have proved essential in the process of cultural transformation and integration of consolidating our position our company, which now totals 4,640 co-workers across Spain, Portugal, Italy, the United as a leading group in the Kingdom, Mexico and the United States. We remain committed to the presence of women in development and manufacture executive positions and the integration of co-workers at risk of social exclusion, accounting for of food products at the global 35% and over 11%, respectively. level, this year we implemented a number of changes in the More than two million euros invested in training vouch for our commitment to personal company’s model of governance development so as to achieve high-performance teams. Our corporate university, the San and organisation. In this regard Pelayo Business School, continues to play a vital role in training our leadership teams. we strengthened our executive team through the addition of leading The considerable challenges we have faced in fulfilling our company’s goals have been added professionals with lengthy track records in to by the serious health and socio-economic crisis triggered by Covid-19. Thanks to early, the retail goods sector, including in particular coordinated and efficient action both internally and with our clients and suppliers, we managed the recruitment of professionals with extensive and to respond to demand and fulfil our obligation to guarantee the supply of basic foodstuffs to our acknowledged experience in key operational positions. clients and consumers. We are delighted to have fulfilled the economic goals we have set ourselves for the 2019 Despite the uncertain global landscape we have great leaders and professionals in place, who financial year, against a backdrop defined by the onset of the process of strategic divestment in such difficult times as those we are now experiencing are always capable of giving their from the infant nutrition, bread and cakes businesses. We thus closed the first financial year best to continue cultivating dreams to nourish more people every day. with a turnover of 577 million euros, an EBITDA of 57 million and an output volume of 374,000 tonnes. Within the context of the investment plan we undertook initiatives amounting to 37 Many thanks to all of you for your dedication and commitment. million euros, in particular the expansion of production capacity at our plants in Tepeji, Mexico, and Aguilar de Campoo, Spain. Luis Ángel López, CEO We have one single operational model guaranteeing reliable, robust and attractive operations capable of permanently fulfilling the needs and expectations of our clients and consumers. This is achieved by guaranteeing the food safety, quality and competitiveness of our products as an agile and flexible company, prioritising the safety and well-being of our co-workers with a global and responsible Supply Chain and Purchasing policy, and leading the digital transformation of our plants. 4 Growth 5 Cerealto Siro Foods in Figures 16 37 577 Million € Factories Investments Million € Net Sales Spain (12) Portugal (1) Italy (1) 374,000 Tonnes Produced Expansion of production capacity. 2 cereal bar lines: United Kingdom (1) Aguilar de Campoo (Spain) Mexico (1) and Tepeji (Mexico) plants 220 17 Million € 57 Presence in 50 Launches Innovation and continuous Million € Countries improvement projects EBITDA 100% United Nations 4,640 Global Compact Signatory Partner Factories in Spain and Portugal Co-workers Zero Landfill Waste 6 About us We are a global company in the agri-food sector, born out of the merger We thoroughly understand consumers and develop products in response to different nutritional needs with a high degree of innovation. We manufacture our products to between Grupo Siro and Cerealto and dedicated to the development high Quality and Food Safety standards to offer our clients the best products at an and manufacture of cereal-based products, specialising in the Biscuit, optimal price point. Breakfast Cereal, Snacks and Pasta categories. Our Clients Retail Specialists in BISCUITS CEREALS Sector MAJOR SUPERMARKET B2B MAJOR FOOD CHAINS BRANDS PASTA SNACKS 7 Strategic markets Our business model is based on four strategic markets: Spain Europe, Spain, the Americas and Other (export activities), with production operations in Spain, Portugal, Italy, Mexico Americas and the United Kingdom. Europe 406.6 M€ 28.18 M€ 12 137.1 M€ Other 3.441 1 602 3 597 22.95 M€ 8.40 M€ 5.68 M€ 5.3 M€ 52 2 93 43 2 3 32 WORKFORCE LAUNCHES INVESTMENTS TURNOVER FACTORIES OFFICES 8 Model of governance and organisation Management Committee Luis Ángel López, CEO Advisory Board Rut Aranda, Chief of Strategic Business Development We have added three new professionals with extensive experience Javier de la Viuda, Chief of Global Operations Juan Manuel González Serna, Chairman of the Board Javier Leal, Business Director Clients Lucía Urbán López, Vice-Chairperson of the Board Jorge Espuny, Business Director Europe Luis Ángel López, CEO Eduardo Domínguez, Commercial Director América Juan Pablo Rodríguez, Director José Antonio Rodríguez, Chief Financial Officer Jordi Vilà i Bosch, Director Josep Tura, Chief of People & Organization Antonio J. Fernández, Director Elena Pérez de Gracia, Director of Controlling Xavier Orriols, Director Paola Castañeda, Director of Communication & Sustainability José Miguel Isidro, Director Daniel Myers, Director Pedro Navarrete, (Secretary of the Board) There are also Executive Committees in place: Strategic Business Development Committee, Business and Operations Committee, Economic/ Financial Committee, People and Organisation Committee… 9 Working to fulfil our goal: cultivating dreams to nourish more people every day th Gro Based on a rigorous, w global analysis of consumer trends, markets and competitors. 2030 ation s Focused on continuous improvement of holistic performance through 5 Vision Oper operational strands: One Levers standardised Operational 2020-2023 Model; the best process strategic technology and engineering; “Achieve a turnover of 2 billion euros based plan the global scope of our purchasing and supply chain; on 30 significant strategic clients giving us commitment to technology huge potential for growth, with a particular and industry 4.0; and trust in people and high-performance focus on nutrition, a clear commitment teams. to innovation, specialisation in the dership Lea biscuits, snacks, cereals and pasta categories, d Culture balance between retail and B2B clients, with Aligned with the Vision and the new reality of a sustainable financial model.” an the company, defining the values of co-workers and the attitudes of leaders, to guarantee that we achieve the targets set. 10 Our sustainability > Promote ethical > Improve living standards for model > > >  ncourage >E and responsible conduct among suppliers farmers > Promote local suppliers sustainable s tools and ea practices a tainable gricultu ar Sus ponsible purch re res asin >F  ood waste c and g gi >N  utritional >S  ustainable improvements effi ciency packaging y an d ate >R  esponsible we solutions nom al resources marketing and ll-b >R  ecycling and labelling ein repurposing Str eco f natur g of waste Nutrition a ar >P  romote healthy >E  fficient use ul e o lifestyles nd of energy rc us and water Ci in >C  ombat malnutrition and Strategic areas famine around >P  romote the world renewable energies A sustainability strategy aligned with our reality and on xc of > Audit of the vision, focused on the management Et lu gro  quality >E between men model hi sio up Sustainable Development Goals > Corporate ca m si n s and women an lu l e l volunteering ag c in ia and sectoral Priorities” policies em ent and soc > Integration ity f Divers risk o of vulnerable > Stakeholder groups relationship at > Improved model employment opportunities for > Sound young people sustainability >P  romote governance biodiversity model 11 Our 2019 Milestones Renewal of sustainable Award 1stcompany in Spain syndicated credit signed up to The 100% of factories in España Valuable 500 and Portugal are zero landfill waste in the Major Company 11,40% of co-workers with category for our Circular Economy disability or at risk of social exclusion Initiative launched 81-86% leadership at Davos to promote out of 47,30% women in management people with disability at companies globally 100 22,10% grain from suppliers Key strengths: ethical conduct, subscribing to Alma Prima #90 Reduced sugar in a selection of product Merco businesses research, innovation and development, circular economy categories ranging from #84 and waste management, people 8,86% y el 31,43% Merco Responsibility and management and diversity, Governance stakeholder management, supply chain and local economy #59 Merco Leaders Our Chairman Sustainability audit #61 Sustainability guidelines Merco Talent for the Food Industry Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food 12 Consumer Perspective Nutrition and Healthy lifestyle 13 We put in place the resources needed to thoroughly understand clients and consumers and anticipate their needs, tastes and demands” Perpetual convenience At Cerealto Siro Foods, innovation and development Our consumers’ time-poor lifestyles. led by our I+dea innovation centre serve as the Our Market Offering experiences essential lever for our growth strategy. I+dea Product design offering unique and different guarantees that we can promptly identify regulatory changes and scientific and technological knowledge, Intelligence area experiences. Honest transparency market trends and consumer needs. Response to concern and need for information as to food composition through labelling. Listening to nature Aware of the gifts that nature gives us, using them to design distinctive, healthy and functional products. dar tool 2025 Genuine sustainability iRa Consumers demand options that minimise the ur impact on climate change, use of natural resources, O Macrotrends accessibility to food and local development. Nutrition for all Healthier products tailored to specific needs. Nutrition and Healthy lifestyles Greater concern among consumers, who in 2019 ECOSAN partn continued to demand products with less sugar, less salt, fewer e A try of Heal ers th he Minis additives, less fat, more fibre and more protein, as well as the o th hi use of traditional grains such as t o t t p quinoa, sorghum, spelt, oats and d ASign an chia seeds. Committed to 10-15% ac pl ato he reduction in sugar, fat and salt in our products Att ries We have reduced sugar content below 21.9 g in cartoon and embossed biscuits, and 30% in Chocodays cereals 14 Our products Wholegrain rye cupcake and respond to the demand 100% wholewheat cupcake* for healthier products Cakes Wholegrain and with no added sugar Wholegrain natural V Line chocolate bars, V rice flakes, chocolate Line cranberry bar and Chocolate bar Choco-hazelnut and berries** Milk chocolate bar** and Berry bar** filling** Cereals Reduced sugar and Reduced Free of palm oil Reduced salt sugar sugar and fat Cookies, Choco Berry breakfast sandwich and Tostada Zoos Continente biscuits and Choco Breakfast yoghurt Dorada biscuit* and Dinosaurus breakfast biscuits* sandwich* choco-milk biscuit biscuit* Biscuits No added sugar No added sugar With HOSO With HOSO No added sugar and with HOSO 12-grain and seed bread and GlutenWholegrain Wholegrain free bread** crust-free bread** bread** *Improvements compared with the market ** Nutritional improvements of our products Bread Reduced sugar Reduced E numbers and reduced sugar Allergens removed 15 Innovation indicators We lead the way in the agri-food industry in creating open innovation tools focused on promoting creativity, identifying talent and 17 220 3 Innovation Shows improving the response to strategic needs” For B2B clients 1,135 Million € Launches Innovation and continuous improvement projects Edible prototypes 40 3% Presented to clients Studies with consumers Turnover 122 12 Opinion nuggets +500 Shelf life Active studies projects Legal reviews of Packaging +30 Northern Bread Europe 3% 5% Cakes 9% Americas 14% SENSORY 32% Biscuits 63% S outhern LABORATORY COLLABORATIVE MARKET Cereals 17% Europe PROJECTS INTELLIGENCE % Product % Product launches launches CO-INNOVATION Other 20% by category by region REGULATORY 1.500 Expert panel Completed Completed 35 tastings Studies with iRadar 17% Projects with SmartFoods 24% Pasta +80 universities, Biolabel Infant +600 technology centers Ranciel 6 nutrition Technical Healthy bread Editions of iNews Technical and external specifications evaluations Cosebal Factory machinery companies 7 +250 (ovens) Open Forum external expert +30 Legal consultations conferences Technical reports For quality and market 3 consultations Innovation Days, Winter & International Challenge Open Innovation 12 industry 4.0 challenges from the Ministry of Industry. Promote open innovation models and assemble twelve enterprise & start-up partnership success stories. 16 Cerealto Siro Foods innovation model > Elimination of palm oil >B iscuits with ginger and amaranth > Reduced sugar and fat cuits >C rackers with new technology and texture > Elimination of sugar without intensive > Digestive Thins with chocolate Focused on nutritional sweetener use Bis product improvement Replacement > Reduced sugar and fat > Reduction/Elimination of E numbers > Berlinas de e Cak s and improvement Navidad > Optimisation of recipe costs; Continuous product improvement > Use of fresh produce We offer consumers new or distinctive > Use of healthier fats Infant characteristics > Use of fruit, wholegrain cereals, super foods and traditional grain crops u trition N Incremental Innovation > Elimination of E numbers Bread > Clean label products > Improved labelling We use big data and reals > Elimination of palm oil. Reduced sugar and fat. Expanded range of mueslis Ce artificial intelligence and cereal bars with no added sugar > New muesli and cereal bar flavours and formats Disruptive Innovation > Multigrain, lentil and quinoa spirals Pasta > Organic produce range Operational approaches Snacks > Understanding of consumers through > Vacuum-fried sweet potato crisp snack neuromarketing and neuroscience. > Development of technology serving to eliminate fossil fuels at our factories. > New On the Go product range based on s natural, culinary recipes. ce cake >C  hildren’s rice cakes with carrot and pumpkin, Ri and with apple 17 Smart food First “smart” snack: rice cake with peas and lentils. Artificial Intelligence at the service of our clients to improve our products and anticipate consumer needs” Capable of analysing and anticipating consumer tastes Our artificial almost instantaneously and intelligence tool created globally. This allows us to listen We drew on the I+Radar analyses to to what consumers and experts together with IBM develop a rice cake with peas and say on social media, blogs lentils. This new snack sold in the and expert forums, users and United Kingdom comes in response to influencers, newspapers the observed trend for increased quality protein consumption, in combination with cereals and pulses, providing an offering for vegans, vegetarians, coeliac sufferers and consumers wishing to increase their fibre intake 18 Reliable, robust and attractive operations 19 Our Operational Model Our Operational Model has been structured with the aim of ensuring that every day we are a better company, permanently Cornerstones of the Cerealto Siro Foods Operational Model capable of creating value for our clients and consumers” The best process technology and Health and Safety engineering We strive to turn our operations into a competitive advantage. With this aim in mind we invest in the best engineering and technology, and have implemented our One Production System Our One which means that all plants work the same way, in a structured Production format with the focus on continuous improvement to make us System more competitive, efficient, agile and flexible. We are committed to digital transformation running horizontally throughout the value chain, focusing on successfully creating smart factories Supply Chain which result in greater competitiveness and agility. We have a and Global global and responsible supply chain and purchasing model in Purchasing place, and trust in our highperformance teams and people. All while guaranteeing food safety and quality in our products, as well as healthy and safe working environments for our Digital transformation people, along with environmental responsibility. and technology 4.0 High-performance teams and people Quality 20 Our single Operational Model has tools and processes in place to guarantee the safety of our people, to deliver produce to our clients and consumers every day in accordance Quality and food safety with the quality they demand, and to eliminate losses of all kinds through continuous Assuring and improving the quality of processes, products and services is improvement and agility. essential for the sustainable development of Cerealto Siro Foods, and so plays a key role in all actions we perform. TS A CCID 0 EN 3 Our Quality and Food Safety Management System is based on the international benchmark standards: ISS, BRC and FSCC 22000, as well of the principles of 100 Z % the Codex Alimentarius. R O E 0 0 + Involvement LO S Certifications SS CT ES FE Factory IFS BRC FSSC 22000 BIO RSPO KOSHER HALAL UTZ DE Spain VB1 VB2-VB6 12% VB3 Toro Jaén Reduction in the number Aguilar Medina of complaints compared Briviesca with the previous year Navarrés Paterna Antequera U. Kingdom Worksop We strive to Portugal Mem Martins fulfil the needs and Italy Mexico Silvano d´Orba Tepeji expectations of our clients and consumers, through Specific product certifications product quality and safety.” 21 Digital transformation in pursuit of competitiveness Digital transformation and new technologies represent a strategic cornerstone giving us greater efficiency, competitiveness and agility. Our digital transformation process is developed through Technology (tailored to requirements), People (responsible for integration in their daily processes), and Simplification -through processes that are easy to manage. Implementation of the Implementation Design and start-up Autonomous management “Paperless Factory” of a centralised of the SAP Ariba of invoices by suppliers, model at the VB1 plant management project for integrated using a web portal. Focused on (Biscuits) and the Pasta platform for management of our The payslip delivery increasing agility, business, ensuring that audit processes suppliers. process uses a platform traceability, reliability, all product categories at plants and the accessible from mobile robustness and the are covered by this implementation of devices. degree of process working model. audits using mobile The working tools devices. provided to office workers digitalisation: serve to eliminate repetitive tasks. 22 Advancing towards smart factories” The Paperless Factory Project is an example of One of our aims is to systematise all We took part at the Connected Industry 4.0 optimising production processes by applying technology. Convention sharing our experience in: It guarantees complete management of factory information available (big data) information in real time (stock control, traceability, with the goal of modelling >A  pplication of artificial intelligence to anticipate process variables and quality), optimising material flows the production process and so consumer demand. and allowing efficient control of the supply chain, from achieving smart factories that can be > Digitalisation in the field to obtain better yields source to the end client. and guarantee traceability. predictive, understanding production > Installation of sensors at factories to guarantee processes in detail, identifying the process parameters and variables that need to behavioural patterns and detecting be applied to products to ensure maximum quality. production incidents more quickly. >C  o-worker training to develop new skills and overcome technological barriers. INDUSTRY 23 Safe environments We are committed to guaranteeing the health, Our goal is to continue improving the health and safety conditions of our co-workers and to safety and well-being of all co-workers employed at progress towards zero accidents. our sites” >N  ew Global Quality & Health and Safety Department >H  ealth and Safety Policy > Health and Safety Committees >O  ccupational Risk Prevention Supervisor at each plant Several initiatives >E  xecution of risk assessments > Installation of protective systems 191 occupational >R >D >L  eview of personal protective equipment  elivery of specific training  ighting and noise studies accidents causing >M  eetings with the Occupational Health and Safety Committee absence >R  eview and updating of working instructions We have identified those groups more liable to suffer accidents at work and to contract professional illnesses, so as to provide a specific response to their Accident rates occupational health and safety needs: Rates with breakdown by gender Men Women Total >C  o-workers who have a disability or a medical fitness letter with Frequency index 29.2 26.8 28.1 restrictions.. >M  aintenance personnel performing atypical jobs requiring specialisation Seriousness index 0.63 0.72 0.67 and training. >P  ersonnel exposed to risks of fire, burns, muscular-skeletal disorders, falls, Frequency Index: (Number of accidents causing thermal stress, etc. absence/Number of hours worked) x 1,000,000 Seriousness Index: (Number of days not worked/ Number of hours worked) x 1,000 24 Main Impacts At Cerealto Siro Foods we strive for sustainability in our value chain, from raw materials to production and marketing, adopting an overview of economic, environmental and social impacts and optimising resources to deliver a quality product at the best possible price for society, our clients and consumers. People Our Value Chain 140 100% Economic Suppliers signed up Partner to our Farmers Environment 429 thousan T Code of Conduct 20 thousand T Raw materials: Most of our raw Durum Wheat ACOR Agreement cereals, flours… 136 Social +35 thousand T materials and container to produce Cooperative of 4,000 Supplier Audits our pasta farmers and packaging suppliers in Castile-Leon Containers and packaging are located in Europe 3 made from cardboard, plastic and paper 64% Audited Agricultural raw material laboratories Alma prima Responsible Suppliers suppliers signed up Purchasing to SEDEX Supply United Nations ODS Other tools Compliance system Global Compact Signatory Supplier code of conduct Transport Category Biscuits Breakfast specialists Snacks Pasta Cereals Production 100% Green energy 4,640 469,828 (m3) 50,521 T CO2 GHG (Spanish factories) 16 100% Zero Landfill DNV Certified Co-workers Water footprint Emissions Paperless factories Production plants IFS, BRC, FSSC 22000, BIO, RSPO, Kosher, Halal, UTZ 577 M€ Sustainable Circular Net Sales packaging Economy Distribution Repurpose and grant a and marketing second lease of life to our 28,000 Tn Biogas Plant Zero environmental 36,000 Tn waste and by-products digestate Animal Feed footprint 25 Alma Prima. Promoting a sustainable With the focus on the agricultural model development of efficient, sustainable and traceable local Our global strategic project, focused on optimising and understanding the value chain of strategic raw materials for the chains, fostering value across all company which we will then use for our products in the Biscuits, Cereals, Snacks and Pasta categories to make them the best and most competitive products on the market. links in the chain: from farmer to consumer” This project gives us in-depth knowledge of different supply chains through rigorous analysis of the key actors and drivers on the market, allowing us to categorise each value chain and focus on the relevant variables for the group’s business. Technological cutting-edge: efficiency and profitability, With the focus on simplification and traceability durum wheat, maize and 13 Farmers’ st 3 common wheat, also Day 20,000 Tn identifying other opportunities 40 farmers in rice and oats. Agricultural from Castile-Leon Durum Wheat Aim: to continue training laboratories used to produce our farmers and promote durum wheat growing our pasta in the region ACOR 140 Local Agreement Cooperative of 4,000 farmers in farmers Castile-Leon “We encourage local purchases, generate wealth and help farmers to achieve greater mediumand long-term stability and security regarding the final price of wheat.” 26 Leading the Circular Economy 27 Leading the Circular Economy All waste management is conducted by Tuero, our expert partner for the circular 100% Certified by 36,000 T economy and environmental solutions. Plants in Spain and DNV By-products Portugal from our factories ANIMAL FEED ep Wast rocessin ZERO LANDFILL g Our biogas plant Sustainable We generate fuel and organic use of resources fertiliser Paper, cardboard, plastic, metal packaging and scrap. Recycling of oils and fats. Biodiesel production. Sludge Sustainable Our circular economy Energy and remnants. Composting model involves repurposing packaging consumption and biogas. Hazardous waste. Recycling. and granting a second lease of life to our waste and byproducts, allowing us to minimise environmental Committed Committed impact and generate to renewable to renewable economic returns, while also energies energies contributing to reduced food The verification body DNV corroborated waste.” the zero waste status of our plants in Spain, confirming that management of the waste generated in our production activities is performed for recovery, reuse Energy or repurposing, avoiding the use of landfill Water footprint efficiency as a final destination. initiatives 28 We aspire to become a key player in building a low-carbon 300,000 t/year 400 5M€ Combating in society Waste Managed M3 of gas/hour Investment Our biogasWe generate fuel and >W  e are involved in the Forética Climate Change Cluster, 28.000 t/year organic digestate or All energy consumed from Renewable Sources climate comprising more than 50 companies working to achieve a leading strategic position in combating climate change as part of the change plant fertiliser organic fertiliser business agenda, fostering dialogue and the exchange of opinions The Tuero biogas plant allows us to generate: and good practice, taking part in the global debate and serving as key >T  he natural gas needed for our production processes using waste agents in decisions taken at the administrative level. derived from treatment plant sludge, organic waste, materials in poor >D  uring 2019 the Cluster addressed the key requirements to transform condition… business in response to achieving a carbon-free economy by 2050. >A  nother by-product, digestate, is used as high-value organic fertiliser sent >O  ur commitment to reduce emissions by 15-20% by 2023 was to the Alma Prima Project agricultural laboratories. already fulfilled two years ago. Waste generated at the plants in Spain and managed by Tuero in 2018 >A  ll electricity consumed at the plants in Spain is derived from and 2019 renewable sources, which means our scope 2 emissions are zero. VB/7 Waste (Kg) 2018 2019 Plant Zero Hazardous waste 59,205 153,566 environmental footprint Non-hazardous waste 47,998,131 41,177,654* Our emissions amounted to 50,521 tonnes of * This figure includes a total of 36,633,860 kg of by-products used for animal feed CO2 equivalent, representing a considerable decrease compared with the previous year.” One of the operational approaches of our innovation centre is Carbon footprint (tonnes of CO2 equivalent) connected with generating less packaging and containers. Sustainable 2018 2019 Initiatives undertaken: Scope 1 (stationary and mobile combustion) 63,282 44,116 > Compostable and plastic-free packaging for pasta. Scope 2 (electrical consumption) 6,065 6,405 packaging >S  ingle-material films for biscuits and cereal bars. The aim with new Total tonnes of CO2 eq. 69,347 50,521 launches is to develop 100% recyclable single-material films. Total tonnes of CO2 eq./Tonnes of production 0.14 0.11 >A  lternatives to PP/PET films to ensure recycling post-consumption. > Elimination/replacement of secondary plastic packaging, using film Carbon footprint by country instead for rice cakes. 2018 Environmental commitment 2019 is a keynote in the initiatives 43,182 16,214 Committed to undertaken by the company” 36,749 reducing the 3,579 2,816 2,895 5,942 4,856 environmental 2,442 1,192 footprint of our The group has a certified environmental management system in place at operations all its production sites in Spain based on standard ISO 14001, with the corresponding annual internal and external audits successfully passed in Spain Italy United Mexico Portugal 2019. Kingdom 29 At Cerealto Siro Foods we have a tool > All electricity consumed in Spain is derived from renewable Committed Sustainable use allowing us to monitor consumption of energy sources, representing 84.92% of electricity consumption in 2019. electricity, gas and water at our different to renewable > Installation of 72 photovoltaic modules in Los Alfoces, production sites.” Palencia, which will cover all the energy demands of three of resources energies homes and the agri-livestock farm. > Biomass boiler in Cristo de Villahizán and Torrepadierne making use of pruning and cleaning waste to provide heating At Cerealto Siro Foods we set ourselves demanding targets and domestic hot water for homes. in terms of reducing resource consumption, including a 15-20% reduction in water consumption by 2030, the “Paperless Factory” project, and progress in the use of renewable energy sources. >O  ver the course of 2019 the existing fluorescent light bulbs and plants were replaced with energy-saving LED devices, Energy considerably reducing energy consumption and atmospheric efficiency Energy consumption (GJ) CO2 emissions from lighting. Energy 2018 2019 >T  his initiative follows on from others implemented in Electricity 441,380 428,974 initiatives 2018: installation of presence detectors to control lighting Natural gas 874,060 698,021 according to production, and installation of variable drive consumption Total 1,315,440 1,126,995 motors to reduce electrical consumption. Total per tonne of output 2.60 2.62 Water footprint (m3) Water Direct water footprint 2018 351,065 2019 374,790 footprint Indirect water footprint 113,776 95,038 Total 464,841 469,828 In order to achieve the consumption reduction target, measures are applied to cleaning methods, along with the adaptation of equipment to avoid water losses and leaks. 30 Share the commitment 31 Leadership model and culture Great co-workers, great leaders, great company” Following the merger process the need was to define the new values and leadership model of our company in line with the 2030 Vision and the new reality. We therefore launched a participatory project to define the values of our co-workers and the attitudes of our leaders, to guarantee that we meet the targets set. Positive attitude Our way of seeing the world. We transform problems into opportunities and view events with optimism and enthusiasm, conveying our passion. Results focus Commitment Results focus The way we feel. Our How we direct our action. We get involved, we trust, take on responsibilities values We focus on what matters, and are efficient. We do what and are proud a summary we say and say what we do. to belong. of how we see the world” Our Leadership Model defines the attitudes of our great leaders, Consumer focus driving us to the next level. The raison d`être of our Teamwork daily work. Client and Our way of bonding. consumer satisfaction We all pull in the same is at the heart of all direction, sharing objectives our decisions and generating synergies. I explore to I adapt I strengthen I communicate I act as progress with agility the team with impact owner 32 Cerealto Siro Foods Profile An international United Kingdom 4 United States Percentage workforce by profile Workforce by age professional category and gender 269 41 Mexico 593 < 30 years Structure 13% 652 8% Italy 62 Nationalities Portugal 271 Workforce by 30 a 50 years Indirect Labour 16% 6 country 2,775 35% 3,441 Spain 71% > 50 years 1,213 Direct Labour 57% Countries Women Men 4,640 158 Co-workers 75% Permanent Contracts 35% Women in Executive New Permanent 95%Local recruitment 11% Groups at risk of exclusion #61 Merco Talent 2,540 2,100 positions Contracts 33 We are committed to We believe in our developing our co-workers professionals and are concerned with the development of our people, promoting opportunities for We have in place a comprehensive system comprising different tools that serve to identify internal promotion and growth” co-workers with high development potential or strategic talent, and also to evaluate the individual performance of our professionals. SSE Process to monitor the progress of Monitoring co-workers in DOPA and Evaluation achieving their Objectives System individual targets and Action plans and their leadership skills. Objectives maps produced by the areas/ departments in alignment with the higher-tier goals, Talent management indicators and also company objectives. Interns 77 Talent Serving to identify talent with the Promotion to executive positions Review capacity to hold 2 2 Talent key positions and Internal promotion 33 96 Panels define lines of succession in the Talent Review. High-potential individuals 65 127 different business areas. People evaluated (SSE) 819 741 DOPA sessions 125 125 3,081 2018 2019 Development Evaluation of Co-workers Trained the skills of each Centre employee to define Development tailored training Programme plans and analyse skills for particular positions. 17.66 Average Hours of +2M€ Investment in Training 54,408 Hours of Training Training/Co-worker 34 > Leadership School. We develop and train the leadership capacities of our Leaders. Our Corporate University, San Pelayo Business School, plays a key role >L  anguage School. Intended for those requiring a specific in training our leaders” language level in order to perform their job effectively. Up to 7 languages in a flexible format tailored to the needs of each co-worker. >O  perations School. Guaranteeing knowledge of our Operational Model. Intended above all Structure 444 for Production, Quality, Engineering, Management Control and HR teams. Structure 17,197 Co-workers Hours of >B  CN School. With the mission of developing trained by training by 19,900 D  irect Indirect 1,051 professional professional capacities and extending knowledge to develop Labour Labour category category our Clients’ business. 2,472 D  irect Labour > P&O School. Facilitating advanced handling of 17,311 people management. Indirect Labour We also have various training platforms available to leaders and co-workers. San Pelayo Business School 35 Integrating cultures, Commitment and communication generating commitment are vital in the process of integration and cultural transformation at our company” At Cerealto Siro Foods we aim to foster interaction and relationships among our co-workers so as to create environments of commitment, approachability, understanding and pride in belonging, generating a positive impact on the company. >P  romotion of sport and healthy lifestyles. More than 60 co-workers and relatives took part in at least 10 races in Spain during 2019. In some Key initiatives with our co-workers and their relatives. of them we also supported charitable causes such as the 8th Caja Rural de Segovia Fun Run/Walk to support the Food Bank, the Venta de Baños International Fun Run and Charity Cross Country Race and the San Telmo Frómista Charity Race. >O  pen Days for children and relatives of co-workers aged between 4 and 14. On this occasion talks about Nutrition and Food Waste were included, with volunteers from I+dea and AECOC support, to raise awareness of the need to reduce food waste. More than 350 children took part at the plants in Venta de Baños (Palencia), Aguilar de Campoo (Palencia), Toro (Zamora), El Espinar (Segovia), Madrid, Jaén and Worksop. >1  st Family Day in Worksop, involving 43 attendees, including co-workers and relatives. > 2nd “My Christmas with Cerealto Siro Foods” Drawing Competition. We received a total of 274 drawings from the children of our co-workers at all the group’s sites, with prizes awarded to 9 of them. >C  hildren’s Day celebrated in Tepeji together with our co-workers and 250 of their children aged between 4 and 12. > Brazilian barbecue and Family Day staged at I+dea. Channels for communication with our co-workers We ensure that corporate information reaches all co-workers clearly and transparently, to make them feel part of Cerealto Siro Foods. Company Ambassadors play a notable role as allies and channels for communication between management and co-workers, and in promoting cultural transformation. > Monthly newsletter > Internet > Outlook > Yearly Gathering and Twice-yearly Gathering > Initiatives at factories > Ambassadors 36 Social value 37 Grupo Siro Foundation. Future owner, guarantor of group continuity and sustainability, and icon of the far-reaching A better future vision of our founders: Juan Manuel González Serna and Lucia Urbán López” tio n ai m s n da ou 386 109 F First companies with Signatories to The Valuable the Disability Confident 500 Co-workers Co-workers Employer designation are differently able at risk of exclusion in the United Kingdom. “Committed” We support and believe in designation (Level 1) at the 10.81% 10.67% Accessible the integration of people at sites in Spain, Portugal, Italy Website and Mexico risk of social exclusion of the Workforce in of the overall This is one of our hallmarks. We Spain Workforce have always been proactive in recruiting them onto our workforce as a natural process. Several key initiatives >S  upport for the Spanish Paralympic Committee through the ADOP Plan, which assists high-performance Paralympic athletes, and the ONCE Foundation’s INSERTA programme. >S  ubscription to the ECOEMBES project in partnership with the La Caixa Social Fund, aiming under the slogan “Recycle to change lives” to foster the employability of people in vulnerable situations and at risk of social exclusion, through green, inclusive employment. >C  ollaboration with the AXA Paralympic Hopefuls swimming championship. 38 22 31 Co-workers Mexico 1 INEA. Master’s in Connected Agri-Industry 4 Part bursaries 2 Full bursaries 8 Italy Children of co-workers and External students with Co-workers completing their Sustainability option of work placements Training excellence bursaries Italy university studies To contribute to the training of co-workers’ children and detect new professional talents Several key initiatives >W  e formalised a partnership agreement with INEA, the Valladolid Agricultural Engineering University School, to promote sustainability in the agri-food industry and digital transformation, through its Master’s in Connected Agri-Industry and Sustainability. We are committed to the health and wellThe Grupo Siro Foundation being of our co-workers and their relatives. maintains its partnership with the Ages of Man Foundation, the Exceptional medical We are truly proud to have provided 21 Restoration of Historical, aim of which is to safeguard the treatments co-workers and relatives with support for Artistic and Environmental culture and history of the regions Support for exceptional medical exceptional medical treatments since the Heritage in the areas where of Castile-Leon. treatments for co-workers and programme began. we operate their relatives 39 Key players in the social development Committed to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) We have signed up to a new commitment: A New Deal for Europe, a call for action launched by We aim within our sphere of CSR Europe at the SDG Summit held in Brussels. Its aim is to prompt European leaders to integrate operations to make a positive contribution sustainability within the political agenda. to fulfilling the SDGs and 2030 Agenda” During 2019 we took part in numerous initiatives connected with the following SDGs: ZERO REDUCED RESPONSIBLE CLIMATE PEACE, JUSTICE HUNGER INEQUALITIES PRODUCTION AND ACTION AND STRONG CONSUMPTION INSTITUTIONS  ontribution to nutrition and >C > The Valuable 500. Initiative to  orética Circular Economy >F >F  orética Climate Change >F  orética Transparency, Good food waste workshops within promote people with disability at Action Group (GAEC). Cluster. At the third meeting Governance and Integrity the context of presentation of companies worldwide. Presentation of the Tuero of the year held within the Cluster. the report “Agri-Food Sector > Forética Social Impact Cluster. success story and the report context of COP 25, a report was >S  ubscription to the New Deal Working Together to achieve Presentation of the report on the “Measuring the circular economy. presented setting out the key for Europe. SDG 2 (Zero Hunger)”. salary gap. Frameworks, Indicators issues in transforming business >P  articipation at the 7th AECOC and Impact on business towards a low-carbon economy. Gathering to Combat Food management”, published through Waste. the European Circular Economy Stakeholder Platform. 40 Social initiatives We have donated a total of 1.3 million euros to various charitable >F  ood banks in Valladolid, Palencia, Jaén and Burgos. organisations and foundations” Atapuerca Foundation, Triana Fellowship, etc. >L  ocal councils and associations, etc. for sporting, cultural and social events. > In the United Kingdom funds were raised for Macmillan, a charity providing comprehensive support 17 for cancer patients and their families. Some also took I+dea co-workers organised a number of pastry part in the Worksop Half Marathon to raise funds for workshops with ADISIL (San Ildefonso Disabled various charitable associations. People’s Association) and a group of children Thousand Kilos from the Segovia Red Cross to share knowledge Product donations with underprivileged groups. Cereal is Life Corporate Volunteering We generate value in the local economy At Cerealto Siro Foods we aim to contribute to the growth of the communities where we operate by generating quality employment and contracting local suppliers. Wherever we can, we favour local procurement. % local suppliers by country Country 2018 2019 Spain 82% 82% Portugal 29% 28% Italy 98% 95% Mexico 98% 90% United Kingdom 70% 70% 41 Social recognition Co-responsible Award I+ Radar chosen in the Big Business among 20 best category for our leadership innovations by the in the Circular Economy. Institut Cerdà Major Retail Innovation Observatory. Award for the company’s Recognition from social track record and MERCO, the commitment from the Responsibility and Special Employment Corporate Governance Centres association, Business Monitor at the 17th CONACEE merco CORPORATE Congress in 2019. REPUTATION BUSINESS MONITOR. Woman Entrepreneur Award at the North Castile and Leon Enterprise Awards for Lucia Urbán. 42 A better future We cultivate dreams to nourish more people every day 2030 Vision: With the A vision taking us With a strategy based commitment, forward in time on the cornerstones bravery and effort Turnover of 2 billion euros of Growth, Robust, of each of our Base of 30 strategic clients Focus on nutrition reliable and attractive co-workers Clear commitment to innovation operations, and a and leaders Specialisation in the biscuits, snacks, cereals and pasta categories Leadership Model Balance between retail and B2B clients and Culture A sustainable financial model 43 www.cerealtosirofoods.com
