COP 2019 PAC Doverie 1 COP 2019 – PAC Doverie STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT I am honored to reaffirm PAC Doverie’s support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the four key areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Over the last year, we have worked hard to achieve top results and continue to be one of the best examples of high business standards and employee development. These values have been embodied since the founding of the company and are professed by the employees, who daily with their dedication and energy strengthen our image of a modern company. Meanwhile, we follow the good practices around the world with great attention and try to introduce them in order to maintain the high standards we impose. Realizing that we live in times of extraordinary technical and scientific progress, we want at the same time to raise humanity and personal responsibility to high levels. In this way, we hope to create a whole new understanding of the culture of successful companies and the way they influence society. We know that this is not a sprint, but a marathon, and we are firmly convinced that we will continue to run it in the coming years, always having the UN Global Compact as our leading force. Daniela Petkova Chair of the Management board of PAC Doverie 2 COP 2019 – PAC Doverie SOME PRACTICAL ACTIONS, TAKEN IN 2019, TO FOLLOW THE GC PRINCIPLES I. Human rights • The Company has once more successfully undergone the due yearly audit procedure for ISO/IEC 27001:2013 compliance, demonstrating one more time the highest possible level of personal data protection.  Some new internal policies and procedures were implemented in order to guarantee the strictest compliance with the GDPR and all the employees participated in various continuous trainings on the topic.  At the beginning of the year another increase of the salaries according with the inflation rate was made keeping this way their purchasing power intact. II. Labor  A new safe & healthy work conditions framework was elaborated.  All the employees underwent a training in accordance with the new framework mentioned above.  92 employees had introductory training and another 75 took a course to upgrade their knowledge and skills. III. Environment  The continuous special campaign “100 000 e-mails for 1000 new trees” for gathering as many as possible e-mails of customers in order to use a digital way of communication and cut down the use of paper continued planting more new trees with the help of many volunteers among the employees.  Shared printing implemented in the entire branch network.  Participation in the fifth edition of the International No elevators day – an initiative aimed to promote the use of the stairs instead of the elevator in order to cut down the use of electricity and promote a life with more physical activity. 3 COP 2019 – PAC Doverie IV. Anti-corruption  The Company has implemented a special software for regular AML check outs.  The employees underwent a special training for the use of the software mentioned above and other important AML and anti-corruption related topics. Miscellaneous During the past year PAC Doverie supported numerous charity activities and sponsored various events, mainly in the culture area, including: • the President’s promotion ball for children deprived of parental care; • the charity Buy a Martenitza – give health bazar ( Martenitza is a traditional Bulgarian symbol used every March 1st as a wish for health and luck during the year), organized in order to raise funds for a Foundation for retarded children; • the Bulgarian Christmas initiative; • the Junior Achievement Foundation project for basic financial education at the secondary school; • The Company joined the XVII edition of the educational program Nonbanking financial sector in Bulgaria for students from the vocational high schools in economics in the country, organized by the Financial Supervision Commission, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Atanas Burov Foundation; • For third consecutive year, the Company supported the project 40 to 40 of Darik Radio for Bulgarians under 40 who matter. This project has the ambition to present the people who actually have the potential to lead the Bulgarian business and society forward in every way. People from whom everyone can be inspired to realize their innovative ideas. • Several children of employees of the Company, together with about 500 kids from 23 different European countries, had an exciting time taking part in the special program for VIG employees’ children the VIG Kids’ Camp. They had the 4 COP 2019 – PAC Doverie opportunity to spend two exciting weeks in one of four beautiful locations Strebersdorf, in Vienna, Wagrain, in Salzburg, Seeboden, in Carinthia, and MariaLankowitz, in Styria. Along with many sporting activities, a lot of fun and games, the kids made new friends, got to know some beautiful parts of Austria and its culture, and visited senior citizens in retirement homes.  As usual, the traditional charity Christmas lottery for employees was held to raise money for Maria Todorova, who suffers from lung cancer and struggles with the serious diagnosis in order to be able to raise her little child, who gives her strength and encourages her to fight for her life. Ever since its commitment with the UNGC, back in 2009, Doverie has continuously put a special effort in maintaining an investment process in the strictest compliance with the four main areas’ principles, selecting to only invest in companies with clearly declared socially and environmentally responsible position. This COP will also be available on our official internet site www.poc-doverie.bg Contact persons: Daniela Petkova – Chair of the MB Miroslav Marinov – Executive Director Asen Asenov – Corporate Communications Director PAC Doverie JSC 13B Tintyava str. Sofia 1113 Bulgaria E-mail: head@poc-doverie.bg Tel.: +359 2/ 46 46 196 5 COP 2019 – PAC Doverie
