2020 Global Sustainability Report Foreward Letter from Greg Heckman CEO, Bunge Our 2020 Global Sustainability Report provides an overview of our performance and key activities from 2019 into the first half of the current year. The report meets GRI Standards Core option, and satisfies basic components of SASB Standards. The report content encompases information found across the web pages of bunge.com, in 2019 was a year of change and progress at Bunge. particular the pages of bunge.com/sustainability. We began the year by establishing our strategic priorities of driving operational We hope you enjoy reading our 2020 Global Sustainability Report! performance, optimizing our portfolio, and improving our financial discipline. Guided by these priorities, we successfully navigated a challenging and complex external environment marked by trade disputes, livestock disease in major demand destinations, as well as a late U.S. harvest. In addition to these external factors, we also implemented significant internal improvements. Throughout 2019, Bunge continued to integrate sustainability across every level of our value chains. During a time when the linkages between climate change and food security are more apparent than ever, we are committed to doing our part and using our scale Contents and influence to help lead the industry forward. We believe that the sector in which we operate positions us to unite actions across the food value chain to future-proof our Letters from leadership 2 food system. To achieve this and meet the challenges of the 21st century, we have defined Our sustainability approach 4 sustainability goals — incorporating activities and commitments that will enable robust Governance 5 action on climate change, promote responsible supply chains, and ensure accountability Materiality 5 for all that we do. For example, in December 2019, we entered into a sustainabilitylinked $1.75 billion revolving credit facility that ties the interest rate to our performance across five sustainability targets. These targets highlight and measure Bunge’s continued Action on climate 7 advancement of initiatives across reducing greenhouse gases, increasing the traceability Environmental Goals 8 of agricultural commodities, and supporting increasing levels of the adoption of sustainable practices across the wider soybean and palm supply chains. Sustainability is ingrained in our culture and governance — and importantly, backed by the actions of Responsible supply chains 12 our colleagues around the world. Non-deforestation 13 Partnerships and projects 17 During 2020, we will continue our work to further improve industrial operations and streamline our business, while also continuing to actively provide innovative solutions to support our customer’s needs, helping them meet their business goals and differentiate Accountability 20 them in the marketplace. Following the anticipated completion of our new operating Social responsibility 21 model and our disciplined approach to risk management, we will be in a better position Our people 23 to quickly adjust to changing market dynamics and maximize the earnings potential of our global platform. Through this time, we will continue to embed sustainability into our strategy, operations and investments. GRI Index 25 I encourage you to read and enjoy our 2020 Global Sustainability Report, which complies with GRI Standards, core option, and serves as Bunge’s annual report submission to the United Nations Global Compact. Sincerely, Greg Heckman CEO, Bunge For any questions about this report or to connect with Bunge’s global sustainability team, please email: sustainability@bunge.com GRI 102-14; 102-15 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 2 Sustainability at Bunge A new approach embedded across Bunge’s strategy, investments and operations worldwide Bunge integrates sustainability across every level of our value chains. At a time when the relationship between climate change and food security are more apparent than ever, we are committed to doing our part and using our scale and connectivity to help lead the industry forward. We believe that our leadership position in the global food system enables us to unite stakeholders – from farmers to consumers, NGOs and governments -and to promote actions that help to support sustainable agriculture. To meet today’s challenges and contribute to the solutions ahead, we have defined sustainability goals, incorporating activities and commitments that will support robust action on climate change, promote responsible supply chains and provide accountability for all that we do. Action on Climate We implement innovative solutions to minimize our environmental footprint and support projects and activities that strengthen our approach to fighting climate change. Responsible Supply Chains We promote sustainable agriculture and implement robust projects that protect and improve the environment, while supporting the social and economic well-being of growers and local communities. Accountability We aim to be an accountable leader within our industry, helping to raise the bar on our sector’s performance by regularly tracking and disclosing progress on our commitments and sustainability performance. Bunge’s new sustainability approach is applied across the company’s strategy, operations and investments, and is communicated throughout the various channels to ensure effectiveness and impact. 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 4 Sustainability governance The Sustainable Development Goals Leadership and accountability, from the very top and Aligning our strategy with the global framework throughout our global value chains for a more sustainable planet by 2030 Our commitment to being responsible corporate citizens starts at the very top of the organization. Our Board-level Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee is our highest governance We are doing our part to support global efforts for a more sustainable planet. That is why Bunge body. It oversees the development of relevant sustainability policies, strategies and programs, supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. A variety of policies, projects and activities including performance goals, risk management and disclosure. The complete text of the align with the spirit of the Global Goals, and furthermore as a member of the United Nations Global Committee’s charter can be found here. Compact, Bunge works collaboratively to find ways to meet them by 2030. The execution of the sustainability activities at Bunge is done through the company’s senior As a global framework, the SDGs offer an important way to align our own sustainability strategy with the leadership, chiefly the Senior Vice President for Sustainability and Government Affairs, who work being done by governments, communities, non-governmental organizations, and other companies manages a diverse team in over 10 offices worldwide. around the world. Sustainability programs and objectives are also carried out beneath the senior leadership by Bunge’s employees in the facilities around the world. Unique incentives tied to specific sustainability outcomes are also a component of certain management roles to ensure impact and Bunge has identified the most materially relevant SDGs for our success of the company’s strategy. business, and has linked its current and future projects or activities to the achievement of these Goals. Materiality Defining and assessing bunge’s material topics through engagement with our stakeholders Engagement with our stakeholders is a key part of Bunge’s sustainability vision, and takes place throughout the year. Our strategies, projects and goals are informed by the interaction with these groups. We value the inputs received, and diligently seek to enhance our own operations in line with stakeholder expectations. The most recent assessment to identify our most material topics was conducted in 2019, and was built upon data and insights gathered during an extensive global assessment from late 2017. This year’s results were informed by feedback from investors; customers; suppliers; NGOs; media sources; industry peers; and our direct employees. Our materiality assessments are conducted based on the latest GRI Standards methodology. Chiefly, it defines a topic as material if it may reasonably be considered important for reflecting the organization’s economic, environmental, and social impacts, as well as its weight in influencing our Action on Climate stakeholders’ decision-making or engagement with Bunge. More information on materiality can be found on the GRI website. As an outcome of the assessment, the following material topics were identified. They were Responsible Supply Chains then mapped to relevant Sustainable Development Goals, underscoring their nature as global objectives. Our management approach to each material topic, as well as the stakeholders to which the impact Accountability occurs, can be found by visiting here. GRI 102-18; 102-19; 102-20; 102-21; 102-22; 102-23; 102-40; 102-43; 102-44; 102-46; 103-1; 103-2 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 5 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 6 Environmental goals Reducing our footpring: A 10-year plan Action on Climate We implement innovative solutions to minimize our environmental In 2016 we established long-term footprint and support projects and activities that strengthen our environmental goals for reductions in intensity Reduction of Units (per mt of production) metrics for water, waste, emissions and approach to fighting climate change energy. These goals are built upon previous 104% years of successful global reductions in similar 100% metrics since 2008. With over a decade of achievements reducing our environmental footprint, and by building 96% -4.1% -5.3% climate-related risks and opportunities into our strategy and operations, we are committed to We achieve these reductions by optimizing 92% -7.0% supporting the development of the global food system and enhancing the resilience of our value our facilities, embracing new technologies and chains for years to come. sources of energy, and working with suppliers 88% to find optimal solutions that reduce our 84% Since 2008, Bunge has maintained annual targets to reduce our company’s environmental environmental footprint. 80% footprint. Our new environmental goals, established in 2016 with a 2026 deadline, underscore our -21.2% commitment to being responsible stewards of local ecosystems while helping to meet the global Starting in 2019 data, we added the data 76% community’s actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. of our operations from to Bunge Loders 2016 2017 2018 2019 Croklaan, for which Bunge holds 70% of Read more about Bunge’s environmental performance on the next page. control. Also, due to the divestment of our Water Emissions Waste Energy Sugar & Ethanol business in Brazil, we have adjusted the 2016 baseline to reflect the new reporting boundaries. Assessing climate-related risks Climate-related effects – which present both risks and opportunities for Bunge and the More granular information can be found in communities we serve – could also enable our teams to leverage our global asset network to meet our GRI Index, and previous years’ data can be demand in times of shortages. found in prior sustainability reports. These risks and opportunities are regularly assessed by our teams, and are overseen by our Board of Directors, to inform decision-making and business planning. Emissions intensity reduction You can learn more about climate risks and opportunities outlined in our Annual Report. Optimizing our facilities, investing in new sources of renewable energy, and reducing inefficiencies in our current plants helps Bunge to maintain long-term progress on its emissions intensity reduction goals for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Linking emissions reduction to our financial strategy In early 2020, Bunge closed on its first-ever sustainability-linked revolving credit facility, totalling Emissions & energy intensity Intensity (per mt) USD $1.75 billion. The facility contains five performance targets tied to the company’s ability to Emissions intensity ration (scope 1 &2) 60.49 Kg CO2e/Tonne deliver on key indicators within its sustainability strategy. Energy intensity 0.956 GJ/Tonne Because of the size and ambition of the credit facility, Bunge received a TXF Perfect 10 Deals of the Year Award. The first target is linked to reductions in scope 1 and scope 2 emissions intensity each year. Bunge Notes on Data is on track to meet this target with in the 3-year boundary of the credit facility. Bunge collects activity data and calculates Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions using the Brazil GHG Protocol Programme, the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006), and the U.S. EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule; national sources such as the U.S. EPA, the Argentine Secretary of Energy, and the Brazilian Ministry of Science and Technology; and local sources. Our inventory boundaries are determined based upon operational control. Silos, ports and offics are not included for not being relevant emissions sources. Energy intensity calculations include fuel, electricity purchased, steam purchased and energy sold out. GRI 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 305-1, 305-2, 305-4 GRI 102-15; 201-2 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 7 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 8 Bunge’s “Best-in-Class” initiative Indirect emissions Bunge’s Best in Class initiative, including enhanced analytics, optimized assets and improved processes, Bunge measures and assesses the indirect emissions footprint of our global value chains, known is being implemented throughout all of our operations. Our Bunge Management Operating System is as Scope 3 emissions. The majority of these emissions appear in the supply chain, and are now implemented in nearly 100% of our facilities. We have embarked to develop this into an enhanced generally out of a company’s direct control. Nevertheless, by measuring and disclosing our Scope 3 framework, called the Bunge Production System. Lead-Learning Sites in each region were defined and emissions, we can begin to find solutions that improve our environmental performance and create implemented throughout 2019. more sustainable value chains, while contributing to global efforts to fight climate change. Building on previous successes, we have progressed with our Energy Optimization Program and are To measure our value chain footprint, we followed the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain focusing on the 14 plants under current implementation until completion and delivery of results. (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. This standard provides requirements and guidance Under the program, Bunge is implementing energy reduction projects and enabling the use of modern for companies to prepare and report data from 15 distinct categories, providing companies with a software technology to monitor and optimize energy consumption on a continual basis. Further systematic framework to understand its value chain related emissions. development will evolve according to the successes of the Program. Our most recent assessment in 2019 sourced data from within the company, including primary data from our suppliers and internal business uses, as well as secondary data based on Commitment to water efficiency extrapolations and benchmarks. We found that the vast majority of Bunge’s Scope 3 emissions are from upstream sources, falling with the Standard’s Category 1: Purchased Goods and Services. Agricultural production is a major user of water resources, accounting for 70 percent of all water In other words, our purchased agricultural commodities make up over 97% of the category, and withdrawals globally. As the world’s population increases, so does the demand for food and freshwater. represent the largest source of emissions in our value chain. Because access to safe, clean water is a United Nations-recognized human right, managing the limited availability of freshwater around the world is a central concern for the agribusiness and food sector. We continue to increase efficiency in our operational processes and improving existing cooling tower systems. Considering our 10-year goal to reduce by 10% the freshwater consumption by end of 2026, we have already achieved 21.2% reduction through 2019. Total Emissions Category Bunge also monitors and reports the data on water consumption from regions identified by the World (mt/CO2 eq) Purchased Goods & Services 49,082,756 Resource Institute’s Aqueduct Tool as under high stress. We believe that it is important to focus on the Processing of Sold Products 24,370,517 areas where water availability is a higher risk, so we therefore have a goal to reduce water usage from these areas by 25% per metric ton of production. Currently, five facilities are located in these regions. Logistics 8,335,690 Although this goal would apply only for areas classified as high risk, our overall performance shows that Other Sources 1,410,377 we are getting the same performance overall, which is a result of our strong governance and continuous Total Scope 3 Emissions 83,199,340 improvement or our operations worldwide. Calculated using GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain Accounting and Reporting Standard. Data is based on primary sources where possible, and You can learn more about our water performance in our CDP Water report. secondary sources including benchmarks and extrapolations when primary data is not available. GRI 305-3 Bunge joined the UN Global Compact’s CEO Water Mandate in 2015. Launched in July 2007 the CEO Water Mandate is a public-private initiative designed to assist companies in the development, implementation and disclosure of water sustainability policies and practices. It covers six elements: Direct Operations, Supply Chain and Watershed Management, Collective Action, Public Policy, Community Engagement, and Transparency. GRI 301-1, 302-2, 303-3 Every year, Bunge reports to CDP for climate, forests and water. In 2019, Bunge scored a B for Climate, and a Bfor forests and water, the highest scores among our direct peers, Our sustainability approach for Action on Climate helps to representing a full letter grade improvement over previous years’ scores. support SDGs 6: Clean Water and Sanitation, and SDG 13: Climate Action, as we work to improve the sustainability You can find more information and access our CDP reports from our Accountability page. of our own operations and the resilience of the global food system. 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 9 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 10 Responsible Supply Chains We promote sustainable agriculture and implement robust projects that protect and improve the environment, while supporting the social and economic well-being of growers and local communities A robust commitment to non-deforestation Bunge’s non-deforestation commitment, which calls for the elimination of deforestation from all our supply chains by 2025 for both direct and indirect sourcing, is something that cuts across all three strategic pillars. Preserving natural forest and native vegetation helps to prevent increases in global carbon dioxide emissions, a primary driver of climate change. Respecting biodiversity and the wellbeing of our stakeholders underscores our responsibility as a company with extensive value chain presence. And our transparency measures – from our annual sustainability disclosures to our non-deforestation progress reports – are meant to establish trust between Bunge and our stakeholders, showing our belief in corporate accountability. That is why our non-deforestation commitment is a key part of everything we do at Bunge. From our Board-level Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee down to the individuals on the ground in high priority regions of the world, our commitment is carried out with efficiency, accountability and purpose. We aim to employ science-based definitions and cutoff dates for deforestation determined by credible multi-stakeholder processes, and we support the efforts of our partners willing to engage with this commitment. This criteria is applied to our supply chains where deforestation is considered a high risk, including our South America soybean and the Southeast Asia palm oil supply chains. Learn more about our non-deforestation commitment and the projects and activities that are helping us to meet it on the next few pages, or by visiting here. Promoting decent work, human rights, and good farmer livelihoods Bunge’s global labor policy commits us to maintaining a healthy and safe work environment for all of our employees and contractors. In addition, we strive to root out all cases of human rights abuses in our value chains by upholding strict standards of compliance, from local and internationally-recognized conventions, to projects and activities that root out cases of abuse. Our operations and employees must comply with all applicable local laws, rules and regulations. More information about our approach to human rights and decent work at Bunge can be found in our global labor policy. 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 12 Palm oil Non-deforestation Palm oil is the most widely used vegetable oil in the world, and will remain a crucial part of the food production process for years to come. Bunge believes that palm oil and palm kernel oil must be produced in a manner that is legally compliant and traceable, that protects forests and biodiversity, Our approach to responsible supply chains includes a robust reduces greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and respects the rights of indigenous peoples, workers and vision for sustainable agriculture and a commitment to end local communities. Our Palm Oil Sourcing Policy shows our approach to sustainable sourcing of this deforestation worldwide by 2025 commodity. Bunge’s Grains & Oilseeds commitment, established in 2015, sets out our approach to promoting In 2019, we achieved 98% traceability to the mill for palm oil, and over 36% traceability to plantation. sustainable agriculture and achieving deforestation-free supply chains. It calls for value chains Over 20 million hectares of forest are monitored by satellite and radar. Land use changes are reported that are transparent, verified sustainable and which create positive impacts on the ground while on a bi-weekly basis, and we work with a variety of stakeholders to engage plantations that are identified advancing the spirit of the Sustainable Development Goals. as having violated our sourcing policy. The commitment calls for: Full information about our palm oil traceability, policies and activities are contained in our Palm Oil Dashboards, published quarterly by Bunge Loders Croklaan. • eliminating deforestation from our agricultural supply chains worldwide by 2025 • reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions • protecting peat land and other carbon-capturing ecosystems • conserving freshwater and acting responsibly in water-stressed regions • conserving biodiversity • supporting livelihoods • respecting labor and land use rights • applying free, prior and informed consent. Soybean MONITORING PROGRESS: 2016-2019 High priority regions in South America (BR + PY + AR) Bunge’s Grains & Oilseeds Commitment reflects 14000 our belief in sustainable value chains for major 12500 commodities such as soy, the world’s second-most Monitored land used oil. As a leading company operating in the (per 000 ha) Protecting the Amazon three largest soybean producing countries in the 8730 9100 world – Brazil, the United States, and Argentina 7700 8320 The Amazon is an important biome in Brazil, and deforestation is a concern there as well. The Amazon – we work to ensure a sustainable supply of this 6500 6770 Soy Moratorium, of which Bunge is a signatory and member of the working group (GTS), bans the product. purchasing of any soy that has been planted over deforested land after 2008. Monitored farms* Our commitment is especially material for The solution was established due to lack of governance over the Amazon biome and uncertainty about soybeans sourced in areas of South America the relation between soy and deforestation. Due to a very localized expansion of soybeans in the that are at higher risk of deforestation, such the Amazon biome and non-existence of other solutions to curb the situation, the Amazon Soy Moratorium Brazilian Cerrado and Argentinian Chaco regions. 2016 2017 2018 2019 was established as last resort and has remained in place ever since. The monitoring and studies released In 2020, 100% of our soy volumes directly sourced *Total number of monitored farms may be higher than actual sourcing farms. Bunge by the Soy Working Group of the Moratorium later show that soybean was not a driver for deforestation from farms in these regions are traceable. continues to monitor farms even when no longer buying from them. in the Amazon. To date, Bunge has blocked 279 farmers due to non-compliance with the Moratorium and the related Para Protocol. We monitor over 8,300 mapped farms across more than 14 million hectares of land. A portion of these farms are no longer supply to us, though we continue to monitor them for any land use Nevertheless, Bunge continues to support and engage with the Moratorium to ensure the continued change. We were able to identify that only 0.7% of the monitored farmers had planted soybean preservation of this important biome. over deforested land. Bi-annual reports with more information on traceability and monitoring in our soy value chain can Bunge’s non-deforestation commitment helps support the SDG be found in our Accountability page. for Life Above Land, chiefly the need to ensure the protection of important ecosystems and biomes worldwide. GRI 304-1; 304-2; 304-3 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 13 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 14 Nutrition Sustainable products Nutritious food supports human health, which is the basis of human well-being and development. Certifications and verified products Grains and oilseeds account for more than 50 percent of the available calories in the global food supply today. Bunge enhances the nutritional profile of diets around the world with our oilseeds and grains and Each year we certify or verify the sustainability of greater volumes of our products that we through the fortified foods we produce. process and ship. In recent years, we were the largest trader of certified volumes of soybeans from South America, and we continue to meet market demands for such products as needed. Nutritious Oils & Grains And by Q4 of 2019, over 75% of our palm oil volumes were sourced from suppliers with robust NDPE commitments, meaning a commitment to no deforestation, no peatland development, and Soybean, canola, rapeseed and sunflower oils are among the richest dietary sources of polyunsaturated no exploitation of any kind. fat and omega-3 and omega-6 fats, all of which have known health benefits. Whole grains are rich in fiber, which is associated with a reduced risk of diabetes and heart disease. Whole grains also provide minerals such as iron, magnesium and zinc, as well as B vitamins. Gluten-free grains, such as quinoa, millet and sorghum are a good source of nutrients. Bunge is a leading company in the global trade of grains, providing nutritious raw materials around the world. Making Nutrition Available Globally With an integrated value chain that stretches from farm to fork, Bunge is well positioned to deliver safe, affordable and nutritious grains and oilseeds around the world. Our fortified margarines, enriched oils and omega-3 blends supply nutrients and other benefits that are needed for human health and that reduce disease risks. Product quality and safety Throughout our value chains, we adhere to leading standards for product quality and safety. We help Our PRO-S certification program for Brazilian soy meets EU feed ensure our products’ quality and safety through several means, including: sector baseline criteria for responsible soy production and is benchmarked against the European Feed Manufacturers’ Federation • Traceability on multiple levels for our raw material -in our soy value chain this means traceability (FEFAC) sourcing guidelines (standardsmap.org). It encompasses directly to the farm, and for palm it means to mill and plantation. More details on our traceability 55 mandatory indicators and five main requirements: farmer legal approaches and performance can be found on the Accountability page. compliance, land use rights and community relations, farm working • Product safety and quality certifications in place for several operating sites (GMP+B2 e B3, HACCP, conditions and employee needs, environmental responsibility, and ISO 9001-2015, ISO 14000, OHSAS 18001, FSSC 22000, SMETA, Kosher, Halal, and Organic) agricultural best practices. • Adherence to regulations • Label-approval verifications where applicable Like the global agribusiness and food industry as a whole, we are focused on the complex, extensive and ongoing process of eliminating contaminants from the value chain. During this reporting period, Bunge had no issues of regulatory non-compliance concerning product quality and safety. Certified products are examples of industry innovations that can help businesses meet important sustainability goals. That is why our portfolio of products and services help support SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. GRI 416-1, 416-2, 417-1 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 15 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 16 Partnerships in North America Field to Market Project and partnerships Bunge is a founding member of Field to Market, an organization dedicated to improving the productivity and environmental efficiency of agriculture across the entire food production chain. It unites growers, governments, conservation organizations, scholars and companies throughout the agricultural and The Soft Commodities Forum food sectors to advance sustainability in production agriculture. Field to Market produces national sustainability reports and has developed a ‘fieldprint’ calculator for farmers. This tool allows farmers to Bunge is a member of the Soft Commodities Forum (SCF), a global platform for leading soft evaluate their farms across a variety of metrics, including land, soil, water, energy and crop input use, as commodities companies, convened by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development well as water quality. (WBCSD) for the purpose of advancing collective action around common sustainability challenges. We are the first grain and oilseed processor to integrate Field to Market metrics into our Centerfield platform, offering Field to Market’s outcomes-based approach In 2019, SCF members began a new partnership with Solidaridad to work with farmers in the to measuring sustainability directly to farmers. Cerrado to adopt more sustainable farming practices. The initial phase of the project will engage 80 farmers to understand current practices and to collaborate on new approaches. The partnership also supports downstream customers interested in assessing the aggregated sustainability performance of corn grown in the United States. Learn more about Bunge’s participation in the SCF by visiting here. Ecosystem Services Market Consortium In 2019, Bunge co-launched the Ecosystem Services Market Consortium (ESMC), an industry group pioneering market-based approaches to managing healthy soils and promoting water conservation and Agroideal.org quality improvements in North America’s agricultural lands. Built in collaboration with The Nature Conservancy, other market participants, associations, financial As a member of the ESMC, Bunge is working with ten other companies and non-profit organizations institutions, NGOs, and private and public research to incentivize the uptake of new technologies and water management practices that, if adopted across agencies, Agroideal.org allows for users to integrate the millions of acres of the world’s working lands, would have a lasting impact, creating positive social, agronomic, environmental and other data to make economic and environmental outcomes. better decisions about how to sustainably expand agriculture production. The ESMC will drive the coordinated development of advanced analytical tools and technologies to costeffectively measure and monitor changes in sustainability outcomes and contribute income to farmers Bunge’s use of Agroideal in our operations to identify and ranchers through insetting and offsetting supply-chain strategies and the sale of ecosystem services opportunities and risks for future soy sourcing was credits. noted during the 1st anniversary of Agroideal.org event, together with other peers, showing that the tool is well consolidated in the market. In May 2019, Agroideal Chaco was successfully released in Argentina, adapting to the tool to Sustainable Shipping that biome where agricultural expansion has also happened more intensely. Peers, financial institutions and other stakeholders were led by Fundacion ProYungas, who supported the Bunge is a member of the Sustainable Shipping Initiative (SSI), a multi-stakeholder initiative that brings implementation of Agroideal locally. together like-minded and leading organizations with shared goals and equal determination in improving the sustainability of the shipping industry in terms of social, environmental and economic impacts. As The open source tool has been recognized as a major milestone for the promotion of part of the SSI, Bunge is the first in our industry to join the Ship Recycling Transparency Initiative (SRTI). sustainable agriculture in South America. Use the tool at www.agroideal.org. SRTI is an online platform to report information on ship recycling practices based on a set of predefined disclosure criteria developed jointly by key industry stakeholders. Being transparent about ship recycling policies and practices will create fair competition, improve performance and enable Innovative Financing for Soy Expansion in Brazil the shipping owners to be held to account. Cargo owners like Bunge can then engage with these In 2018, Bunge partnered with The Nature Conservancy and Santander Bank to develop a companies by understanding their policies and better informing our own decision-making. first-of-its-kind financing mechanism for soy farmers in Brazil’s Cerrado region. The program is designed to promote agricultural production without further deforestation or conversion of native vegetation, by providing long-term loans to farmers willing to commit to this approach. Most of the loans currently available to soy farmers are for less than a year to finance their annual crop costs. This new mechanism will offer loans of up to 10 years, recognizing that investments in land acquisition and preparation have a long-term payback. In 2018, approximately USD$50 million in capital was piloted. 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 17 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 18 Accountability We aim to be an accountable leader within our industry, helping to raise the bar on our sector’s performance by regularly tracking and disclosing progress on our commitments and sustainability performance Integrating sustainability into the operations of an agribusiness and food company is imperative in today’s business environment. That is why sustainability has become one of Bunge’s strategic pillars for the operations and strategy of our business. It’s also the right thing to do — for the environment, for our customers and consumers and for the industry as a whole. Visit our webpage for more information. Communication and Engagement Our approach to accountability is underscored by our ongoing engagement with our stakeholders, which informs our materiality assessment. Engagement with our stakeholders is a key part of Bunge’s sustainability vision, and takes place throughout the year. Our strategies, projects and goals are developed in part by interaction with these identified stakeholder groups, as well as other key value chain partners. We value the inputs received, and diligently seek to enhance our own operations and policies in line with stakeholder expectations. In early 2020, Bunge held its first Sustainability Stakeholder Forum, gathering representatives from a variety of stakeholders to reflect and provide assessment on the company’s new sustainability approach, and to help refine material objectives that would help build trust and accountability. Transparency We believe that transparency into our supply chains is an important way to build trust in our company, and to help lead the industry forward. Since 2016 we have been publishing regular updates about traceability and our non-deforestation commitment within our Grains & Oilseeds platform. We are the only company in our sector to produce these reports and over this length of time. Click to read previous reports from December 2016; May & September 2017; March & October 2018; and March & October 2019. Our most recent report was published in April 2020, and showcases monitoring progress over the previous four years. In addition, we publish quarterly dashboards on our palm oil supply chain through Bunge Loders Croklaan. View the latest palm oil dashboard here. Policies Reports • Environmental Policy • Global Sustainability Report 2019 • Global Safety & Health Policy • Global Sustainability Report 2018 • Labor Policy • Global Sustainability Report Bunge South • Land Use and Biodiversity Policy America (en) 2019 • Grains & Oilseeds Commitment • CDP 2019: Climate Forests Water • Palm Oil Sourcing Policy • Global Sustainability Report 2016 • Sustainability Policy 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 20 Shea rollers in West Africa Social responsibility Since 2016 Bunge Loders Croklaan has provided shea rollers to aid women in collecting the shea nuts in the field. This roller is an innovation Our commitment to be an accountable partner in the value which has its origins in New Zealand’s walnut sector and enhances the collecting activity by making it possible to not bend, crouch or kneel, chain includes a belief in social responsibility and community as well as to carry less weight. Bunge Loders Croklaan was the first development projects major buyer to introduce the rollers. Several NGO’s have also started using the rollers. As a result of the successful distribution in 2016-2017, Bunge Loders Croklaan decided to distribute an additional 300 rollers to women groups in Burkina Faso, Ghana and Benin. Fundação Bunge Since 1955, the Bunge Foundation (Fundacao Bunge) has been supporting social investments in Brazil, overseeing the realization of projects that contribute to the development of local communities. In 2019, over USD $1.3 million was provided to community-level efforts across Brazil. Recent projects: Supporting communities through COVID-19 In response to the disruptions caused to local communities by COVID-19, Bunge announced a $2.5 • Comunidade Integrada, a sustainable land development program conducted in 2019 in million for relief efforts in April 2020. two states: Pará (Barcarena and Itaituba) and Mato Grosso (Rondonópolis). • Project REDES, which values young people and people with disabilities by integrating the Bunge employees in Porto Corsini, Italy, have found creative ways to stay safe while working during a Municipal Government, private initiative, Third Sector entities and education and training coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19). As supermarket shelves in the region are short of hand sanitizers, institutions in the city of Rondonópolis. the unit’s Laboratory and Quality team produced 75 liters of the product for all employees to use. The • Comunidade Educativa, a corporate volunteer program that aims to value community work formula adopted was disclosed by the World Health Organization (WHO) and is already being used in in municipalities where Bunge operates. In 2019, a total of 711 program volunteers dedicated other Bunge plants, such as in the city of Amsterdam, in the Netherlands, and in St Louis, Missouri, in 4,782 hours to develop 270 activites in 48 states (SC, PR, SP, MG, BA, PI, TO and MT). the USA. BP Bunge Bioenergia is helping to fight Coronavirus in Brazil by converting part of its ethanol production into 70% alcohol, suitable for disinfecting surfaces. The Company donated this product to the Brazilian Unified Health System, which will distribute to 32 municipalities in the country, reaching more than 1.4 million people in these regions. Academia Bunge With units in São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Recife, Academia Bunge works as a technical improvement center to assist bakeries, restaurants and pastry shops across Brazil with recipes, tips and nutritional information to Living Lands and Waters further enhance their business. With the support of chefs specializing in Bunge employees in North America regularly took part in volunteer activities that help to restore bakery, confectionery, cuisine and industry, we guarantee not only the best natural waterways and ensure continued health of vulnerable ecosystems. In particular, the Living products, but also information so that customers can achieve maximum Lands and Waters organization was supported by Bunge employees in removing over 440,000 performance throughout the transformation process, until it becomes a pounds of debris from water systems that feed the Mississippi River. final product. Additional projects included planting over 450 tree saplings around Bunge facilities and other farms 2019 highlights: in the US Midwest to spur the growth of natural pollinators and other resources for sustainable agricultural development. • 17,000 professionals trained • 28,000 participants in workshops and lectures • 79% of hours spent in consulting GRI 413-1 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 21 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 22 Ethics and compliance Our people Bunge’s accountability starts with a commitment to uphold the highest standards of ethics. Our company-wide Code of Conduct sets forth stringent expectations for the highest compliance for our Bunge’s employees and contractors are key enablers of the direct employees, our contractors, and our third-party organizations with whom we work and source. company’s success, and remain valuable stakeholders as we seek Performing with the highest standards of ethics and integrity, no matter where to build a more resilient and more responsible business we operate, is what gives customers, shareholders, employees and others confidence in us and our future and is paramount to our reputation. Read more from Bunge’s Code of Conduct by visiting here. Bunge provides a variety of resources that allow employees and our peers to report instances that Diversity and inclusion violate the principles of our Code of Conduct, including a hotline and anonymous message system. “We are committed to supporting our diverse workforce and to boosting diversity within our operations. We strive to cast a wide net so that our global workforce will be reflective of our While individuals are encouraged to identify themselves when reporting any issue related to our Code broad customer base and so that a diversity of thought is represented across our operations. We of Conduct, anonymous reports are accepted where local law allows. Bunge promptly responds to all also review policies and practices to ensure that none inadvertently undermine diversity. reports of misconduct, and takes remedial action on all substantiated cases. We take proactive measures to increase employees’ participation and inclusion once they are Reported allegations are grouped into the following categories: a part of Bunge, and examine policies and rules, both written and unwritten, to assess whether any are excluding participation in any way. We also examine comments received on our Ethics • Accounting & Compliance hotline and website and through our employee engagement survey to gauge • Asset Misappropriation employees’ sense of inclusion. To support diversity of professional viewpoints, we also aim for • Bribery/Corruption cross-functional representation on our internal teams. • Ethics/Business Integrity • Human Resources/Workplace Concerns Our offices host employee-developed groups, such as Women of Bunge; Proud & Allied; • Legal/Regulatory Multicultural Business Leaders; and African-American Connection in order to foster community• Safety, Health & Environment building and create awareness-raising initiatives that support the company’s mission for a diverse • Sustainable Sourcing and inclusive workplace.” • Inquiries In 2019, 702 matters were reported through various channels including hotline calls, website submittals, and through management. Previous years’ data on allegations can be found in prior sustainability Professional development and training reports. Bunge employees participate in a suite of required trainings, and can choose from an array of optional offerings throughout the calendar year. All employees participate in mandatory annual Code of Conduct and multi-level safety training. Furthermore, all new employees up to the midmanagement level participate in a formal, face-to-face onboarding process where they learn key aspects of workplace diversity, ethics, and other values. In addition, we offer our employees robust skills-training resources as well as field-based certification programs that map to various job functions across Bunge. Our commitment to accountability contains principles that align Our strength in employee skill development is something we are proud of and will continue with the SDGs related to partnerships and strong institutions. to support and enhance going forward. To align our business and global workforce with the We are doing our part to enhance transparency and to approaching “gig economy,” including an ongoing digitalization of our industry’s processes, we are beginning to plan for how we can retool and retrain our employees. meaningfully engage with important value chain stakeholders. Employees receive mandatory annual evaluations on career development and performance. These reviews are conducted in stages that include year-planning, mid-year updates, and endof-year assessments, all of which are overseen by respective human resources departments. In certain geographies such as Brazil, specific nationally-regulated workplans and career development reviews are done in accordance with local legislation and best practices. GRI 404-1, 404-2, 404-3, 405-1 GRI 102-16, 102-17 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 23 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 24 This GRI Index corresponds to Bunge’s sustainability content and data provided for the period between GRI Index, Core January 1, 2019 December 31, 2019, with some data presented for the first half of 2020. The GRI report is prepared in accordance with GRI Standards, Core Option, and refers to publicly available information GRI Standard Disclosure Comment or Location UN SDG sourced from the Bunge website as well as external reports such as the company’s U.S. SEC filings (10-k General Disclosures and associated proxy statements). We report annually on sustainability topics that were identified through Stakeholder Engagement the most recent materiality assessment and are what we believe the topics that best represent Bunge’s 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement; Page 5 SDG 16 & 17 economic, environmental and social performance. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreeGlobal Labor Policy SDG 8 ments 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeMateriality and Stakeholder Engagement; Page 5 SDG 16 & 17 holders GRI Standard Disclosure Comment or Location UN SDG 102-43 Approach to stakeholder manMateriality and Stakeholder Engagement; Page 5 SDG 16 & 17 agement General Disclosures 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement; Page 5 Organizational Profile Reporting Practice 102-1 Name of the Organization Bunge Limited 102-45 Entities included in the consoliThis report consolidates information from our subsidiary companies. All information is 102-2 Activities, brands, products, Who We Are; Our Businesses dated financial statements in our 2019 Annual Report. services 102-46 Defining report content and Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement; Page 5 102-3 Location of headquarters St. Louis, Missouri, USA topic boundaries 102-4 Location of operations Who We Are 102-47 List of material topics Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement; Page 5 102-5 Ownership and legal form Limited Liability Company formed under the laws of Bermuda. We are registered with 102-48 Restatements of information None the Registrar of Companies in Bermuda under registration number EC20791. The com102-49 Changes in reporting None pany is registered at New York Stock Exchange as BG. 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2019 102-6 Markets served Distribution; Locations General Disclosures 102-51 Date of most recent report 2019 102-7 Scale of the organization 2019 Annual Report 102-52 Reporting cycle Bunge’s reporting cycle according to GRI standards will be annual. 102-8 Information on employees and 2019 Annual Reoprt; Employee Data (see below) other workers 102-53 Contact point for questions Any questions or comments about this report may be addressed to: regarding the report sustainability@bunge.com 102-9 Supply chain 2019 Annual Report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accorThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option 102-10 Significant changes to the orgaIn 2019 Bunge announced significant changes to the operating structure of the dance with GRI Standards nization and supply chain company, from a matrix and regional-based organization to a global operating model. Included in this restructure was the relocation of the global headquarters from White 102-55 GRI Content Index GRI Index Pages 25-30 Plains, NY to St. Louis, MO. 102-56 External assurance For the current report, the Company decided not to seek external assurance, considThe company also contributed its sugar and bioenergy assets in Brazil to a new 50-50 ering the complexity of operations in different countries where Bunge operates. The option to include external assurance will be considered for the next report, depending joint venture with BP, called BP Bunge Bioenergia. on stakeholder feedback. More information is available in the 2019 Annual Report. Management Approach General Disclosures 102-11 Precautionary principle or Bunge has policies in place to reduce or avoid negative impacts on the environment 103 Management approach See table in Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement for location of management approach where there are threats of serious or irreversible environmental damage. View these approaches for each material topic. approaches in the 2019 Annual Report, as well as the web sections for Action on Climate. 103-2 The management approach and Sustainability requirements are becoming increasingly demanding in our market, and SDGs 2, 3, 6, its components food and agribusiness suppliers such as Bunge are asked to meet a range of criteria 8, 9, 12, 13, 201-12 External initiatives Member Organizations (see below) across multiple stakeholder groups. 15, 16 & 17 102-13 Membership assocations Member Organizations (see below) Bunge’s sustainability performance is usually vetted by our customers, by sector roundtables and criteria, and by NGOs. In addition, our businesses may be audited by Strategy customers from time to time and are also subject to other third-party audits related to product quality and sustainability criteria, depending on market needs. During 2019, 102-14 Statement from CEO Page 2 Bunge responded to various customer inquiries ranging from SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) audits, and SMETA (SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit, providing 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opporPage 2 insights into Bunge’s operations, facilities and assurances of product quality and safety. tunities In addition, Bunge began preparations for a private Stakeholder Forum to seek Ethics and Integrity feedback and engagement with key stakeholders on the company’s sustainability perfornace, as well as areas identified as needing further imrpovement. The company 102-16 Values, principles, standards Code of Conduct SDG 16 welcomes the feedback it receives from its stakeholders, and endeavors to meet their and norms of behavior expectations in line with our commitment to accountability. 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Code of Conduct; Page 24 SDG 16 Material Disclosures concerns about ethics Economic Performance Governance 201-1 Direct economic value generated 2019 Annual Report 102-18 Governance structure Sustainability; Page 5 and distributed 201-2 Climate change financial impli2019 Annual Report; CDP 2019 Climate Material Disclosures 102-19 Delegating authority Sustainability; Page 5 cations 102-20 Executive-level responsibility Sustainability; Page 5 SDG 16 Energy for economic, enviromental and social topics 302-1 Energy consumption within the Page 29 SDG 13 organization 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on ecoMateriality and Stakeholder Engagement; Global forums & debates; Page 5 SDG 16 & 17 nomic, environmental and social topics 302-2 Energy consumption outside of Page 29 SDG 13 the organization 102-22 Composition of the highest govSustainability; Page 5 ernance body and its committees 302-3 Energy intensity Page 29 SDG 13 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Accountability SDG 16 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Page 8 SDG 13 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 25 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 26 GRI Standard Disclosure Comment or Location UN SDG GRI Standard Disclosure Comment or Location UN SDG Material Disclosures Material Disclosures Water Local Communities 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Page 29 SDG 6 413-1 Local community engagement Social Responsibility; Page 21-22 SDG 17 303-2 Water sources significantly Page 10 SDG 6 Supplier Social Assessment affected 414-1 New suppliers that were Responsible Supply Chains; Non-Deforestation; Page 28 SDG 15 303-3 Water recycled and reused Page 29 SDG 6 screened using social criteria Maaterial Disclosures Biodiversity 414-2 Negative social impacts in the Responsible Supply Chains; Non-Deforestation; Page 28 SDG 15 supply chain and actions taken 304-1 Sites near areas of high biodiverNon-deforestation; Page 13-14 SDG 15 sity value Customer Health and Safety 304-2 Impacts on biodiversity Non-deforestation; Page 13-14 SDG 15 416-1 Assessment of health and safety Page 16 SDG 12 impacts 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Non-deforestation; Page 13-14 SDG 15 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance conPage 16 SDG 12 Emissions cerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Page 29 SDG 13 Customer Health and Safety 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Page 29 SDG 13 emissions 417-1 Requirements for product and Page 16 SDG 12 service information labeling 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Page 8 SDG 13 305-5 Redution of GHG emissions Page 8 SDG 13 Effluents and Waste Membership Organizations Sustainability and Stakeholder Events 306-1 Water discharge by quality and Page 29 SDG 6 destination Bunge is a member of many organizations globally, supporting local Being active at public events has proven to be an important development and working toward a more sustainable agribusiness and food way to engage with stakeholders, present our perspective 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Page 29 SDG 6 method industry. Below, some of Bunge’s major interactions are highlighted. and collect feedback. These were the main events at which 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Page 29 SDG 6 Bunge served as speaker, since the 2016 update on our global • ABIA (Brazilian Association of the Food Industries) Board Member sustainability report: Employment • ABIOVE (Brazilian Association of Vegetable Oils Industries) – Chair of the Material Disclosures 401-1 New employee hires and employ2019 Annual Report; Page 30 SDG 8 board • World Agri Tech (San Francisco) – How can we Fast-Track ee turnover • ASAGA (Argentinian Association of fats and oils) Board Member the Adoptions of Solutions to Save the Planet March • CAPPRO (Paraguayan Chamber of Cereals and Oilseeds Processors) – 2019 Occupational Health and Safety Board Member • USSEC Sustainable Soybean Summit (Mexico City): 403-1 Worker health and safety comSafety SDG 8 • CIARA (Argentinian Oil Industry Chamber) – Board Member Sustainable Soybeans April 2019 mittees • COCERAL (European association representing the trade in vegetable oils • Harvard Latin America Conference April 2019 403-2 Injury and absenteeism rates Safety SDG 8 and fats and agrosupply) Board Member • CDP Annual Supply Chain Summit April 2019 Training and Education • EBB (European Biodiesel Board) Board member • RSPO (Ecuador): NA Palm Perspective May 2019 • ELMA (European Lecithin Manufacturers) • NYC Climate Week September 2019 404-1 Average hours of training per Page 23 SDG 4 & 8 • ESMC (Ecosystems Services Market Consortium) Founding Member • UN General Assembly side events September 2019 year per employee • EUFIC (EU Food Information Council) • Sustainable Ag Summit: Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity 404-2 Programs for upgrading employPage 23 SDG 4 & 8 • FEDIOL (the European Union vegetable oil and protein meal industry break out session moderator November 2019 ee skills association)Board Member • NGFA Elevator Conference: Diversity in Ag December 404-3 Performance and career developPage 23 SDG 8 • Field to Market – Founding Member 2019 ment reviews • Agriculture Future of America Board Member • RSPO North America Dialogue January 2020 Diversity and Equal Opportunity • National Future Farm of America Foundation Board Member • Uniting the Food Chain May 2020 • National Black Growers Council Corporate Advisory Board Member 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 2019 Annual Report; Page 30 SDG 10 and employees • SASB (Sustainable Accounting Standards Board) Advisory Panel Member GRI 102-21, GRI 102-43 • Future Farmers of America Board Member Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining • • SAI (Sustainable Agriculture Initiative) Soft Commodities Forum Supplier Screening 407-1 Operations and suppliers in Global Labor Policy SDG 8 which the right to freedom of associa• United Nations Global Compact Where material we screen suppliers using social-environmental tion and collective bargaining may be at risk criteria. The chart below presents the result of the screening in Bunge has become more active in industry associations, as an opportunity Brazil, related to public policy advocacy and commitments to Child Labor to address topics related to sustainability, to leverage our position within the enhance our supply chain in the country: 408-1 Operations and suppliers at sigResponsible Supply Chains; Global Labor Policy; Palm Oil Sourcing Policy SDG 8 & 12 industry, and to promote better communication with government agencies. nificant risk for incidents of child labor We advocate for our point of view with associations and various governmental Farmers disqualified due to non-compliance with Forced or Compulsory Labor departments, sharing any concerns we may have about the effects of regulations basic sustainability criteria in Brazil in 2019 on our business and society. 412-1 Operations that have been subResponsible Supply Chains; Global Labor Policy; Palm Oil Sourcing Policy SDG 8 & 12 Total blocked through ject to human rights reviews or impact assessments December 31, 2019 412-2 Employee training on human Responsible Supply Chains; Global Labor Policy; Palm Oil Sourcing Policy SDG 8 & 12 Illegal deforestation (IBAMA) 429 rights policies or procedures Illegal deforestation (State of Para) 165 Amazon Soy Moratorium 108 Modern Slavery Labor Issues 5 Total Blocked 707 GRI 102-43 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 27 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 28 Emissions and Energy Data Waste Employee Data Landfills are a major public health and environmental concern External Hire Rate by Age (2019) Termination Rate by Age (2019) 2019 GHG Emissions (in Metric Tons CO2e) for several reasons, including that compacted organic material in External Hire Rate External Hires Average Headcount Termination Rate Terminations Average Headcount landfills releases methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, and that All Ages 21.5% 6,960 32,338 Direct (Scope 1) emissions from fuel use in facilities 1,958,125 toxins in discarded waste can leach into soil and groundwater. Bunge All Ages 23.8% 7,705 32,338 <20 145.5% 547 376 Indirect (Scope 2) emissions from purchased energy 1,791,572 is committed to a future of zero waste sent to landfills as well as to <20 81.4% 306 376 reaching a 100 percent waste-recycling rate at our factories. 20-29 51.1% 3,262 6,385 Biogenic C02 emissions 3,749,698 20-29 45.2% 2,883 6,385 30-39 18.2% 2,059 11,325 30-39 21.8% 2,472 11,325 GRI 102-8, GRI 401-1, GRI 405-1 As part of our new environmental goals for 2016 and beyond, we 40-49 10.4% 799 7,691 40-49 15.1% 1,158 7,691 have approved new waste reduction and recycling targets and are 50-59 5.3% 264 4,935 GHG Emissions 2016-2018 50-59 12.0% 591 4,935 developing programs to achieve them. We’re seeking to reduce the 60+ 1.8% 26 1,431 amount of waste we generate by 20%, per ton of production, by the Unallocated 1.5% 3 195 60+ 20.6% 295 1,431 2016 2017 2018 end of 2026. Unallocated n/a 195 Direct (Scope 1) emissions 1,663,890 1,722,634 1,666,056 External Hire Rate by Gender (2019) GRI 103-2 Termination Rate by Gender (2019) Indirect (Scope 2) emissions 1,726,566 1,549,444 1,600,008 External Hire Rate External Hires Average Headcount 2019 Non-hazardous Waste (metric tons) All Genders 21.5% 6,960 32,338 Termination Rate Terminations Average Headcount 2019 Energy Consumption Waste Disposition Sustainable Non-Sustainable Male 21.0% 5,429 25,807 All Genders 23.8% 7,705 32,338 Direct energy (in gigajoules, GJ) Landfill displosal 43,147 0 Female 23.4% 1,531 6,531 Male 24.2% 6,256 25,807 Non-Renewable Sources Composting 0 48,234 Female 22.2% 1,449 6,531 Natural gas 30,447,364 Land farming 0 2,418 Employee Diversity by Gender (2019) Gasoline 4,826 Physical or chemical treatment 0 2,861 2018 Total Percentage Employee Diversity by Age (2019) Light oil 424,657 Incineration without energy recovery 3,499 0 All Genders 32,338 Diesel 155,312 Incineration with energy recovery 0 30,369 Male 25,807 80% All <20 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60+ Misc Fuel oil/heavy oil 0 Fertilizer 0 5,572 Female 6,531 20% Total 32,338 376 6,385 11,325 7,691 4,935 1,431 195 Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) 221,943 Biogas production 0 49,431 Recovery 0 50,094 % 1.2% 19.7% 35.0% 23.8% 15.3% 4.4% 0.6% Coal 2,841,956 Reuse 0 30,037 Renewable Sources Recycling 0 61,908 Wood or wood waste 5,891,967 On-site storage 0 715 Seed hulls 4,420,498 Other primary solid biomass 1,883,777 Another treatment 2,153 0 Notes on Data Total non-hazardous waste by type 48,799 281,639 Total direct energy consumption 46,292,300 Bunge measures environmental performance and social indicators Total non-hazardous waste 330,437 Indirect energy (in megawatt-hours, MWh) each year, and publishes granular data in annual sustainability reports. Total electricity conusmption purchased 2,400,938 2019 Hazardous Waste (metric tons) In 2019, the company began to incorporate data from plants and Purchased steam 876,895 Waste Disposition Sustainable Non-Sustainable facilities from Bunge Loders Croklaan, following the 70% ownership Renewable electricity from the grid 37,244 Incineration 136 0 acquisition in 2018. Additionally, the company divested its sugar & Purchased steam from renewable source 254,741 Hazardous landfill disposal 1,188 0 bioenergy assets. Total indirect energy consumption 3,569,818 Recycling 0 13,212 Electricity sold 254,358 Recovery 0 44 As a result, the data from 2019 reflect the new reporting boundary. Reuse 0 898 Previous years’ data on environmental performance and other social GRI 302-1, GRI 302-2 Land farming 0 0 indicators can be found in prior global sustainability reports and On-site storage 0 14 submissions to CDP, located here. Total hazardous waste 1,324 14,168 Renewable Energy Use 2019 Total hazardous waste 15,493 GRI 306-2, GRI 306-4 26% Renewable Water Data Water Withdrawals for 2019 (in cubic meters) Total volume of fresh surface water withdrawn 15,844,824 Total volume of ground water withdrawn 7,264,544 Total volume of rainwater collected directly 0 Total volume of waste water from other sources 0 Total volume withdrawn from municipal supplies 10,890,068 Total volume of sea water withdrawn 38,859,214 Total volume of water withdrawn 72,858,650 26% Non-Renewable Water Discharges in 2019 (in cubic meters) Total volume of fresh surface water discharged 18,110,594 Total volume of brackish water discharged 38,859,214 Total volume of groundwater discharged 121,891 Total volume of waste water from other sources 0 Total volume discharged to municipal sources 5,308,537 Total volume of water discharged 62,400,236 GRI 303-1, GRIk 303-3 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 29 2020 Global Sustainability Report | 30
