UN GLOBAL COMPAC T Communication on Progress 2020/ 2021 INTRODUCTION 3 FOUR DECADES OF DESIGN 6 BEING A CERTIFIED B CORP 14 FSC TM 17 BSCI AND CODE OF CONDUCTS 21 GIVE BACK MORE THAN WE TAKE 25 1. INTRODUC TION statement by Jesper Panduro In September, we started the year by winning Our B-Corp re-certification this year conWe continue to have 100% of all our supplier Denmark “Green Brand of the Year 2019” at firmed that we reached our goal of minimum to commit to the amfori Code of Conduct. Design Awards held by Bo Bedre. I am proud 100 points. Our audit score shows 102,2! That means they pledge to live up to the and humble over the honor, but also aware of There is a great satisfaction in knowing that highest standards of labor rights and environthat we must continue to be best for the world. the improvements we make, such as initiamental protection agreed upon by more than tives to track and reduce our energy and water 2000 European businesses. Our new launch of RENT, a rental service usage, CO2 emissions and waste management that allow you to furnish your outdoor space really pays off. Through B Corp’s Net Zero I’ve continued to take part of in discussion, in a responsible way, as well as Reclassic from 2030, Skagerak has committed ourselves to interviews and workshops on sustainable last year has already proven their success this goal. design and circular economy in Denmark. as a sustainable option for the responsible This year it has been affected by the meeting consumer. This year we started publishing how we measrestrictions, but Webinar’s has made up for ure our use of electricity, water and heating. some of this. We continue to increase our share of FSCTM As well how much waste we generate and how certified wood from 71% to now 85%. It has much we recycle. We aim to continue putting come due to decisions we make based on more focus on this topic. sustainability, not profit, as we see products costing more. This is a small price for doing 87,5% of our supplier base has been amfori it right and becoming 100% certified before audited. Close to 10% increase since last year. Yours sincerely // Jesper Panduro, 2025. Our goal is of course 100%. Owner and CEO in Skagerak Skagerak’s FSCTM certification number: NC-COC-012993, license number: FSCTMC004462 1 .1 HIGHLIGHTS Skagerak has launched two sustainable R ENT A N AC T I V E VOICE F OR concepts that help clients consume and act RENT is an online platform, where customS U S TA I N A B L E D E S I G N responsibly. ers can rent outdoor furniture for the season Being part of the B Corp movement and a firm instead of buying, storing and repairing them. supporter of the FSC scheme, Skagerak actively R ECL A SSIC The advantage of RENT is the possibility to seeks to voice its vision and opinions about Reclassic is a concept that re-sells vintage try out more furniture while minimizing the sustainable design on various platforms. Skagerak furniture. Skagerak handles the buy immediate costs. RENT is about Skagerak and repair of the aged furniture in Denmark maintaining the furniture and handling storage and re-sells the furniture online. Reclassic and the overall responsibility, making it easy for prolongs the lifespan of the furniture that the consumer to act and consume responsibly. becomes ‘Reclassics’ and finds new homes and new families. Both Reclassic and RENT are circular concepts 2019-20 as the furniture re-enters the orbit of use and 2018-19 7 debates re-use – making them last longer. 11 debates 1 .1 H I G H L I G H T S 2019/2020 FSC-certified Suppliers accepted CoC Supplier Amfori auditet 6 tables Certified Accepted Audits 85% 94% 81% 2. FOUR DECADES OF DESIGN four decades of sustainable thinking Skagerak is a family-owned furniture maker from Denmark with a long tradition for good craftsmanship and design-thinking. Since 2005, the company has been owned and managed by Jesper and Vibeke Panduro. Together with their two children and little dog, they live in the harbour city of Aalborg. This is where Skagerak was founded back in 1976, when the first dreams of making long-lasting design took form. From the very beginning, Skagerak was founded on a strong belief that quality should be measured in three different aspects. Quality in its design, quality in its production, and quality in its relation to the people and environment that surround it. 1) Quality in design, because we need products that people want to use and care for, for generations. 2) Quality in production, because we need long lasting products that are easy to repair and maintain for generations. 3) Quality in the relation to people and planet, because we need to sustain a healthy environment socially as well as naturally where we can continue doing business for generations to come. Those beliefs are still at core in Skagerak’s DNA and culture. 2 .1 F O R T H I N G S T O R E M A I N THE SAME, EVERYTHING MUST CHANGE The name “Skagerak” comes from the historically important strait that connects the three Scandinavian countries; Denmark, Norway and Sweden. To Skagerak, the strait represents the ability to remain the same while constantly moving forward and bringing about change. Something both Jesper and Vibeke wish for Skagerak to comply with. Today, the company finds itself in highly globalised market where its products are both manufactured and traded across regions and continents. While this globalisation of the economy has pushed through development and helped building a strong, global middle-class it has not been without sacrifices. For ever since the first wave of industrialisation came around, consumption and growth have been equal to rising emissions of CO2, overexploitation of natural resources and staggering amounts of waste. Now, more than ever, we are feeling the consequences of this. Consequences so big that we have to rethink the way we do business the way we produce and consume if we are to sustain our high living standards for a growing, global population without causing any further damage that cannot be revoked. 2.2 UN SUS TAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL S Part of that realization made the world’s G OA L 0 1 : N O P OV E R T Y G OA L 1 2 : R E S P O N S I B L E leaders come together in 2015 and agree on Because being involved in some of the CONSU M P T ION A ND a set of 17 new goals on sustainable develcountries with the highest levels of poverPRODUC T ION opment the today well-known SDGs. The ty, Skagerak can inf luence the way we talk Because Skagerak can help promoting a smarter goals are adopted and shared by all the Unitwages, welfare and economic security. This resource use both in its way of designing, ed Nations Member States 193 independent directly through its suppliers, but also indisourcing and marketing its products. nations states. To achieve these ambitious rectly through sourcing its materials legally goals before 2030 it requires genuine collaband with focus on paying respect to smallG OA L 1 3 : C L I M AT E A C T I O N oration across governments, civil society and holders and community foresters. Because Skagerak can actively support mitinot least the private sector. gating climate change by endorsing the usage In 2020 we launch a project to analyze and of renewable resources and supporting ecosysFor Skagerak, to keep its strive for quality better understand the gap, if any, between tems that helps taking out CO2 of the atmosin design, production and relations to people minimum salary and living wage. phere and storing it. and planet, it is only natural to implement these goals in its business model. To lessen G OA L 0 8 : D E C E N T W O R K G OA L 1 5: L I F E O N L A N D its negative impact and help future-proofing A N D E CONOM IC GROW T H Because Skagerak’s choice of material sourcboth natural and human resources for generaBecause Skagerak can influence working coning will directly affect the efforts of protecttions to come. Out of the 17 SDGs, these are ditions in the regions where its supply chain ing the environment such as ensuring a the ones Skagerak has chosen to focus on. reaches. Done right, local jobs can be created healthy biodiversity, conserving and restoring and sustained while improving labour standards forests and mountain areas, and supporting and opportunities for an inclusive economy. local communities. 2.3 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPAC T Even before the 17 SDGs were articulated and put into system, Skagerak has been an active supporter of pursuing sustainable development. In 2010, Skagerak signed up to the UN GLOBAL COMPACT initiative committing to help pursue the then UN agenda by implementing a set of universal sustainability principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. HUMAN RIGHTS PR INCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PR INCIPLE 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. — Business and human rights are deeply interconnected for good and for worse. That’s why Skagerak firmly believes that promoting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is nothing but one of the most important corporate responsibilities. This implies not only to avoid being complicit in human rights violations but also to spread awareness and encourage change in the communities it operates in. Locally as well as globally. LABOUR PR INCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PR INCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PR INCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour. PR INCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. — As a global design company with a diverse supply chain including the South American, African and South-east Asian continents much of Skagerak’s actual work to ensure a positive relation between business and human rights is found in its engagement in sustaining just and fair labour rights. That implies working towards more transparency, fair wages and safe work environments through long-standing partnerships as well as international standards and conventions. ENVIRONMENT PR INCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PR INCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PR INCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. — In the entire history of mankind, the levels of CO2 in our atmosphere has never been higher than right now. Yet, we still overexploit the earth’s resources to such an extent that in 2020, we had already spent the entire year’s budget of materials by August 22nd. This means we’d need 1,7 planets to keep up our resource use as of today. Now imagine what we’d need by 2050 when our population is no longer 7,5 billion but almost 9,7 billion and much more belong to the strong middle-class? We obviously need to reduce this overexploitation in one way or the other if we want to turn around the risks of climate change and resource scarcity we are already experiencing now. That’s why Skagerak strives to minimise its environmental footprint by optimising its procurement, handling, transportation and disposal of resources. ANTI-CORRUPTION P R I N C I P L E 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. — Corruption, extortion and embezzlement are often linked to economic underperformance, inequality and violation of human rights. That’s why we need to break down the longtime taboo of corruption by engaging in open, constructive dialogue across industries and regions. By at all times speaking against and backing away from any form of corruptive activity, Skagerak wishes to set an example and help establishing a business environment where anti-corruption is the norm, no matter which country is in question. In the following sections, we go through the most important actions, initiatives and focus points in Skagerak, in working with 10 principles and achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 3. BEING A CERTIFIED B CORP when business is more than just profit In 2017, Skagerak joined the B Corp movement – looking for new ways to use its business as a force of good. B Corps are certified ‘benefit corporations’ meeting the highest standards for social and environmental performance, accountability and transparency. Together with 3.300 companies across 150 industries and 71 countries, Skagerak works towards 1 common goal to redefine success in business realizing that social and environmental achievements are just as important as profit. And that these three elements are not necessarily going against each other, but can actually strengthen one another if done right. And that’s the philosophy behind becoming a certified B Corp. In order to join to the movement, all companies go through a thorough assessment of more than 150 questions divided into 5 areas: 1. Governance 2. Workers 3. Communities 4. Environment 5. Customers The assessment is an attempt to conceptualize the idea of a triple-bottom-line; to put a standardised number to a company’s impact on social and environmental aspects. Out of a total score of 200, one need at least 80 points to achieve a certificate. On its first assessment in 2017, Skagerak scored 87,2 points. In 2020 our audit score shows 102,2. G OV E R N A N C E 17, 7 P O I N T S 75% of its employees takes part in both profesall employees are allowed to carry out three Under the theme of governance, Skagerak is sional as well as personal skill training. days of paid volunteer work. This year Skagerak rewarded for having KPIs for its social and Lastly, Skagerak ranks high on its high to low has seen a high increase in the number of hours environmental performances as well as yearly pay-ration which is 1x5 meaning that the used per employee. A new approach based on impact reporting such as the UN global comdifference between the highest paid and the much more openness about what and how to be pact CoP (Communication on Progress). This lowest paid worker in the company is very low. a volunteer has helped spike this number. year Skagerak has locked their mission, meaning that a clear sustainable strategy is being C OM M U N I T Y 2 4 ,1 P OI N T S At last, Skagerak ranks high based on its decided. In terms of community, Skagerak gets its long-standing partnerships with the most signiscore from having a focus on gender equality, ficant suppliers in South East Asia having Skagerak has clear policies of financial controls, supporting the local community and civil society, worked together with some for more than 2 financial audits and financial transparency, as well as showing strong bonds and responsidecades. This gives a great base for Skagerak in which adds to the score. Furthermore, Skagerak bility towards its suppliers. Nearly half of the improving its environmental and social impact. is working after the principles in a whistleblower employees are women, between 25-50 % of the policy and is about to introduce such. board members are women, and 80 % of all management positions are occupied by woman. W O R K E R S 2 9, 7 P O I N T S The company is likewise ensuring an equal pay Under the category of workers, Skagerak scores for men and women in comparable managing high on providing supplementary healthcare and non-managing positions. insurance for its employees as well as a wide range of health and wellness initiatives such as For the local community around Skagerak, the fitness gear, co-running events and the opporcompany pays donations to a wide range of tunity for receiving physiotherapeutic treatment. cultural institutions and NGOs such as Utzon, Furthermore, Skagerak ensures that more than Kunsten and Skagen Museum. On top of that, E N V I R O N M E N T 2 7, 4 P O I N T S When it comes to environment in the B Corp assessment, Skagerak is scoring high on having installed programs on recycling programmes, incentives to decrease its emissions by travelling and monitoring of both water and energy use. The same goes for its suppliers, where +75% are likewise monitoring water and energy, and 50% monitoring waste output. Skagerak is about is fill out its next assessment required to receive a new certification from 2020 and 3 years ahead. Having been part of the B Corp movement for almost 3 years now has been a great experience for the company. Being one of the first established businesses in Denmark to receive the certificate has given plenty of opportunity to communicate the messages and visions behind the movement and we are now seeing more and more companies ready to join forces. For the next assessment, Skagerak aims at scoring above 100 points. This seems realistic as the company has been working strategically on improving its local involvement in community building at home and abroad, its tracking of CO2-emissions and plans to reduce these, as well as sourcing of certified materials and phasing out of non-renewable resources. 4 . F S C TM making a difference through sustainable wood sourcing One important step towards a more sustainable design industry is to This year, the company is one step closer to achieve this goal as the share support responsible wood sourcing and forest management. That is why of FSCTM -certified wood in its collection has risen from 71% to 85% Skagerak endorses the Forest Stewardship Council™, and have long been over the last year. Skagerak has been able to source 100% of its oak from working towards the goal of only using wood with a 100% FSC™-certiFSCTM -certified forests. fication in its collection. 4 .1 S U C C E E D I N G T H R O U G H N E W COLL ABOR ATIONS The reason for the increase this year is to be found in Skagerak’s determination on finding new suppliers of FSC TM -certified teak for its production in Indonesia. The change involves the production of some of the company’s larger outdoor collections which is why it has triggered a 14% increase in the total share of certified wood. On the short run, the manufacturing costs might increase a bit but that’s a compromise Skagerak is willing to adjust to. If going as planned, the share should increase further in 2020 until reaching 100% share of FSC TM -certified wood in 2025. 4.2 BRINGING TOGETHER ENVIRONMENTAL , SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INTERESTS By supporting the FSC TM certification, we help making sure that no more trees are felled than the forest can reproduce – and that local communities, biodiversity and forest workers are treated with respect. In fact, FSC TM is now the one of the world’s leading systems for promoting sustainable forest management a strong and recognizable brand that helps mobilising consumers through its chain of custody and labelling schemes. The effects of this are vast and contributes directly to 11 out of the 17 SDGs and 35 direct sub-targets. Through the FSC-certification, forest owners are obliged to hire local workers and provide them with proper education, equipment and salary. In some cases, they also commit themselves to support local communities – for example through development of schools. This is greatly contributing to the empowerment and protection of workers’ and Indigenous’ rights in the forestry industry. At the same time, the certification scheme works towards ending illegal logging and sustained the growth of forest areas all over the world. This includes slowing down the deforestation by restoring degraded forests and increasing the establishment of new forestlands. G L O B A L S U P P LYC H A I N Poland Italy Spain Slovenia 5. BSCI AND CODE OF CONDUCTS responsible production in a global supply chain As a global design brand with a wide variety today – all based on international standards T H E 11 P R I N C I P L E S A R E of different types of collections, Skagerak’s and conventions formed by the UN, ILO and A S F OL L OW S business model involves a supply-chain with OECD amongst others. production in more than 10 countries. To 1. The Rights of Freedom of Association ensure that Skagerak’s values are understood In the BSCI system, Skagerak is only obliged to and Collective Bargaining and practiced throughout the chain, a Code get acceptance and compliance from those of its 2. Fair Remuneration of Conduct (CoC) is a vital tool! suppliers whom they are “responsible” for. While 3. Occupational Health and Safety several BSCI can do business with the same pro4. Special Protection for Young Workers The CoC is an agreement between Skagerak ducer, it is only the RSP holder that is expected 5. No Bonded Labour and its suppliers which contains a multitude of to have leadership of upcoming audits etc. 6. Ethical Business Behaviour requirements which they, their employees and 7. No Discrimination sub-suppliers are expected to meet. Back in 8. Decent Working Hours 2017, Skagerak joined Amfori’s Business Social 9. No Child Labour Compliance Initiative (BSCI) – a common CoC 10. No Precarious Employment shared amongst more than 2.000 European 11. Protection of the Environment businesses. The motive was to obtain an even stronger and more consistent voice in securing proper labour rights and environment policies. The Code of Conduct from Amfori is founded on internationally recognised standards and principles such as the UNGP, OECD and the UN Global Compact as well. The CoC was renewed in 2014 and contains 11 principles 5 .1 A Z E R O T O L E R A N C E P O L I C Y Violations of principles and legislations should always be taken seriously – never tolerated. But the response to a violation might not always be the same. In most cases, if Skagerak finds that a supplier is violating the principles, collaboration will be terminated immediately. However, the aim with the CoC is partly to help suppliers improve social and environmental standards. Therefore, some cases of non-compliance are approached by creating an individual development plan in cooperation with the supplier in order to bring things up to standard and achieve full compliance with the violated principle(s). 5.2. AUDITING SUPPLIERS AND MAKING PLANS FOR IMPROVEMENT To make sure that suppliers meet the requirements of the CoC, they are being audited at regular intervals and are furthermore required to perform self-assessments. Audit procedures are performed by independent, third-party organizations approved by BSCI – all with experience in the industry and geographical area and partnering with local specialists. Audit over the past 12 months has shown a slightly higher audit rate and with a higher portion of suppliers in the ration A-C level. New supplier and suppliers moving location is the main reason for supplier lacking an audit this year. These will be audited within the next 12 months. In an audit, the suppliers are usually asked to account for wages, pay slips, labour contracts, general conditions and rights at the workplace, as well as the overall level of information and education amongst the staff. On top of that will an audit typically look as safety measures, machine handling, usage of PPE, fire safety, toilet facilities, canteen facilities and cleaness in general. It is Skagerak’s clear goal to reach a point where it will be able to publish summaries or extracts of these audits directly on its website in terms of enhancing transparency and the dialogue with its customers and stakeholders. 5.3 LIVING WAGES 5.4 ANTI-CORRUPTION When the legal wage is too low it can have a In practice, Skagerak’s adoption of BSCI’s damaging and repressing effect on local comCode of Conduct – shared by more than 2.000 munities and families, leading to a long string European companies – has made it easier for of negative side-effects. Even a standardized Skagerak to deal with corrupted behavior if relminimum wage might be too low at times, not evant. For example, the audits now carried out covering the costs of basic needs in certain arein collaboration with BSCI and Skagerak’s supas or seasons. pliers are based on a method of ‘triangulation’ where several sources and data-sets are used to This challenge can be solved by looking at confirm the truth of information and the honthe concept of “living wages” based on a local esty of operations. calculation of the costs of basic needs such as housing, food, transportation and clothes in a specific area. Living wages are standard topic of interest in BSCI and are as such addressed in every audit carried out. That’s why Skagerak has engaged in a large EU project aiming to analyze what the living wage actually are. Focus are on South East Asia. Together with Skagerak’s local staff and an external consultant Skagerak hope to better understand where the actual level of living wage is, to be able to better support this cause. 6. GIVE BACK MORE THAN WE TAKE LOC AL ENGAGEMENT After having been located in the same region of Denmark for more than 40 years, Skagerak has built up strong bonds to many different business partners, areas and local enthusiasts. The company takes a special pride in keeping these relations as an opportunity to give back more over time than they have taken. Skagerak is a sponsoring and supporting several culture and art institutions. For the local community around Skagerak, the company pays donations to a wide range of cultural institutions and NGOs such as Utzon, Kunsten and Skagen Museum. On top of that, all employees are allowed to carry out three days of paid volunteer work. 6 .1 A N A C T I V E V O I C E F O R SUS TAINABLE DESIGN Being part of the B Corp movement and a firm supporter of the FSC scheme, Skagerak actively seeks to voice its vision and opinions about sustainable design on various platforms. During the past year, Skagerak CEO and Owner, Jesper Panduro, has taken part in 7 public debates and given lectures on subjects such as circular economy in the design industry, sustainable wood sourcing, sustainability in family-owned companies and so forth. A recurring topic in Jesper’s talks is how he has changed his view on what “good business” is over the years – moving from profit-driven to purpose-driven, and how that has transformed his way of running the company. On top of this, Skagerak has opened up for its own flagshipstore as platform for various meetings, events and debates around sustainability and B Corp in Denmark. In September, Skagerak won “Green Brand of the Year 2019” at Design Awards held by Bo Bedre, Denmark. We are proud and humble over the honor, but also aware of that we must continue to be best for the world. 6.2 RESOURCES: TARGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS It the past years Skagerak has internally worked on putting focus on the resources spent internally in Skagerak office, store and warehouse. In the beginning focus was on reducing actual use of electricity, water, and heating. And getting the right numbers out of for example office rental contract and alike. In 2017 the warehouse has got new motion sensor in LED lights, reduced automatic heating with a few degrees over winter and in general more focus on acting responsible by all employees in Skagerak. In the areas electricity, water and heating, we have made great improvements, as shown on the graphs (p. 27 & 28). This makes us more ambitious and we have therefore revised our goals to match the reality and improve even more. Since 2019, one of the main focus areas has been to recycle paper, carton, plastic and metal. This has included setting up special sorting stations. The goal in 2019/20 was to reach 38% recycled material, as shown on the next page, so it is still a focus area that needs improvement during the next years.
