2019 Jotun values Loyalty Reliable and trustworthy Long term relationships between customers, Jotun and colleagues Commitment to Jotun’s values, strategies, policies and decisions Care Help and support others Display trust and empathy Appraise and judge fairly Protect internal and external environment Respect Values differences in people Be honest and fair Build diverse teams across culture and gender Follow laws and regulations Treat others the way they expect to be treated Boldness Take initiatives to create the future Initiate and nurture change Communicate openly, honestly and with integrity Be proactive Address difficulties constructively On 10 December, 2019, Jotun celebrated a ground-breaking ceremony for a new factory at the Hiep Phuoc Industrial Park, outside of Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam. The new, automated factory will have the capacity to produce about 85 million litres of paints and coatings and 4 000 tonnes of powder coatings annually. The factory is scheduled to open in August 2021. Contents INTRODUCTION … 02 ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT … 52 Group key figures … 03 Jotun GreenSteps … 54 At a glance … 04 Green Building Solutions … 56 Four segments … 05 BREEAM Nor … 58 Regional highlights … 06 JOTUN AND SOCIETY … 60 OUR BUSINESS … 08 Global commitment … 62 Statement from the President & CEO … 10 Local commitment … 63 Marine Coatings … 12 Responsible purchasing … 64 Protective Coatings … 16 Anti-corruption … 66 Powder Coatings … 20 Decorative Paints … 24 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE … 68 Chairman of the Board … 70 CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION … 28 Financial statements … 71 Premium innovations … 30 Executive summary of the … 71 Jotun R&D … 32 financial statement for 2019 … 76 Dealer network … 34 COMPANY OVERVIEW … 78 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY (CR) Board of Directors and Corporate Assembly … 80 AND GOVERNANCE … 36 Business ethics … 38 EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE … 40 HR review … 42 Mobility … 44 Competence … 46 HSEQ … 48 J OTUN GROUP Building on a legacy of innovation With the official opening of Jotun’s new headquarters and Research and Development (R&D) centre scheduled for 2020, Jotun is in a strong position to accelerate the development of innovative new products and services. In December 1951, Jotun’s founder, Odd Gleditsch sen. Jotun’s product development process is grounded in the celebrated the opening of Jotun’s first purpose-built factory, company’s ability to understand and anticipate the needs of headquarters and laboratory in Sandefjord, Norway. While the different end users in all segments. By working closely with local I N T R ODUCTI O N new facility represented a significant investment for Jotun at sales and marketing personnel, particularly in the Decorative the time, Gleditsch sen. was confident that demand for paints Paints segment, Jotun can engineer products that meet consumer would grow quickly in Norway and that R&D would be the key preferences. And with regional R&D centres in East Europe, to Jotun’s future. 70 years later, the company is celebrating Americas, South East Asia, North East Asia and the Middle East, the opening of its new headquarters and R&D centre on the Jotun can develop and customise products in other segments to same piece of land, marking both a continuation, and a new comply with local regulations, especially in important markets beginning, in Jotun’s development. with increasing strict limits on the use of solvents. Global R&D network A united organisation With regional hubs serving markets all over the world, Jotun is While Jotun’s regional network of laboratories will continue to not only Norway’s most recognised global brand but one of the play an important role in Jotun’s growth in the years ahead, the fastest growing paints and coatings companies in the world. construction of the headquarters and R&D centre in Sandefjord However, with increasingly strict safety and environmental will help accelerate exciting new services and product innovation. regulations and a growing number of end users demanding Jotun’s new well-equipped, state-of-the-art laboratory will more specialised products that protect, beautify and add value serve as a powerful recruiting tool for top chemists. And for to property, Jotun’s future success relies on innovation. the first time in more than 40 years, Jotun’s R&D personnel will share the same building as all other global functions, creating a more unified, flexible and responsive organisation – just as Odd Gleditsch sen. envisioned, seven decades ago. 2 Profitability 18.6 % 17.2 % 11.8 % Return on capital employed Return on equity Operating margin 30 % Return on capital employed, in % Return on equity, in % Operating margin, in % 20 % 10 % 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Group key figures (NOK MILLION) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Income statement Operating revenue 19 652 17 660 16 401 15 785 16 282 13 171 12 034 Sales revenue outside Norway, in % 89 88 88 88 88 85 83 Operating profit 2 320 1 361 1 354 1 763 2 064 1 314 1 258 Profit before tax 2 079 1 115 1 236 1 594 1 918 1 301 1 191 Net cash flow from operation activities 2 448 1 018 1 097 2 027 1 500 919 819 Financial positions I N T R ODUCTI O N Total assets 19 136 16 715 15 708 15 158 15 187 13 300 10 799 Investments in intangible and fixed assets 1 464 1 089 967 1 133 922 911 733 Total equity 9 584 8 469 8 254 8 035 7 932 6 739 5 515 Equity / assets ratio, in % 50.1 50.7 52.5 53.0 52.2 50.7 51.1 Number of employees in the Group, including 10 007 9 872 9 789 9 819 9 842 9 676 8 991 100 per cent in associates and joint ventures Profitability Return on capital employed, in % 18.6 12.9 12.8 17.9 20.9 15.1 17.9 Return on equity, in % 17.2 8.1 9.8 14.1 17.9 14.0 15.5 Operating margin, in % 11.8 7.7 8.3 11.2 12.7 10.0 10.5 SALES EBITA 24 000 2400 21 000 2100 Sales and EBITA development 3 (NOK MILLION) 18 000 1800 15 000 1500 12 000 1200 9 000 900 6 000 600 3 000 300 0 0 1972 1974 1976 1978 1980 1982 1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2019 2018 At a glance The Jotun Group is a matrix organisation divided into seven regions responsible for the sale of decorative paints and marine, protective and powder coatings. The company has 39 production facilities in 23 countries, 65 companies in 47 countries and is represented in more than 100 countries around the world. President & CEO Morten Fon I N T R ODUCTI O N Group functions CFO Vidar Nysæther Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Bård K. Tonning Martin Chew Powder Marine Protective Stein Petter Lunde Alfie Ong Tunç Kazancıoğlu SCA SEAP MEIA NEA WE EECA AM Arve Hermansen Korkut Kulbul Esben Hersve Biren Arora Harald Hvalvik Sükru Ergün Bjørn Wallentin 100+ 10 007 39 Employees Factories Countries 4 AM SCA WE EECA MEIA NEA SEAP Americas ScandiWest Europe East Europe Middle East, North East South East navia and India and Asia Asia and Central Asia Africa Pacific 26++840M26 26 % Four segments MARINE COATINGS 38 % DECORATIVE PAINTS Percentage of sales* 27 % 9% PROTECTIVE COATINGS POWDER COATINGS * incl. 100 per cent in associates and joint ventures 6% 40++236K31 Marine Coatings Other 23 % 40 % I N T R ODUCTI O N Jotun is a world leading provider of marine SeaStock Newbuilding coatings to the Newbuilding, DryDock and Sales SeaStock markets. In addition, Jotun supplies coating solutions for megayachts and leisure 31 % yachts. DryDock 14 % 28++241314K21 Protective Coatings Offshore Jotun’s protective coatings are sold to 13 % 28 % Infrastructure Energy companies active in industries related Sales to offshore, energy, infrastructure and hydrocarbon processing. 24 % 21 % HPI Other 6% 8% 44+31+1186K Powder Coatings Pipelines Furniture Jotun Powder Coatings is a leading supplier to companies active in industries related to 11 % 44 % Appliances Sales General industries appliances, furniture, building components, pipelines and general industries. 31 % 5 Building components 4% 49++474K Decorative Paints Other Jotun Decorative is a leading paint supplier to commercial buildings, public buildings and 47 % Sales 49 % Exterior Interior homes, serving both professionals and home owners, directly and through a substantial network of Jotun Multicolor centres. Regional highlights SCA SCANDINAVIA • New, high speed, fully automated filling lines installed at the factory in Norway. This project represents the first phase of a factory upgrade to increase efficiency and production capacity • Record sales and profitability in Decorative Paints due to increased demand for Jotun premium products and the successful launch of Demidekk Infinity (Sweden) and the relaunch of Lady Wonderwall and Jotaproff Prima Clean • Marine Coatings secured frame agreement with Vard Group for newbuilding projects in Norway, Romania and Vietnam and signed a Hull Performance Solutions contract for 10 drydockings with Höegh Autoliners I N T R ODUCTI O N • Protective Coatings secured a contract to supply coatings to Equinor’s Johan Sverdrup Riser Platform module, designed by Kværner • Powder Coatings secured multiple pipeline contracts for Equinor’s North Sea offshore projects, Johan Castberg and Askeladd 1926 1132 2 AM AMERICAS WE WEST EUROPE • Jotun Brazil increased sales in the Brazilian offshore • In Spain, Jotun secured a national agreement with maintenance market and was named the main supplier Bauhaus, the second largest building materials 6 for offshore contractors, Modec and SBM superstore chain in Spain • Jotun Brazil secured contracts to supply protective • Jotun Italy and Jotun Cyprus were awarded contracts coatings to 138 wind towers for 120 scrubber installations for MSC Container Lines. • In addition to significant sales growth, Jotun Mexico Scrubbers help the shipping industry comply with new was awarded contracts for the Baytown Chemical global limits on sulphur emissions expansion project • Jotun Germany has entered into Germany’s largest • Jotun US completed a restructuring initiative, which has marine paint purchasing conglomerate, winning improved the company’s market competitiveness SeaStock contracts for about 200 vessels • In Marine Coatings, Jotun US achieved good sales • In the United Kingdom, Jotun secured a new contract growth in the third quarter of the year and secured with Northpoint Ltd., a market leader in coating protective coatings maintenance contracts for solutions for both decorative and industrial purposes companies active in the offshore and hydrocarbon • Jotun France reached an agreement with Petroineos processing industries Lavers Refinery to supply Jotachar 1709, a mesh-free passive fire protection solution 1974 216 1 1969 796 3 EAST EUROPE AND EECA CENTRAL ASIA NEA NORTH EAST ASIA • Despite market challenges, Jotun EECA achieved • All four segments have had a solid performance in a significant growth rate and increased sales by 2019 with good growth and high profitability 15 per cent • In Marine Coatings, Jotun maintained its leading • Jotun EECA increased the size of its powder coatings market position, with 29 per cent sales growth mainly container boxes to lower costs, reduce waste and its due to increased newbuilding activity at South Korean carbon footprint shipyards and improved profitability in China • Jotun Russia achieved high sales growth, driven by a • Jotun achieved record high sales in Protective Coatings, 30 per cent sales increase in Protective segment and with a double-digit growth rate and excellent winning important contracts to supply a number of oil profitability in both China and South Korea and gas projects • In China, Decorative Paints achieved the key milestone • Jotun kept its leading position in the project market of breakeven on the bottom line, through a focused and secured the Ataturk Cultural Center and strategy in the premium retail market Galataport projects in Turkey • Improved results in Powder Coatings based on I N T R ODUCTI O N • Jotun Romania secured a contract with Damen customer portfolio changes with good momentum Shipyard to provide marine coatings for the world’s towards the end of the year largest diamond mining ship 1991 853 4 1983 1943 4 MIDDLE EAST, SOUTH EAST ASIA MEIA INDIA AND AFRICA SEAP AND PACIFIC • First phase of construction completed on new factory • Successful launch of Majestic True Beauty across the in the city of 10th Ramadan, Egypt SEAP Region, with events in Malaysia and Indonesia • Jotun secured water pipeline projects in Saudi Arabia that attracted over 1 000 customers 7 and North Africa, valued at USD 12 million • Jotun secured a contract to supply coatings for a • Jotun celebrated the regional launch (decorative paints) Floating, Production, Storage, and Offloading (FPSO) of Wonderwall Life and Fenomastic Zero vessel, which will be deployed at the Johan Castberg • Jotun won approval to set up local production outside field in the North Sea Addis Ababa, Ethiopia • Jotun supplied paints and powder coatings to several • Jotun secured a four-year maintenance contract for prestigious projects in SEAP, including the Thamrin Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) in Abu Nine-Tower 1, the tallest tower building in Indonesia Dhabi • Jotun secured first phase of the Vincity project, the largest housing project in Vietnam. When completed, the multi-tower development will have 250 000 apartments • Jotun Cambodia was the preferred supplier to the historic, award winning Raffles Le Royale, one of the most prestigious hotels in the region 1962 2813 14 1968 2254 11 8 O U R B USI NESS Our business Statement from the President & CEO … 10 Marine Coatings … 12 Protective Coatings … 16 Powder Coatings … 20 Decorative Paints … 24 O U R B USI NESS 9 S TATEMENT FROM THE PRESI D EN T & CEO Record profits Jotun finished 2019 with all all-time high profits and sales growth in all regions. Jotun’s excellent performance in 2019 was driven by significant Jotun is working to improve results. For example, despite all growth in the Marine and Protective Coatings segments the hard work and dedication of personnel in the Powder and strong profitability in the Decorative Paints segment, Coatings segment, Jotun’s growth and profitability did not O U R B USI NESS despite lower growth. Higher gross margins were driven by meet expectations. Another focus area is customer credit and the successful implementation of price increases and the Days Sales Outstanding (DSO). In 2019, Jotun met targets stabilisation of raw material costs. The company was also for reducing DSO, resulting in improved working capital. rewarded for its efforts to control manageable costs. The company will continue to work to further improve credit management in the years ahead. Market recovery Investing in the future After some difficult years in the Marine Coatings segment, Jotun has been successful in capturing a large share of the Jotun anticipates that growth will continue in 2020. While newbuilding market (especially in South Korea) and has seen results may be impacted by political or economic instability in good growth in the maintenance and repair markets with its some regions and ongoing effects of global trade disputes, the DryDock and SeaStock concepts. In the Protective Coatings company’s segment and regional diversity helps to mitigate segment, Jotun has benefitted from growth in demand in the risk. In addition, Jotun’s continued investments and upgrades Offshore concept and continues to increase its market share in production capacity (Vietnam, Egypt) and Research and in the Infrastructure, Energy and the Hydrocarbon Processing Development facilities (the UAE, Norway) will put Jotun in a Industry (HPI) concepts. And despite some challenges in key strong position to stay profitable and grow volumes in the future. markets in the first half of the year, the Decorative Paints segment ended 2019 at an all-time high. 10 Full time employees Production facilities 2019 SCA 2009 WE SCA EECA WE MEIA EECA SEAP MEIA NEA SEAP AM NEA Corporate AM 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 0 3 6 9 12 15 O U R B USI NESS Jotun Group Management (from left): Vidar Nysæther, Group Executive Vice President/CFO; Martin Chew, Group Executive Vice President – Performance Coatings; Morten Fon, President & CEO and Bård K. Tonning, Group Executive Vice President – Decorative Paints. 11 Production volume Total sales (100 %) Litres/kilos (1 000 tonnes) Sales in billion 2019 2009 SCA SCA WE WE EECA EECA MEIA MEIA SEAP SEAP NEA NEA AM AM 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 J OTUN MARINE CO ATI N G S A return to growth The recovery in the newbuilding market and growing sales in the SeaStock and DryDock concepts supported strong growth in the Marine Coatings segment. Results and profitability for the Marine Coatings segment 2004, SeaForce biocidal antifouling products enable a more improved significantly in 2019, primarily driven by a recovery predictable release of biocides over the lifetime of the coating. of the newbuilding market, especially in South Korea, where The new range features three core products to meet different O U R B USI NESS Jotun has a strong market presence. In addition, Jotun’s work needs: SeaForce Shield, offering effective protection in normal to develop products and services to expand market share in the trades, SeaForce Active, which works to safeguard hulls in more DryDock and SeaStock concepts was rewarded with strong sales challenging trades, and SeaForce Active Plus, which delivers growth, notably in West Europe and South East Asia. premium protection while still meeting budget requirements. Partnering with shipyards Onboard maintenance Shipyards respond to Jotun’s ability to help accelerate To support owners and ship managers in the SeaStock concept, production and comply with environmental regulations by Jotun offers Jotamastic and Hardtop Smartpack solutions (ideal offering excellent on-site service quality and product innovation. for brush and roller application) and uses data-centric tools to For example, Jotun launched a unique, patented solvent free optimise onboard maintenance. Jotun’s SeaStock Management primer (Jotacote Universal S120) that complies with emerging Solutions (SSMS) is a service that utilises digital tools to optimise limits of solvent emissions in Europe and South Korea. In 2019, port and product mix, allowing owners to outsource seastock Jotun has supplied Jotacote Universal S120 to the Meyer Werft management to Jotun. shipyard in Papenburg, Germany, and signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Hyundai Heavy Industries in South In the years ahead, Jotun’s service quality, product portfolio, and Korea. Chokwang Jotun will facilitate a close cooperation to digital tools will be growth drivers. While global newbuilding help the yard manage Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPs). activity is expected to decline next year, Jotun’s close cooperation with owners and key shipyards and continued To meet growing demand for more predictable, long-term development of innovative products and services has placed the antifouling performance, Jotun launched SeaForce with company in a strong position to tender for a number of exciting Hydractive™ technology in 2019. Originally launched in fleet expansion projects expected to be announced in 2020. 5+21+7611473K 12 3% 5% Sales in NOK million AM SCA 7 21 % 6 6 816 6 880 6 097 WE 5 660 5 5 517 47 % Sales 4 721 4 NEA per region 4 291 7% 3 EECA 2 6% 1 MEIA 0 11 % 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SEAP 13 O U R B USI NESS 14 O U R B USI NESS JOT UN MARI N E CO ATI N G S Mining data for better vessel performance Jotun’s development of data-centric digital tools provides critical decision support for customers seeking to improve vessel performance. Over the past decade, new digital and communication logistics, SSMS also includes a port optimisation tool, based technologies have increasingly been embraced by shipowners on algorithms developed in cooperation with DNV GL. With seeking to strengthen their businesses. As the world’s leading the ability to accurately predict a vessel’s arrival at port via O U R B USI NESS provider of marine coatings, Jotun has trained personnel and Automatic Identification System (AIS) transponders, Jotun can invested in digital systems to enable data collection and analysis, ensure the right steel protection products are in the right place helping owners and fleet managers to optimise everything from at the right time. hull performance to onboard maintenance. Understanding data Pioneering solution Jotun Voyager is another digital tool Jotun offers to customers. The 2011 launch of Jotun’s Hull Performance Solutions After collecting information from multiple sources about how (HPS) represented an important step in the company’s digital different sea conditions can impact hull performance, the journey. Data collected using multiple sensors installed on company analyses the data to recommend the best coating vessels allows Jotun’s HPS analysts to calculate speed loss over solutions for individual vessels based on historical trades. time, which forms the basis of the HPS guarantee and provides The results of this analysis are shared with owners to help owners with a useful decision support tool: What can be them improve efficiency and better predict potential hull measured can be managed. performance risks. Building on this experience, Jotun has developed further digital Taken together, these value-adding services help Jotun tools to grow the business in other areas. In 2018, the company attract new customers and integrate more fully with existing introduced the SeaStock Management Solution (SSMS), a stakeholders. As a pioneer in the development and use of service where owners pay Jotun a fixed annual fee per vessel digitalisation in the marine coatings industry, Jotun will continue to manage on board maintenance. In addition to strategic to develop and launch exciting new tools consistent with the planning tools, crew training and improved order handling and company’s core business: Protecting property. 15 Hull Performance Solutions Jotun’s Hull Performance Solutions (HPS) combines advanced silyl methacrylate antifouling (SeaQuantum X200) with enhanced technical service, supported by a cash-back guarantee. On board sensors enable performance monitoring based on standardized principles (ISO 19030) for the measurement of changes in hull and propeller performance. HPS has been applied to more that 1 000 vessels, allowing Jotun to collect and analyse data for vessels on different trades, proving that HPS lowers fuel use, corresponding emissions and results in more cost-effective and sustainable ship operations. J OTUN PROT ECT I VE CO ATI N G S Accelerating momentum Jotun’s good performance in the Protective Coatings segment in 2019 has helped position the company to fast-track future growth. In 2019, Jotun achieved good results in the Protective Coatings coatings for tank linings and a range of products engineered segment with solid growth in every region. Jotun benefitted for extreme environments. In the Infrastructure concept, from increased activity in the oil and gas industry, which Jotun is a recognised leader in intumescent steel protection O U R B USI NESS created demand for Jotun products in both the Offshore and coatings, which have been applied to some of the world’s most Hydrocarbon Processing Industry (HPI) concepts. Rising demand iconic buildings. Working in cooperation with the Decorative for renewable energy helped Jotun support growth in the Paints and Powder Coatings segments, Jotun’s Green Building Energy concept and Jotun’s increased focus on intumescent and Solutions offers coatings systems with reduced Volatile Organic high-performance steel protection products led to growth in the Compounds (VOCs) to help owners, architects, and consultants Infrastructure concept. achieve ‘green building’ certification. Looking ahead, Jotun will increase focus on bridge and airport Predictable growth projects, which represent a significant growth opportunity for Jotun is confident that it will continue to retain a leading market the company. position supplying coatings to new construction projects in the offshore industry. However, to achieve more predictable growth, Expanding the distribution network Jotun has invested resources to develop products targeting the maintenance market for existing facilities. For example, over the Today, about 25 per cent of Jotun’s protective coatings volume last five years, Jotun has introduced Smartpack Systems, which goes through the company’s global network of dealers. While include the industry’s only NORSOK compliant coating systems Jotun will continue to pursue direct sales in all concepts, the that can extend maintenance intervals by 50 per cent. company is seeking to expand its dealer network to make products available closer to where they are needed. Jotun’s In the HPI concept, where Jotun has recorded solid growth in work to expand its distribution network, a more conceptoperating revenue and profitability over the past few years, specific approach to product innovation, and enchanced the company has launched a number of customer-focused marketing and sales has put the company in a strong position to marketing concepts engineered to meet the critical business achieve higher, more predictable growth in the years ahead. needs of end users. For example, Jotun offers specialised 3+6+82318375K 16 5% 3% Sales in NOK million AM SCA 6% WE 7 8% 6 6 973 EECA 5 5 932 5 507 5 362 5 302 37 % Sales 4 4 608 NEA per region 3 4 195 24 % 2 MEIA 1 0 17 % 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SEAP 17 O U R B USI NESS 18 O U R B USI NESS JOT UN PROTECTI VE CO ATI N G S Selling value With the launches of the Thermosafe and TankFast ranges, Jotun offers carefully selected coating solutions to help companies active in the Hydrocarbon Processing Industry solve critical business challenges. Over the past three years, Jotun has taken steps to align parts to meet customer demand. TankFast was developed to help of its protective coatings product portfolio to help owners owners and operators of refineries, chemical and petrochemical and operators managing refineries, gas processing facilities, plants to complete maintenance projects faster, returning O U R B USI NESS and chemical and petrochemical plants achieve their business facilities back to service quickly while retaining the optimal objectives. By organising new and existing coating solutions level of protection and chemical resistance. TankFast includes and communicating how these carefully selected products can specially tailored products, such as Tankguard SF, allowing for add value, Jotun is in a strong position to emerge as a preferred wet-on-wet application, and Tankguard Plus, allowing for up supplier to the Hydrocarbon Processing Industry (HPI). to 50 per cent faster paint application and curing. With about 3 850 facilities containing more than 100 000 individual tanks worldwide, Jotun is confident that TankFast will generate high Value added coating systems volumes and profitability in this highly specialised market. Launched in 2017, the Thermosafe range enhances overall operational efficiency and on-site safety for onshore oil and Implementation gas facilities. The products in the Thermosafe range have been engineered for extreme environments within a temperature To communicate the benefits of both Thermosafe and TankFast, range of –196 °C to 1 000 °C providing protection from Jotun has utilised sophisticated digital marketing tools, print everything from fire to cryogenic spills, thermal exposure to advertisements and social media campaigns, while both product corrosion under insulation. Each product adds value for different ranges are served by dedicated websites. Internally, Jotun stakeholders, from purchasers to project owners, engineers has invested in one of the company’s most ambitious sales to contractors, making Thermosafe an attractive, cost-saving force training initiatives to date. With strong products, a clear alternative to competing coatings suppliers. concept, a fully integrated marketing strategy and highly trained sales teams, Jotun is confident that the company can generate Building on the successful launch of Thermosafe, Jotun higher volumes – and profitability – in the HPI concept in the introduced TankFast in 2019, a range of Jotun’s existing highyears ahead. performance tank linings that were tested by Jotun chemists 19 Jotachar: Gaining ground Launched in 2013, Jotachar JF750 is the industry’s first meshfree epoxy Passive Fire Protection (PFP) solution for hydrocarbon and jet fires. Two years later, Jotun introduced Jotachar 1709, another mesh-free PFP coating solution for pool fires in the Hydrocarbon Processing Industry. Both products eliminate the need for complex mesh reinforcement and installation time is significantly reduced, allowing for substantial savings in both material and labour costs. Following a number of successful applications, Jotachar has achieved wider acceptance from key stakeholders, creating exciting opportunities for Jotun in the offshore market and the PFP maintenance market. Looking ahead, Jotun’s mesh-free intumescent PFP solutions can also be applied to protect offshore transformer platforms and solar assets, among other renewable energy projects. J OTUN POWDER CO ATI N G S A challenging year Growth in the Powder Coatings segment did not meet expectations in 2019. With a sharper focus on key sub-segments and technologies, Jotun anticipates improved differentiation and profitability for the segment. In 2019, Jotun’s performance in the Powder Coatings segment them optimise processes. Internally, Jotun has invested in an was impacted by adverse market conditions in three of the ambitious competence development programme, supported by company’s most important markets: Turkey, the UAE, and Saudi seminars, web-based training tools and workshops to enable O U R B USI NESS Arabia. At the same time, Jotun experienced declining industrial sales and technical sales service personnel to understand and activity in India, Thailand and some European markets. Jotun identify challenges faced by customers. By strengthening maintained its leading market share in the mature Scandinavian competence in all areas, Jotun’s offering extends beyond markets and recorded good growth in Russia and China. product quality, placing the company in a better position to Overall, the company recorded modest sales growth in 2019. develop long-term partnerships with key customers. Differentiating from the competition Repositioning for the future While the sale of medium range products remains important Looking ahead, Jotun will focus more resources into to support volume, Jotun’s development is more on premium specifications management in the Building Components and products for the Building Components, Pipeline projects and Pipeline concepts and continue the development of higher exterior applications for the General Industries concept. For durability solutions for exterior industrial applications. Two key example, Jotun has launched products to improve anti-corrosion technologies will be development of metallics and low cure and weathering properties of exterior industrial components coatings designed to coat non-metal substrates. The Powder (such as Reveal Era and Primax Xtend) that have gained Coatings segment will also use Jotun’s regional management increased acceptance by manufacturers. structure more effectively to get closer to customers. While the company’s results in Powder Coatings in 2019 fell short Jotun has invested in internal and external systems to leverage of expectations, Jotun is confident that by taking steps to Jotun’s expertise in service quality. Jotun created client teams differentiate from competitors and sharpening focus on key that include sales, technical sales support and laboratory sub-segments and the application of new technologies will personnel. Known as the “Troika approach”, these teams result in stronger growth and profitability in the coming years. work with industrial manufacturers and applicators to help 5+12+1839215K 20 5% 5% Sales in NOK million NEA SCA 12 % 3 21 % WE SEAP 2 2 251 2 253 2 218 2 313 2 143 Sales 18 % 1 812 per region 1 1 682 EECA 0 39 % 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 MEIA 21 O U R B USI NESS 22 O U R B USI NESS JOT UN POWDER CO ATI N G S Getting closer to the customer Jotun Powder Coatings is working more closely with customers to develop innovative products that help them achieve their long-term business goals. In a global market characterised by fierce competition from both to outstanding appearance and durability, these products multinational and local producers, Jotun is working to leverage comply with the American Architectural Manufacturers its Research and Development (R&D) expertise to differentiate Association (AAMA 2603) product specifications. In parallel, O U R B USI NESS itself from competitors. By developing unique and specialised the company is also working on a further range of high products and enhanced services that help customers solve metallic content products that comply with Qualicoat critical challenges, Jotun is in a stronger position to migrate specifications for use in other regions where Qualicoat from the role of supplier to a long-term business partner. Over certification is predominant. the past three years, the company has focused on product innovation to meet customer demand in four main areas: Another exciting development is the application of First Efficiency in application, appearance (especially metallics), Pass Transfer Efficiency (FPTE) technology to Jotun products. durability (anti-corrosion and weathering) and low cure Customers have long sought products with improved coatings, especially for non-metal substrates. application efficiency. In response to this need, Jotun launched Guard Style TE in 2019, a product used to coat appliances Last year, Jotun launched Primax Excel, a powder coating and multiple industrial applications that delivers savings primer solution for engineered wood (medium or high-density to customers. Guard Style TE is easy to apply and provides fibreboard); Ultra One, a one coat solution for engineered wood excellent efficiency for customers. and Ultra Lite, a single-coat powder coating solution for natural wood. By enabling customers to coat non-metal substrates, Communicating customer preferences Jotun helps them not only to comply with increasingly strict limits on the use of solvents, but also attract new business from Product innovation in Jotun begins with detailed customer furniture manufacturers. insights to understand the market and the specific demands of individual companies. To achieve this, Jotun sales, marketing and technical service personnel track and communicate Outstanding appearance and durability customer preferences directly to Jotun’s network of R&D In 2019, Jotun launched a bright metallic product range in laboratories all over the world. In this way, Jotun can respond China, which allows architects more freedom to add higher more quickly to customer demand, which helps strengthen metallic content finishes to building components. In addition long-term customer relationships. 23 Jotun Super Durable: High Metallic The Tianjin Pingan Teda IFC is a luxury mixed-use real estate project, developed by Tianjin Meiyin Real Estate Co., Ltd. When complete, the complex will have two towers for offices, luxury apartments and a high-end shopping centre. Jotun supplied the project with Jotun Super Durable with high metallic, an innovative powder coating solution engineered to endure severe weather conditions, available in a wide range of colour options and metallic finishes. The project is scheduled to open in Tianjin, China in 2022. J OTUN DECORATI VE PA I N TS Another good year Despite challenging conditions in some countries, the Decorative Paints segment delivered good results and profitability in 2019. Jotun’s record-breaking performance in the Decorative Paints In markets where Jotun’s business relies on professionals, Jotun segment was supported by improved gross margins due to the trains and certifies painters. Jotun is also working more closely stabilisation of raw materials prices, solid growth in premium with project owners, architects and consultants to ensure Jotun O U R B USI NESS paints and growing success in the medium range market. Due products are specified. To promote Jotun’s colours and finishes, to slow economic conditions in some countries in the Middle Jotun Decorative also offers architects and designers a two-day East and South East Asia, Jotun experienced a decline in sales training course to teach them the art and science of how to in the project market, which lowered overall volume. However, use colours and different paint finishes to enhance both the Jotun exceeded expectations in some markets (e.g. Egypt, appearance and durability of buildings and living spaces. Turkey, Cambodia and Myanmar). And even in larger, more challenging markets like Saudi Arabia, Jotun gained market Project market share and outperformed competitors. While Jotun Decorative will continue to focus on the premium market, the company has also launched medium range products Profitable dealers in all regions, including Durosan Action and Easycoat in the Jotun’s global network of about 8 500 dealers delivered Middle East, Jotaproff Prima Air in Scandinavia, Jotaplast in significant profits in 2019. The company’s success was due South East Asia, and Fenomastic Macun in East Europe and in part to the introduction of a number of programmes to Central Asia. Jotun has also launched an internal training support dealers. For example, the company completed the initiative to improves sales within the project market. implementation of a programme providing shop owners with detailed financial data and incentives to make better Taken together, Jotun’s focus on product innovation and the business decisions. Jotun has also implemented a programme development and implementation of internal and external to train shop sales staff, intended to create a better shopping programmes to support different stakeholders, will help experience for customers. These programmes, combined the Decorative Paints segment continue to be Jotun’s most with an ongoing effort to encourage dealers to invest in shop consistently profitable business in the years ahead. upgrades, have supported positive growth. 24 Sales in NOK million 21+2+347261K 1% 11 NEA 10 21 % 26 % 10 013 SCA 9 9 217 8 927 SEAP 8 697 8 2% 7 8 048 WE Sales per region 3% 6 EECA 6 401 5 853 5 4 3 47 % 2 MEIA 1 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 25 O U R B USI NESS 26 O U R B USI NESS JOT UN DECO RATI VE PA I N TS Reinforcing the Jotun brand Jotun invests in a broad range of platforms, tools and marketing techniques to make sure the company’s name and logo stay front of mind with home owners, painters and project professionals around the globe. While Jotun’s reputation in the decorative paint market is Jotun companies also make use of traditional advertising (print grounded in the quality of Jotun’s interior and exterior products, media, billboards, signposts, illuminated shopfront logos to the company also invests significant time and resources in increase 24/7 street presence, etc.), high profile events linked O U R B USI NESS building its brand equity. By using different strategies to to regional product launches and social media to reinforce the encourage customer loyalty and increase brand visibility, Jotun is brand. To ensure consistent messaging, Regional Brand Managers in a stronger position to win contracts in the project market and coordinate and produce content for distribution via Jotunsupport the company’s global network of dealers. branded Facebook, Instagram and other social media accounts. Local and global branding Investing more in digital marketing The company’s work to build its brand takes many forms. As more consumers seek inspiration, information and Locally, a major source of brand equity is created by the opportunities to shop online, digital marketing has become positive shopping experience Jotun Multicolor dealers offer to an increasingly important part of Jotun’s brand management customers. Jotun also invests in global brand building tools. strategy. In 2018, Jotun released the Jotun Colour Design app, Jotun produced a television commercial (“For Iconic Buildings. which allows consumers to visualise their homes in different And Beautiful Homes”) which has been adapted, translated and Jotun colour schemes, among other useful functions. Jotun aired in multiple markets. Last year, work began on developing marketing personnel also work closely with bloggers and a new television advertisement, which will be released in 2020. influencers to generate consumer interest. Looking ahead, a new global website for Decorative Paints, which includes sites Another global branding tool is the annual launch of Jotun’s customised for the regional and local units, will be launched Global Colour Trends. First introduced in 2013, Jotun’s 2020 in 2020. Available in 21 countries and 13 languages, the new Global Colour Trends collection (a palette of 20 beautiful shades website will be aligned with relevant Jotun marketing material. to reflect the optimism and opportunity that 2020 brings), has Jotun is confident that by continuing to invest in multiple helped raise Jotun’s profile as a true industry trendsetter among marketing channels, the company can reinforce its brand, a designers, architects and real estate developers. symbol of quality known all over the world. 27 Supporting our dealers Established in 2011, Jotun Cambodia has quickly emerged as the country’s leading supplier of premium decorative paints in both the consumer and project markets. While Jotun does sell directly to projects, more than 90 per cent of Jotun’s revenues in Cambodia are generated by the company’s network of about 80 dealers. In addition to training and business support, Jotun provides dealers with all the tools they need to succeed. From warehouse personnel to sales and marketing, customer service to supply chain logistics, all of Jotun’s 30 employees in Cambodia work together to help dealers be profitable. 28 C U S T O ME R S A N D I N N O VATI O N Customers and innovation Premium innovations … 30 Jotun R&D … 32 Dealer network … 34 C U S T O ME R S A N D I N N O VATI O N 29 30 C U S T O ME R S A N D I N N O VATI O N PREMIUM INN O VATI O N S Meeting market demand As a recognised global leader in the premium Decorative Paints segment, Jotun relies on its global network of Research and Development (R&D) centres to engineer products to meet the evolving demands of consumers and key stakeholders in the project market. With R&D centres in Malaysia, Dubai, Turkey, China, India In the exterior paint segment, Jotun has found success meeting and Norway, Jotun is in a strong position to develop products the local needs of consumers and project owners in different that meet or exceed local end user demand. However, Jotun’s regions. For example, two premium wood protection products C U S T O ME R S A N D I N N O VATI O N product innovation is not confined to the laboratory – it begins (Drygolin Nordic Extreme launched in 2018 and Demidekk with a deep understanding of regional markets and consumer Infinity, lunched in 2019) are both engineered to resist fading preferences, and the ability to engineer products that comply and retain gloss, helping homeowners in Scandinavia protect with local regulations. and beautify their property even in the most challenging weather conditions. In South East Asia, Jotun launched Jotashield AntiFade Colours, a more environmentally friendly Listening to consumers exterior paint with superior UV protection and heat reflective In 2019, Jotun launched Fenomastic Wonderwall Life, an properties, keeping interiors cooler, helping users save on odourless interior paint, in the Middle East, India and Africa. In energy costs. addition to its luxurious silky finish, it has superior washability and long-lasting colours, helping busy homeowners retain the Formaldehyde abatement technology beauty of interiors for longer. And with only trace amounts of solvents, Fenomastic Wonderwall Life has a high environmental Jotun’s R&D also engineers products for professionals. To meet profile. In the more humid climate of South East Asia, Jotun demand among paint contractors in the Middle East for safer, relaunched Majestic True Beauty with a smoother finish and and more environmentally friendly products, Jotun introduced better colour experience and enhanced easy to clean properties. Fenomastic Zero, an odourless paint system that includes formaldehyde abatement technology. Because Fenomastic Zero In Turkey, Jotun launched Fenomastic Ipek Mat (smooth finish), contains only trace amounts of Volatile Organic Compounds, an odourless, waterborne decorative interior wall paint which it improves interior air quality, helping developers attract more combines excellent finish with easy application and no splash high-end tenants. While Jotun chemists also develop medium properties. Jotun chemists also engineered a new series of range products to support volume growth, the company premium interior paints (Lady Nordic) specifically for the Chinese remains committed to strengthening Jotun’s reputation as a market, where demand for high quality paints is growing. leading supplier of high quality, premium paints. 31 J OTUN R&D Managing future challenges, today By continuing to invest in its global network of Research and Development (R&D) centres, Jotun is in a stronger position to produce paints and coatings that both help end users solve challenges and comply with increasingly strict environmental and safety regulations. As more end users recognise that Jotun products can not only And to help real estate developers add value to buildings, protect, but add value to property, Jotun’s R&D personnel Jotun chemists have developed solvent-free steel protection have become more focused on developing paints and coatings products and ultra-low VOC interior paint systems, supported C U S T O ME R S A N D I N N O VATI O N systems engineered to meet specific customer requirements. by the necessary documentation to help them win points for At the same time, growing concerns about safety and the green building certification. Jotun has also supported the environment have resulted in increasingly strict regulations on development of product ranges that help companies active in paints and coatings. The task of managing these challenges the hydrocarbon processing industry save money and enhance falls to Jotun’s 450 skilled chemists and R&D personnel, overall operational efficiency. working all over the world. Local customisation Safety and the environment In some segments, Jotun offers a global range of products. But All product formulations are reviewed to make sure they to develop products to match local preferences, regulations comply with relevant local regulations and are consistent and climate conditions, Jotun relies on its international network with Jotun’s Chemical Policy, which sets targets for phasing of R&D centres. For example, Jotun engineered heat reflective out potentially harmful substances. Jotun’s Group Product exterior paints and coatings to help owners in warm climates Safety team provides information to help end users take the reduce energy costs, while in Scandinavia, Jotun focused on necessary precautions to ensure the safe storage, handling developing highly durable, all weather exterior wood protection and application of each product. To help customers stay ahead products that contain biocides to counteract the growth of of environmental regulations on the use of Volatile Organic black mould and algae. Compounds (VOCs), Jotun is working to remove solvents from many products. For example, in 2017, the company developed Jotun personnel in all regions also work in cooperation with Jotacote Universal S120, a solvent free steel primer based on various external organisations, such as the European Council of patented technology to help shipyards comply with stricter the Paint, Printing Ink and Artists‘ Colours Industry (CEPE), not limits on the use of VOCs and Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPs). only to stay ahead of safety and environmental legislation but to advocate for reasonable regulations. By being sensitive to both Jotun works to develop products that add value. In 2019 local and global market drivers, and working with other industry Jotun introduced a new powder coatings solution that allows stakeholders on compliance issues, Jotun remains in a strong architects to include metallic finishes to building components. position to anticipate end user demand in all segments. 32 33 C U S T O ME R S A N D I N N O VATI O N DEAL ER NET WORK Expanding the dealer network To achieve more profitable and sustainable growth, Jotun is working to expand its Performance Coatings distribution network and provide dealers with standardised, digital tools to help them succeed. For decades, Jotun’s strong performance in the Decorative Paints In addition to expanding the distribution network, Jotun segment has relied on the company’s close working relationships is working with dealers to help them become the most with a global network of dealers to generate predictable, professional, competent and efficient dealers in the industry. To C U S T O ME R S A N D I N N O VATI O N profitable growth. While Jotun has applied elements of this achieve this goal, Jotun has developed standardised solutions successful business model to other segments in the past, the and guidelines, such as the Dealer Business Manual and the company has taken bold steps in the last three years to develop Dealer Competence Development programme, which have been and implement an integrated dealer strategy for Performance conceived to generate more sales, improve efficiency and enable Coatings, especially within the Protective Coatings segment. dealers to become more self-sufficient. Dealer success story Customer portal Today, a significant share of Jotun’s sales and profits in the Jotun is planning to launch a customer portal, a platform where Protective Coatings segment are generated by the company’s dealers have 24/7 access to all the tools they need to succeed, global network of about 650 dealers and 40 distributors. With including product information, technical support and marketing an ambitious strategy now in place to expand its distribution and training materials. The portal will also include a suite of network and work more closely with dealers to help them existing web-based ordering and dealer specification tools, target both local maintenance and new construction projects, among other services. While the portal has been customised Jotun is confident that it can both increase sales volumes and for dealers in protective coatings, it will also serve as a useful profitability. With more dealers, Jotun can reach inaccessible platform to support dealers in the Powder and Marine Coatings markets, increase the size of its sales force, reduce costs related segments. Jotun is confident that these steps will not only result to warehousing and, more importantly, grow in the more in a more professional, competent and efficient dealer network, predictable local maintenance market. A more robust dealer but also enable the company to achieve more profitable and network also helps Jotun increase brand awareness and compete sustainable growth in the future. more effectively against local competitors. 34 35 C U S T O ME R S A N D I N N O VATI O N 36 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I LI LT Y A N D G O V ER NANCE Corporate Responsibility Business ethics … 38 and governance 37 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I LI LT Y A N D G O V ER NANCE C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I LI LT Y A N D G O V ER NANCE “High standards of corporate responsibility and governance are essential to preserving and consolidating the ongoing growth, market performance and good reputation that Jotun enjoys worldwide. We are committed to upholding the very highest standards, impacting positively on society at large while delivering optimal value for employees, suppliers, business partners, customers and shareholders. 38 Jotun’s Board fully supports our CR activities, which are defined by our values and clearly aligned with the 10 United Nations Global Compact principles.” Morten Fon, President & CEO Loyalty Care Respect Boldness BUSINESS ET HI CS Profiting from principles Jotun has built a comprehensive, regulated and effective approach to Corporate Responsibility (CR) that is guided by our corporate values of Loyalty, Care, Respect and Boldness. We are committed to doing business ‘the right way’, delivering ongoing value for all stakeholders. Jotun believes that a business is defined by the way it conducts The Group has implemented clear and responsible governance itself. Behaviour builds reputation in the market, steers structures throughout Jotun, with Board decisions cascading supplier relationships, impacts upon the hiring and retention of down through the organisation to ensure central strategy C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I LI LT Y A N D G O V ER NANCE employees, creates corporate culture and, ultimately, influences translates to local impact. The Board supervises the Group success or failure. Management and they, in turn, oversee regional and local management teams that work effectively to adhere to standards We see good corporate behaviour – acting with integrity, and contribute to the success of Group strategy. honesty and care – as fundamental to good results. It is not a ‘nice to have’, but rather it is, and has been since our formation Jotun conducts a comprehensive programme of reviews and in 1926, a key part of Jotun’s DNA. audits to confirm that Group policies are functioning and individual businesses are performing in line with expectations. These include: Structured for success • Business reviews Growing companies require clear standards to guide and • Financial audits facilitate progress. For a company like Jotun, with over 10 000 • Human Resources (HR) reviews employees and activity in more than 100 countries, it is essential • Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) audits that we have a uniform culture, mission and expectations to • Supplier audits ensure sustainable success. Our approach to CR is a cornerstone • CR reports of that development. Jotun endeavours to continuously refine, adapt and enhance Jotun’s CR strategy is well-established, organisationally its approach to governance in an effort to optimise long-term embedded, and communicated to all employees. It is value for all business stakeholders. structured in accordance with policies and practices based upon the Human Rights convention of the United Nations Data support (UN), the International Labour Organization (ILO) convention, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development In 2019, Jotun focused on increasing the number of companies (OECD) guidelines for multinational companies, and the UN’s linked to its standardised Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) Global Compact principles. solution, allowing for improved data sharing and process support. This long-term investment gives Jotun the ability to Jotun ensures it abides by, and enforces, local laws in every area better govern critical data, both on a local and corporate level, 39 of operation. providing greater security and enhanced decision making. By the conclusion of 2019, a total of 45 companies across Governing standards 38 countries were linked to the ERP system, with the plan Effective governance ensures Jotun can fulfil its objective to implement the solution throughout the entire global of operating as a good corporate citizen, meeting defined organisation before the end of 2020. company standards and enhancing global reputation. 40 E MP LO Y E E S A N D T H E WO R K PLACE Employees and the workplace HR review … 42 Mobility … 44 Competence … 46 HSEQ … 48 E MP LO Y E E S A N D T H E WOR K PLACE 41 H R REVIEW Recruit, develop, retain To ensure sustainable growth and realise the potential of new markets, Jotun is focused on not only hiring the best candidates, but also retaining them and developing their talents, experience and ambitions for the long-term. The foundation for Jotun’s success is its people. Jotun believes Paying our way human capital is the most important asset a business has and, as a result, it must be managed with the optimal care, vision Rewards are critical to retention. In 2019, as part of a process of E MP LO Y E E S A N D T H E WO R K PLACE and commitment. continual HR improvement, Jotun worked to ensure employees receive right, fair and competitive remuneration: Right for their To achieve this Jotun follows a three-step approach that allows role, fair compared to colleagues within the same position us to recruit, develop and retain the right candidates – giving grade, and competitive in relation to the market. them the opportunity, motivation and support to grow with the business. Jotun hires systematically, invest heavily in individual Workshops and training initiatives took place throughout the competence development, and reward people with competitive year, across all regions, to allow Jotun’s HR professionals to benefits, career progression, and a unique corporate culture understand and optimise internal and external remuneration (anchored firmly by Jotun’s core values of loyalty, care, respect data. Internal data unlocks right and fair pay, while third party and boldness). benchmarking information gives us the ability to assess the latest market developments. Attracting top talent Managing growth Competition for talent in the marketplace is intense. Jotun works hard to attract and retain young and talented people that 2019 saw further groundwork to facilitate the launch of can develop into the next generation of business leaders. A high Jotun’s new Human Resource Management System (HRMS) in quality, globally consistent and professional recruiting process is 2020. This cloud-based system will gather all employee data supported by strong employer branding to enhance awareness on a single, secure platform, providing full visibility for better of Jotun as a preferred employer. planning, analysis, management and decision making across the global organization. Once onboard, employees enjoy a diverse and inclusive workplace where 86 nationalities mix, with ample and equal It will be a cornerstone of Jotun and its HR function and how opportunity for cross-functional and segment movement we manage our human capital to achieve both business goals and experience. Jotun’s tailored competence development and employee satisfaction. programmes ensure individuals are supported to reach their potential, each contributing towards achieving the overall Jotun The last year saw Jotun accomplish a significant workforce 42 business strategy. milestone, surpassing the 10 000-employee mark for the first time. The company is proud to have built a such a substantial, diverse and talented employee team. By empowering them Jotun believes the company can lay the foundations for continued, organic and strong growth in the future. E MP LO Y E E S A N D T H E WOR K PLACE Number of employees Female Male Nationalities Jotun total 10 007 1 871 8 136 86 Scandinavia 1 132 351 797 39 West Europe 796 206 590 34 East Europe and Central Asia 853 165 688 8 43 North East Asia 1 943 350 1 593 11 South East Asia and Pacific 2 254 555 1 699 28 Middle East, India and Africa 2 813 192 2 621 47 Americas 216 54 162 15 MOBILITY Diverse and equal opportunities To build the most successful global organisation Jotun works hard to ensure employees experience different cultures, positions and challenges – increasing understanding, encouraging new perspectives and embracing opportunity. Ideally, we want employees to enjoy fulfilling, life-long Rather than concentrate on numbers or ‘quotas’ for individual careers at Jotun. Rather than having them look elsewhere for companies to fulfil, Jotun actively strives to ensure that different new challenges, environments, influences and experience, voices are encouraged, heard and acted upon; building a sense E MP LO Y E E S A N D T H E WO R K PLACE Jotun wants its people to develop within the organisation – of inclusion, while also obtaining optimal business value. achieving personal satisfaction and adding value as tenures We are working hard to ensure that the best candidates, progress. regardless of background, prosper within this environment. To create this culture of opportunity Jotun focuses on two In summary, diversity and inclusion are priority areas to develop, cornerstones of development – building diversity and inclusion strengthen and improve going forward. It is closely linked within the workplace, and promoting local and global employee to Jotun values and the success of the company’s business mobility opportunities. strategy, allowing us to tackle different segments, markets and challenges with innovation, knowledge and a unique strength in depth. Jotun’s top management is committed to building Equality and inclusion on this platform, ensuring that individual companies support Jotun believes that diverse and inclusive working environments positive development, while local action plans are tailored and provide benefits for all stakeholders. Different cultural, implemented to continue adding value. professional, ethnic, gender and age backgrounds give different perspectives, helping the most diverse organisations tackle Mobile benefits challenges and opportunities with a more open, informed and innovative approach. This translates to better solutions and To develop careers and lay foundations for the next generation direct competitive advantage. of company management, Jotun encourages employees to gain cross-functional, cross-segment and cross-border experience. In addition, an organisation where ‘everyone is welcome’ This is achieved by the creation and promotion of strategic promotes a sense of involvement, equality, unity and recruitment, development of competence, local mobility, and commitment, with a desire to add value wherever possible. global mobility programmes. The development and results of Jotun programmes are In an international organisation that targets multiple segments monitored and followed up in yearly Business Reviews and HR and product solutions, it is essential that ambitious employees Reviews in the local entities. forge insight into different cultures, roles, operations and how 44 individuals at all levels work together to realise Jotun’s business strategy. Realising value With 86 nationalities represented. Jotun is the definition of As such, we focus on hiring candidates with the right skills and diversity, but is always working to improve. mindsets to prosper, encourage local mobility/job rotation to E MP LO Y E E S A N D T H E WOR K PLACE share and build competence and then provide the infrastructure, access to information and direct employee interaction through support and benefits that allow those who want to embark on Jotun’s soon-to-launch HRMS in 2020, strengthening of the international assignments and build unique experience. Jotun Global Mobility Network by catering better for dual career believes this mobility is essential to building optimal business couples and new spousal support. understanding and delivering long-term results. The latter initiative was piloted in 2019 for further development in 2020, adding career coaching and employment search Sustainable success assistance to an established package of higher education In 2018 Jotun concluded a year-long research project into support, pension savings, language and social support Sustainable Global Mobility, interviewing around 140 employees programmes. across a broad range of international locations, segments, positions and mobility contracts. The wealth of data collected Moving forward, Jotun aims to improve re-integration of those is now playing an essential role in the refinement and further returning from mobility programmes, working to both retain 45 development of Jotun’s mobility programme for the future. talent, optimise business value and ensure return on investment for the company. Current focal areas for improvement include enhanced promotion and branding of global career opportunities, greater C OMPET ENCE Evolving skills For companies to grow and prosper, employees must too. Jotun invests in building a culture of continuous learning, constantly developing individual competency to meet the global business challenges of today and tomorrow. How does a company ensure 10 000 people work towards Digital Workplace the fulfilment of one strategy, performing to the best of their abilities while also enjoying a stimulating, challenging and Tailoring and implementing the best digital tools is a growing E MP LO Y E E S A N D T H E WO R K PLACE satisfying professional career? Jotun believes the answer lies part of the competence equation, as seen in key 2019 activities. in building a culture of continual learning, helping individuals thrive so the business achieves global goals. Jotun engages with over 8 000 employees through digital interfaces. Online delivery allows the Group to take a nimble approach to learning; developing new content to meet demand Platform for growth and seize opportunity when and where it’s needed, while Jotun has three competence development pillars: reducing delivery cost and optimising impact and convenience. • The Jotun Academy, a vital resource for strengthening corporate culture and individual skills within key business To ensure Jotun employees have the requisite computer skill areas and understanding, the IT, Communications and Competence • Digital Learning, whereby an advanced suite of digital tools Development departments joined forces in 2019 to deliver provides point-of-work learning and helps employees keep Digital Workplace training. This involved certifying 220 trainers pace with change globally to conduct a mandatory course aimed at enabling • Team Development, delivering workshops and tools to better information sharing, data security, individual competency, enhance team effectiveness and enhanced operational efficiency across the Group. These provide a platform whereby structured, targeted As part of the second phase of this project, the training content training and support translates to lasting improvement and has now been converted to videos and made available online. behavioural change. This will be continuously updated, ensuring employees can be kept up to speed with new skillsets and developments. Moving forward, custom content for specific functions is now planned, Management Academy Toolbox allowing for more in-depth training. In 2019, a new Management Academy Toolbox was launched. This provides a one-stop-shop resource hosting everything Leadership Booster from Management Academy training, allowing users ease of access to knowledge, best practices and tools based on Jotun’s Business strategy is only effective if it is implemented, and it 46 Leadership Development Path. is only implemented if it is understood. From late 2018 into E MP LO Y E E S A N D T H E WOR K PLACE the first half of 2019 Jotun conducted a Boost campaign Other key 2019 developments include: engaging with the Group’s 1 700 managers – helping increase understanding of Jotun’s business strategy and how to enable it • New IT and Project Management Academies throughout individual companies and departments. • Revamped Marketing Academy • Management Academy improvements – less training days, Based around half or one-day workshops and delivered by more internal trainers, more pre and post leaning, reduced cost internal trainers, the campaign featured specially shot videos • Increased use of video – 80 videos produced and delivered with Group management explaining strategies ‘face-to-face’, this year alongside lively discussion and exercises. Attendees were then charged with communicating learnings to their own local workforces. 94 per cent of all managers completed the initiative, with over 90 per cent providing feedback that it had clarified 47 understanding of Jotun strategy. 48 E MP LO Y E E S A N D T H E WO R K PLACE HSEQ Zeroing in on HSEQ Jotun’s long-term HSEQ strategy is tailored to enhance safety and quality throughout the Jotun value chain protecting people and the environment while also delivering optimal standards for stakeholders worldwide. Jotun has a goal of conducting operations with zero injuries, Tackling tasks fires, spills and claims – safeguarding employees and the world around us, while ensuring customers receive the best standards Jotun has a thorough and well-established array of E MP LO Y E E S A N D T H E WOR K PLACE of quality, care and service. An integrated HSEQ strategy, improvement initiatives for on-site HSEQ, with a total of 35 supported by an advanced HSEQ Management System, is different activities such as safety walks, risk assessments and central to these efforts. audits. To ensure that these activities lead to tangible, effective action to address identified challenges and opportunities, Jotun Jotun’s HSEQ Management System creates a structure whereby developed a new ‘task management system’ in 2019. every company within the Group delegates set responsibilities throughout the organisation, working individually towards This system, which will undergo global implementation in 2020, universal goals. Up until 2019, there were 14 separate elements enables managers to gather all the findings from the various within the system (e.g. occupational health, work permits and activities on a single platform, allowing for easier and more emergency preparedness). effective delegation and follow-up – ensuring corrective actions are undertaken and issues are resolved. In 2019, as part of an ongoing drive for continual improvement, a 15th element was introduced with the When implemented, the system will provide an over-arching addition of ‘safety in projects’. structure for improvement initiatives, enhancing efficiency and ensuring they realise full potential. Addressing risks Enhanced reporting Safety in projects aims to establish a systematic approach addressing risk on construction projects. It demonstrates 2019 saw the introduction of a revised HSEQ reporting system, management commitment, allocates set responsibilities, and creating a more effective approach to document and act forms an auditable, clear and effective method of reducing the upon incidents, near misses, quality deviations, and service likelihood of accidents and injuries. complaints. Construction projects are an obvious risk environment, with a Jotun devised the system to strengthen quality and learn variety of potential dangers including falls from height, fires, from experience, providing a tool for the network to focus on electric shocks, injuries from vehicles and equipment, amongst improvement and mitigate future risk, working systematically to other risks. However, by establishing a uniform approach, address issues and identify potential problems. 49 with clear requirements from both the company/project management and contractors, risks can be controlled and 2020 will see the broader implementation of the reporting safety objectives achieved. system, with Group and regional support helping to facilitate local roll-out. The safety in projects element encompasses all project stages – from design through to contractor selection, construction and operation start-up – with Group HSEQ offering support to companies through all relevant phases. Work to fully integrate the module will roll out in 2020, with new e-learning tools, audit schematics, and pilot auditing exercises in Egypt and Vietnam. H SEQ Combatting static electricity Fires pose significant threats in industrial environments, particularly where solvents are located, and static electricity is a key risk factor. Jotun worked to address the issue in 2019 through a mandatory, global ‘I Care’ campaign. Static electricity, created when two objects that are poor Positive action electrical conductors move against one another, is a major risk in areas where solvents are stored and used in manufacturing In 2019, ‘Control Static Electricity’ was introduced as the global E MP LO Y E E S A N D T H E WO R K PLACE processes. Electrical charges have the potential to ignite the campaign, centring on enhancing control of ignition sources chemical vapour, leading to serious property damage and the in high risk zones, and therefore avoiding serious fires and potential loss of life. potential fatalities. Through Jotun’s systematic programme of Group HSEQ audits, Companies were charged with creating their own crossstatic electricity was identified as a suitable issue to target for functional teams (e.g. with representatives from operations, 2019’s main ‘I Care’ campaign. The initiative aimed to build health & safety, and maintenance) to lead the initiative, with awareness of the threat of static charges, improves training and training concentrating on understanding and reducing risk. procedures, and establishes a strong safety culture. Jotun’s Operations Academy and e-learning tools were revised and strengthened to address the issue. Technical installations, Engaging change maintenance routines, and operational procedures were Jotun runs one mandatory ‘I Care’ campaign, focused on assessed to ensure they were adequate for the effective control engaging employees, raising safety awareness and reducing of static electricity. operational risk, every year. In addition, each company has a requirement to conduct two further initiatives tailored to As ever with the global ‘I Care’ activity, the companies address its own specific needs and risk environments. ‘competed’ for the best implementation of the campaign, with Jotun Oman winning the award for 2019. Through such concerted, structured and company-wide programmes, Jotun aims to reduce the number of potential and actual fire incidents on an on-going basis. 50 Lost time injury rate Absence due to sickness Number of injuries resulting in more than one day absence Days of absence in per cent of number of days worked per million working hours – (H-value) for Jotun Group 2019 2.2 2019 1.5 2018 2.3 2018 1.4 2017 2.6 2017 1.7 2016 2.6 2016 1.4 2015 3.6 2015 1.7 0 1 2 3 4 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 HSEQ Implementing excellence Jotun is dedicated to safeguarding its employees, developing a comprehensive structure of systems and procedures that evolves to facilitate continual improvements. A large, culturally diverse and geographically dispersed industrial Taking action organisation demands a stringent system of procedures, policies and assessments to create a uniform safety culture. In 2020 Jotun will focus on ‘implementation’ as the mandatory E MP LO Y E E S A N D T H E WOR K PLACE activity. Jotun continually strives to build a structure that provides the optimal platform for globally high standards, while also Sometimes accidents happen when and where they should delivering the flexibility and autonomy for local companies to not. If systems and procedures are already in place to stop address individual issues. In 2019, absence due to sickness rates these incidents, why do they occur? The answer is often in remained stable and Jotun achieved an all-time low in lost time the implementation, or lack of implementation, of existing injury rate (LTI). recommendations or requirements. In 2020 Jotun will seek to address this potential issue. With an ‘I Care’ campaign centring on more effective implementation of safety procedures, thus The value of Care capitalising on what is already in place. Jotun’s approach to personal safety is encompassed by the ‘I Care’ campaigns, which are both global and local in approach. By working even more effectively as a team, delivering enhanced These have documented positive impacts on employee safety understanding through closer collaboration, Jotun believes behaviour and safety, as demonstrated by 2018’s mandatory it can achieve optimal results from a structure that has been campaign targeting the ‘man-machine interface’, which reduced decades in development. Better implementation will also lead relevant LTIs by 48 per cent. to a more accurate overview of issues that require further work, facilitating fresh safety improvements into the future. The success of these campaigns relies on Jotun’s ability to work together as a team. Jotun Group Management is committed to Never complacent them (across both Operations and HSEQ), individual company management engages in them, and our employees act upon Jotun understands that personal safety is an issue that them, creating a chain of improvement that elevates standards demands ongoing vigilance, development and investment to worldwide. achieve improvements. Despite high standards, Jotun will avoid complacency at all costs, working to protect its employees, stakeholders and reputation as a caring, forward-thinking and safe company to work for. 51 Hazardous and non-hazardous waste Electricity consumption (Kg waste per tonne produced) for Jotun Group (kWh per tonne produced) for Jotun Group Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste Objective/year 2019 9.8 8.6 2019 140 2018 9.6 7.2 2018 143 2017 10.3 7.6 2017 139 2016 11.6 8.6 2016 138 2015 11.5 7.7 2015 138 0 5 10 15 20 25 0 50 100 150 52 E N V I R O N ME N TA L C O MM I TM ENT E N V I R O N ME N TA L C O MM I TM ENT 53 Environmental commitment Jotun GreenSteps … 54 Green Building Solutions … 56 BREEAM Nor … 58 Investing today for tomorrow Jotun GreenSteps defines how the company acts, what we produce and how we aim to achieve enhanced sustainability. It is central to Jotun’s operations today, and the company’s success tomorrow. GreenSteps provides structure, clarity and direction for all of investment within one year of application, delivering significant Jotun’s environmental efforts. Based around five key objectives, fuel savings and reducing emissions. it enables the company to focus on positive actions that E N V I R O N ME N TA L C O MM I TM ENT reduce both our own environmental impact and, through the Around 1 000 HPS contracts have now been signed, translating development of greener solutions for the global market, the to a fuel savings potential of approximately USD 4.1 billion and a performance of Jotun’s customers. CO2 emissions reduction of 38 million tonnes. This translates to better business results for all stakeholders – Earning our green reputation with greater efficiency, smarter energy consumption and longterm asset protection – and a reduced carbon footprint. Jotun’s To meet the demand for more environmentally friendly buildings increasingly sustainable portfolio demonstrates that commercial and construction projects Jotun provides its Green Building and environmental success go hand in hand. Solutions. Encompassing decorative paints, protective and powder coatings, the solution allows customers to meet the most stringent national and international certification and regulatory Leading the way with HPS standards, creating sustainable projects that optimise energy use Jotun’s Hull Performance Solutions (HPS) combines advanced and reduce emissions. SeaQuantum X200 marine antifouling with high quality technical service and a suite of hull-based sensors to monitor long-term The Green Building Solutions has now been used on a wide performance. The efficacy of the solution, which limits the variety of landmark projects, including elements of Dubai EXPO growth of organisms on vessel hulls (thus minimising speed loss 2020, Our Tampines Hub in Singapore, the Mall of Istanbul, and and the transfer of invasive species), usually provides a return on Oman Convention and Exhibition Centre, amongst others. 54 E N V I R O N ME N TA L C O MM I TM ENT Extreme ambitions Jotun is the only paints and coatings manufacturer to In 2020, Jotun will take this commitment to sustainable operate a full-time test facility in the Arctic and, from performance one step further. early 2020, it will be the first with a dedicated base in Antarctica. Antarctica base Jotun established a test facility just outside Longyearbyen, A new testing facility at the opposite end of the Earth will on the Norwegian island of Svalbard, in 2015. Here in an allow the company to monitor how its solutions perform in environment of seasonal darkness, low temperatures, midnight temperatures of up to -50°C, winds of up to 300km/h and sun and violent storms – 40 different paint systems are put subject to the highest levels of UV radiation in the world. through long-term tests to gauge performance and durability in extreme conditions. The base at the Troll research station in Antarctica, which opened in January 2019, gives Jotun the chance to pit its With an increasing number of industry, infrastructure and products against the toughest weather conditions on the planet. maritime projects being initiated in cold climates, the facility The results will help the company tailor products for harsh allows Jotun to gain unique insight into how paint behaves in environments, understand the demands of extreme climates, the Arctic, while ensuring the minimal environmental impact for and ensure the best sustainable standards for future operations, fragile, pristine natural areas. projects and frontier territory developments. 55 10+5+481K 10 % Emissions per tonne produced INTERNAL TRANSPORT (Kg CO2 per tonne) for Jotun Group 5% ENERGY GENERATION 2019 77 4% 2018 CHEMICAL PROCESS EMISSIONS 82 Emission 2017 81 source 2016 84 81 % ELECTRICITY 2015 90 0 20 40 60 80 100 GREEN BUILDIN G SO LUTI O N S EXPO 2020: Managing complexity To become a preferred supplier to EXPO 2020 in Dubai, Jotun has drawn on its experience and Research and Development (R&D) expertise to meet the requirements of one of the most ambitious projects in the region. Occupying about 438 hectares of land located between the A winning reputation cities of Dubai and Abu Dhabi, EXPO 2020 is one of the most exciting mega-projects in the Middle East. Organised around a Jotun was in a strong position to tender for many of the E N V I R O N ME N TA L C O MM I TM ENT central plaza (designed by Adrian Smith + Gordon Gill) there are structures at EXPO 2020 given its extensive experience three large thematic districts designed by different architects: managing complex projects. Jotun’s Advanced Projects Group Opportunity (Cox Architects), Mobility (Foster & Partners) and tracked the project at an early stage to target key stakeholders Sustainability (Grimshaw Architects). Many of the buildings on and provide specifications support. And because Jotun offers site have been designed to meet with Leadership in Energy and decorative paints and protective and powder coatings, the Environmental Design (LEED) version 4 Gold ratings, one of the company can offer a complete package (the Single Source most rigorous green building standards in the industry. Solution) for customers who prefer to work with one supplier. 56 Finally, Jotun’s experience managing complex mega-projects could pass Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) testing on in the UAE, such as the Dubai Metro, Meydan Racecourse and emissions and content, as required by LEED version 4. the Burj Khalifa, and previous work with some of the architects involved in EXPO 2020, gave key stakeholders confidence in the Strong reference company’s expertise. Managing complex projects, especially those requiring To help architects design environmentally friendly buildings, environmental documentation, requires Jotun personnel to work Jotun offers a full range of independently-tested low solvent across borders and functions. While Jotun’s success remains and solvent-free paints and coatings, supported by standardised grounded in the quality of its paints and coatings, the company’s documentation to assist specifiers aiming to comply with green growing ability to meet increasingly demanding customer and E N V I R O N ME N TA L C O MM I TM ENT building certification. Known as Green Building Solutions, regulatory requirements will be critical to the company’s future Jotun has one of the industry’s most extensive listings of success. As one of the lead suppliers to EXPO 2020, Jotun has independently verified Environmental Product Declarations gained valuable experience and an excellent reference case for (EPDs), which offer transparent and comparable information future mega-projects in the Middle East and beyond. about the life-cycle and environmental impacts of individual products. For EXPO 2020, Jotun in the Middle East also worked closely with R&D in Sandefjord, Norway to ensure that products 57 58 E N V I R O N ME N TA L C O MM I TM ENT BREEAM NOR Building for the future Jotun’s new headquarters in Sandefjord , Norway embodies the Group’s vision for sustainable development. Bold, ambitious, innovative and built according to high environmental standards, the 34 200 m2 Gimle facility provides the perfect platform for future growth. Jotun seized the opportunity of building its new headquarters management processes – is demanding, creating a requirement and state-of-the-art Research and Development (R&D) centre for investment, forward-thinking and a solutions-orientated to physically demonstrate its commitment to the environment, approach. It creates short-term challenges, but these deliver E N V I R O N ME N TA L C O MM I TM ENT employees and all business stakeholders. long-term stakeholder benefits over the building lifetime, a key project driver for Jotun. The facility, which will house around 650 staff, has been designed and built in accordance with the demands of BREEAM-NOR, a Energy efficiency is a central pillar of sustainable buildings stringent assessment system that aims to mitigate the impact of and this was front-of-mind from the outset in the Gimle buildings on the environment, promote best practice, and provide development. Alongside a range of energy effective solutions a ‘green quality stamp’ for sustainable building projects. incorporated within the main buildings – spanning from efficient lighting, ventilation and cooling systems, through to By incorporating the system from the outset, Jotun has been low energy elevators and laboratories – the building heating able to create a highly functional, comfortable, energy efficient system uses seawater from the adjacent fjord to run an and inspiring facility, delivering the optimal solution for both integrated power plant, delivering clean renewable energy. workers, and the local community and environment. The entire office complex has been designed to satisfy Energy Class B. Setting the standard BREEAM-NOR is the Norwegian adaptation of the globally Proud development recognised BREEAM (Building Research Establishment’s Environmental Assessment Method) initiative. It utilises ten When Gimle is completed and open for business in the first sustainability categories, awarding ‘credits’ for each, to create half of 2020 it will be a facility that the Group, its employees, a comprehensive system that sets the standard for green shareholders, and the people of Sandefjord can be rightly design and best practice. Buildings are classified on a scale of proud of. ‘Pass’ to ‘Outstanding’. The BREEAM-NOR system has been instrumental in influencing Jotun’s NOK 1.4 billion Gimle project has been tailored to reach and enabling the project, while Jotun’s dedication to the ambitious yet feasible (in terms of both cost and practicality) sustainable, high quality standards laid the best foundations for standard of BREEAM-NOR ‘Very Good’. its successful development. 59 Challenge and opportunity Designing and building to meet the criteria outlined in different categories – energy and water use, health and wellbeing, pollution, transport, materials, waste, land use, ecology, and 60 J O T U N A N D SO CI ETY Jotun and society Global commitment … 62 Local commitment … 63 Responsible purchasing … 64 Anti-corruption … 66 J O T U N A N D SO CI ETY 61 GLOBAL COMM I TM EN T Partnering for people As part of its mission to be a responsible, caring and active global corporate citizen, Jotun supports charitable giving when and where it is most needed. The enduring partnership with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) is a cornerstone of Corporate Responsibility (CR) initiatives. Jotun is focused on people. We want to provide optimal corporate donations, and the work of national Red Cross and standards and results for our stakeholders worldwide, Red Crescent societies around the world. contributing positively to every community where Jotun J O T U N A N D SO CI ETY operates, while going above and beyond business obligations. Jotun is proud to support ICRC at Group level as a longCharitable giving is an important element of that drive to standing corporate partner. ‘make a difference’. Long-term impact Care and community Jotun has provided financial support to the ICRC for almost Jotun provides assistance on both a local company and Group 20 years. The Group allocates funds to programmes that meet level. Locally each company is mandated to allocate a turnoverthe needs of those facing hardship in the territories where based contribution to CR initiatives. Jotun itself conducts business – supporting, for example, aid to refugees, disaster relief work, and the supply of emergency response efforts and infrastructure. Extreme commitment ICRC is one of the world’s most recognisable, active and Over recent years, targeted Group donations have helped engaged charitable organisations, providing care, compassion alleviate hardship in countries as widespread as Bangladesh, and comfort to people everywhere in times of need. Mexico, Indonesia, the US, and Myanmar. Established in 1863, ICRC operates as an independent, neutral Jotun is committed to supporting the ICRC in the years to organisation to ensure humanitarian protection and assistance come, leveraging its global position and success to create for victims of war, armed violence and natural disasters. It positive local impact. is funded through government contributions, personal and Making the world a safer place 62 Every year, thousands of people all over the world are killed or injured by landmines and other Explosive Remnants of War (ERWs). Working in cooperation with Norwegian People’s Aid, a charitable organisation which trains and deploys mine-detection dogs in conflict zones. Jotun Group has sponsored two dogs to help clear affected areas, one in active service in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the other being trained in Cambodia. These specially trained dogs can locate a mine 20 times faster than a de-miner using a metal detector and are capable of releasing up to 800 square meters of land in a single working day. LOCAL COMM I TM EN T Planting seeds For more than a decade, Jotun has worked with the Chinese NGO Gesanghua Education Aid to provide support to schools and help students in some of China’s most remote provinces. In addition to initiatives managed by Jotun headquarters in Since then, Jotun has worked with GEA on a number of other Sandefjord, Norway, each of Jotun’s 47 companies are required initiatives. In 2011, Jotun initiated the “Jotun-Gesanghua class” to allocate a portion of their revenue in support of a local programme, providing tuition support to about 50 children. Jotun J O T U N A N D SO CI ETY charity, an environmental programme or a health and safety also financed and helped organise “Jotun-Gesanghua Discovery initiative. In some countries, Jotun companies provide support Camp”, a summer programme where groups of students from in response to a specific event (such as relief for flood or the provinces travel to Shanghai to interact with Jotun employees, earthquake victims), but in others, they prefer to build longvisit cultural sites, educational facilities and Jotun’s factory in term relationships with charitable organisations. Zhangjiagang. For many students, these trips represent the first time they have ever travelled to a major urban centre. Sustained support Painting a brighter future About 10 years ago, Jotun Coatings Zhangjiagang began working with a Chinese NGO called Gesanghua Education Aid More recently, Jotun also organised an art painting contest (GEA). GEA’s mission is to provide education for disadvantaged among student groups coming from a number of GEA schools children in remote areas. The first project was a school in the remote counties of Huangyuan and Yushu in Qinghai expansion project at the Tongren Minzu High School in Qinghai province. Of the 16 groups who submitted wall paintings, four province. Jotun provided funds for the construction of a new were selected to participate in the Jotun-Gesanghua Discovery building with the capacity to house about 400 students, whose Camp programme, which included visits to an aquarium, a studies would not be interrupted by long travel distances. theme park and other sites of interest in and around Shanghai. Jotun remains committed to working with GEA to provide unique opportunities and experiences to disadvantaged children. 63 64 J O T U N A N D SO CI ETY RESPONSIBL E PURCHA SI N G Setting the standard Jotun aims to operate as a trusted, respected and fair international company, exerting a positive influence everywhere it conducts business activities. Investing in responsible purchasing practices and supporting human rights are central to that objective. Jotun is committed to respecting the human rights of all Data quality employees, suppliers, contractors and stakeholders, upholding the high corporate standards while complying with national and Better data enables better decision making, enabling better J O T U N A N D SO CI ETY international laws and regulations. business performance. Acquiring, cleaning and analysing purchasing data has become a key focus area for Jotun, delivering ongoing benefits in terms of insight, understanding Dignity and respect and improvement. Every Jotun company adheres to the same principles, thanks to a clearly defined group-wide Human Rights Policy (aligned The standardisation of the indirect material account structure to the United Nations Guiding Principles on Human Rights), was initiated in 2018 and implemented in 2019, creating treating individuals with the utmost dignity and respect. a system of fewer accounts and increased clarity. From July Employees are protected in line with the ILO’s Declaration on the purchasing of selected categories of indirect materials Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. began a migration to IFS Matrix (Jotun’s ERP system) – this will be completed in 2020 – creating a uniform method of By following a standardised approach, promoting exemplary procurement that will provide detailed, reliable and in-depth conduct, Jotun believes it can create a positive ‘ripple effect’ spend data. This can be used to unlock added value and save throughout the societies we operate in. By demanding the same costs across the Group. high standards from suppliers that ripple can become a wave of positive impact. In addition, by cleaning and improving the quality of master data within raw material procurement stronger category management has been enabled, with new tools and reports Training for excellence developed to empower category managers in their daily If Jotun wants to operate as a responsible international player, decision making. This allows for enhanced risk-based analysis, it requires suppliers that have the capacity and ambition to improved strategy implementation, heighted efficiency, and the deliver the same high standards. Auditing to track performance, continual optimisation of spend. mitigate risk, ensure quality, identify and address issues, and enable continuous improvement is key to optimising the group 2020 vision supply chain. In the year ahead Jotun will: Traditionally Jotun has utilised third-party trainers, with • Introduce the structure and support systems to complete 65 industry standardised programmes. However, in 2019 the delivery of the Jotun Supplier Integrity Declaration a new Group decided to tailor its supplier auditor training to Jotun’s tool to support our procurement policy and ensure high specific requirements, creating a system that would deliver standards unique quality, insights and benefits. A new four-day training • Continue preparation work for the 2021 EU Conflict Minerals programme was introduced in Dubai at the end of the year, Regulation, focused on stemming the trade in four key with plans to roll out the initiative throughout key regional conflict minerals locations in 2020. • Review all Jotun Academy training for Purchasing, assess the possibility of introducing new digital learning tools ANTI-CORRUPT I O N Responsible business Corrupt and unethical practices are unacceptable in Jotun. Professional integrity and fair conduct are expected from all Jotun employees. Jotun believes that responsible business helps build good Whistleblowing platform society. The company is committed to being fair, consistent and trustworthy in all of its activity, operating with transparency, Although Jotun works hard to prevent malpractice, it can J O T U N A N D SO CI ETY openness and the highest standards of compliance. still occur both within the company and in external business environments. If this takes place, Jotun wants to ensure all This is the best way to deliver optimal results for all employees have the ability and the security to raise concerns, stakeholders, while impacting positively on the individual report issues and play a role in avoiding future incidents. countries where Jotun does business. Jotun launched a new GDPR compliant whistleblowing channel in 2019. This platform is provided by a third party to ensure both anonymity and a clear division from internal channels of Clarity of approach communication, allowing employees to report inappropriate Jotun makes it clear to employees, suppliers and business behaviour and activity to someone that can do something partners that unethical practices are not tolerated. To ensure this about it. message translates to positive attitudes, action and impact, the company invests in an anti-corruption support structure. Inappropriate activities may include: • Breaches of Jotun’s values and business principles, or laws Relevant Jotun employees are educated on how to recognise, and regulations resist and report corruption. Awareness building begins • Criminal offences and types of financial impropriety at employee induction and continues on a regular basis • Breach of competition law throughout Jotun careers. Particular emphasis is placed on • Human and labour rights violations those employee groups in most danger of being exposed to • Threats to health and safety potentially corrupt scenarios, such as sales teams, purchasing • Bullying, discrimination or harassment staff and company management. • Damage to the environment Local impact Together, we are stronger Jotun believes that uniform global standards are best achieved Corruption undermines society. Every business has a duty to by committed local action. In 2019, Jotun invested in educating address it, but individual businesses, working alone, do not have new groups of anti-corruption trainers for targeted regions. the power to stop it. However, by working together we can. 66 These trainers will conduct classroom and dilemma training, Jotun supports international efforts, standards, declarations helping staff understand, distinguish and address corrupt and collaborations aimed at creating fair, proper and healthy practices if they occur. Activities can be tailored to ensure business environments. The company works with Transparency optimal impact within individual countries, with local International to support its campaigns against corruption, while cultural considerations and languages taken into account adhering to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) to whenever possible. contribute to the goal of creating a sustainable and inclusive global economy. J O T U N A N D SO CI ETY The UNGC focuses on four key areas human rights, labour, the environment and As a member of Transparency International Norway Jotun is committed to zero anti-corruption – providing companies with 10 principles that help them conduct tolerance towards all forms of corruption and to work for the implementation business in a responsible, ethical and sustainable manner. of values, codes of conduct and anti-corruption programmes covering all of the organization. Please see the below table for references to areas of this report demonstrating how Jotun aligns itself with the UNGC framework. HUMAN RIGHTS PAGES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 38–45, 60–67 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 38–45, 60–67 LABOUR 67 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 38–45, 60–67 collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 38–45, 60–67 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 38–45, 60–67 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 38–45, 60–67 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 12–35, 46–47 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 12–35, 46–47 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 12–35, 46–47, 52–59 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 38–39, 60–67 For more information on the Global Compact see www.globalcompact.org 68 FI N A N C I A L P E R FOR M ANCE Financial performance Chairman of the Board … 70 Financial statements … 71 Executive summary of the financial statement for 2019 … 76 FI N A N C I A L P E R FOR M ANCE 69 C HAIRMAN OF THE BO A RD , O D D G LED I TSC H D . Y. Managing unpredictability By remaining true to Jotun’s values, strategy and core mission, the company achieved strong results in 2019. By investing in the future while working to control costs, Jotun can achieve more balanced growth in the years ahead. Over the last five years, Jotun’s year-end results have been that enable customers to extend the lifecycle of assets, Jotun influenced by a complex set of macro-economic factors, from can achieve more predictable growth. changing oil prices and trade policies, to fluctuations in currency FI N A N C I A L P E R FOR M ANCE values and raw material prices. In some years, this volatility has In periods when macro-economic factors work to the company’s slowed Jotun’s performance, while in other years, as in 2019, advantage, operating costs tend to rise. It is important that the these conditions worked in our favour. While Jotun will always company becomes more cost efficient to safeguard profitability, respond quickly to manage events that it cannot control, the even when demand for paints and coatings declines. The Board company is developing its business to deliver more balanced is pleased to report that the company’s record-high profitability and predictable growth and profitability. in 2019 was partly due to good cost control. Balanced growth Secure future Jotun’s Marine and Protective Coatings segments are developing Another way in which Jotun seeks to achieve more predictable more products and services geared towards asset maintenance. results is by making investments in personnel, production This contributes to reducing the business risk associated with capacity and Research and Development. These investments steep drops in global trade and oil prices, which negatively are not conditioned on year-end results but are consistent with impacts new constructions in the shipping and oil and gas Jotun’s long-term growth strategy. The Board acknowledges industries. In addition, Jotun is making its maintenance products that not all new investments will pay off immediately, but by available to more customers by expanding distribution through exercising patience and remaining true to Jotun values, strategy dealers. By further diversifying Jotun’s business through the and core mission, we can achieve long-term value creation. This development of high-quality maintenance products and services will benefit not only owners, but also employees, communities where we operate and society at large. 70 Board of Directors, from left: Peter A. Ruzicka, Birger Amundsen, Per Kristian Aagaard, Nicolai A. Eger, Jannicke Nilsson (member from 2020), Terje Andersen and Richard Arnesen (2019). In front Odd Gleditsch d.y. (Chairman) and Einar Abrahamsen. Financial statements Consolidated income statement (NOK THOUSAND) 2019 2018 Operating revenue 19 651 917 17 659 863 Share of profit from associates and joint ventures 496 756 383 747 Cost of goods sold –10 440 914 –9 913 967 Payroll expenses –3 128 356 –2 829 570 Other operating expenses –3 449 205 –3 409 164 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment –809 720 –530 095 Operating profit 2 320 477 1 360 814 FI N A N C I A L P E R FOR M ANCE Net financial items –241 572 –245 736 Profit before tax 2 078 905 1 115 078 Income tax expense –529 421 –441 513 Profit for the year 1 549 483 673 566 Profit for the year attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 1 468 020 605 138 Non-controlling interests 81 463 68 427 Total 1 549 483 673 566 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income (NOK THOUSAND) 2019 2018 Profit for the year 1 549 483 673 566 Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Actuarial gain / loss (–) on defined benefit pension plans (net of tax) –8 290 8 171 Other comprehensive income to be reclassified 71 to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Gain / loss (–) on hedge of net investments in foreign operations (net of tax) 35 269 –27 049 Currency translation differences in foreign operations 3 747 19 858 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 30 726 980 Total comprehensive income for the year 1 580 210 674 545 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 1 487 194 596 135 Non-controlling interests 93 015 78 410 Total 1 580 210 674 545 Consolidated statement of financial position (NOK THOUSAND) 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Deferred tax assets 360 431 287 006 Other intangible assets 712 441 523 310 Property, plant and equipment 6 489 083 5 288 252 Investments in associates and joint ventures 1 485 922 1 532 513 Share investments 16 046 18 026 Other non-current financial receivables 73 217 94 242 Total non-current assets 9 137 139 7 743 349 Current assets Inventories 2 829 761 2 840 690 Trade and other receivables 5 265 691 5 118 958 Cash and cash equivalents 1 902 945 1 011 564 Total current assets 9 998 398 8 971 212 FI N A N C I A L P E R FOR M ANCE Total assets 19 135 537 16 714 561 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 102 600 102 600 Other equity 9 201 969 8 142 274 Non-controlling interests 279 638 224 390 Total equity 9 584 207 8 469 264 Non-current liabilities Pension liabilities 220 651 197 688 Deferred tax liabilities 37 852 37 465 Provisions 273 776 40 673 Interest-bearing debt 3 360 721 2 252 768 Other non-current liabilities 45 638 36 690 Total non-current liabilities 3 938 639 2 565 284 Current liabilities Interest-bearing debt 1 196 783 1 379 401 Trade payables 2 114 446 2 030 904 Tax payable 265 632 149 837 Other current liabilities 2 035 832 2 119 872 Total current liabilities 5 612 692 5 680 013 Total liabilities 9 551 330 8 245 297 72 Total equity and liabilities 19 135 537 16 714 561 Sandefjord, Norway, 13 February 2020 The Board of Directors Jotun A/S Odd Gleditsch d.y. Einar Abrahamsen Birger Amundsen Terje Andersen Chairman Richard Arnesen Nicolai A. Eger Peter A. Ruzicka Per Kristian Aagaard Morten Fon President & CEO Consolidated statement of changes in equity EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE PARENT COMPANY NonShare Other Translation controlling (NOK THOUSAND) capital equity differences Total interests Total equity Equity as of 1 January 2018 102 600 7 083 558 890 082 8 076 240 178 117 8 254 357 Dividends –427 500 –427 500 –45 538 –473 038 Profit for the year 605 138 605 138 68 427 673 566 Other comprehensive income –18 878 9 875 –9 003 9 983 980 Share capital increase 13 400 13 400 Equity as of 31 December 2018 102 600 7 242 318 899 957 8 244 875 224 390 8 469 264 Dividends –427 500 –427 500 –57 737 –485 237 Profit for the year 1 468 020 1 468 020 81 463 1 549 483 Other comprehensive income 26 979 –7 805 19 174 11 552 30 726 Share capital increase 19 971 19 971 Equity as of 31 December 2019 102 600 8 309 817 892 152 9 304 569 279 638 9 584 207 FI N A N C I A L P E R FOR M ANCE Operating profit Cash generated from operating activities (NOK million) (NOK million) 3 173 Operating margin (in %) Operating margin (in %) 2 320 2 633 2 064 2 320 2 064 1 763 1 996 1 763 1 745 1 354 1 361 1 574 12.7% 1 354 1 361 11.8% 11.2% 12.7% 11.2% 11.8% 8.3% 7.7% 8.3% 7.7% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Investments – Property, plant and equipment Net interest-bearing debt (NOK million) (NOK million) In % of revenue from contracts with customers Net debt/EBITDA 73 2 526 2 581 2 029 1 591 1 523 1 273 1.3% 1 030 1.1% 857 839 911 0.8% 6.6% 6.6% 0.7% 5.4% 5.3% 0.6% 5.2% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Consolidated statement of cash flows (NOK THOUSAND) 2019 2018 Cash flow from operating activities Operating profit 2 320 477 1 360 814 Adjustments to reconcile operating profit to net cash flows: Share of profit from associates and joint ventures – 496 756 –383 747 Dividend paid from associates and joint ventures 556 374 557 991 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 809 720 530 095 Change in accruals, provisions and other 35 500 142 083 Working capital adjustments: Change in trade and other receivables –146 733 –314 576 Change in trade payables 83 542 117 428 Change in inventories 10 929 –264 927 Cash generated from operating activities 3 173 054 1 745 161 Interest received 33 434 23 413 Interest paid –236 206 –165 313 FI N A N C I A L P E R FOR M ANCE Other financial items –38 800 –103 836 Income tax payments –483 571 –481 784 Net cash flow from operating activities 2 447 910 1 017 641 Cash flows used for investing activities Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 13 128 32 912 Purchase of property, plant and equipment –1 175 937 –911 435 Purchase of intangible assets –288 057 –177 742 Share capital increase in non-controlling interests 19 971 13 400 Net cash flow used for investing activities –1 430 895 –1 042 865 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 1 980 234 1 394 688 Repayment of borrowings –1 491 354 –914 757 Payment of principal portion of lease liabilities –150 271 – Dividend paid to equity holders of the parent company –427 500 –427 500 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests –57 737 –45 538 Net cash flow from financing activities –146 628 6 893 Net increase / decrease (–) in cash and cash equivalents 870 387 –18 331 Net currency translation effect 20 994 2 729 Cash and cash equivalents as of 1 January 1 011 564 1 027 165 Cash and cash equivalents as of 31 December 1 902 945 1 011 564 74 75 FI N A N C I A L P E R FOR M ANCE Executive summary of the financial statement for 2019 General from associates and joint ventures totalled NOK 497 million The consolidated financial statement for the Jotun Group compared to NOK 384 million in 2018. The increase is mainly consists of Jotun A/S and 56 subsidiaries, three joint ventures due to improved performance in the Marine Coatings segment FI N A N C I A L P E R FOR M ANCE in China and South Korea and five associates in the UAE and in North East Asia, where shipbuilding activity picked up after Saudi Arabia. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated independent of the cyclical downturn in 2017 and 2018. shareholding, while associates and joint ventures are accounted for based on the equity method. Profit for the year The Group’s consolidated financial statement has been prepared Profit for the year amounted to NOK 1 549 million, an increase in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of NOK 876 million from 2018. The development in net (IFRS) and interpretations as adopted by the International financial items was flat compared to 2018 as higher interest Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and approved by the costs, partly due to effects from the implementation of IFRS 16 European Union (EU). Leases, were offset by increased interest income as well as lower net currency losses. While income tax expense increased to NOK 529 million from NOK 442 million in 2018, the effective Revenue tax rate based on reported profit before tax was 25 per cent, In 2019, the Group recorded total operating revenue of down from 40 per cent in 2018. NOK 19 652 million, an increase of 11 per cent compared to 2018 (NOK 17 660 million). Excluding positive currency effects, Investments underlying revenue growth was seven per cent, driven by continued good growth in Decorative Paints, a strong recovery Total purchase of property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and in Protective Coatings and increased newbuilding sales in intangible assets amounted to NOK 1 464 million for 2019 Marine Coatings. Although low activity in key markets affected (2018: NOK 1 089 million), representing seven per cent of sales in Powder Coatings, all segments and regions reported operating revenue (2018: 6 per cent). The largest investments higher sales in 2019 than in 2018. relate to the new headquarters and Research and Development centre in Sandefjord, Norway, new production facilities in Egypt and Vietnam, and the acquisition of territorial rights to the Operating profit Qatari market from Jotun U.A.E. Ltd. (L.L.C). Operating profit increased by 71 per cent compared to 2018 to 76 NOK 2 320 million, yielding an operating margin of 12 per cent The Group’s share of total equity in associates and joint ventures (2018: 8 per cent). The profit improvement is mainly attributable amounts to NOK 1 486 million (2018: NOK 1 533 million) and to solid sales growth combined with higher gross margins, is reported as non-current assets in the statement of financial driven by previously implemented price increases in combination position. with easing raw material prices. The Group’s share of profit Working capital the year. The Group’s equity ratio at year-end was 50 per cent Operating working capital increased to NOK 5 409 million as of (2018: 51 per cent). Implementation of IFRS 16 Leases in 2019 31 December 2019 (2018: NOK 5 359 million). The increase is has negatively affected the ratio by approximately 1.3 per cent. FI N A N C I A L P E R FOR M ANCE mainly tied to further growth in revenues. The proposed dividend for Jotun A/S for 2019 of NOK 547 While accounts receivable and inventories relative to operating million will not be recognised in equity until finally declared revenue were reduced, tightening of supplier payment terms in 2020. resulted in operating working capital in per cent of revenue remaining unchanged at 30 per cent. Cash flow Cash generated from operating activities improved by Net interest-bearing debt NOK 1 428 million to NOK 3 173 million. Increased cash Net interest-bearing debt for the Group was NOK 2 581 million flow from operating activities offset cash outflows tied to at year-end 2019 compared to NOK 2 526 million as of investments in non-current assets of NOK 1 464 million. 31 December 2018, and net interest-bearing debt relative to the At year-end, the Group had a positive cash position of operating profit before amortisation and depreciation (EBITDA) NOK 1 903 million compared to NOK 1 012 million as of was 0.8 (2018: 1.3). The Group’s main sources of financing 31 December 2018. are loans in the Norwegian bond market and loans from the Group’s relationship banks. At year-end 2019, Jotun A/S had Workforce NOK 2 400 million in long-term bonds and NOK 731 million in USD bank debt, of which NOK 163 million was short-term. In 2019, the Group had on average 7 200 full-time equivalents External borrowing in the subsidiaries is primarily short-term and related to its ongoing business in Jotun A/S and its subsidiaries through local banks. (2018: 7 069 average full-time equivalents). Including employees in associates and joint ventures, Jotun had in total Jotun A/S has NOK 1 700 million of long-term credit lines. This 10 007 employees at year-end 2019 (2018: 9 872 employees). committed funding serves as a back stop for certificate loans as well as a strategic reserve for short-term financing of the Group. At year-end these credit lines were all unused. 77 Shareholder equity Total equity including non-controlling interests increased to NOK 9 584 million at year-end (2018: NOK 8 469 million). The increase is mainly attributed to the improved profit for Sales office Production and sales C O MPA N Y O V ER V I EW Country Company Share holding % ALGERIA Jotun Algerie SARL, Algiers 70 S AUSTRALIA Jotun Australia Pty. Ltd., Victoria 100 P BANGLADESH Jotun Bangladesh Ltd., Dhaka 100 S BRAZIL Jotun Brasil Imp. Exp. & Industria de Tintas Ltda., Rio de Janeiro 100 P BULGARIA Jotun Bulgaria EOOD, Sofia 100 S CAMBODIA Jotun (Cambodia) Ltd., Phnom Penh 100 S CHINA Jotun Coatings (Zhangjiagang) Co. Ltd., Zhangjiagang 100 P Jotun COSCO Marine Coatings (HK) Co. Ltd., Hong Kong 50 S Jotun COSCO Marine Coatings (Qingdao) Co. Ltd., Qingdao 50 P Jotun Paints (H.K.) Ltd., Hong Kong 100 S Jotun (Shanghai) Management Co. Ltd., Shanghai 100 S Jotun Coatings (Taiwan) Ltd. Company 100 S CYPRUS Jotun Cyprus Ltd, Limassol 100 S CZECH REPUBLIC Jotun CZECH a.s., Usti nad Labem 100 P DENMARK Jotun Danmark A/S, Kolding 100 S 78 EGYPT El-Mohandes Jotun S.A.E., Cairo 70 P ETHIOPIA Jotun Ethiopia Paint Manufacturing PLC, Adama 100 S FRANCE Jotun France S.A.S., Paris 100 S GERMANY Jotun (Deutschland) GmbH, Hamburg 100 S GREECE Jotun Hellas Ltd. Piraeus 100 S INDIA Jotun India Pvt. Ltd., Pune 100 P INDONESIA P.T. Jotun Indonesia, Jakarta 100 P IRELAND Jotun (Ireland) Ltd., Cork 100 S ITALY Jotun Italia Srl, Trieste 100 S KAZAKHSTAN Jotun Kazakhstan L.L.P. Almaty 100 S KENYA Jotun Kenya Ltd., Nairobi 100 S LIBYA Jotun Libya J.S.Co., Tripoli 80 S MALAYSIA Jotun (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam 100 P Jotun Powder Coatings (M) Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam 100 P Jotun Paints (Malaysia) Sdn. Bdh., Nilai 100 P MEXICO Jotun Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Veracruz 100 S MOROCCO Jotun Maroc SARL/AU, Casablanca 100 S MYANMAR Jotun Myanmar Company Ltd., Yangon 100 P Jotun Myanmar Services Co. Ltd., Yangon 100 S NETHERLANDS Jotun B.V., Spijkenisse 100 S NORWAY Jotun A/S, Sandefjord 100 P Scanox AS, Drammen 100 S OMAN Jotun Paints Co. L.L.C., Muscat 62 P PAKISTAN Jotun Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd., Lahore 100 P Jotun Powder Coatings Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd., Lahore 99 P C O MPA N Y OV ER V I EW PHILIPPINES Jotun (Philippines) Inc., Manila 100 P POLAND Jotun Polska Sp.zo.o., Gdansk 100 S QATAR Jotun Paints Qatar WLL, Doha 49 S ROMANIA Jotun Romania S.R.L., Otopeni 100 S RUSSIAN FEDERATION Jotun Paints OOO, St. Petersburg 100 P SAUDI ARABIA Jotun Powder Coatings Saudi Arabia Co. Ltd., Dammam 49 P Jotun Saudia Co. Ltd., Jeddah 40 P SINGAPORE Jotun (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 S SOUTH AFRICA Jotun Paints South Africa (Pty) Ltd., Cape Town 100 P SOUTH KOREA Chokwang Jotun Ltd., Kyungnam 50 P SPAIN Jotun Ibérica S.A., Barcelona 100 P SWEDEN Jotun Sverige AB, Gothenburg 100 S THAILAND Jotun Thailand Ltd., Samutprakarn 100 P TURKEY Jotun Boya San. ve Tic. A.S., Istanbul 100 P UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Jotun Abu Dhabi Ltd. (L.L.C.), Abu Dhabi 52 P Jotun Mena LLC, Dubai 100 S Jotun Powder Coatings U.A.E. Ltd. (L.L.C.), Dubai 47 P 79 Jotun U.A.E. Ltd. (L.L.C.), Dubai 42 P UNITED KINGDOM Jotun Paints (Europe) Ltd., Flixborough 100 P USA Jotun Paints Inc., Houston, Tx 100 S VIETNAM Jotun Paints (Vietnam) Co. Ltd., Ho Chi Minh City 100 P Decorative Paints Marine Coatings Protective Coatings Powder Coatings P Production and sales S Sales office In addition to the companies listed above, the Jotun Group also owns a number of holding and inactive companies. In addition to legal companies Jotun has branch offices, agents, distributors and licensees in Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Botswana, British Indian Ocean Territory, Brunei, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Croatia, Domenican Republic, Ecuador, Estonia, Faroe Islands, Fiji, Finland, Ghana, Guadeloupe, Guinea, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Iraq, Iran, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Monaco, Montenegro, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherland Antilles, New Caledonia, New Zealand, Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Rwanda, Serbia, Seychelles, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Trinidad & Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, Uruguay, Virgin Islands and Zambia. C O MPA N Y O V ER V I EW First launched in 2013, Jotun Global Colour Trends Collection 2020 has been presented at high profile has helped establish Jotun as a trendsetter among events developed in cooperation with leading interior consumers and international designers, architects designers, all over the world. and developers. In 2019, Jotun introduced the Jotun Colour Collection 2020, a collection of 12 beautiful The 2019 Group Report makes use of both existing colours, each one capturing a different facet of and new colours from Jotun’s Colour Design personality or a new hope for the future, from lush Collections. Colours include Curious Mind, Free Spirit, organic greens to raw earth coloured reds, clear and Statement Blue, Humble Yellow, Adventure, Lively Red, energizing blues to discreet and elegant yellows. Exhale, Serene Blue, Timeless, Shape, Gray Slate and To generate maximum publicity, the Jotun Colour Dijon Yellow. Board of Directors Corporate Assembly Odd Gleditsch d.y., Chairman Anders A. Jahre, Chairman Einar Abrahamsen Richard Arnesen d.y. Birger Amundsen Terje V. Arnesen Terje Andersen Kornelia Eger Foyn-Bruun 80 Richard Arnesen Anne Cecilie Gleditsch Nicolai A. Eger Bjørn Ole Gleditsch Peter A. Ruzicka Truls Hvitstein Per Kristian Aagaard Thomas Ljungqvist Ingrid Luberth Jens Bjørn Staff Karin L. Storvik Jens Erlend Thrana Credits Copywriting: Alexander Wardwell and Alan Johnstone / Blue-C AS The paper used to print this report Design: Charlotte Jørgensen / Charlotte.no has the Nordic Eco-labeling the Swan Print: BK.no and is also approved by the PEFC Photo: AdobeStock (cover), Getty images, Luth and Scanpix (cover inside, Council (Programme for the Endorsement p. 39), Jotun (p. 1, 5, 15, 18, 21, 22, 23, 26, 33, 47, 60–­61, 63), Morten of Forest Certifications schemes). Rakke (p. 5, 8–9, 11, 13, 14, 17, 19, 28–29, 30, 35, 36–37, 38, 40–41, 43, 45, 48, 52–53, 55, 58, 67, 68–69, 70, 75), Line Klein (p. 5, 25), Fredrik Solstad (p. 27, 62, 64), Innovation Norway (p. 56–57), Victor Jones (p. 80)
