COP USE CARE UNITE 2020 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication On Progress COP report 2020 | Statement LETTER FROM OUR CEO STEP CSR is about taking responsibility for Today the Sustainable Development BY STEP the impacts of an enterprise on people Goals are as incorporated in our daily and the environment. Therefore, it is CSR strategy as the Ten Principles. essential for ID® Identity as a company As previous years we reconfirm that our to take care of the social and environactivities are based on the Ten Principmental challenges by actively taking les in the areas: Human rights, Labour the necessary responsible choices to rights, Environment and Corruption. TOWARDS A MORE contribute with goods that are ethically and responsibly produced. We focus on well-designed products produced in materials ensuring a long At ID® Identity we are continously engalifespan to reduce environmental ged in the area of CSR, emphasized to impacts. The choice of environmentally be a company that does things properly friendly materials and manufacturing SUSTAINABLE and thus responsibly wherever in the processes is integrated into design and world the goods are produced. development processes. The cooperation with our suppliers is based on It can be difficult to know what a sustaimutual respect for the fundamental nable product is, when seeing how the human rights and working conditions. words are used differently in various We seek to influence our manufacturers WORLD contexts. It’s new territory for most peoto live and integrate these throughout ple, meaning there is not a final result their supply chain. for what is right or wrong. This is our third annual statement deWe believe for ID® Identity the path is scribing the actions and achievements to analyze and select the focus areas, we are working with to integrate Global where we see, we can contribute to a Compact, SDGs and the Ten Principles difference on subjects related to susinto our business strategy. We will tainability, environment and ethics. Not continue our work with CSR to ensure a trying to match them all, as that would continued progress. mean a risk of a mediocre result – It’s a matter of balance. This statement will be available to our stakeholders and other interested. Thomas Husted, CEO at ID® Identity 3 06 PART OF OUR DNA 10 REUSE RECYCLE REDUCE 12 THE GLOBAL GOALS 14 FOCUS ON PRODUCTS TABLE OF 22 CONTENTS FOCUS ON PROCUREMENT 30 FOCUS ON PEOPLE 38 FOCUS ON ENVIRONMENT 46 FOCUS ON ANTI-CORRUPTION 4 5 COP report 2020 | ID® Identity PART USE CARE UNITE OF OUR DNA by ID® USE UNITE OUR DNA We believe that good quality and unquestiBRANDS BY ID® We continuously develop new styles in onable product performance is of highest appealing design and high quality. Latest we importance to our customers. We strive to introduced three new sub-brands GEYSER CARE be the quality choice and developing high quality products. The ID® name should be by ID®, Seven Seas by ID® and PRO Wear by ID®. Brands with different focus yet the same our customers’ guarantee of quality that performance. they can pass on with confidence. This has The ID® garments are creabeen a driving force which has kept us in the During the years ID® has developed new proThe ID garments are de® ted to emphasize common industry for years and is still relevant today. duct types and incorporated other brands. signed with the greatest With CARE for the environexpression and to UNITE consideration for perment, we have selected the best people wearing corporate Embracing the ID® history and meeting the The roots visualize our DNA – No matter the formance and durability materials, maintaining the good wear showing their identity. future, we keep on striving for excellent probrand the goal is the same for high product when in USE. quality in the complete lifespan duct performance. We describe our DNA in performance, quality and long lifespan made of the products. three small words USE I CARE I UNITE. in materials carefully selected and produced responsibly. 6 7 COP report 2020 | ID® Identity AREAS OF FACTS ABOUT ID® Sustainability report 2020 | ID® Identity BUSINESS YOU (maybe) DIDN’T KNOW Sports & event Textile IN TOTAL 8 Private Service certifications, licenses, Profile 100% Label memberand partnerships ensure ethical Work Wear of our electricity 20% responsibility for humans purchases are of revenue stem and environment converted to renewfrom special orders Approx. able and carbon neutral Danish like Private Label 1,200 wind power packages are 18,000m 2 Approx. dispatched each of warehousing at 30044,000 day our logistic center in 80+ 7,500 items of clothing Holstebro, Denmark dedicated employees product variants 350 are dispatched daily containers are emptied yearly 2016 1990s ID® acquires Seven Seas. 2010s Seven Seas carries an Rexholm changed name extensive range of readyto ID® Identity. The market to-wear shirts for both focus shifts from retail The ID® B2B webshop men and women for any THE STORY BEHIND level to dealer network. is launched. occasion. ID® IDENTITY 1983 In 1983 the company 2000s A new ownership 2013 ID moved to the new ® 2019 Rexholm was founded. structure is establisAdministration and Logistic C.W. Obels buys 30% of hed. Per Rex leaves center in Holstebro. the shares a long-term Rexholm and Peder partnership with the tarHolm becomes sole get of further growth and owner. future internationalization. 88 9 COP report 2020 | ID® Identity WE SHARE THE RESPONSIBILITY The focus is to recycle when possible and when it makes sense, always reducing use of RE new raw materials. We believe and put our focus in it every day. The level of thinking in a responsible way to act, has always been a part of ID® Identity’s DUCE way of acting and thinking, but no doubt, that we have increased our ability to think responUSE CYCLE sibility into different areas than previously. SUCCESSFUL Beside the work with our supply chain and products, we are thinking of ways we in our own building can take measures of action. The environmental policy is a method to increase our internal understanding as well as making sure we all understand why and for every perBUSINESS son to be a partner implementing the responsible way of thinking sustainability based on the knowledge we have at present time. IS SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 10 11 COP report 2020 | Sustainable Development Goals WE CARE OUR SIX FOCUS GOALS OUR WORK NO POVERTY Fair remuneration for workers. Textile production is taking place in countries where poverty can be a challenge. We only work with factories who has a social compliance system ensuring the worker’s salary in due time and according to the legislation and up to the living standard. We require suppliers to sign our Code of Conduct as well as membership of amfori BSCI or Smeta. OUR WORK GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Are both important no matter if we are talking staff in ID® or suppliers in other parts of the world. The best job is carried out by staff being healthy and safe. Through our certificates Oeko-Tex and GOTS together with EU Ecolabel license; we set high requirements to avoid and reduce the use of hazardous substances and chemicals to promote a healthy life for all. It concerns all substances and chemicals getting in contact with people as well as the one being a risk of polluting earth, water or air. OUR WORK QUALITY EDUCATION Education is knowledge. Knowledge is the tool which enables people to develop and able to create changes. Educations will ensure decent wages, better health and gender equality. Every year we support a local slum school in Dhaka Bangladesh for children aged 6 – 14 years, so they can continue their education year after year. OUR WORK DECENT WORK & ECONOMIC GROWTH Community, trust and good working conditions describes ID® as a working place. When travelling to our suppliers we promote decent working conditions as well and require factories to have a social compliance system in accordance with ILO conA SUSTAINABLE ventions and for the production to be carried out in a responsible manner and securing worker’s rights, health and safety. We have long time cooperation with factories ensuring a contiDEVELOPMENT nuous development as well as innovation to secure financial growth and sustainable manufacturing for both parties. A MORE SUSTAINABLE FUTURE THE EVERYDAY WORK WITH THE GOALS OUR WORK RESPONSIBLE COMSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION ID® Identity supports the 17 Sustainable Everyday ID® Identity works with the all SDGs Right from product development we strive to choose the best susDevelopment Goals (SDGs) as the blueprint in different ways. We have chosen to work tainable raw materials to ensure products with long lifespan and to achieve a better and more sustainable fuwith six primary goals, where we through acdurability. Taking the necessary care to avoid the use of hazardous ture. All 193 member countries have agreed tions can influence changes, while others are substances and chemicals during production and ensure none is left in the final products for safety of workers, user and the environment. to address the global challenges e.g. poverty, indirectly affected through the primary goals. We put effort in avoiding release of substances to earth, water and air. inequality, climate change, environmental We focus on reducing use of new materials, and reuse when possible degradation, peace and justice, and to reach The work with SDGs is focused on the choice and take care of waste being separated for recycling. We use ecological the goals by 2030. of sustainable materials, sustainable produccotton, recycled polyester as well and paper and carton from sustaition methods, social and environmental connable forestry. The 17 Goals are all interconnected and siderations, with a continued focus on long through 169 targets and indicators the product lifespan and high product quality. OUR WORK PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS future task have been set to create a better The most important partnership is our suppliers. Their undersustainable future for generations to come. standing for our business and their willingness to do innovation and developing their product to support our strategies are vital for a sustainable cooperation. We also cooperate with Teknologisk Institut / Oeko-Tex, Miljømærkning Danmark / EU Ecolabel, Control Union / GOTS and other organizations within the textile sector; among others amfori, ACCORD, Global Compact, Bureau Veritas, Hohenstein as well as other stakeholder 12 organizations. 13 13 COP report 2020 | Products PRODUCTS | MORE THAN YOU SEE WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED IN 2019/2020 3 OUT OF 5 sub-product 57% Oeko-Tex® certified categories are products are Annex 6, Oeko-Tex® certified product class 1 96% THE CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS At ID® Identity we offer more than products to our customers. We offer solutions WE SHARE THE RESPONSIBILITY When working with selections of fabric and accessories, we also take great care to of our core basic products are Oeko-Tex® 23% PRO Wear by ID® to cover the need of our customers best ensure that our products are produced in certified possible and more. Our solutions cover an environmental and sustainable manner styles are Ecofrom products and marketing to warehouand not least produced with respect for the label certified sing and transportation. human and labour rights and without use of harmful chemicals or substances. We have great respect for the requirements from our customers, and we take great pride in honouring the requirements. QUALITY TESTING We use international standards to test and GOTS CERTIFIED As a textile company we have an imporevaluate all our products to make sure they In 2020 we gained the tant obligation to develop products with meet not only our expectations and requireGOTS certificate. A new respect for the environment and for the ments but also those of our customers. We 100% human rights and the labour rights in the always conduct wash and wear tests for all GOTS product range countries, where the products are being new products besides testing all the properwill be launched in 2020 manufactured. We follow the ILO Core ties of the products with the Bureau Veritas. Conventions and support the Ten Principles of the UN Global compact being When signing our Quality Manual our supplimember. ers confirm to comply with REACH regulation not using forbidden or harmful substances EVERY YEAR of our suppliers have signed our Code of Conduct LONG-LASTING USABILITY or leaving any residue in the final garments. our basic products from placing demands on social, When designing our products, the main goal Bangladesh are tested in ethical and environmental is to create products with a long-lasting usaSAMPLE DONATION bility to minimize the need for new products During the process of developing new Bureau Veritas towards conditions and hence reduce the waste of products products, a number of samples are always our products requirements being thrown out after end-use. Therefore, produced, which can’t be sold as actual ID® with satisfactory result we carefully select fabrics and accessories, products to our customers, so we donate which we know will provide the product these to different kinds of charity. with the needed strength to meet our demands for long-lasting features. 14 15 COP report 2020 | Products T-TIME® T-SHIRT HAPPY No. 0510 BIRTHDAY The most sustainable T-shirt is the one that can be worn over and over again. FAST FASHION IS NOT SUSTAINABLE TIMELESS DESIGN THAT NEVER In the fashion industry, multiple collecGOES OUT OF FASHION tions are typically released each year. The T-shirt appeared more than 100 The modern fashion industry makes a years ago. First in the US Army and then living selling new trends several times a immortalized by Hollywood icons such year, but fast fashion is neither sustaias Marlon Brando and James Dean. nable nor healthy for the environment. ID® launched the T-TIME® T-shirt for The most sustainable T-shirt is the one more than 26 years, and of course it that can be worn over and over again must be celebrated. It’s a true classic and, most importantly, one that does when it comes to design, quality and not go out of fashion and retains its functionality, and this is exactly why shape and colour day in, day out. In T-TIME never goes out of fashion. other words, quality, design and functionality are essential. T-TIME® is a classic round neck T-shirt with four-layer ribbing in neck and Unlike brands that constantly pursue shoulders and neck bands. Even after the latest seasonal trends, we focus on many washes the T-shirt maintains the creating corporate wear with a stylish, colour and shape. ID® T-TIME is avaiclassic, long-lasting design that doesn’t lable in 9 sizes and 25 different colours. go out of fashion. 16 17 YOUR GURANTEE COP report 2020 | Products OF A CLEAR CONSCIENCE OUR OWN GOTS CERTIFICATE IS NOW A REALITY We are proud to announce that April 2020, we gained the GOTS certificate a standard for textiles made from organic fibres. TEXTILES MADE FROM ORGANIC FIBRES mance with parameters for colour fastness The Global Organic Standard is recognized as as well as shrinkage. Raw materials, accesthe world’s leading processing standard for sories and the final products must meet textiles made from organic fibre. It defines stringent limits regarding unwanted residuhigh-level environmental criteria along the es. entire organic textiles supply chain and requires compliance with social criteria as well. SOCIAL CRITERIA Social compliance based on ILO conventions PRODUCT is a GOTS criteria. Continuous work internalThe GOTS label grade “organic” certifies the ly and with producers to improve working garment contains a minimum of 95% certiconditions and the freedom to choose for fied organic cotton. workers based on ID® Code of Conduct. ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA QUALITY ASSURANCE SYSTEM Environmental policy enables us to meet the The entire supply chain must be certified. criteria for chemicals, energy, water and waTransparency through all chains are of major ste. All chemical inputs such as dyestuff and importance and the verification of a certified auxiliaries must meet environmental and product. toxicological criteria as well as requirements on biodegradability. With the GOTS certificate we again underline our commitment to UN Sustainable DevePERFORMANCE CRITERIA lopment Goals. The criteria for GOTS is very GOTS sets criteria for the technical perforclear towards the Un Sustainable Development Goals. WE GAINED THE OEKO-TEX, ANNEX 6 Today ID® Identity holds two certificates for Annex 4 and Annex 6. We believe the importance for us to own the certificates ourselves. WE CARE ABOUT OUR INCREASED OEKO-TEX WORK cates for Annex 4 and Annex 6. Oeko-Tex certificate number, so WORLD & FORESTS Autumn 2019 we decided to We believe the importance for us customers always can see and increase our work with Oeko-Tex to own the certificates ourselves. recognize the product. gaining certificate for Annex 6. MORE SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS Annex 6 contains even tighter Not only do we request our supRESPONSIBILITY IS SHARED As a part of our continuous work with more suslimit values compared to Stanpliers to keep up with the requireOur partners – the producers tainable materials, we will during 2020 change all dard Annex 4. ments, we meet the requirements have great importance in the our labels to be from recycled materials. It will be ourselves and act ourselves and work with Oeko-Tex. Undera continuous project to keep on working on adAnnex 6 is developed for compaare deeply involved in the daily standing the need for constant ding sustainable materials as well as products to nies with focus at Detox Substanwork maintaining the certificates. development into more sustaiour product range. We will conduct the changes ces and the Detox Campaign. nable solutions are of benefit for as quickly as it’s feasible for our supply chain. Not only does Annex 6 request It’s a part of our DNA showing all #SDGS17 – Partnerships for limit values for substances, but integrity and commitment. We the goals. LABELLING OF PRODUCTS there are also expanded requiredo what we say – Responsible Besides labels; hangtags will be made from wood ments as well as requirement for behavior. Our work with the Oeko-Tex cerfrom sustainable forestry and recycled sources colour fastness. tificates is a part of our commitby FSC mix certified producer. With these hangLABELLING OF PRODUCTS ment working with UN Sustaintags ID® supports #SDG15. TWO CERTIFICATES During 2020 we will start labelling able development goals. Today ID® Identity holds two certifiour basic products with the 18 19 COP report 2020 | Products SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION We will continue to work ensuring 01 a sustainable production of our products and be environmentally responsible. 02 EU ECOLABEL STYLES We will increase the EU Ecolabel with 20%. OEKO-TEX STYLES We will keep on ensuring our core 03 basic products are Oeko-Tex cerOUR tified, and increase the Oeko-Tex certified products Annex 6 with 1%. PRODUCT GOALS 04 GOTS STYLES We expect GOTS sold pieces will reach equal level to EU Ecolabel the first year. 2020/2021 MAIN LABELS 05 All main labels for basic styles will be from GRS certified recycled polyester source. HANGTAGS All hangtags for basic styles will be 06 made from wood from sustainable and recycled sources by FSC mix certified producer. CARE LABELS 07 Care label for basic will be changed with visible Oeko-Tex logo for easier recognition and where possible from recycled materials. 20 21 COP report 2020 | Procurement PROCUREMENT | WE WHAT WE HAVE TAKE RESPONSIBILITY ACHIEVED IN 2019/2020 98% 86% procurements for REMEDIATION PLANS of sold Basis styles sold pieces are more factories in 2019 were from delivered in FSC cerhave uploaded the amfori BSCI suppliers tified export cartons remediation plans 3 FACTORIES 100% EQUAL COMMITMENTS both partners the possibility of growth, imof papers for printing and We acknowledge the responsibility we have provements and security in all aspects of the as an actor in the textile industry. Which is business relationship. copies, booklets and similar have improved their result, so known to represent risks towards human are PEFC or FSC certified and factories with ’good result’ have and labour rights, and the environment in The top suppliers have been working with in several cases also either increased from 61% to 87%. We the production of our products. We need ID® for a long time several years, some certified according to no longer have factories with as a company to identify and address the back to 2003. Still suppliers abroad from the risks in all aspects of our business. early days in the 80’s are a part of the supply Ecolabel or Nordic Swan ’not acceptable’ result chain. Our ambition is to do business with suppliers who have equal commitments as ID® Open and transparent dialogue is part of the Identity towards social, environmental and daily communication and due diligence. We ethical sustainability. care about each other and value the corporations #SDG17 – Partnership for the goals. LONG-TERM PARTNERSHIPS The framework of ID® Identity is based on These long-term relationships have formed a the ILO conventions and the Ten Principkind of family involvement. These relationles of UN Global Compact. It’s our goal to ships have created a very important sense of 100% influence our employees and business proximity, confidence, security and transpapartners to respect the Universal Declaration on Human and Labour Rights and the environmental protection. rency. All equally important. We know each other well and all know their role in maintaining and developing the procatalogues are ALL 23% printed at an environpaper towels and PRO Wear We trust in long-term partnerships with ducts supporting the production of quality our suppliers. A partnership providing garments. mental certified print napkins are FSC by ID® styles are house certified. Ecolabel certified 22 2323 COP report 2020 | Procurement OUR MEMBERSHIPS SOCIAL & ETHICAL SAFE PRODUCTION ID® Identity has been member of amfori BSCI since 2013 and expect our suppliers to work with the amfori BSCI system or other similar certification systems such as SMETA/SEDEX or SA8000. As a member of amfori BSCI we support SDG 8 – Decent work and economic growth. We take our responsibility seriously. Most of our products are manufactured in countries, where risks are possible. We visit the factories frequently to have our eye on the manufacturing places as well as the condition under which our products are produced. Doing business in foreign countries can be difficult due to the language barrier. We need help from 3rd. party to keep us up to date with speech details, in very good communication with the suppliers, keeping an open dialogue with the focus on improvements. Here our cooperation with amfori BSCI is a great help for both us as well as our suppliers; auditing the place of production according to the amfori BSCI Code of Conduct by 3rd. party auditors. YOUR T-SHIRT With RSP for several producers, ID® Identity has taken on the responsibility to follow producers in their work with social compliance. We pay regular visits to different plaSHOULD ALSO BE ces of production and talks directly with management to promote the understanding for the amfori BSCI requirements and hence the needed improvements and creating GOOD FOR THOSE a mutual understanding for the development of substantiality and general growth. WHO PRODUCE IT We follow and guide the producers in how to work with their remediation plans, so improvements are conducted regularly, keeping focus where the next improvement can be found. Continued improvement is the keyword. We have also signed the Bangladesh ACCORD on fire and building safety. With this we are committed to source in We take our responsibility as a clothing manufacBangladesh and to support the implementation of requiturer seriously. We have therefore committed rements set by the ACCORD. to paper a ‘Code of Conduct’ that states exactly We take pride in contributing to the improvements made what we require of our suppliers and partners. since the ACCORD was started. With the fees from signatory companies the ACCORD has employed people, who can check and help the factories with safe construction of building and for electrical installations to be proper to Based on our commitments we have set up a Code of Conduct avoid accidents. This way the workers are ensured a safe in our Quality Manual. All our suppliers are obligated to read, workplace. sign and implement our Quality Manual and Code of Conduct before production can proceed. We help our suppliers underAll factories working for signatory companies will understand, improve and comply with the requirements. It’s too easy go regular independent fire, installation and structural just to put everything in writing without helping to reach the inspections. Factories are required to have remediations goals. plans – CAPS, which are monitored as well and not least training of workers for safety of workplaces. You can have a clear conscience when you do business with us – and when dealing with your customers you can confidently recommend our products as ethically responsible. 24 25 COP report 2020 | Procurement OUR PACKAGING & METHODS Our aim is to use materials supporting an environmental and sustainable production as well as work with environmentally friendly packaging and transportation methods. HOW TO PACK GARMENT WITH MINIMUM We will only use recycled materials when we USE OF PACKAGING MATERIAL? trust the origin of the material through certiThere has always been a great focus on ficates. Still it takes hard work to investigate packing of garments. How can we best properly to avoid green washing and to make possible pack garment with minimum use of sure to buy recycled materials close to where packaging material and still keep good qualiit’s to be used to avoid excessive use of Co2 ty of the garments. Since many years a larger transporting materials. part of our products have been packed with more items in one polybag instead of single Currently, we are testing how we can avoid packing. use of polybags in a greater scale without compromising the quality during transport In 2018 we changed all polybags to be and later when storing in our warehouse. without print and in a LDPE quality which could be recycled. Beginning 2019 all export Furthermore, we also set a standard for paccartons from Bangladesh have been FSC kaging and transportation. Our aim is as well certified materials a minor part of export as using materials supporting an environcartons from China is also FSC certified. mental and sustainable production also to work with environmentally friendly packing In 2020 we have set new goals; beside contiand transportation methods. nuing the work with export cartons from FSC material, we have started changing polybags We choose carriers, who support our to recycled LDPE polybags. For some factorirequirements and who have a clear social es the recycled materials are closer to their and environmental and ethic responsible hand and the change is possible for other strategy. All our forwards must meet the EN factories the material is not as available. It’s 16258:2012 standard for methodology and important to understand the development requirement for calculating and reporting taking place in the world right now gathering energy consumption and greenhouse gas materials for recycling. emissions. 26 2727 COP report 2020 | Procurement SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS We will continue to evaluate if 01 further sustainable solutions can be found within office supply to areas other than paper articles. 02 ECOLABEL STYLES We expect an increase of Ecolabel by 20%. AMFORI BSCI We will continue the dialogue with 03 suppliers who have not yet joined the BSCI platform, about the possiOUR bility for them to join the amphori BSCI platform. Current level expected to be unchanged. PROCUREMENT GOALS 04 RECYCLED POLYBAGS We will continue the work with recycled polybags as well as reducing 2020/2021 the use of polybags. FSC EXPORT CARTONS 05 We will continue to work with FSC certified export cartons, expected 1% increase. MORE SUPPLIERS TO JOIN All suppliers representing 2% or 06 more of buying volume must join the amphi BSCI platform (or similar). Suppliers below 2% of BV are encouraged to join the platform within two years if BV is raising. SUPPLIER COLLABORATION 07 We will keep working with our suppliers to encourage them to do improvements and remediation plans. 28 29 COP report 2020 | People PEOPLE | A STORY ABOUT SOLIDARITY WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED IN 2019/2020 LOCAL SCHOOL In Bangladesh we conEDUCATION OF tinued our support to local school and secured SUPPLY CHAIN the schooling for pupils As a part of our Supply Chain strategy and work with Ecolabel proIMPORTANT RESOURCE WASTE MANAGEMENT APV WORKPLACE EVALUATION ducts we continuously People are one of the most imporNew employees are also introduced Every 3rd. year a written APV (Worktant resources for ID® Identity, both to ID® waste management. In all place evaluation) is conducted, educate all our partners 100% internally and through out our supoffices as well in the warehouse are running APVs are also held to secure ply chain. We take our responsibility designated areas for waste. All waste updates for workplace and the seriously and have incorporated the must be separated for recycling environment. All employees have the purpose. All waste is separated into responsibility in our daily processes right to a yearly dialogue about wages paper, carton, plastic and finally 0% and actions. and a personal interview. A safety waste which can’t be recycled. of the employees are inforcommittee mannered by employee We want our dealers and their custINTERNAL INTRODUCTION and management takes care about med about the strategy of omers to feel confident when doing Once a new employee is hired, the the safety and environmental issues the company by managebusiness with us, knowing that the first weeks of the employment, they in the company and conducts regular fundamental human and labour will have an introduction to all demeetings. grievance has ment. Financial figures are rights always are of highest concern partments in ID® Identity. The introbeen detected published every month to duction to ensure the employee has for ID® Identity. knowledge about the work carried EXTERNAL FACTORIES during the period keep an open and clear As we don’t have any factories of our ID® Identity supports the fundaout in the different departments and own, the Code of Conduct and our information level the responsibility of the department mental human rights and we disand specific persons. The introducquality manual are tools to inform our tance ourselves from any form of tion is important to incorporate the suppliers about the human and labour discrimination due to race, religion, new person quickly to the ID® Identity rights, all suppliers must read, sign gender, age or handicaps. Diversicommunity, working routines as well and comply with these. The amfori ty in our workforce is considered as getting close to colleagues, so they BSCI is the other tool we use to be a strength, therefore there are are dressed for the teamwork. sure that our suppliers respect and equal terms regardless of country comply with the principal rights of PENSION & HEALTH INSURANCE of origin, gender or other special their workers. The ACCORD in BanglaAll employees are offered a pension conditions. desh also helps to secure remediation programme and a health insurance and the possibility of including and support worker participation and DANISH HOSPITAL We strive to make sure that neither their family. It’s important for ID® training programmes. we or any of our business partners Identity that all employees can have TTH HANDBALL are prohibiting the right to association and collective bargaining or treatment in case they in one way or another feel ill. #SDGs 3 Good health Most of our suppliers are long-term suppliers with whom we meet regularCLOWNS complicit with forced labour, child and well-being. Employees with good ly and visit the actual place of producWe support the local TTH labour and human trafficking. health behaviors have lower absence tion, this way we also see for ourselves handball and other clubs and We support Hospital and a lower risk for stress and other in our world common diseases. how the conditions appear. cultural organizations in the Clowns in Danish INTERNAL EMPLOYEES All new employees receive the Through the BSCI audits we get insight surroundings of Holstebro hospitals BREAKFAST & CELEBRATIONS Employee Handbook, the handbook ID® Identity provides breakfast and and the possibility to help our supplispecifies how employees should act fruit to all employees as well as ers to improve if needed. It’s our aim towards customers, suppliers and coffee, tea and water. Celebrations of to conduct business in a way which colleagues to maintain the human employees are taking place. The comgives benefit for our customers and rights but also to secure good and munity celebrates colleagues if it’s a suppliers and with secure growth for ethical ways for talking, writing and birthday, anniversary or childbirth, all all parties involved. acting. employees are gathering to celebrate the person and salutes. 30 31 COP report 2020 | People THE ID ® COMPANY SPIRIT & 30 YEARS ANNIVERSARY Employees are our biggest asset. The resources in our company are the experience and skills our employees have acquired. We give priority to the little things that improve our community. Where it all began – Ulfborg, a small station Peder Holm says ”employees are our bigtown located in West Jutland in Denmark. gest asset. The resources in our company Peder Holm, founder & majority Here back in 1983 the company Rexholm are the experience and skills our employshareholder, ID® Identity A/S, today named ID® Identity, was founees have acquired. We give priority to the ded by Peder Holm and Per Rex. From a little things that improve collaboration, start with just few employees, Rexholm unity and the working environment elegrew year by year and more people were ments that make ID® a secure and exciting employed to maintain the continuous place to be, and this is exactly why our growth of the company. It was during these community is so important.” years the ID® company spirit was founded. CELEBRATING 30 YEARS ANNIVERSARY The company spirit was there right from At ID® a high seniority is not unusual at all. the beginning, set by the very first owners Several employees have been a part of ID® and employees. All founded in the local from the start, and in 2019 we celebrated community where people care about the 30 years anniversary of John Pedersen each other and the company where they who is the 3rd, employee from the very work. In the beginning employees were start of the company. responsible for many different jobs at the same time, so all knew the situation of the “The day was full of celebrations as John is company and how they could contribute the true spirit of an ID® Identity employee. best possible. Here the community was a Always taking care of his colleagues and positive factor in every working day for all. takeing big pride in assuring the ID® spirit and DNA is passed to the next generaCOMMUNITY IS THE KEY FOCUS tions. You can always rely on having a Since it all started in 1983, it has been birthday song from John. As an employee important for Peder Holm, founder & mathrough so many years John has worked jority shareholder of ID®, to maintain the with many different tasks and never says corporate culture where ’community’ plays no to a challenge” tells Peder Holm. a key role. The community is today a key issue for ID® Identity. John Pedersen tells himself “at ID® I have worked in the economy department as The staff association arranges different book keeper. Through the years I have kind of arrangements. All from bowling gajoined purchasers on their trips to other mes, football games, hockey to winetasting parts of the world to visit suppliers, just to and cooking competitions. Every year a big have a better understanding and to know summer party is arranged with different the people and factories belonging to the themes from wild west to Hawaii party. A supply chain of ID®.” Today John is one of perfect opportunity for all staff to enjoy the senior employees and still a valued the togetherness and getting even further employee and takes care that every day is John Pedersen, 30th relations. a fantastic ID® working day. anniversary at ID® Identity A good community at ID® 32 33 COMMUNITY COP report 2020 | People EDUCATING CHILDREN IS OUR FOR A BETTER FUTURE KEY FOCUS Social responsibility is a major part of the ID® core values. We have contributed to a slum school in Dhaka, Bangladesh, through the GLP Foundation for many years, so that young children get a good start to their schooling. Bangladesh is a country of many contrasts, and almost half the population lives under very primitive conditions. GLP currently runs two schools in Dhaka one in Gabtoli and anoSMALL ther in Badda with 400 children. The schools follow the national primary school curriculum with an emphasis on extra-curricular MAGICAL activity including learning English. MOMENTS Since 2012, all their grade 5 students and 90% of their grade 8 students, girls and boys in equal numbers, have achieved A grades We are proud to announce in public board exams. Since 2011 GLP schools have had 100% that ID® for another year pass records. The success rates have been impressive as children will be supporting the Dagraduating from GLP to higher educational institutions and moving nish Hospital Clowns with onward to better jobs and businesses. a donation which creates heart space filled with play ID® has visited the school several times, and it is rewarding to see and magic for hospitalized how the association’s work is making a difference. children. Each year, approx. 75.000 children are admitted to the Danish hospitals some for a longer period of time. Danish Hospital clowns work to strengthen the children’s joy and life courage of hospitalized children so that they can better understand the course LOCAL TRIATHLETE WITH of the disease. They meet and acknowledge the child HIGH 2020 AMBITIONS where it is. In the anxiety, in COMMON MEETING PLACES the joy, in the boredom. When the Danish hospital We support TTH handball club clowns enter a room, they In 2020 GEYSER by ID® will be supporting 22 years old Jens Emil Sloth Nielsen, see the people who are children, relatives and staff Danish cross-triathlete and representative of the Danish national team. Through several years the local ”For Holstebro and the entire regiand respond to the specific handball team TTH Holstebro onal area, it is important we retain mood. Maybe the hospital has been supported by ID®. It’s some of the strong teams within room needs to be transfora tradition to participate when the sport and with TTH at the top med into a room full of play In the start of 2020, we anJens Emil was raised in Bjerringmatches and giving the team the of Danish handball, the club is part nounced a new collaboration bro, Denmark, where he graduaWHAT IS and magic. Maybe help is CROSS-TRIATHLON? best support possible. of the visibility and branding of the needed to conduct an investiwith the Danish triathlete Jens ted from the city’s high school in entire area and at the same time Emil Sloth Nielsen and our 2017. Today he lives in Aarhus, gation. Or maybe we need to Classic triathlon consists of July 2019 renewed the partnership creating great experiences for the sub-brand GEYSER by ID®. 22 where he studies a Bachelor in put words and body on the swimming, road cycling and with TTH for the coming two years entire family, citizens and compayears old Jens Emil is a Danish Sport at Aarhus University. child’s pain. running. And takes place at as a platinum partner. With this nies. triathlete and representative partnership ID® not only supports different distances. The hospital clown shares of the Danish national team. After playing many different TTH as a team, but also supports Due to the huge value the club ball games through the start two handball players directly. creates we are obliged to support his strength with the child In cross-triathlon, swimming The ambitions for 2020 are of his teenage years, Jens Emil the company. The strategy of TTH and provides what is needed. is still included, while the road high. “My competitive streak suffered a knee injury, which Peder Holm founder of ID® Identigives us as a partner a belief in For many children, the clown bike has been replaced with a is huge and my goal for 2020 meant that he opened his eyes ty is happy to continue the corpoexciting experiences in the coming can become a safe hand to mountain bike and the race has is to establish myself in the to mountain biking instead. As ration with TTH Holstebro for the years. At ID® Identity we work hold when life in the hospibeen replaced with a trail run. European elite in cross-triatha junior he made his debut on next seasons and pronounces: according to the motto ”we will win” tal hurts. And an anchor to The new form of triathlon was lon” tells Jens Emil. At ID® we the Danish MTB national team, and this is why TTH and ID® fit well return to. born in the mid-1990s, but has look forward to supporting and has since been able to ride together as the aim is the same.” now evolved into a worldwide Jens Emil on the sideline and in the top of the Danish senior race series called X-terra. following his journey. elite. 34 35 COP report 2020 | People NO GRIEVANCE 01 We expect no grievance through the period. 02 LOCAL SCHOOL We will continue to support the local school in Bangladesh. OUR 03 SUPPLIER COMMUNICATION We will keep on communicating with suppliers to work with remediation plans to ensure proper PEOPLE GOALS working conditions for staff and to ensure their rights. 2020/2021 04 DUE DILIGENCE PROCESSES Keep up the work with the due diligence processes to identify, prevent, mitigate and remedy. WORKING CONDITIONS 05 We will keep on the continuous work to improve working conditions for our employees. TTH HANDBALL 06 We will continue to support TTH handball as well as other local clubs and organizations. 36 37 COP report 2020 | Environment ENVIRONMENT | A BETTER FUTURE WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED IN 2019/2020 We have increased plastic for recycling to 96% total waste is 63% by changing our sent for recycling polybag quality 96% of the total A RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL In 2013 ID® Identity moved to a new headfreight voluCO 2 BUSINESS quarter in Holstebro. The new headquarter me is sea The aim of ID® Identity is to conduct a is aimed to be a sustainable construction, responsible environmental business, we where the light and heating is controlled shipments support environmentally friendly technologies, products and raw materials. automatically and controlled in relation to the weather. ID® has converted 100% of our electricity purchase to renewable and CO2 neutral EMISSION An environmental approach in the textile energy produced by Danish wind power. figures for transportation industry is needed as the industry is known to customers destination is for the possibility of negative impacts during the manufacturing of raw materials and final products and the transportation. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Based on our environmental policy, we have taken the next step towards developing meavailable to our partners. 100% thods and procedures for how to organize of our export cartons Our company policy is based on common our work with environmental issues as well are now FSC mix sense, our producers are to understand as setting target to follow. quality. and see the effect of continuous improvements of the environmental conditions in The environmental policy is founded from the supply chain. management point and a part of the overall strategy of ID® Identity. All actions and goals We emphasize in our Code of Conduct that are implemented in the organization and all we aim to work with producers, who focus employees are to be aware of the policy imMore than We have managed for 57% and strive to minimize the burden on the plemented. The policy specified the respon57% environment. This balanced to their finansibility to uphold national and international cial, geographical and innovative possibilegislation and reporting the impact level. lities. All employees are introduced to our environmental policy among other things ID Identity has always practiced responsible ® of the transfers purchased sorting of waste, printing habits and always behavior and will continue to do so as well as of our OEKO-TEX® looking for new ways of being environmenkeeping an open dialogue on the subject inare water based increase products to reach the tally friendly. ternally as well as through the supply chain to of 19% since 2018 stricter level of annex 6 keep transparency on environmental subjects. 38 39 COP report 2020 | Environment WE DON’T SHIP AIR & UNNECESSARY PACKAGING Say hello to our new packing robot that adapts the packaging to the content and volume of the goods. The new advanced technology contributes to a more eco-friendly and sustainable logistics management. December 2019, we got our new packing NEW REUSEABLE CARTONS robot installed and from beginning 2020 The new cartons are FSC mix quality our new and improved technological and designed in such a way that we packing robot started working. avoid use of plastic straps as well as the carton can be reused by our custThe robot measures by laser how much omer for further shipping or storage. goods are in a carton and then the robot automatically adjust the carton height Previously we had different kind of to fit the goods inside, closes the carton box sizes and small polybag for single as well as labels are automatically garments orders. But with a carton attached, finished cartons are stacked where height can be adjusted to fit by the robot and now ready for pick up the goods, we no longer have need for and on the way to our customer. many different sizes of cartons as we at the same time have increased the With the new advanced technology we size of shipment polybag to be larger. minimize the shipment of air substantially as the robot adapts the packing to the content and volume of the goods. 40 4141 WE CAN COP report 2020 | Environment ALL MAKE A OUR ENVIRONMENT FOCUS AREAS WASTE SORTING DIFFERENCE ENERGY OPTIMIZING RESOURCES & WASTE WATER MANAGEWe continue to sort all our waste. The sorting of waste has increased our knowledge and understanding for treating waste correctly and the result is much more waste MANAGEMENT MENT being recycled. In general, the • ID® Identity has • Sorting of waste. • As no in-house knowledge has increased our converted 100% of production there is waste amount for recycling our electricity purcha• Focus on packing no wastewater to be compared to previous years. se to renewable and materials both inmanaged. CO² neutral energy bound as well as outproduced by Danish bound. • In-house focus on Wind Power. usage of water for • Minimizing of plastic kitchen, cleaning and CARTON: We have increased • Building Energy and optimizing use of toilets. the recycled amount of carton Management system recycled plastic. by 1% compared to last year. optimizes energy use through automatic • Reducing excessive PAPER: We have increased the temperature control packing material. recycled amount of paper by and automatic light 16% compared to last year. control based on moContinuously we are working vement sensors. on initiatives that in general CHEMICALS can reduce our use of unne• Chemicals are limicessary paper. ted to cleaning products, as not in-houPLASTIC: We have increased CLIMATE IMPACT se production. All the recycled amount of plastic • CO2 is an area which legislation for storing, by 63% compared to last year. ID® Identity will put identifying as well as An increase was expected, more attention to for safety procedures are since we changed the quality the coming years. in place. of our polybags through 2018 and during 2018/2019, the effect of the change of the poly96% bag’s quality shows as a larger CO2 EMISSION THE amount of recycled material instead of grey waste. CARBON FOOTPRINT 3% More than 95% of our waste is reusable material already today. Perhaps we can reach a 1% ENERGY CONSUMABLES small improvement during the next years, but we are satisfied We choose to work with carriers, who have an environmental policy and a strategy for sustainable behaviour and who as miniElectricity, water & heat to keep the level and instead mum follow the regulation for how to inform their carbon footprint. using our energy on how to minimize waste material instead. From this year we are going to change our method for how to calculate and evaluate our energy consumables. We have The data collection for CO2 for sustainable behaviour sted place of delivery by our Please see more information made this adjustment to match the needed requirements emissions was started in 2019, and who as minimum follow customers. at page 11 Recycle, Reuse, for environmental requests within different certifications. and now we have the founthe regulation for how to inReduce. We are also increasing our mindset of identifying, prevendation to start identifying and form their carbon footprint. One of the measures to reduce ting, mitigating and corrections. Our energy consum will be evaluating our CO2 emissions. CO2 emissions is paying atteninformed per sold kg. textile form this year. INCREASE OF RECYCLING CARBON FOOTPRINT tion to the extent of air and No matter if we are talking We accept the fact that our sea shipments. We have conWe don’t expect larger deviations from the figures of energy freight to ID® from producers carriers are at different levels ducted the same comparing consumables from year to year, as our building is energy opor freight to customers we do in their work with carbon footover the last years for mode of timized, of course increase in sales will mean greater activity 1% Carton our outmost to consolidate the print and having different tools freight from our producers in our warehouse and gates open more often. Year by year goods and avoid excessive air for the measure and evaluatiand to our warehouse. there will be minor deviations up and down. shipments. on, therefor slightly different 16% results can be obtained. The level from between road, Paper In 2020 we have planned a visit from an Energy Consultancy We choose to work with carriers, who have an environmenThe first year will be with focus air and sea is 100% the same as previous year. So we are to determine if any changes could be made to optimize our consumptions and decrease our energy consumptions. 63% tal policy and a strategy on transportation freight from constant for the volume senPlastic our warehouse and to requeding. 42 42 43 43 COP report 2020 | Environment ENERGY CONSUMPTION 01 We have planned visit from Energy Consultant to see if we can improve our energy consumption. BRAND LABEL 02 All our brand labels will be changed to recycled quality. RECYCLE DAMAGED CLOTHES We are continuing our work how to 03 recycle damaged clothes, IT equipment etc. in an environmentally friendly method. OUR 04 HANGTAGS All our ID® and sub-brand hangtags ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS will be changed to FSC mix quality. 2020/2021 RECYCLED POLYBAGS 05 We will investigate the possibilities to change polybags into to recycled quality. SUPPLIER COLLABORATION Continue the work with suppliers 06 as well as the certified products to obtain a continuous development in products as well as productions and producers with an even higher environmental approach. AVOID USE OF POLYBAGS 07 We will test, if it’s possible to avoid use of polybags for part of our products. ENVIRONMENTAL KNOWLEDGE 08 We will keep on participating in arrangements, which can help us to obtain further environmental friendly knowledge. 44 45 COP report 2020 | Anti-corruption ANTI-CORRUPTION | A WHAT WE HAVE ZERO-TOLERANCE STRATEGY ACHIEVED IN 2019/2020 NO EMPLOYEES 100% have received or given improper gifts in connection with their work, as of our suppliers have sigthey are not allowed to ned our Code of Conduct and hereby confirmed not to accept any kind of corruption or bribery NO PROTECTION MONEY 0% We haven’t payed any kind of protection money to obtain favorable terms, as signs of corruption we have a zero-tolerance or bribery have for corruption, bribery and been noticed extortion OUR ANTICORRUPTION NO CORRUPTION & BRIBERY ID® Identity counteract all forms and we will GOALS 2020/2021 Corruption and bribery are known as baraffect our business partners to follow the riers to sustainable development and the same conviction. CONTINUE free trade. We don’t offer, promise or ask for bribery ID® Identity has a zero-tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion, all business or other unethically advantages to obtain or keep business possibilities or advantages. OUR WORK needs to be conducted in an open, honest and ethical manner; no matter where in Employees are not allowed to receive or give We will continue the work with risk assessment for the world the business is taking place. improper gifts in connection with their work. possible areas of corruption or bribery Neither do we pay any kind of protection No employee may offer, promise, authomoney to obtain favourable terms. rize or receive any bribe, kickban or other illicit payment. 46 47 STEP BY STEP TOWARDS A MORE SUSTAINABLE WORLD Read more about our work with responsibility and sustainability at WWW.ID.DK ID®, the ID® Identity logo is trademark of the company Rexholm A/S © Rexholm all rights reserved.
