COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Annual Submission to the United Nations Global Compact 27 February 2020 Contents Section 1. Statement of Support Section 2. Approach Section 3. Human Rights Principles Section 4. Labour Principles Section 5 – Environment Principles Section 6. Anti-Corruption Principles Section 1. Statement of Support MannionDaniels is a global company offering consultancy and fund management services. Our mission is to work for a healthy, equitable, inclusive, safe and sustainable world. We focus on fragile and conflict-affected states, to ensure that our work reaches the world’s poorest and most vulnerable people. For the past 19 years, MannionDaniels has established strong relationships with governments, communities and organisations in developing countries to deliver systems and services to those who need them most. Our vision is to find creative solutions to complex issues in health, social justice and social development. We are committed to practicing business as a force for social and environmental good and are dedicated to tackling the environmental and social issues facing the world. We believe the values of the UN Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are integral to our mission. I would like to take this opportunity to publicly affirm our commitment and support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its Principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations, as well as our plans for the future. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, David Daniels, Director Mannion Daniels Limited Section 2. Approach At MannionDaniels, we believe in upholding the dignity of all people by working to achieve common goals of economic prosperity, environmental sustainability, social inclusion, and ethical business conduct. Our business culture promotes international human rights and encourages diversity and equal opportunities for all. Since joining the UN Global Compact in 2017, we have made a concerted effort to embed the framework in our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Furthermore, we have looked at how to use the framework for our corporate social responsibility and sustainability initiatives and reporting. We have structured our Communication on Progress according to the UN Global Compact Principles. The Principles are: Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principles Principles 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Section 3. Human Rights Principles 3.1 Company policy framework in action Business Code of Ethics MannionDaniels takes principles-based approach to business and has enshrined human rights in our work. Our Business Code of Ethics sets out the values, business culture, and practices that we expect of MannionDaniels employees and business partners (sub-contractors, suppliers, consultants, etc.) throughout our supply chain. It is anchored by seven values that are the foundation of all that we do. These values are: accountability, integrity, inclusion, high performance, transparency, and environmental responsibility. In the conduct of business activities, we and our supply chain pledge to the following: commitment to high standards of ethical conduct and practice, professionalism through the supply chain, acceptance of accountability, promotion of fair and healthy competition, objectivity in decisionmaking, integrity of procurement and recruitment processes, protection of assets, information, privacy and confidentiality, and adherence to UK law and international governance. Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking We take a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery and implement and enforce effective systems and controls to ensure modern slavery and human trafficking is not taking place anywhere in our own business or in any of our supply chains. Our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy unequivocally states that we do not condone use of forced labour and human trafficking and details measures, responsibilities and structures for identifying and mitigating risks of this in our business and supply chain. It also emphasizes that we will not knowingly engage with business partners and associates who violate these laws. To support this policy, we issue an annual modern slavery statement and develop and monitor key performance indicators relating to our business operations and modern slavery. Whistleblowing MannionDaniels is committed to acting in accordance with the highest standards of business integrity and accountability. Our Whistleblowing policy outlines our commitment to upholding ethical values and practices and promotes a business culture that enables staff, business partners and others to feel comfortable raising concerns without fear of retribution. It allows for the reporting of concerns including, but not limited to human rights, corruption, fraud, human trafficking, slavery, health and safety, safeguarding and terrorism. 3.2 Implementation MannionDaniels expects employees and business partners to abide by our purpose, for a health, equitable and sustainable world. Human Right and basic freedoms are central to that. In addition to our culture as articulated through the business code of conduct, MannionDaniels is continuing to implement programmes that address important rights and social justice issues. Securing sexual and reproductive health and rights as human rights MannionDaniels works in partnership to deliver AmplifyChange, a fund that supports civil society organisations (CSOs) who advocate for improved sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR). Our shared vision for the fund is to secure universal sexual and reproductive health and rights for all. We believe this can only be achieved through building a stronger civil society, with diverse organisations who are resilient and work together to form movements for change. 3.3 Measurement of Outcomes Achieved in 2019 Planned for 2020 • Promoted code of ethics internally and within our supply chain. • Introduce the decent work toolkit for Sustainable Procurement • Reviewed and updated policies and procedures to outline a commitment to human • Mainstream gender and inclusion into our Fund Management activities rights, privacy, dignity, etc. • Institutionalised training of all new starters and refresher training for staff. • Provide capacity building and learning on advocacy for sexual & reproductive health and rights, as a human right. • Issue third annual modern slavery statement • Incorporate Modern Slavery assessment into the Value Chain Section 4. Labour Principles Within our company and our business delivery, MannionDaniels aims to create a world that encourages diversity and equal opportunities for all. Keeping staff and consultants safe is an important aspect of this and Health and Safety is embedded in all aspects of our business operations. Weare committed to transparency in all business dealings, including taking a zero-tolerance approach to corruption, bribery, fraud, tax evasion, human rights violations, sexual abuse and modern slavery. Furthermore, in the services we provide our portfolio includes working with communities to ensure people have resilient livelihoods and that underserved populations have rights and recognition in the workplace. 4.1 Company policy framework in action We value diversity and inclusion at MannionDaniels and provide equality and fairness for all in our employment. We do not discriminate on grounds of gender, gender reassignment, marital status (including civil partnership), pregnancy or maternity, race, ethnic origin, nationality, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, religion or age. Our commitment to universal labour principles is enshrined in our company by firstly Business Code of Ethics. It also embedded and supported through this set of policies: recruitment and new starter, equality and diversity, family, flexible working, and corporate social responsibility and sustainability. This is evidenced by our annual modern slavery statement and our safeguarding children and vulnerable adults policy. Our Human Resources Team leads on diversity, equality, and inclusion in the workplace. As a company, we raise employees' awareness of corporate responsibility, encourage employee professional development and learning, and encourage an internal or external volunteering culture. We also track diversity statistics of our workforce. In 2018, we introduced flexible working policy and promoted good health and wellbeing including a mental health awareness week. Our staff have access to benefits and external support such as emotional support services. Currently, all new staff undergo a new starter induction session covering our working practice and labour standards. We rolled out safeguarding training for all staff. We aim to further institutionalise the training of all new starters and refresher training for staff. MannionDaniels has developed a safeguarding statement and policy in 2018. We have assigned internal safeguarding responsibilities in the company. The Safeguarding Team has representation from each level of governance: Board level, Leadership Team, and Senior Management Team. The Safeguarding Director, Safeguarding Lead and Deputy Safeguarding Lead have all received safeguarding training and have dealt with safeguarding cases previously. Safeguarding violations and other misconduct can be reported to line managers, safeguarding team, and via our whistleblowing hotline. We conduct investigations into safeguarding incidents, log them and track them in registers. We also notify clients and relevant authorities and record safeguarding incidents in a log and register. 4.2 Implementation MannionDaniels corporate activities and policy framework ensure that as a group of companies we can uphold the highest standards of Labour Principles. But we are able to go further than this through our business activities, supporting civil society organisations in many countries working on providing sustainable livelihoods and promoting labour rights particularly for vulnerable and under-served populations. Ending Modern Slavery MannionDaniels, along with our consortium partners, is managing UK Aid Direct, a challenge fund designed to support the UK’s commitments to achieving the Global Goals. UK Aid Direct has reached more than 3 million of the world's poorest people with UK aid from the UK Government, through 147 grants, across 31 countries (February 2018). The aim of UK Aid Direct is to fund smalland medium-sized national and international civil society organisations (CSOs) to reduce poverty and work towards achieving the Global Goals. Specifically, UK Aid Direct funding reaches the most marginalised and vulnerable populations, supporting the DFID agenda to ‘leave no one behind’. Our grant portfolio includes a number of grants working towards ending modern slavery. 4.3 Measurement of Outcomes Achieved in 201 Planned for 2019 • Delivered training on ethics, whistleblowing and labour standards internally and within • Introduce the decent work toolkit for Sustainable Procurement our supply chain, including raise awareness about responsibilities and mechanisms for reporting. • Developed an onboarding and training programme for staff and business partners. • Mainstream gender and inclusion into our Fund Management activities • Institutionalised safeguarding and other the training of all new starters and refresher • Incorporate Modern Slavery assessment into the Value Chain training for staff and business partners. Strengthen contractual arrangements for staff and business partners. • Carried out a Modern Slavery Assessment • Continued mapping our supply chain and manage risks and provide training where required. Section 5. Environment Principles 5.1 Company Policy framework in action Being an environmentally responsible company is one of our core values. We are achieving this through our ISO 14001 certification, but also by developing our own green projects. We believe that caring for the environment is inseparable from our work in for a healthy, equitable, inclusive, safe and sustainable world. We aim to promote an understanding of the interdependence of health, well-being and the environment, both in developing countries and the UK, and to make environmental consideration pivotal to our work. As a company, we are committed to protecting the environment, preventing pollution, complying with environmental legislation and other requirements relevant to our activities. Consideration and monitoring of these factors in alignment with the business activities help to form our Environmental Management System (EMS), providing a framework for setting environmental objectives. The EMS, its policies and procedures are reviewed annually to ensure continual improvement and enhance our environmental performance. 5.2 Implementation Within our environmental management system, we have identified that emissions from international flights cause our most significant negative environmental impact but are unavoidable for fulfilling international projects. To offset our impact, we have created an inhouse project investing in projects that reduce emissions such as renewable energy. Our Green Office Action Plan targets one of our primary environmental aspects coming from office energy use and waste. It encompasses energy efficiency, waste prevention, recycling, and environmentally aware purchasing. Mitigating the impact of our travel emissions In our work, a significant amount of overseas travel is unavoidable. Every year, we record our total CO2 emissions from staff flights and invest the total sum of these in sustainable energy projects, which are selected by our staff. We have selected renewable energy for our investments as it is an effective part of transitioning to a lower carbon economy, but the industry does not receive reliable or sufficient government support in the UK. Supporting renewable energy is an example of how businesses can take environmental initiative, accept responsibility and be agents of positive change. See Image of investments: Implementing Climate projects: Under the UK Aid Direct challenge fund, we are also supporting a number of initiatives aimed at tacking climate issues and their impact on society and social development. a few examples of projects being funded through UK charities are as follows: 5.3 Measurement of Outcomes Achieved in 2019 Planned for 2020 • Continue to mitigate the impact of travel emissions. Calculate offset value of • Extend scope of corporate sustainability action to incorporate the whole flights and use amount to invest in local sustainable energy projects and over business model offset by 10%. • Developed a robust training programme based on survey to assess the • Set science-based targets for carbon reduction and achieve carbon neutrality by effectiveness of Environmental Awareness training. end 2020 • Reduced total mixed recycling and general waste by 5% by the end of 2019 • Grow our portfolio of environment and climate relate business • Continued Community initiative in Kenya • Extend community initiative in Kenya using our own resources. We are supporting the Community Health Initiative Group who are providing access to treatment and prevention of jiggers in Kakamega, Kenya. Section 6. Anti-Corruption Principles MannionDaniels has a ‘zero tolerance' policy towards bribery, fraud, and corruption and so does not accept any level of bribery, fraud or corruption within our company. We are committed to the highest standards of ethical conduct and integrity in our business activities. All employees, business partners and all individuals acting for the company anywhere in the world, are expected to conduct themselves professionally and within the law. 6.1 Company Policy Framework in action MannionDaniels has an Anti-Corruption, Fraud and Bribery Policy. It is part of a suite of measures, including conflict of interest, due diligence, whistleblowing and finance, employed to promote and ensure ethical and lawful business conduct. We introduced a robust Anti-corruption, Fraud and Bribery framework to ensure the company, as far as is reasonably possible, manages the risk of bribery, fraud corruption occurring in relation to its commercial activities. We also have a dedicated business practise area with dedicated experts in Public Financial Management and Fiduciary Rick. 6.2 Implementation MannionDaniels works with state institutions to reform and strengthen public financial management (PFM) systems. We follow a risk-based methodology, engaging with public sector bodies and donor partners to design PFM reform programmes that improve accountability, reduce fiduciary risk and strengthen financial controls. We focus on promoting a stronger public sector that is more capable of delivering public services, and on ensuring that donors can engage confidently with the institutions of government in beneficiary countries. Our fiduciary risk specialists extensive experience and solutions that mitigate the risks of grant funding across organisations that range from grass roots charities to international non-governmental organisations (INGOs) and government ministries. Our methodology emphasises knowledge-sharing and capacity-building to strengthen the target institution and deliver change in a sustainable way. Reducing financial risks for Governments. An example of our work in this area of public financial management and fiduciary risk is our work in Nepal with the Ministry of Health – as follows: 6.3 Measurement of Outcomes Achieved in 2019 Planned for 2020 Invested in online training for staff and business partners covering anti• Continued investment in company-wide training and culture corruption, whistleblowing, etc. • Updated all training and procedures to reflect the new changes to due diligence • Expansion of business services that look at financial flows and anti-corruption • Provided bespoke support for high risk project. Introduction of sustainable procurement tool kits incorporating anti-corruption measures through the supply chain • Deliver specialist capacity building for business partners on the anti-corruption and whistleblowing
