FARMING WITH NATURE CSR report 2019/20 This report is based on the combined worldwide FARMING WITH NATURE 2019/20 data relating to harvests of the financial year from 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020. 1. edition Ingleby Farms & Forests ApS All production and social data reflect the Slotsgade 1A harvests of the 2019/20 financial year, although 4600 Køge for some regions, these data reflect activity Denmark www.inglebyfarms.com occurring during 2018/19. CC BY-NC-SA © 2020 We use science-based indicators for production, Ingleby Publications are licensed under a Creative Commons resource use efficiency, employee health and Attribution-Non-Commercial-Share-Alike (CC BY-NC-SA) safety, and community outreach – all to promote License. This means you are free to copy, distribute, display, and make derivative works, but you are not allowed to use our good governance, sustainable production and materials for commercial purpose and all derivative works must to reduce risks. be licensed under the same terms. For further information, please visit the Creative Commons web page: www.creativecommons.org/licenses With this report, Ingleby Farms & Forests ApS reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of Contributors the United Nations Global Compact in the areas Andrei Govoreanu, Asger Ourø Jensen, Dace Trupāne, Frederik von Magnussen, Hans Henrik Koefoed, Julia Williams, of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Katrine Møller Hellesøe, Laura Froman Lindeskov, Anti-Corruption. Lucero Arebalos, Mette Duedahl Høyer, Nicoline Lind, Rafael Leguísamo, Susie Hjorth, Tom McPherson. In this, our sixth annual Communication Photographers on Progress, we describe our actions to Andrei Govoreanu, Anna Stewart, Dace Trupāne, continually improve the integration of the Douglas Sibbald, Dragomir Matei, Gabriel Miron, Gary R. Smith, Global Compact and its principles into our Hans Cogne, Hans Henrik Koefoed, Jennifer Cameron, Martín Zeni, Nicole Miller, Peter Nixon, Rafael Leguísamo, business strategy, culture and daily operations. Rasmus Juul Christoffersen, Robin Begg, Tom McPherson. We are also committed to sharing this Photos of beneficial insects: Shutterstock.com and Alamy.com. information with our stakeholders. Editor Michala Jeberg Design BGRAPHIC Print KLSPurePrint The Ingleby vision Our vision is to be world-leading regenerative farmers. We farm to produce good, healthy food, and also to protect the environment for future generations. As farmers, we play an important part in solving some of the most pressing global challenges we face today. We want to farm with nature – not against it. We believe farming done right can help the planet, and we aim to live up to this task every day, in everything we do. We apply regenerative farming principles and constantly improve our soils. We preserve and enhance the biodiversity on our farms, and work towards sustainable consumption and production. We treat our animals, people and communities with care, love and respect. Because the way we choose to farm today echoes for generations. 4 Contents Contents 44 Our Nature 10 Regenerative Agriculture 14 Our Farms 18 Building Trust Contents 5 52 Our Climate 28 Our Soil 36 Our Animals 62 Our Communities 6 Our Farms Executive review This year, we celebrate our 10-year anniversary of sustainability reporting in Ingleby Farms. Using an evidence-based approach, with comprehensive measurements and indicators, our sustainability reporting helps us to continuously become better farmers. Contents Our Farms 7 Always safety first Severe weather events The safety and well-being of our team members The principles of regenerative agriculture help is our highest priority. Our teams’ continued focus us mitigate the impacts from the increasingly on safety resulted in a significant reduction (43%) volatile weather of frequent droughts and in our LTIFR (Lost time injury frequency rate) in floods. By mimicking nature, we avoid disturbing 2019/20, compared to the year before. We had our precious soils, and have now 98% of our only 16 accidents and no fatalities. cropland (excluding horticulture) in noand minimum tillage, and we keep all soil surfaces covered throughout the year. We have entered COVID-19 into more robust, diversified crop rotations and COVID-19 has affected many areas of business grow 47 different crops today, compared with throughout the world this year. Ingleby Farms’ only 11 in 2010/11, while integrating livestock immediate priority was protecting the health into our cropping systems. and safety of our team members. Peru, our Furthermore, we are continuously improving most labour-intense country, has been and still our water and drainage infrastructure to mitiis exposed to effects from COVID-19, as well as gate the effect of dry and wet years. In 2019/20, our farms in the United States, Argentina and we expanded our investments into irrigation Romania. As we continue to navigate the impacts in Tasmania, Uruguay, Romania and Lithuania. of COVID-19, we are focused on keeping all health In Romania, we also continued our soil drainage and safety precautions in place and have so far project and in Uruguay and Argentina we made managed to keep everyone safe with no fatalities. additional erosion curves and grass waterways. We now have 15% of our crop production area Regenerative agriculture under irrigation, providing input optimisation and stable yields. Our 2030 goals of regenerative agriculture, including no use of synthetic pesticides, reduced synthetic fertilisers, responsible water stewardTrustworthy farmers ship, zero waste, climate positive farms and Our diversification over 43 farms and enhanced biodiversity, are a major focus with forests in nine production countries, together innovative tests and field trials in Latvia, Lithuania, with experienced management and production Peru and California. The current COVID-19 pandeteams, provides strong resilience and performic has also shown the strength of our journey mance. We share best practices across contitowards regenerative agriculture in how each farm nents, backed up by evidence-based indicators. over time will be increasingly selfcontained with We are hands-on producers of more than less import of inputs like synthetic pesticides and 47 crops seeded, planted and harvested fertilisers. We are thus less dependent on potenthroughout the year, always pursuing to be tial disruptions of supply chains. We are allocating a reliable, transparent and solid supplier of further management resources towards our 2030 sustainably produced food, feed and fibre. goals in 2020/21. Hans Henrik Koefoed Chief Executive Officer Contents 8 Our Farms 2030 regenerative agriculture commitments Everything we do is linked to our long-term commitment to our farms. We are very ambitious about how we farm and steward the land. For that reason, we are able to commit to bold and ambitious goals to lead us in the right direction. For us, regenerative agriculture is the right In order to orchestrate our regenerative efforts direction. Farming regeneratively promises across all farms, we have chosen five areas to a wide range of benefits — from improved soil focus on. These give us a solid foundation for health through to better water stewardship, measuring our progress and for sharing specific with a significant boost to biodiversity. We know-how amongst ourselves. Regenerative can make use of the soil as a carbon sink, while agriculture is a continuous learning process. we produce more nutritious food in ways that The five areas we have chosen to focus on are: make it not only better for the people who consume it, but also for us working to produce • Our Soil it. Our animals are an essential part of all this. • Our Animals We want all Ingleby farms to embrace regene• Our Nature rative farming by 2030. • Our Climate • Our Communities Various practices and approaches fall under the umbrella of “regenerative farming” e.g. Each area has its own Commitment and a set agroforestry, no-till, precision agriculture, of four Goals as presented on the next page. holistic grazing and mob grazing, robotics, bio-char, compost teas, and re-wilding. So, there are many ways going forward towards our commitment, and no single solution fits every country, farm or field. In fact, regenerative farming is not only about ticking off certain practices but rather, it is a process of understanding the specific farming system or landscape and working to continuously improve it. Contents Our Farms 9 Our Commitments Our Soil • Build healthy, living soil Practice • Synthetic pesticide-free • Reduce synthetic fertilisers regenerative • Responsible water stewardship farming Our Animals • Honour the five freedoms* of animal welfare Raise healthy • Breed for an open-range environment • Open-range and pasture-fed year round and ethically • Ethical veterinary practices treated animals Our Nature • 10% natural habitats per hub Protect and • 1% water habitats per hub • Implement farm environmental plans enhance • Protect and monitor significant species biodiversity and ecosystems Our Climate • Climate positive Farm for • Zero landfill • Zero waste a greener • Transition to renewable energy future Our Communities • Zero harm work culture Grow our • 2% of work hours in training • Balanced gender diversity people and • Support and engage in local farming communities and environmental communities * The five freedoms of animal welfare: Freedom from hunger or thirst, freedom from discomfort, freedom from pain, injury or disease, freedom to express normal behaviour, and freedom from fear/distress. Contents 10 Our Farms Regenerative agriculture Regenerative agriculture is the practice of carefully increasing nutrient availability in the soil, while maintaining a high yield and preserving biodiversity. It can help store significant amounts of carbon in the soil, protect against erosion, and reduce the need for synthetic fertilisers and pesticides. The objective of regenerative agriculture is Limited soil disturbance to increase the number of microbiological Minimum-tillage agriculture is a breeding organisms, worms, and the level of nutrients in ground for rich and diverse biological soils. the soil, thus reducing the need for mechanical Tillage affects soil structure, aeration, temperaand chemical assistance. It is about working ture and water content. As the soil is constantly with nature, not against it. There are five main being torn apart, it affects the living organisms principles to regenerative agriculture: in the soil that help create natural soil fertility. • Limited soil disturbance This in turn affects the rate of decomposition • Covering the soil and nitrogen mineralisation. • Diversity The less the soil is cultivated, the more earth• Living roots worms and beneficial insects, such as ground • Integrating animals beetles, spiders and other macrofauna will thrive. Earthworms play a crucial role in terrestriWe already use these practices to some degree al ecosystems: They recycle organic material by on our farms, and incorporating them further digesting organic matter and thereby enriching into our production will be a main part in the soil. Earthworms loosen, aerate, and improve our strategy to reach our goal of becoming the drainage of the soil by burrowing and synthetic pesticide-free by 2030. channelling. The crop residues left on the soil are favourite habitats for beetles and millipedes, springtails and mites. A rich and diverse fauna will increase the level of “natural pest control” and help us in our goal to become synthetic pesticide-free. s Faba beans and common vetch interplanted as companion crops to increase yield, biodiversity, and soil structure – and to reduce the need for application of Nitrogen in the following crop. Contents Our Farms 11 Covering the soil We mimic what nature does. We always cover bare soil with crop or crop residues to protect it from wind and water erosion. This keeps moisture in the soil which decreases risk of drought and maintains a stable soil temperature. All part of obtaining healthy soils. By covering the fields most of the year with live and dead organic material, we also sequester carbon into the soil. This is one of the reasons why cover crops are one of the pillars in regenerative agriculture. Diversity Diversity is key in keeping soils healthy. It is all about using a variety of crops that complement each other. It can be crops with different root types (shallow roots, deep roots, s Radish root in multi-species cover crop improves and tap roots). Some crops are high-carbon, soil structure and captures nutrients. some are low-carbon, some are legumes. Each of them contributes to the soil’s nutrients and physical properties, thereby maintaining soil health. There is growing evidence on how bacterial Living roots communities (which increase with crop diversity This principle is about having living roots in or cover crops) excrete enzymes to make the soil for as long as possible. Soils are most nutrients more available for the plants. productive when soil microbes have access to living plant materials. Through its exudates, a living root provides a food source for beneficial bacteria and promotes the symbiotic relationship between plant roots and mycorrhizal fungi. It also helps to reduce soil erosion. Integrating animals Integrating animals is the fifth principle to healthier soils. When grazing is well managed, animals drive carbon sequestration and inoculate the soil with beneficial microbes. They can help plants grow faster. As more grass is grown, more organic matter is available to recycle into the soil for feeding microbes. This captures and holds more water and nutrients, growing healthier plants that capture more sunlight for the photosynthesis process, and sinking more carbon back into the ground. s Grazing sheep helps suppress weeds in red clover field. Contents 12 Our Farms Farming with a 150-year perspective Ingleby Farms is committed to regenerating soils and increasing biodiversity, which takes time – a lot of time. So we are here for the long term. In fact, we are farming with a 150-year perspective. Our long-term commitment is at the core of our This understanding, and the values behind, family values and thinking. We are farming not makes it an easy choice to work towards the only for ourselves, but for coming generations long-term success of the farms without, of to thrive and prosper. Therefore, we are also willcourse, ever losing sight of the present-day ing to invest in decisions, actions, and innovation profitability. that are long-lasting and where the benefits only However small, we hope that our 150-year arise after extended periods of time. legacy will be healthy, thriving farms in For us, it makes sense to improve our soils and flourishing communities and environments. nature, to minimise our impact on the climate We hope that future generations will look back and environment; to support local communiat what we started and appreciate the condition ties and be good citizens. Things that do not of the lands we pass on to them. Afterall, we generate a profit here and now, but are natural are all merely stewarding our lands for the consequences of the way we think of ourselves generations to come. as stewards of the land: If our surrounding communities and nature cannot be healthy and flourish in the long term – how can we? Contents Our Farms 13 Building soil As long-term landowners, our goal is to improve the quality of our soil every year. We do this by leaving sufficient crop residues on the ground, using cover crops, striving for living roots throughout the year, and by integrating grazing animals for manure application, weed suppression, and for stomping plant residues into the soil. These practices increase the quantity of organic carbon returned to the soil, limit erosion, and fix or add nitrogen to the soil. Faba beans planted in a no-till field. Chickpea and barley as companion crops. Lamb nibbling on fresh clover. Contents 14 Our Farms Our Farms We are long-term owners of land, managing horticulture, pastures, arable and mixed farms in nine countries across four continents. As of 30 June 2020, we manage 100,969 hectares worldwide of which we protect 29% as natural habitats, including 2.5% as water habitats. California, USA 1,825 hectares Peru Uruguay 2,017 hectares 27,217 hectares Argentina 12,519 hectares Avocados Blueberries Cattle Mixed forestry Milk Pistachios Row crops Seeds Sheep Table grapes Contents Our Farms 15 Hectares by region Hectare distribution 8% 1% 46% 29% Europe Cropping Australasia Intensive grazing 43% Americas Environmental 29% Mixed forestry Infrastructure 28% 16% Latvia & Lithuania 9,768 hectares Romania 19,649 hectares New Zealand 6,735 hectares Australia 21,239 hectares Contents 16 Our Farms Our farms and productions We farm a wide range of productions in many areas across the globe Argentina Australia California, USA In Argentina, we own ten Ingleby Farms manages farms Ingleby Farms manages highly fertile farms with a total across three states in Australia. one 1,825-hectare farm in of 12,519 hectares. California, United States, In Tasmania, where we manwhere we produce pistachios. We farm in Argentina’s lush age five farms across 8,963 central area, the “pampa hectares, we grow potatoes, Our farm is located in the húmeda” (humid pampa). broccoli, barley, peas and San Joaquin Valley, someThis area contains some of fodder crops as well as grass times called “the nation’s the world’s best farmland. and clover seeds. fruit basket” because of the great range of fruits, nuts and Our farms are mostly arable, We are also one of the largest vegetables grown in its fertile but we do have some pastoproducers of lamb in Tasmania, soil. It is a beautiful area with ral farming. Our main crops finishing 30,000 lambs a spectacular bird life. include soya, corn, wheat, annually. Our dairy farm sunflower and barley, as well as produces 20 million litres In order to enhance the wildlife canola, grass seeds, sorghum of milk annually from 3,500 on the farm, we have planted and fodder crops. Holstein-Friesian dairy cows, over 21 kilometres of hedgewhich graze lush, green rows, native grasses, bushes Cattle can be grazed all year pastures 365 days a year. and avenues of oaks. We have round throughout most of also established a 12-hectare Argentina. Grazing pastures Our farm in Victoria is 4,770 wetland and allowed an are rich in biodiversity, and on hectares of arable cropping 81-hectare flood zone to our farms, cattle are managed land, pasture and remnant return to native species, to maintain this balance. vegetation, shelter belts, and an avian sanctuary. rocky barriers and wetlands. We grow wheat, barley and canola for silage production. The farm also runs 10,000 composite breeding ewes. In Western Australia, Ingleby Farms owns four farms totaling 7,507 hectares, which grow wheat, malting barley and canola. The farms have vast areas of remnant bushland, good soils, stable rainfall and mild temperatures over the growing season. Contents Our Farms 17 Latvia New Zealand Romania In Latvia, we own two farms Ingleby Farms runs four farms In Romania, we manage with a total of 6,971 hectares. in New Zealand, with a total both farms and forests. Our of 6,735 hectares. farms are located in western Our farms are set in the Romania, near Timisoara, with beautiful rural Latvian landOur farms produce higha total of 12,388 hectares. scape with its gently rolling quality grass-fed beef and Our forests are located 100 hills and patchwork of forests lamb. kilometres north-west of and fields. Rainfall in New Zealand is Bucharest and total 7,261 We produce milling wheat, high, varying between 950hectares. winter canola, milling rye, 1,700 mm, consistently spread Romania’s fertile soil and spring barley, black oats, broad throughout the year. This favourable climate make the beans and sugar beets as well combined with a mild climate, country suitable for growing as certified clover and grass enables us to grow grass ten a diverse range of agricultural seeds. out of twelve months and our productions and forestry. sheep and cattle to graze all Our farms have a high crop year in natural, green surOur cereal and oilseed crops yield potential due to mild roundings. include canola, corn, sorghum, summers, good rainfall, and soya, wheat and peas. We fertile soils with a deep root We protect the unique New produce grass and clover zone and good drainage Zealand landscape through seeds and have our own seed infrastructure. intelligent livestock managecleaning and packing facilities. ment, tree planting to mitigate We have 367 hectares of We also grow high-quality erosion, and fencing to protect diverse water and woodland blueberries and test other bushland and waterways. habitats, hosting a variety berry varieties for future of species. production. Peru Lithuania We have two farms in Peru, Uruguay totaling 2,017 hectares. In Lithuania, we have one Ingleby Farms has seven These are located in the farm of 2,797 hectares. mixed pasture and arable Motupe valley and in the farms in the south-west of We produce milling wheat, Olmos irrigation development Uruguay, totaling 27,217 winter canola, milling rye, in Northern Peru. hectares. spring barley, sugar beets We mainly grow avocados, and spinach, clover and grass Uruguay differs from most blueberries and table grapes. seeds. other countries in Latin However, we are also testing America, in that it has no Like Latvia, our Lithuanian new horticulture crop varieties mountains and very little farm has a high crop yield using the latest agricultural natural forest. Over 80% potential due to mild summers, innovations. We have also of Uruguay’s land area can good rainfall, fertile soils, a developed a native seedling be used for agriculture. deep root zone and drainage nursery. infrastructure. Uruguay’s temperate climate Our farms are ideally and natural grasslands lend The farm is located in between located for exports, having themselves to livestock proseveral large forests, one of good access to one of Peru’s duction. The fertile soils in the which is in a Natura2000 area. major ports, Paita. This in turn south-west are also suitable We protect 210 hectares of provides access to the most for crop farming. environmental areas on-farm. important markets in the world, such as Europe, Asia Our farms have mainly native and USA. grassland, ideal for breeding cattle. We also produce crops such as corn, barley, sorghum, soya, fescue and ryegrass seeds as well as fodder crops. Contents 18 Building Trust Contents Building Trust 19 Celebrating 10 years of 217 K DAILY WEATHER sustainability RECORDS reporting 471 BIRD SPECIES RECORDED ON Sustainability and responsibility are the OUR FARMS DNA of Ingleby Farms, built into our founding values and guiding how we farm. We are a farming company that proactively champions sustainability – and proves it with data. 118 Ten years ago, we started gathering and reporting on comprehensive SUSTAINABILITY REPORTS CREATED metrics, including everything from production, animal welfare, agrochemical use, energy and water use, soils, environments, and social activity. At first, much of the information we desired often wasn’t measured by our local teams. Or, if it did exist, it was in the form of handwritten notes, pictures, or invoices which we transcribed to store in our databases. Each year since then the process was improved, more refined, and our teams created systems to capture numbers in smarter ways. 988% GROWTH IN Skip forward a decade to 2020, and Ingleby Farms sits at 100,969 DATA COLLECTED hectares across 39 farms and forests. The sustainability programme IN OUR DATABASES is deeply ingrained. Ironically, one of our core business strategies – diversity across productions and locations – is the main hurdle to smooth reporting because of the complexity involved! We now document and measure up to 55 KPIs, depending on the type of farm. We have recorded 69 109 different land production types over the years (crops, seeds, pastures, orchards and forestry), 26 of which are irrigated. We have expanded milk, meat and wool production to six of our nine countries by inteMILLION KWHS grating animals within cropping systems. Hectares dedicated to horticulture production has nearly doubled during this time. Our newest challenge is digitalising and automating data collection – and stepping up efforts with greenhouse gas balances. In an industry like farming, data is gold. With 10 years’ worth of detailed information, our sustainability reporting programme helps define Ingleby Farms, uphold our values, and affirm our commitment to continuously become better farmers. Contents 20 Building Trust Highlights from this year Each year, each farm reports on a vast number of indicators related to production and sustainability. We are pleased to share a few highlights from the 2019/20 reporting cycle. Europe North America Despite most of Europe, including Lithuania, This is the third year our solar field on Burrel experiencing prolonged periods of dry weather Ranch, California has operated, providing 36% during the growing season this year, we still of our total electricity use on farm. Combined obtained an increasing total yield for the third with the renewable electricity from the state year in a row. grid, 56% of the ranch’s electricity consumed during the 2019 season was renewably sourced. For the first time in Lithuania and Latvia, we have tried growing rye with hairy vetch and Also, as part of our 2030 synthetic pesticidebarley with peas as companion crops. We free goal, we released beneficial insects and plan to continue testing different combinations created a scouting system to monitor their as one of our strategies to reach our 2030 activity during the growing season. We also synthetic pesticide-free goal. used insectary plants to attract beneficial insects. Contents Building Trust 21 Australasia Latin America We have achieved record canola yields on our Our Argentine and Uruguayan farms have had Victorian farm, Mt Elephant, this year, harvesting a very good production year, especially with an average of 3.2 t/ha in total, but up to 4.3 the cattle. The use of cover crops has been t/ha in some fields. These were planted in vetch increasing continuously on our farms, hopefully for fodder as an alternative to faba beans the improving future yields and the soil’s health, previous season, demonstrating the latent structure and potential. benefits to the canola crop. In Argentina, the teams have made efforts to Despite a short spring and a dry growing reduce their pesticide use, inspired by Ingleby season, our Tasmanian operation has had the Farms’ synthetic pesticide-free goal. best result for many years, especially in the In Peru, most of the crops performed well, and lamb and dairy productions. More general the new varieties have had good first yields. We training plus intense focus on health and safety are using and planting more cover crops under across all Australian and New Zealand farms our high-value crops. We planted sorghum, has led to both a significant drop in accidents cannavalia, mucuna/crotalaria (legumes) after and near misses, plus an achievement of the pruning. The beneficial insect production is Ingleby Farms training goal, 2% of work hours running well, and we are planning a new insect spent in training. rearing facility. This is helping us reach the goal of synthetic pesticide-free production. Contents 22 Building Trust UN Sustainable Development Goals As farmers, we have an important role to play in solving some of the world’s grand challenges. We are aligned with the 10 universal principles on environment, human rights, labour, and anti-corruption. We also support the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We have identified six SDGs that apply to our farming operations, and where we have the greatest potential for impact. These are aligned with our internal goals. • Across all our farms this year, • Started freshwater stream • We employ around 3,100 we have grown 8.5 million monitoring on our New people on our orchards in calories per productive Zealand farms to assess Peru, compared to 1,100 five hectare, enough to feed effects of environmental years ago. Investing in and 697,000 people per year improvements on water developing high-value crops quality creates many jobs in our • Taking sustainable agriculcommunities. Also in Peru, ture further by adopting • Measured, adjusted, and we started building a picker’s regenerative agricultural upgraded pumps and drip village to accommodate practices irrigation systems on our teams during busy periods Californian farm, improving • Healthier soils through water-use efficiency • Half of our countries’ teams regenerative agriculture will this year achieved Ingleby improve our farms’ resilience • In Uruguay, we have built Farms’s internal goal to extreme weather, safethree new water reservoirs of 2% of work hours spent guarding food production for irrigation, securing more in training. On the Ingleby consistent water supply for • Our crop production Farm global level, exactly crops yields have increased 2% 2% of our work hours were on average each year since • Erosion control structures spent in training 2010, and our milk, meat and installed on one of our • Gender diversity and equal wool yields have increased Romanian farms. We also opportunities are impor4% on average each year created a new irrigation lake tant to us. This year, women in low-lying land, capable made up 25% of Ingleby of holding 135,000 cubic Farms’ Board, and 33% of metres of water global executive and middle management roles Contents Building Trust 23 • Our Californian farm has • We built a 2,000 megawatt • This was the second year switched to consuming more solar power field several of launching our Farming biofuel than diesel. They years ago on our Californian with Nature programme, are also using beneficial farm, which increased focussing now on our insects to reduce synthetic the farm’s proportion of Peruvian and New Zealand pesticides, as is our team renewably sourced electricity farms. Last year the in Peru, who also produce to 56% programme started with beneficial insects our European farms • Our no-till cropping systems in a lab on-farm in Argentina and Uruguay • The Farming with Nature • Our European farm teams help bolster soil carbon programme involves creating are trialling new machinsequestration and reduce detailed Farm Environmental ery that perform multiple erosion and organic matter Plans for each farm, identifyoperations at the same time, loss. We are working to ing priority areas and actions reducing both diesel use reduce tillage on all our to guide environmental and soil disturbance other farms improvements • This year, our Lithuanian • Ingleby Farms is a member • On one of our New Zealand team organised a clean-up of the Cool Farm Alliance, farms, 19 hectares of river day to collect litter from and this year we started exiting the Grand Canyon drains, roadsides and fields making crop carbon footenvironmental area, home to prints to identify, measure the endangered Long-tailed • All our arable farms are and benchmark emissions bat, are being fenced to adding more Nitrogenand sequestration. We plan exclude stock and planted fixing legume crops into to repeat these each year in native species the rotation, such as peas, to track progress towards to help reduce reliance on • On our Romanian farms our goal of climate positive synthetic fertilisers this year, we discovered the farming Freyer’s purple emperor, a • This year we experimented • We are increasing use of significant butterfly species. with companion crops on cover crops worldwide, We also surveyed farmland our Baltic farms, where two covering 15% of the arable bird diversity for the 11th crops are grown together, area this year, compared to year, while our Baltic farms such as vetch/rye or barley/ 8% four years ago. Cover completed their 6th year peas. This could help reduce crops armour the soil and of bird surveying the crops’ need for both store carbon fertilisers and pesticides • We developed an Ingleby • During 2019/20, we grew “Simple Soil Test – Earth• We are gradually integrating 47 different crops in the worm Assessment” to collect cattle and sheep into the rotation compared to 11 knowledge on earthworm crop rotations to maximise crops ten years ago. Diverse abundance as an indicator production by grazing crops rotations, including legumes, of soil health. Some of our preand post-harvest. grasses, oilseeds, cereals Argentine farms have started This has the added benefit of and perennials help improve using this nutrient and carbon cycling, soil and its ability to store improving soil health carbon Contents 24 Building Trust Our Certifications At Ingleby Farms, our high internal agricultural and social best practices mean that we do not use external certifications to guide our operations. Instead, we have obtained selected certifications to provide assurance to our external partners and customers of our world leading practices. Table Avocados grapes Test plot Test plot Peru Peru Global G.A.P. Grasp Nurture USDA Organic Enhances good agricultural Assesses social risks in Focuses on environmental Integrates cultural, biological, practices by minimising the primary production. control, management of and mechanical practices that detrimental environmental energy resources, protection foster cycling of resources, impacts of farming operations, of the environment through promote ecological balance, reducing the use of chemicals its fauna and flora. and conserve biodiversity. and ensuring a responsible approach to worker health and safety as well as animal welfare. Contents Building Trust 25 Romania Peru Blueberries test plot Stevia Peru/Romania Peru Pistachios Beef USA Uruguay EU Organic SMETA Certified Natural Beef Never Ever 3 Encourages the responsible Aligns social audit standards Certifies the entire production Guarantees meat comes use of energy and natural and monitoring practices to process all the way through from animals that never resources, the maintenance ease the auditing burden on packing and labelling. received antibiotics, hormones of biodiversity, preservation of suppliers by sharing reports Compliant with food safety or proteins of animal origin regional ecological balances, and driving improvements and traceability requirements. during their lifetime. enhancement of soil fertility, in supply chain labour and maintenance of water standards. quality. Contents 26 Building Trust Traceability We farm to produce good, healthy food. An integral part of our food safety programme is traceability the ability to track our products through all stages of production, processing, and distribution. In Uruguay, we raise open-range, grass-fed In addition to identification and tracking, the Aberdeen Angus cattle. In order to comply with electronic chip also enables better management national regulation and to deliver the renowned of our cattle, because we can store individual Ingleby quality beef products, we invest a lot records of weight, health treatment, perforof resources in food safety and traceability. mance, etc. We track each individual animal from pasture The abattoir verifies that the individual traceto plate. This is possible due to a double ability is in good order – otherwise the animal eartag system comprised of a visual plastic is rejected. Via many records and numbers, tag on one ear, and an electronic chip in the the provenance of the animal is traced all the other ear. Each animal is given a 9-digit ID way through processing to the final cut of beef. number and we record its date of birth, sex, At Ingleby Farms, we believe traceability is place of birth, and subsequently every an integral part of being a responsible food movement through its entire lifetime. producer. Food safety An example from our blueberry production in Romania We are using a state-of-the-art bar code system for our berries. We can trace each crate of berries to see where and when they were picked and by whom. We cool down our blueberries as fast as possible. Within just one hour of being picked, they are placed in cold storage. To ensure freshness for our customers, we ship our blueberries no later than 48-72 hours after picking. We are treating all the water that we use for foliar spaying with a UV system which kills all the bacteria in the water. Contents Building Trust 27 Organic trials in Peru As part of our efforts for continuous improvement, we have begun organic trials in Peru. Based on our trials, we are now in the process These first test plots have returned good of transitioning 14 hectares of Sweet Globe results and now our teams are organising new table grapes to organic production. These are trials. This strategy is part of a diversification currently qualified as “transition to organic”, and expansion process. We also plan to expand which will last for the next two years. our organic fruit production of avocados and blueberries. We are integrating regenerative agriculture practices by using and planting more cover crops for our high value crops. We planted sorghum, cannavalia, mucuna/crotalaria (legumes) after pruning. The pruned branches were chopped and spread under the main plants as mulch, significantly increasing the organic matter. We also graze sheep in the grape fields, which is possible under GlobalGAP protocol. Contents 28 Our Soil Contents Our Soil 29 We feed soil microbiology 47 DIFFERENT CROPS GROWN Keeping our microorganisms healthy is 15 % crucial to a resilient and sustainable food ARABLE AREA WITH COVER production. It is therefore important to CROPS always keep our underground ecosystem well-fed. Plants release up to a quarter of the sugars they produce from photosynthesis through their roots. They are practically feeding the microorganisms beneath them. In turn, the microorganisms 46 % ARABLE AREA IS deliver nutrients to the plant that would otherwise be unavailable. NO-TILLAGE They even help to fight off pests and keep the plant disease-free. Microorganisms are furthermore critically important to the physical structure of soil and in nutrient cycling. When it comes to cover crops and microorganisms, diversity is key! While many farmers only use a single cover crop species, the benefits of cover crops are greatest when multiple species are combined. Therefore, we strive for a wide array of cover crops, all 52 % ARABLE AREA IS with their own unique beneficial qualities. On our farms in Lithuania MINIMUM-TILLAGE and Latvia, we are sowing up to nine different cover crops together. This plant diversity also increases microorganism diversity, which ultimately results in healthier and more resilient crops. Contents 30 Our Soil Improving soil health We value our soil to a great extent! It is the foundation of our work as farmers. The simplest way to continuously improve soil health is to keep the soil covered by plants. Permanent green cover produced for our soil microbiology, they give the plant minerals and nutrients, ensuring that In addition to harvesting our crops, we aim to we can grow a strong and healthy crop. harvest sunlight all year round. We need our soil to have a permanent green cover, as the As well as covering our fields with a green cover conversion of sunlight, CO2 and water into sugar and utilising every ray of sunlight, we remove and oxygen, also known as photosynthesis, carbon from the atmosphere, we protect our takes place in plants. soil from wind and water erosion and keep the moisture content in the soil, decreasing the risk When we harvest sunlight, we produce food of drought. for life both above and below ground. With our crops, we produce food for people and animals If the cover dies during winter, the residues will and with our cover crops, we produce food for still protect the soil as an armour and slowly deour soil microbiology. In exchange for the sugar compose so that the carbon is stored in the soil. Oxygen O2 Solar energy C6H12O6 CO2 Glucose Carbon dioxide Photosynthesis 6CO2 + 6H2O C6H12O6 + 6O2 H2O Water Contents Our Soil 31 OUR LIVESTOCK BELOW GROUND Millipedes, Nematodes woodlice Facilitate ecosystem turnover Break down dead by eating roots and other plant tissue organisms in soil Ants, termites Earthworms Affect soil structure Affect soil structure, and porousness through porousness and nutrient soil ingestion and availability through soil transport ingestion and tunneling Rhizobia Microbial Symbiotic bacteria living in biomass roots of leguminous plants Fungi, protists and that “fix” nitrogen from the air bacteria that decompose and supply nitrogen to the plant organic materials and recycle nutrients in the soil Ecosystem engineers Earthworms make it possible for all kinds of other species to exist by finding their food We farm with nature, including what is below on the surface of the soil and bringing all ground. We strive to have a living soil where the nutrients back into the soil. Plants take the earthworms thrive due to our regenerative advantage of these tunnels, with the roots farming practices. penetrating deeper into the soil, where they Earthworms are often called ‘ecosystem can reach extra moisture and nutrients. engineers’ because of how they change the Earthworms also build the soil when they structure of their environments, but we like to leave their casts on the soil surface. This is very call them ‘our best employees below ground’. important since the topsoil is where we plant They offer many benefits, all of which help our crops. increase carbon sequestration, improve soil health and farm productivity. To ensure the benefits provided by the earthworms, we need to feed them with organic With their natural behavior of building undermaterial year-round in the form of crop residues ground homes and wiggling their way through and protect their homes by not working the the underground, they allow oxygen to be soil mechanically. They are our best employees transported further down the soil profile, and below ground and essential when farming with help stabilise soil organic matter. This allows nature. the soil to hold more water, just like a sponge. Soils with earthworms can drain up to ten times faster than soils without. Contents 32 Our Soil Field trials in the Baltics As part of our journey towards our goal of being synthetic pesticidefree by 2030, we conduct a range of field trials. Through the trials, we continually improve our regenerative farming practices and learn new ways to eliminate our use of synthetic pesticides. Latvia and Lithuania Traditionally, row crops are grown as monocultures of wheat, barley, rye etc., but in one of our Over the last couple of years, we have concompanion crop trials, we have tested growing ducted more than 25 field trials in Latvia and hairy vetch together with rye and found that Lithuania. The trials mainly focus on increasing hairy vetch was successful in supressing weeds. the diversity in our fields by growing several By combining these different types of plants, crops together and planting cover crops on our we believe that we can replace herbicides with fields during winter. By growing companion natural weed control. crops we can diminish weed problems and reduce herbicides, since the plants cover more Cover crops can also prevent weeds from of the soil surface, not letting weed plants emerging. We seed them in late summer, and emerge. they will grow until they are terminated by the frost or by us in the early spring before seeding the next crop. Even after the cover crops have been terminated, their residues still protect and cover the soil surface as an armour that the weeds cannot penetrate. We are testing many varieties and combinations of cover crops in order to find the mixture that will give us the Chickpea and barley growing together. best soil armour while also improving soil health. We have also tested a new variety of sugar beets that requires 80-90% less herbicides than the traditional varieties. We have replaced all our sugar beets in 2020 with this new variety and are looking into how we can replace the remaining herbicides needed with other non-synthetic products. We keep testing new technology and farming practices on all our farms. All trials are reported and shared across our farm teams. Contents Our Soil 33 Common vetch in canola to suppress weeds. Companion crops Companion cropping refer to the practice of planting two or more crops together. This type of polyculture strives to mimic the diversity of natural ecosystems and yield a long list Winter wheat with crimson clover to suppress weeds. of benefits, including improved pest control, increased plant health, habitat for beneficial insects, better use of space, and a general increase in crop productivity. There is no such thing as a perfect mixture of companion crops, but attentive farmers can reap a lot of benefits by continuous observations and adjustments, hence our many field trials. Impressive red clover roots improves soil structure. Phacelia planted in canola to suppress weeds. Contents 34 Our Soil Valuing nutrition With a growing world population that should all have access to healthy and nutritious food, there is significant pressure on farmers. This drives high volume production of low nutrient-content food in agriculture systems, with negative health and environmental impacts. With our 150-year perspective on farming, this is not the route we wish to take. Instead, we aim to increase the nutritional value In 2019/20, our total crop production reached of our products and the amount of calories that 214,479 tonnes, equalling 4.7 tonnes crop per we produce, without expanding the area of land cropping hectare. Converted into calories, our used for farming. Our teams work year-round to food production totals 636,143 million calories. produce sustainable seeds, grains, vegetables, This can feed 697,143 people for a year based fruits, nuts, meat and milk of premium quality. on an estimated daily intake of 2,500 calories per person. We believe that our focus on creating healthy soil will not only improve our yields, but also Calculated by hectares, we can feed one person the nutritional value of our products. We believe for an entire year on 0.11 hectare of land, equal that there is a correlation between fertile soil, to 1,100 m2 or about two basketball courts. healthy plants, and the quality of the grain, fruit Since we started measuring, we have increased or nuts. our tonnes of food produced per hectare by At Ingleby Farms, we are specialists in growing an average of 2% per year for crops and 4% for high-quality, nutrient-dense crops such as bluemeat and milk. We also aim to minimise food berries, avocados and pistachios. waste in every part of the food production and supply chain. Contents Our Soil 35 Avocados Avocados are packed with a variety of nutrients, including 20 different vitamins and minerals. We grow 700 hecatres of avocados in Peru, where the trees thrive in the mild coastal climate. Our main production is the dark green, pebbly skinned Hass variety. We also have a smaller production of the green skinned Pinkerton, Ettinger and Zutano, but these are mainly used as pollinisers. Our avocados are internationally recognised for their quality. We have obtained the Tesco Nurture Gold Standard Certification, as well as several Global G.A.P certifications. Blueberries Blueberries are bursting with nutrients and antioxidants. Blueberries are believed to have one of the highest antioxidant levels of all fruits. They are also low in calories. We grow blueberries in Peru and Romania. Both countries have excellent conditions for growing large, firm berries full of flavour. In total, we have 350 hectares in production; 200 hectares in Romania and 150 hectares in Peru. Our blueberries are hand-picked and packaged with care. With our cooling facilities, we can get them from field to cooling within one hour. This is critical to maintain superior quality. Pistachios Pistachios are a source of many essential vitamins and minerals, mono-unsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids, protein and fiber. They are also a source of antioxidants. We grow pistachios in the heart of the San Joaquin Valley, California. California is known to be home to the world’s best pistachios. Pistachios must be hulled and dried within 12 hours of harvest. Failure to do so will result in a stained and degraded product. To ensure our pistachios are of the highest quality, we have our own pistachio hulling, drying and storage facilities on farm. Our pistachio production meets the highest environmental standards. Contents 36 Our Animals Contents Our Animals 37 We raise our livestock 26 FARMS outdoors WITH ANIMALS For us, animal welfare is always a top 27,204 BEEF CATTLE priority. We raise healthy and ethically treated animals. They are open-range and pasture-fed, year round. We raise more than 135,000 sheep, 27,000 cattle and 3,750 dairy 6,285 DAIRY CATTLE cows. Our sheep are mainly Perendale, Romney, and Finnsheep (includes all crossbreeds, and Merino. Our beef cattle are mainly Aberdeen non-milking dairy cattle) Angus and our dairy cows are Holstein-Friesians. Our sheep, cattle and horses are open-range and grass-fed, grazing on extensive native or seeded pastures, and fodder crops such as kale, beets, lucerne, clovers and vetch. As part of our regenerative agriculture strategy, we are increasingly integrating animals into crop and seed productions by grazing 135,750 residues and cover crops. SHEEP Animals are a useful tool in the box of regenerative agriculture. Strategic grazing can stimulate forage photosynthesis and maintain the natural condition of productive pastures, while herbivores are an integral part of the carbon cycle, contributing to healthy soils. We believe that grass-fed livestock systems have multiple benefits, such as higher levels of Omega-3 and vitamins A and E, superior 34,500 meat flavour, marbling and tenderness. HECTARES GRAZING AREA With balanced breeding that supports the health, feed efficiency, meat and wool quality, we are actively refining our herd genetics for animals that are best suited for our farm environments. We follow strict ethical practices on how we treat and handle our livestock to ensure the best animal welfare, and ultimately, the best 5,611 meat, milk and wool. Good livestock husbandry needs a dedicated, hands-on team TONNNES MEAT, of people living on-site, creating what we call “living farms”. We MILK & WOOL employ people that have a gentle passion for caring for animals. Contents 38 Our Animals Black Aberdeen Angus After being bred entirely on natural pastures, our animals are then raised and finished on Our farms in Uruguay are situated in one of the seeded pastures, which we rotate with crops. world’s most important grassland biomes, the Our unique genetics return to the origins of the lush pampa humeda. We are strongly commitbreed. The result is efficient animals, capable of ted to the protection and preservation of these thriving exclusively on grass and easy to breed. natural grasslands, as conservation is an integral part of our livestock production. We keep Perfectly adapted to the environment, our these grasslands in their natural state by never strong genetics allow our cattle to live healthy spraying, tilling or fertilising. lives year-round. We breed our own unique Aberdeen Angus We have received good responses from the marcattle. They are the result of many years of work kets to our genetics. By returning to the origin improving our genetics, tracing back the roots of the breed, we can maintain our commitment of the original bloodlines. The original Aberdeen to animal welfare while producing sustainable, Angus was a robust but smaller framed animal, high-quality grass-fed beef with good nutritional well adapted to grazing on natural grasslands. properties, marbling and distinctive flavour. Contents Our Animals 39 100% grass-fed We have chosen the Aberdeen Angus breed due to its original characteristics and because it adapts well to our environment in Uruguay. Our beef production is based entirely on grass, so we select those cows that breed efficiently and deliver steers that perform well exclusively on grass. Our Aberdeen Angus beef obtains the proper marbling, offering a high-quality grass-fed meat with the nutritional properties and great flavour that today’s consumers increasingly request. Contents 40 Our Animals Texel/ In January 2020, the first Texel/Gotlandcross sheep arrived on-farm in Latvia. The sheep were imported from a Danish flock of excellent Gotland genetics and we are excited about the specific cross of breeds. From the Gotland side we get very good mothering abilities, higher fertility sheep rates, milk production and vigorous, fast growing lambs. The Texel side put more muscle on the lamb, producing premium quality lamb meat with excellent taste. Over winter, the sheep were housed indoors and Our main purpose of fed with silage. Lambing started in April, and the ewes and lambs were turned out as soon as introducing sheep on to our the grass started growing. This spring, our flock farm in Latvia is to integrate size almost doubled, when the lambs were born. During autumn, we were able to use less diesel, livestock into seed production. machinery, and manpower on mowing grass The sheep will help us to seed fields. Instead, it was grazed by sheep or made into silage for winter feed. reduce synthetic pesticide In the coming years, we will be increasing our usage on grass and clover seed flock size to reach 1,800 lambing ewes by 2024 fields by grazing weeds while while developing a good team of people and dogs. Latvia is a country where sheep farming improving yields and fertilising is not common anymore, but we see an fields naturally. opportunity to grow. Contents Our Animals 41 Merino sheep As part of our goals of diversity and regenerative agriculture, we are integrating sheep into our mix of beef, cereal, and seed productions in Uruguay. Reintroducing Merino sheep on our 5,634The final phase with our sheep in Uruguay is hectare farm Doña Maria brings the history and to explore lamb finishing on some of our other culture back to the pastoral landscape. Doña Uruguayan farms. This would involve strategic Maria, with its vast acreage of virgin grasslands, breeding for meat quality, and taking advantage has the perfect mix of soils, climate, grass, infraof our seed crops by integrating lambs for meat structure, and know-how to produce high-quality production. Merino wool together with its cattle breeding operation. Ingleby Farms’ Starting with 1,000 ewes in 2019, the end goal global shearing policy is a flock of 5,000 by 2022. According to good husbandry standards, we With high-quality wool in mind, we bought the shear our sheep annually. At other times of the first lot of ewes from a well-recognised breeder in year, we do additional limited shearing in the Uruguay, and we are targeting wool of 18 microns, form of crutching and wigging to reduce the risk otherwise known as the superfine category. of flystrike, minimise impairment of vision, and This year, our sheep were shorn under protocols the incidence of stained wool. for “Green Label”, the highest wool standard We never engage in mulesing (the removal in Uruguay, which includes best practice for of wool-bearing skin from part of the breech sheep handling and wool classification. Buyers area of the sheep); this procedure is prohibited recognise this certificate as an indication of fibre on all our farms worldwide. diameter, yield, and overall quality. Contents 42 Our Animals Beneficial insects A central part of Ingleby Farms’ strategy in achieving our 2030 synthetic pesticide-free goal is biological pest control using beneficial insects. Attentive to nature’s way of dealing with pests, we accumulate knowledge on-farm, enabling us to replace synthetic pesticides with strategic biological diversity. Beneficial insect lab in Peru Field tests in California Ingleby Farms Peru began using beneficial On our farm in California, we have tested how insects in 2014 with the goal of producing high beneficial insects can control Gill’s mealybug quality fruit with zero pesticide residue. Over (Ferrisia Gilli), which is a devastating pest in 30 different wasp, beetle and fly species were our pistachio orchard. produced and trialled on-farm as alternatives In 2019, instead of applying synthetic pesticides, to insecticides in table grape and avocado we released four species of beneficial insects crops. We were careful to choose local insect as biological control in a 110-hectare orchard. species as to avoid the potential introduction Two of the released beneficial insects were of invasive species. to control Gill’s mealybug, namely cryptobug Lacewings (Ceraeochysa cincta) proved to be (Cryptolaemus montrouzieri) and Citripar wasp the most successful beneficial insect. They are (Anagyrus pseudococci), which are both natural used to control white fly larvae which spread enemies to the pest. Minute pirate bug (Orius disease and eat plant tissue in the avocado and insidiosus) and green lacewing (Chrysoperla table grape crops. Bred on-farm in our beneficial rufilabris) were furthermore released as general insect lab, adult lacewings are fed on a mixture insect control. These insects are all native to of water, yeast and molasses to produce over the area. a million eggs per month. The eggs are then distributed to the field where the lacewing larvae soon hatch. Lacewing larvae are veracious, penetrating buds more effectively than insecticides, and consuming 8-10 white fly larvae each before pupating. In 2017, we began using the nematode Heterorhabditis bacteriophora to control soil born Minute pirate bug beetle larvae in the blueberry crop. Nematodes are bred in the beneficial insect lab before being released via the irrigation system. The nematodes are mobile and fast acting, with results visible in 2-4 days. Our field tests in Peru have been so successful that our on-farm beneficial insect lab is scaling up 20%. Contents Our Animals 43 Results were great, so we are continuing the synthetic pesticide-free approach in 2020 on the 110-hectare orchard by reapplying cryptobug and green lacewing. In 2019 as well as 2020, we surveyed the orchards to see what insect biodiversity was present. This is valuable information when Green lacewing working toward the use of beneficial insects to control our pests. Natural enemies to caterpillars in soya In 2020, we released Trichogramma wasps on 440 hectares in our San Fernando farm in Uruguay. This was to fight off soya-eating caterpillars which can be a devastating pest. Trichogramma are tiny wasps who lay their eggs inside the much larger eggs of caterpillars. The wasp population will therefore continue to expand until the pest is controlled. As the wasp is already native to Uruguay, there is no risk of releasing an invasive species. When we release Trichogramma wasps in the fields, we limit the amount of insecticide required to control caterpillars. By using the biology that nature gave us as an alternative to synthetic chemicals, we produce quality soya in a sustainable manner. Trichogramma wasp Bees and pollinators Globally, 75% of crops and 35% of agricultural land is dependant, at least in part, on pollinators. Therefore, protecting and increasing pollinator populations improves crop yields and ensures food supply. The western honeybee (Apis mellifera) is the most identifiable pollinator. But the vast majority of pollinators are wild, including moths, flies, wasps, beetles, butterflies, mammals, and over 20,000 species of bumble and solitary bees. Pollinators require access to a reliable supply of high-quality feed, freshwater and shelter. Ingleby Farms provides this on-farm in the form of diverse habitats and pollinator friendly plantings. Honeybee Contents 44 Our Nature Contents Our Nature 45 We take nature 17,931 HECTARES seriously NATIVE PASTURES Nature is not just a pretty add-on to our 8,053 HECTARES farms. Biodiversity in all its forms is vital OF WOODLANDS to improve our farms and food production and maintain our planet’s resources and ecosystems. Biodiversity provides services which help to cycle nutrients, form soil, sequester carbon, store and filter water, provide pollination 944 HECTARES OF and control pests. We also believe that biodiversity makes our FORMALLY PROTECTED COVENANTS production systems more resilient to economic and environmental stresses, including the effects of climate change. Agriculture has been said to be the main driver of biodiversity decline due to chemical use and habitat destruction. In Ingleby Farms, we want to show that farming is part of the solution, improving existing natural habitats and increasing the area by creating new habitats in areas unsuitable for production. We never clear forest for farming purposes. Instead, we continually 29% INGLEBY’S LAND seek to provide habitats for all species and promote connectivity IN NATURE between protected areas in our farming landscapes. We embrace regenerative practices and are on a journey to phase out synthetic pesticides and fertilisers to avoid their negative effects on biodiversity. We cherish our soils and make sure to support the myriads of life herein. Diversification in crops together with new varieties and combinations sustain yields. In addition, these actions support our 87 local biodiversity and ecosystems whilst providing more nutritious SIGNIFICANT SPECIES ON and healthy food for all. OUR FARMS In fact, 29% of our entire land area is set aside for nature. Farm-byfarm we make “Farming with Nature” plans to ensure that even the most productive farms set aside at least 10% land area for nature. Contents 46 Our Nature Biodiversity Birds on farms are useful indicators of biodiversity. Through observations, we track how Ingleby Farms is responsible for managing the bird communities on our farms and in our a diverse variety of complex ecosystems and forests change over time. We track which the species they contain. Ecosystem function species are present, their numbers, and if they is a priority for us and very central to our are breeding. regenerative farming philosophy. Healthy ecosystems provide services necessary for Over time, we can look for trends in the number successful agriculture such as nutrient cycling, of bird species and correlate these with weather water purification, primary production, and conditions, crop types, farming practices, and help build resilience to climate change. other changes in the environment. To safeguard ecosystems and biodiversity Our data shows how important diverse habitats globally, we have identified 87 significant are when it comes to strengthening local bird species present on our farms that either populations; just a few simple measures can warrant further attention or simply need to be help convert farmlands into suitable habitats monitored. For example, on Ingleby Farms Peru, for birds, without significant reduction in two endangered bird species were identified – production. the Peruvian plantcutter (Phytotoma raimondii) and Rufous flycatcher (Myiarchus semirufus) which inhabit the tropical dry forest. Contents Our Nature 47 Green Kingfisher (Chloroceryle americana) Bird monitoring Changes in bird populations are useful indicators of our farms as habitats, but also of broader environmental changes. Ornithologists with knowledge of local species monitor the birds on our land. We encourage local farm employees to get involved to foster environmental awareness and involvement in local ecosystems. White wagtail (Motacilla alba) Whinchat (Saxicola rubetra) Burrowing owl (Athene cunicularia) Contents 48 Our Nature Freyer’s purple emperor In August 2019, one of the rarest animals in Europe was observed on our Greengate farm in Romania – Freyer’s purple emperor (Apatura metis). This butterfly was observed in the forest margins of the Cinca Valley, adjacent to natural pasture where our Aberdeen Angus graze. The Freyer’s purple emperor is found very locally and sporadically in southeast Europe and is protected by both the EU Habitats Directive and the Bern Convention. Freyer’s purple emperor is associated with water and is often found in forests near rivers and streams where the larva feed on white willow (Salix alba). Habitat suitability for Freyer’s purple emperor is changing within southeast Europe as the intensification of agriculture continues. This is a significant find for the Greengate team and an indicator that our sustainable approach to grazing natural grassland is insync with natural processes. The Cinca Valley, where Freyer’s Purple emperor was observed, was being surveyed at the time for the creaPuketiti flower cave tion of a new environmental area. The internal Ingleby Farms’ Puketiti Station, New Zealand, protection of this land by Ingleby Farms ensures sits at the southernmost extent of the Waitothat key feeding and breeding habitat for this mo limestone country. The extensive caverns rare animal is protected in perpetuity. beneath the pastures and native bush contain one of the country’s most amazing and least known natural heritage sites – the flower cave. The flower cave gets its name from the gypsum s Below pastures and native bush, the Puketiti flower flowers that adorn its walls, but its most strikcave features beautiful gypsum flowers. ing feature is a limestone helix, only one of two known in New Zealand. Other geological formations such as anthodite crystals, cotton wool on sheet crystals, angle hair, cauliflower formations, sheet crystals and a dried-up crystal pool are also found within the flower cave. Until very recently, little was known about the flower cave as access to the highly decorated cave passage is restricted to only 12 highly experienced cavers per year to protect the fragile formations. The cave entrance is a well-kept secret, with access gained through a small opening just big enough to squeeze through and down a wire ladder. While in the flower cave it is essential to walk carefully within the taped-off areas to avoid damaging the fragile walls. Contents Our Nature 49 Mt Elephant volcanic plains Protecting the natural grasslands on Mt Elephant Station is central to ensure the The natural temperate grasslands of the survival of both the Golden sun moth and Victorian volcanic plains are a biodiversity Corangamite water skink on-farm. As part hotspot, containing 25 nationally threatened of our internal protection, we have eliminated flora and fauna species. Dominated by native prescribed burning, cultivation, and application perennial grasses interspersed with herbs and of synthetic pesticides and fertilisers in the wildflowers, the natural temperate grasslands natural grassland on Mt Elephant Station. In of the Victorian volcanic plains contain very addition to banning these undesirable practices, few shrubs and trees. we have reduced grazing intensity in the natural Ingleby Farms Victoria manages Mt Elephant grasslands, enough to control exotic grasses, Station, a large grazing and cropping property, but not so much as to overgraze and negatively that contains 322 hectares of natural grassland affect the natural grassland and the species atop an old lava flow that ran from the adjacent they contain. Mt Elephant. Within these natural grasslands, Continuous monitoring is key to ensuring that we have identified two endangered species: our actions are having the desired effect. the Golden sun moth (Synemon plana) and Corangamite water skink (Eulamprus tympanum marnieae). Contents 50 Our Nature Naturally regenerating Romania has a long and proud Forest management tradition of sustainable forest In general, our forests in Romania are young. Almost half of the trees are between 60 and 80 management and is home to years old, with their main cutting not for another some of the largest expanses of 30 to 40 years. In the meantime, our main task is to thin the forests, so that we improve the mixed-species forest in Europe. quality and species composition, and over time We sustainably manage these create more valuable and biodiverse forests. natural, mixed-species forests We promote valuable trees, support ecosystems and biodiversity through progressive cuttings and in accordance with the highest natural regeneration, which maintain a favourable professional and environmental balance between young and mature forest. This also strengthens the stability, vitality and standards. resilience of the forests to climate change. We do plant a few new trees in areas where forest does not currently exist or areas where 100 kilometres north-west of Bucharest in natural regeneration has been slow. In general, Romania, Ingleby Farms owns three large we follow internationally recognised standards forests totalling 7,261 hectares. We have over for responsible forest management. 19 different tree species in our Romanian forests. The dominant broad-leaf species are beech, oak and lime, but we also have hornbeam, spruce, Harvesting trees fir, ash, and cherry. We do not use intensive harvesting and we never We do not clear-cut, instead we use a make clear cuts. We only remove the mature trees continuous cover forestry system which uses in a stand once it is 100% populated with new natural regeneration and succession to replace young trees (this process takes about 30 years). harvested trees. We leave old senescent trees; We protect very large and old trees, that are these are often rotten and have very little usually rotten inside. They are of prime impormerchantable value but are important habitats tance for specialised forest flora and fauna and for various flora and fauna. help enhance the biodiversity of our forests. Contents Our Nature 51 Wildlife We also have 2,381 hectares as a designated hunting-free silent area where game has a Our forests are situated in one of the most safe haven for breeding. spectacular and wildlife-rich areas of Romania. This region is renowned for its isolated wilderness, and sightings of large mammals, such as Building relationships wild boars, brown bears, grey wolves, wild cats, Building good relationships with the local red deer and lynx are common. Sometimes communities is important to us. We focus on we also see Carpathian chamois on the neighenvironmental educational projects. We hope bouring sunny mountain slopes. that these projects will inspire the local communities to respect and care for our Protected forests forests even more. High in the Carpathian Mountains, you find our Siriu forest which totals 1,356 hectares. Siriu forest does not have any European or international priority habitats, but it connects forest lower in the Buzau valley to a Natura2000 area that contains virgin old-growth forest, alpine pasture, herb fields and scrubland. Siriu forest contains 427 hectares of land within the adjoining Natura2000 area (ROSCI 0229 SIRIU). Here, we have adopted a special management plan that respects the Natura2000 ecological and social objectives. We protect an additional 226 hectares at the top of Siriu forest, combining it with a 58-hectare Natura2000 area. The 284 hectares are steep in places, representing a difficult harvest setting and erosion risk. But the area has abundant wildlife and the opportunity to create a safe haven for nature. It is for this reason that we have removed this area from production and created a nature reserve. To ensure that sensitive plant and animal life of a region is not disturbed, we have established ditches on access tracks to this area of forest as increased motor bike traffic is becoming a significant issue. FOREST ANNUAL HARVEST PRODUCTION AREA GROWTH AND THINNING 6,977 56,340 20,414 hectares cubic metres cubic metres Contents 52 Our Climate Contents Our Climate 53 We aim to be climate 70% GLOBAL ELECTRICITY positive CONSUMPTION IS RENEWABLE by 2030 2.25 MILLION KWH SOLAR ELECTRICITY Climate change is the defining issue of our GENERATED ON OUR FARMS lifetime. While agriculture can be intensive with greenhouse gas emissions, this does not have to be the future. At Ingleby Farms, we plan to be a part of the solution to climate change, by challenging ourselves to transition to climate positive 9% farming by 2030. We are mapping out how to achieve this goal GLOBAL DIESEL USE IS BIODIESEL through regenerative agriculture and sequestering carbon in our soil. With the new decade off to a start, agriculture is turning a corner towards a new way of farming, thinking, adapting. With rising themes of regenerative agriculture, renewable energy, and soil health awareness, never has the prospects of farming looked so exciting. Narratives around agriculture’s role in climate change paint 10% LESS DIESEL USED farmers negatively, and public pressure will only intensify in the FROM LAST YEAR coming years. It is often overlooked that farmers have enormous potential to help solve the world’s climate crisis. Our choices for managing land can either contribute to global warming through degradation and disturbance, or be a critical part of the solution by removing carbon 26 from the atmosphere. Farmers must take responsibility for their emissions, set ambitious CROP targets, and embrace more climate-friendly farming systems. GREEN HOUSE GAS Often all it takes to shift the balance from net emission to net FOOTPRINTS MADE FOR OUR sequestration is more delicate treatment of our soils. BENCHMARK Contents 54 Our Climate We are increasingly mindful of curbing our net emissions. Our animals are grass-fed and open range. We are working to improve soil health through reducing tillage, cover cropping, diversifying rotations and strategic grazing to drive soil carbon sequestration. We are planting trees, protecting native pastures, and exploring Our drawdown plan: renewable energy sources. Turning the tables In 2019, we launched a new cornerstone goal on emissions for a better future for farming: aiming for climate positive farms by 2030. This means that our farms will have positive net effects Limiting on the climate by drawing down and storing CO2 emissions more carbon than they release. • Reduce soil disturbance to stop The next decade will determine what world soil organic matter from breaking humankind will inhabit in the next century. down and releasing emissions With proactive problem-solving and action, • Save diesel by optimising Ingleby Farms is committed to doing the best machinery and operations that we can with our farms to help reverse the • Embrace solar energy negative effects of climate change. • Embrace biodiesel or biogas over fossil-fuels • Replace synthetic fertilisers with both nitrogen-fixing plants and organic inputs • Phase out synthetic pesticides • Prevent erosion and runoff Sinking CO2 • Adopt reduced-till or no-till practices • Grow diverse cover crops to armour the soil and maintain living roots • Rotationally graze animals in a manner to stimulate plant photosynthesis • Plant for diversity through companion cropping and varied rotations • Plant hedgerows, solitary trees, shelter belts to store carbon as biomass • Encourage natural revegetation in marginal field corners • Allow nature to flourish along corridors, wetlands and ponds • Safeguard and strategically manage forests to balance regeneration and sequestration • Explore agroforestry and silvopastoral productions Contents Our Climate 55 Capturing carbon With an ambitious goal of climate positive farming by 2030, the first challenge is to benchmark and measure our carbon footprint in the years leading up to 2020. To do this, Ingleby Farms joined the Cool The CFT also equips Ingleby Farms to track Farm Alliance in April 2019, and we are inteemissions and overall carbon footprint of each grating their carbon calculator, the Cool Farm crop or animal production, highlighting where Tool (CFT), within our sustainability reporting across our portfolio needs the most focus. programme. A global, online calculator used by The science of farm carbon calculating is evolving farmers in more than 115 countries worldwide, rapidly. For proactive farmers interested in their the CFT can measure emissions from the use of role in climate change mitigation, the possibilities fertilisers and fossil fuels, but also estimate the and learning opportunities in the near future will amount of carbon that the land sequesters, be endless. to provide a net carbon figure. THE CARBON CYCLE Photosynthesis Microbial Animal Plant respiration respiration respiration Decomposition Soil fauna and microbes Humus Fossil carbon Contents 56 Our Climate Renewable energy Agriculture uses energy directly 70% of our farm and office electricity consumption is renewably sourced (22% of all gigajoules in the form of fuel or electricity of energy consumed), including 2,252,359 kWh to operate farm machinery and of solar power generated on our own farms. equipment, to dry grains, cool In some of the regions where we farm, the national energy grids are mostly comprised of fruits, and indirectly, such as renewable energy sources. For example, most in the production of synthetic of the electricity used in Tasmania, Uruguay and New Zealand comes from hydro and fertilisers. At Ingleby Farms, wind power. we are acutely mindful of the energy demands of farming. Energy use Embracing as much renewable We measure our energy use to continuously improve the environmental performance of our energy as possible is a key production systems. tool in the box to tackle In 2019/20, we used a total of 274,707 gigajoules climate change. (GJ) of energy. This amounts to 2.81 GJ/ha, or 0.90 tonnes of produce per GJ*. In terms of GJ of energy spent directly on our farms, the majority is in the form of diesel (50%) followed by electricity (30%) and natural gas (11%). ENERGY USED RENEWABLE BY PRODUCTION ELECTRICITY USE 2% 8% 11% 26% 30% 6% Dairy Renewable Horticulture Non-renewable Cropping Sheep & Cattle Processing Other 70% 47% * The energy efficiency measures exclude energy use relating to our processing facilities, as these are often done by a third party. Contents Our Climate 57 ENERGY USE GJ 300,000 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Diesel Electricity Propane Natural gas Biofuel Other Increase in natural gas due to new pistachio processing facility, USA Irrigation is particularly energy intensive, However, once we have implemented all responsible for 81% of our global electricity use. developments, we should see a decrease in energy use, and an increase in energy Diesel use is traditionally high in cropping sysuse efficiency. tems. We aim to reduce this by moving towards minimum tillage, or no tillage, incorporating more pastures into rotations and upgrading old diesel-powered drying systems. We constantly search for better machinery and equipment that is lighter or multipurpose, to reduce both diesel and soil disturbance. Energy use efficiency We want to increase our energy use efficiency, measured as yield per GJ, by 2% per year. However, our energy efficiency has been decreasing by 5% per year as an average over the last eight years due to our focus on soil improvements, major construction and developments, increased irrigation as well as costs of drying grain. In Peru, our production volume is relatively low as our crops are still young. In 2018/19, we processed our pistachios in our new processing facilities for the first time. This extensive operation is fuelled by natural gas and is the major reason behind our increase in natural gas use. Processing pistachios, USA. Contents 58 Our Climate Clean, plentiful water Next to soil, water is our most Sustainable irrigation precious natural resource. It We irrigate 15% of our arable area, or 7,287 hectares. Irrigation stabilises and increases our irrigates our crops and pastures, yields, enables more crop rotations per year, provides fresh drinking water for builds resilience to climate change, and helps increase our fertiliser-use efficiency. livestock, and supports the most In 2019/20, we used 42,708 megalitres of diverse habitats on our farms. water in our irrigated production. We irrigate crops in the US (pistachios), Tasmania (annual crops and dairy pasture), Argentina and We use water efficiently. To produce ‘more crop Uruguay (annual crops), Peru and Romania per drop’, we use the best irrigation systems, (horticultural crops). avoid unnecessary water-use, and recycle water where possible. We never allow our water use to exceed the annual renewable supply of water, whether from We use a range of nature-based solutions to surface water or groundwater sources. We also conserve water and keep our rivers clean. ensure that the water used for irrigation never We use terracing along slopes and keep grass exceeds withdrawal amounts that would have waterways in low areas of our cropland. In this negative impacts on aquatic and terrestrial way, we slow the velocity of water after rainfall, ecosystems. and at the same time protect our soils and In some cases, irrigated fields can have a waters by reducing sedimentation and erosion. positive impact on the wildlife through availaWe have an obligation to protect waters and bility of forage and feed. Irrigation ponds serve water habitats for ourselves, our neighbours, a dual purpose by providing additional habitat and future generations. for wildlife. Contents Our Climate 59 Natural waterfall in our forest in Siriu, Romania Water habitats Water habitats are epicenters of biodiversity and are an integral part of our long-term Farming with Nature project. They support healthy thriving ecosystems on our farms, benefiting both production and conservation. Where possible, we create additional water habitats by digging shallow scrapes of variable size, shape and depth, forming diverse aquatic habitats for a variety of animals and plants. Currently, water habitats make up 2.5% of our total land area. Birds foraging in natural pond at Tormac, Romania Sunset over water reservoir Lake Elephant at Campo D’Oro, Romania Water reservoir at Burrel Ranch, California, United States Contents 60 Our Climate We fence off all major waterways to prevent livestock access. Grazing animals can destroy the grass and riparian vegetation along the banks, leaving them susceptible to erosion. This also reduces faecal contamination and eutrophication. Irrigation systems are managed to prevent ground or surface water from being contaminated by fertiliser or agrochemical runoff. In general, water quality should be maintained or improved. Water footprint, Peru At Ingleby Farms, we are strongly committed to optimising our water footprint, reducing water waste during irrigation and responsibly managing surface runoff. But perhaps more importantly, we are extremely cautious of the waterholding capacity of our soils. All to protect the natural resource base of water for local household use, agriculture and the environment. Buffer zone along creek, Latvia In dry climates such as the north-western Peru where we grow avocados, the best place to store water is in the soil. Any drop of water not used by the tree today ideally should be kept in the soil to be used tomorrow instead of evaporating into the air or flowing off the land. For Water habitats this purpose, we use regenerative soil practices to build our soils into “sponges”. We minimise As water bodies enhance biodiversity, we want tillage and shade the ground below the avocado water habitats on 1% of our farmland. Optimal trees with cover crops and pruning residues. water habitats should have summer holding This helps to cool the ground, reduce evaporawater, riparian vegetation, trees for nesting, tion and build up soil carbon, which again helps and natural, varied margins. to increase water infiltration and improve the So far, 2.5% of our total land area is in water soil’s water holding capacity. bodies; rivers, streams, springs, ponds, ditches, canals and reservoirs. We construct ponds and wetlands to reach our water habitat goal at a farm level. Protecting farm waters Water habitat, Latvia To avoid water pollution, we use best management practices when applying fertilisers and agrochemicals to our crops. We protect our waterways from fertilisers, chemicals, sediment and animal waste by creating 10-metre uncultivated and unsprayed buffer zones around water bodies. These prevent nutrient leaching and sediment loss – protecting water quality, and farmland from erosion. Contents Our Climate 61 We use reservoirs to store water long term. Sensors read the water saturation of the soil We “harvest” water from times of high availaand temperature in the soil. They register bility (March to July) to use it in November information every three hours, so that we and December when water availability is scarce. constantly can optimise water usage. Every To achieve this, we have invested in reservoirs drop counts! with a capacity of 1,180,00 cubic metres. In addition to the moisture sensors, we have We continually implement new technology a weather station to measure the evapoand practices for our drip irrigation systems. transpiration. To minimise evaporation, we The improvements include water treatments use weed cover on the beds which holds back that ensure proper water flow and soil moisture moisture effectively. sensors to better match irrigation with plant needs. Our irrigation system allows for responsive, precise, and judicious application of water through an automated, self-metering system that controls the rate at which water is supplied. This operates in tandem with the hands-on experience of our skilled teams and their sense of plant needs and knowledge of the local soil and climatic conditions. Intelligent irrigation, Romania In Romania, our blueberries are irrigated by state-of-the-art technology. The irrigation system measures rainfall and UV radiation and calculates how much water is needed. The heavy clay soil can be tricky to manage, so the computer data is just one source of information to support our team’s irrigation plan. Once the irrigation is initiated, the pumping system collects filtered water from a basin and sends it into the section valves and down into State-of-the-art pump unit, Romania the driplines. IRRIGATED WATER CROP WATER AREA APPLIED FOOTPRINT 7,287 42,708 1,340 hectares megalitres litres water/kilo produced Contents 62 Our Communities Contents Our Communities 63 We put safety first The safety and well-being of our employees is our main priority. Farming is a hazardous profession. Providing safe work environments for our teams is one of our most important responsibilities. One of our major goals at Ingleby Farms is a due to improvements in Australia and Peru, the zero-harm work culture. Realistically, we know countries with the highest safety risks given that this is difficult to achieve. their work with livestock and horticulture, respectively. The positive trend continues in Our farm managers hold daily or weekly safety 2019/20 with 16 accidents to date. However, briefings with their teams. Our teams report even one accident is one too many, and we will on accidents, but also on near misses. We continue focusing on health and safety. continuously monitor and analyse this data to assess where we should direct efforts and The graph below shows the accidents for each resources to reduce risk. month in fiscal year 2019/20 and the average for 2016-2018. We have made a spectacular The number of accidents worldwide is declining improvement with fewer accidents this financial year by year. In 2018/19, we saw a 33% reduction year and especially in August, April and June in accidents from 72 in 2017/18 to 48. This is with zero accidents. ACCIDENTS PER MONTH 10 8 6 4 2 0 July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May June Accidents FY2019/20 Accidents avg. (2016-2018) Contents 64 Our Communities Medical clinic Peru Lost time injuries To deal with the global COVID-19 pandemic, The constant focus on health and safety has procedures are in place to protect our team created measurable differences. We have over members. Daily health and safety training the past four years improved our “Lost time is provided about personal hygiene and injury frequency rates” (LTIFR) from 9.95 to 1.92. employees’ temperatures are checked at the entrance at the farm. Record in Lithuania In Ingleby Farms Lithuania, we have had zero accidents in the last four years. Thanks to our team members in Lithuania who always have Number of safety in mind and strive for constant improvelost time injuries ment in all areas regarding safety. x 1,000,000 Training Total hours worked One of our core goals is for our employees to spend at least 2% of their work hours (or about one week annually) in training. Our employees did spend 2% of their work hours in training during 2019/20. We continue to encourage and assist our employees in acquiring new skills. LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATES (LTIFR) 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Ingleby Farms Safe Work, Australia Safe Work is an Australian government statutory body established in 2008 to develop national policy relating to work, health, safety and workers’ compensation. Contents Our Communities 65 Engaging with our communities We are local farmers, and we do our best to be trustworthy, honest, and hard-working neighbours. Every year, we invite schools, families, and friends to events at our farms. Below are a few examples. Ingleby Farms Peru World shearing competition football cup In December 2019, Ingleby Farms’ Puketiti Station in New Zealand hosted the world Ingleby Farms’ two farms in Peru are hubs of shearing record for lambs in the strong wool, activity. Hundreds of people arrive for work each 3-stand, 8-hour category. The event started day across production, technology, finance and before dawn, when the crew counted down administration. the shearers for the start. To inspire a little competition, we organised The winning team managed to shear a total a football tournament, involving up to 20 different of 1,976 lambs in an incredible act of endurance. teams across departments. The excitement was palpable, and the community In December 2019, Ingleby Farms Peru extremely supportive. celebrated the finals of its 2019 “Ingleby Cup”. The third edition of the tournament featured football and volleyball competitions. This year, Other highlights it also included the I Festival of Folklore Dances. In the autumn, Ingleby Farms Romania organised an “Open Farm Day” at Greengate farm. Children The 2019 winners for each category were: from a neighbouring school spent an exciting day • Football (Motupe) visiting the farm, machinery, and cattle. Real Sanidad (Grape health area) In February 2020, Ingleby Farms Latvia hosted • Football (Olmos) a “Shadow Day”, where school children could PDS Olmos (Administration area) learn about a profession they are interested in by following a farmer during a day at work. • Volleyball (mixed) Unión Palto (Avocado labour area) In March 2020, the team from Ingleby Farms Lithuania successfully organised a “Clean Up • Folklore dance Day”. The goal was to collect trash in the local from Motupe and the Costa region, areas and neighbouring roads. Symbolically, with festive dance. the first thing we found was a horseshoe Congratulations to all winners and participants! – a sign of happiness and luck. Contents 66 Our Communities Striving to do right Ingleby Farms operates in many countries, some of which are perceived to have a medium to high risk of corruption. We are committed to conducting our business in an honest and ethical manner. We work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. Ethical policy Our main risks related to human rights are found within our supply chains. To mitigate these risks, We abide by our Ethical Policy, Anti-Money we asked all new suppliers to sign and adhere to Laundering & Anti-Corruption Policy and our Supplier’s Code of Conduct, which includes Supplier’s Code of Conduct. Together, these our expectations and minimum standards for constitute our Code of Business Conduct. labour and human rights. Again in 2019/20, we We require our employees and business have not experienced any human rights violapartners to comply with the Ingleby Code of tions on our farms or to our Supplier’s Code Business Conduct and to report any violations of Conduct. or suspected breaches. This is supported by our online whistleblower system allowing for full anonymity. Equal opportunities We oppose all forms of discrimination, and We have a zero tolerance towards breaches recruit employees regardless of age, race, of our Code of Business Conduct. For 2019/20, gender, nationality, religion, sexual orientation we are proud to report no breaches of ethical or other personal diversity indicators. We are conduct, no production and sustainability equal opportunity employers, and we want to breaches, no IT security breaches, and no create equal and fair working atmospheres whistleblowing cases. welcome to all. We investigate all submissions thoroughly, We monitor the gender ratio of our teams. take appropriate actions and report any breachOur target is for the underrepresented gender es to the Board of Directors. We ensure there is to reach at least 40% by 2025 at all levels in no retaliation against people who report alleged the organisation. Women are currently the breaches of the Code of Business Conduct. underrepresented gender, making up 32% of our total employees, 33% of our senior and Labour standards middle management and 25% of the Board and human rights of Directors. We support and respect internationally recognised labour standards and human rights. We fulfil our legal obligations and offer reasonable terms on pay, pension, sick leave, holidays and notice periods. We do not use any form of forced or compulsory labour, and we do not use child labour. We uphold the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. Contents Please compost or recycle this publication. True to our vision, we have produced this publication using cradle-to-cradle certified paper and ink, which means that all materials – except the staples – are fully biodegradable and can safely enter circular systems without any harm to living beings or the environment. We kindly ask you to honour our efforts by either composting or recycling the publication. It means a lot to us. Please don’t forget to remove the staples. Thank you. Farming with nature plants) to increase the area, diversity or As hands-on farmers and long-term stewards quality of natural/semi-natural habitat on of the land, Ingleby Farms believes in farming in our farms. This helps ensure successful feeding harmony with nature. Nature matters, diversity and breeding to build healthy populations matters, and agriculture plays a central role and enhance resilience. in preserving and enhancing biodiversity and Habitats woven throughout the productive ecosystem services on a global scale. landscape balance conservation and production; We actively use landscape tools (e.g. beetle improving biodiversity, connectivity and banks, waterbody creation, uncultivated buffers, ecosystem services while positively affecting let habitats naturally revegetate or plant native productivity.
