Clipper Group CSR Report 2019 CONTENTS CEO STATEMENT .............................................................................. 3 CSR POLICY AND SCOPE ................................................................... 3 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS.............................................. 4 CLIPPER GROUP BUSINESS MODEL .................................................. 5 Clipper Dry Bulk RO-RO KEY CSR RISKS AT CLIPPER ............................................................... 7 HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR STANDARDS ........................................... 8 Working on shore Diversity Working on vessels ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE ....................................................... 11 Climate Sulphur Cap 2020 Responsible ship recycling COACH Solutions ANTI-CORRUPTION ........................................................................ 13 Anti-corruption training program Maritime Anti-Corruption Network 2 CEO STATEMENT In this report, we describe Clippers Group’s CSR policies, activities in 2019, and goals for 2020. In recent years, our business has undergone several changes and today, Clipper Group is focusing on Roll on – Roll off (RoRo) activities carried out by our UK based subsidiary Seatruck Ferries as well as bulk activities as a specialized operator through Clipper Bulk. Changing business models have implications for our CSR efforts and we have thus in 2019 abandoned some irrelevant goals and set new ones to reflect our activities going forward. Irrespective of the various changes and challenging market conditions, we continue to recognize our social responsibility. Sustainability is an integral part of our daily operations, business strategy and organizational culture, and we are committed to support UN Global Compact and its ten principles, which form the basis for our CSR activities. Thus, this report serves as both our statutory reporting on CSR, cf.§99a and §99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act, and our communication of progress for 2019 to UN Global Compact. We are looking forward to continuously raising our standards for sustainable business practices. Peter Norborg Group CEO Clipper Group CSR POLICY AND SCOPE Our CSR activities and reporting are structured according to the UN Global Compact with special emphasis on the topics covered by our CSR policy, namely the safety of our employees and our environmental footprint. The information in this report mainly relates to Clipper Dry Bulk and only covers Seatruck Ferries where it is specifically mentioned. Following the restructuring of Clipper Group during 2018, Seatruck Ferries will be more integrated in future CSR Reports CLIPPER CSR POLICY As a significant player in the maritime industry with a global presence at sea and on shore, we recognize our social, environmental, and ethical responsibility. Our prime focus areas are: • We never compromise the safety of our employees at sea or ashore • We endeavor to constantly reduce our environmental footprint 3 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Shipping is an international industry with a large impact on the environment and societies around the world. We acknowledge our impact and strive to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We believe that the following goals are particularly relevant to us. End hunger, achieve Agriculture products, such as grain, are among our most important food security and cargo types, and we actively participate in facilitating world trade improved nutrition and global development. and promote sustainable agriculture Build resilient As a shipping company dealing with raw materials and global trade, infrastructure, this goal is highly relevant to us. Firstly, due to our contributions to promote inclusive and building the world’s infrastructure at sea. Secondly, we transport sustainable products like steel and cement used in the building and production industrialization and industries needed to build infrastructure and drive industrialization. foster innovation Take urgent action to Although shipping is the mean of mass transportation with the combat climate lowest environmental impact when it comes to CO2 emissions per change and its impacts transported ton, our industry stands for about 2-3% of global CO2 emissions. Clipper supports the climate policy developed by the Danish Shipping industry organization reflecting the greenhouse gas reduction strategy adopted by UN’s International Maritime Organization (IMO) in 2018. As a result, international shipping must be 40% more efficient in 2030 and the absolute emissions must be halved by 2050, compared to 2008. Conserve and This is a highly relevant goal to a shipping company and closely sustainably use the related to our general climate approach as well as our policies for oceans, seas and ballast water, spills, plastics consumption, and SOx and NOx marine resources for emissions. sustainable development 4 CLIPPER GROUP BUSINESS MODEL Our core business areas are ro-ro and dry bulk. At our headquarter in Denmark we have people employed in Executive Management, Finance & Accounting, Group Treasury, HR & Communication, IT and Legal who support the two business areas which are described in more details in the following. CLIPPER BULK Clipper Group operates around 75 handysize and logs and steel and our customers benefit from our supramax vessels. We have long-term partnerships strong focus on risk management and cost-effective with clients, investors, technical and commercial coverage. With an increased focus on short term managers and we take pride in the fact that many of contracts and spot fixtures, we monitor the market our partnerships go back more than 20 years. closely and use analytics to support our decision making. Governed by our strong values, our talented Clipper Group’s customer base spans from large people focus on relationships and data to make the commodity houses to single commodity producers and best market calls and deliver reliable and dedicated end-users. We transport alumina, cement, coal, grain, services. 5 RO-RO Seatruck Ferries is a vital part of the Irish Sea supply equipment and drivers. Using Seatruck saves chain and operates high quality freight-only ferry customers significant road mileage and provides services, with three routes. Seatruck specializes in the environmental benefits compared to the more movement of unaccompanied trailers, which allows traditional road transit through Scotland or Wales. their owners to make more efficient use of their 6 KEY CSR RISKS AT CLIPPER The following table provides and overview of the most significant CSR risks facing our business and how we mitigate them. It is not an exhaustive risk overview. CSR TOPIC RISK MITIGATION Working There is a general safety risk on board sea Clipper has implemented a safety management conditions vessels due to the very nature of system on all vessels and ensured crew safety onboard shipping. During roll on – roll off training. Following two fatal injuries in 20182019, vessels procedures, crew members and vehicles Seatruck has appointed a Safety Officer and initiated may be present on ramps and dock at the several steps to further strengthen safety. Read same time. Thus, there is a risk of more on page 10. collisions and injuries. Corruption at The Captain and/or our agents may have Clipper Group has implemented an anti-corruption ports difficulties dealing with local authorities policy and conducts anti-corruption training of staff. and may be asked for bribes or other Clipper is also an active member of the Maritime small payments for the vessel to be Anti-Corruption Network (MACN), taking part in allowed through. several anti-corruption initiatives as we realise, that corruption is only fought efficiently in partnerships. Read more on page 14. Seafarers’ As operator, Clipper Dry Bulk may not be We have included a clause in our Charter Party human rights aware of potential human rights agreements stipulating fair working conditions and on vessels violations or poor working conditions for respecting the seafarers’ human rights in accordance the crews onboard our operated vessels with IMEC (International Maritime Employers’ as these are not owned by us. Council), ITF (International Transport Workers’ Federation) and similar organizations. Human rights When sailing to destinations all around We are monitoring the situation carefully when in conflict the world there is a risk that we will be transporting goods to conflict areas to ensure that areas asked to call conflict areas and we are not actively or indirectly participating in unknowingly become involved in human violation of international sanctions or human rights. rights violations This areas will have special focus in our coming human rights risk assessment process. 7 HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR STANDARDS Clipper Group respects the protection of human rights on board our vessels, in our offices and in society in general. This is especially relevant in the shipping industry when it comes to safety, the right to join trade unions, reasonable limitation of working hours, holidays with pay, and protection against discrimination. Human rights are an integrated part of our decision making and it is vital for us that our employees’ human rights are protected. WORKING ON SHORE Data privacy We take our employees’ right to privacy seriously and It is important for Clipper Group to be an attractive it is important to us that our employees, no matter workplace. During 2019, Clipper Dry Bulk employed where they are located, know that we take every 149 people in average and Seatruck 70. The retention measure possible to protect their personal data from rate provides an indication of employee satisfaction being misused. Thus, our group policy on data and engagement. Only 14 employees chose to leave protection and privacy also applies to employees Clipper Dry Bulk during 2019, which brought the located in countries where there are no prevailing data retention rate for Clipper Dry Bulk up to 93.5% from protection rules or regulations like GDPR. Our policy 86.4% in 2018. includes specific instructions on the processing of personal data, and provides information on basic Clipper Group’s working culture is characterized by rights, such as the right to information on stored data empowerment and responsibility from day one. We and its deletion. focus on continuous professional development and are pleased to see the long seniority of our employees. We do our utmost to secure fair working conditions in all DIVERSITY our locations and benchmark this regularly . As a global shipping company, we especially pride ourselves in our international mindset when it comes As mentioned in the CEO statement, we have made to talent engagement and attraction. We encourage some organizational changes in 2019. This involved candidates with different backgrounds and of different that we had to lay off some of our competent nationalities to join Clipper, as we recognize that in our colleagues. In this situation it is equally important to us current globalized world, talent is no longer confined to treat our employees fair. We offered various by physical borders. mitigating measures, such as severance payment and individual guidance on job seeking and career We provide equal opportunities for everyone and planning. Our employees appreciate that Clipper acts ensure that a position is always filled with the best responsibly – also in difficult times. candidate, based on her or his capabilities. Group guideline and local working conditions Clipper has a global guideline for working conditions that applies to all employees in Clipper Group CLIPPER DIVERSITY POLICY supported by local guidelines for several offices around the world. In totality, these documents serve as a code We believe that diversity at all levels of the of conduct for all Clipper employees with the purpose organization gives us the largest possible of ensuring that human rights and fundamental recruitment base working conditions are observed by all. The principles Diversity creates an innovative and inclusive work in the guidelines are aligned to Clipper Group’s way of environment doing business, also expressed in our four values: Dynamic, Dependable, Innovative, and Hands-on. It is We always take diversity into account when important for us that all our employees adopt the same recruiting and promoting employees responsible mindset and are involved in our sustainability efforts. 8 Women in management Female underrepresentation is a challenge not only for Clipper, but for the entire shipping industry. We have DIVERSITY GOALS 2020-2022 participated in various working groups with other players in the industry to discuss how to address this challenge and we have joined the charter for more Clipper Dry Bulk women in shipping established by the Danish Shipping • Percentage of female employees shall be industry organisation. 33% at the end of 2022 We have ensured, that in all recruitment processes, we • Number of female managers with people select relevant female and male candidates for responsibility shall increase each year interviews. We also strive to ensure that there are no • One female member shall be nominated barriers within Clipper that hinder women from joining to the board of Clipper Group A/S by the or being promoted due to their gender. end of 2022 We have set the ambitious goal that 25% of people • Number of nationalities shall be above managers by the end of 2019 shall be female. We have 10 each year not met that goal. The current share of female people managers in Clipper was 11% by the end 2019, which is Seatruck Ferries unchanged from 2018. This result is not satisfactory as the total share of female employees in Clipper was 31% • Percentage of female employees by the end of 2019. We are, however, pleased that in working on shore shall be 30% at the 2019, we had female representation in all departments end of 2022 including traditionally male dominated departments • Percentage of female crew members such as operations, chartering, and tonnage working ashore shall be 5 % at the end of procurement. 2022 We will continue to focus on increasing the number of • Percentage of female managers with female employees at entry level positions, including people responsibility shall increase each trainees. year • Number of nationalities shall be above 5 Female board members each year Clipper Group A/S adopted a recruitment policy for board members in 2016. In accordance with Danish legislation, the policy includes a goal for female board representation. According to the policy, Clipper The chairman of the board has, however, throughout Group’s board of directors should have at least one the target period had meetings with potential female female board member elected by the shareholders. candidates in order to be better able to propose a The board currently consists of 4 male board members. female candidate for the shareholders once a board The policy also stipulates that the chairman of the position becomes vacant. board shall propose at least one female candidate for vacant board positions. The shareholders and the board of Clipper Group A/S have decided that the target period for appointing one Due to recent years’ challenging conditions and female board member shall be extended to the end of restructurings, it has been a priority for the board to 2021. The board of Clipper Group’s subsidiary Seatruck maintain continuity as well as current knowledge and Ferries Holding Ltd. consists of six board members of expertise and thus, no board positions have become which one is female. vacant in the period 2015 to 2019. The target of one female board member has therefore not yet been met. Trainee education Clipper Dry Bulk participates in the shipping trainee In 2019, we also employed an intern from the Bachelor education managed by the Danish Shipping Academy in International Shipping & Trade at Copenhagen under the Danish Shipping association, and we are Business School doing his internship at Clipper and one represented on the steering committee of the IT trainee. Academy. We have during 2019 not employed any new shipping trainees but have continued the education program for four second year shipping trainees. 9 HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS GOALS 2020-2022 Clipper Dry Bulk • Retention rate shall be above 90% each year Seatruck Ferries • Number of fatalities for Seatruck employees shall be zero • Number of fatalities for Contractors’ employees working in connection with Seatruck vessels shall be zero • Number of near miss reports in average per vessel shall increase each year • Retention rate shall each year be above 90 % for both on shore and off shore employees WORKING ON VESSELS Clipper’s fleet consists of vessels that are either phone distraction, due to its impact on the incident. owned, chartered or managed by Clipper Group. The very serious safety implications of mobile phone distractions have not been talked about in the industry, Today Clipper Dry Bulk mainly acts as a specialized with no real mentioning in the recently updated Code operator with only limited ownership of Bulk vessels. of Safe Working Practice for merchant seafarers, by the Technical management is handled externally. We are, UK Maritime Coastguard Agency. Through the UK however, committed to the safety and rights of the Chamber of Shipping, Seatruck has lobbied for changes crew onboard Clipper operated vessels. We continue in procedures and regulations to ban the possession of to follow international regulations concerning human a mobile device while in critical working areas such as rights and expect the same from our partners. car decks. The more common ban on the use of such devices is not sufficient. Through the UK Port Skills and Seatruck Ferries owns 8 vessels and handles the Safety group, Seatruck has been actively developing 10 technical management of its vessels internally. Golden Rule of ro-ro safety. Alongside this, Seatruck Following a serious, fatal incident in connection with has extended mandatory random drug and alcohol the unloading of a Seatruck vessel in 2019, the testing from ship crews to all shore side workers, company has led the way to highlight certain safety including stevedores and office staff. aspects in the industry, including the issue of mobile 10 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE Although shipping is the form of mass long-distance transportation with the lowest environmental impact, we acknowledge our impacts and recognize, that the CLIPPER GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY global challenge of climate management and CO2 emissions for the shipping industry requires a global Clipper Group maintains a precautionary approach. approach to the environment and will continue to invest in smarter shipping technology to further Clipper fully supports the measures and efforts of the improve environmental and financial United Nations International Maritime Organization, performance IMO. We strive to constantly increase energy and fuel efficiency for our fleet and follow the international We always strive to keep abreast of new environmental regulations closely. regulation and aim to comply with national and international regulations at all times Our previous environmental and climate goals, as provided most recently in our CSR Report for 2018, Work continuously work to promote have been linked to technical performance on Bulk environmentally conscious local initiatives in vessels technically managed by Clipper Dry Bulk. Due Clipper offices. to the recent focus on operator business with chartered vessels, these goals are no longer applicable. In the following, we provide a few highlights from our efforts to reduce our environmental impact. SULPHUR CAP 2020 Hong Kong Convention, even though this convention is not yet ratified and in form. We will be actively In order to reduce sulphur emissions on a global scale, involved in the recycling process and approve the it has been a requirement of the International recycling facility. We will inspect the recycling facility in Maritime Organisation since 1 January 2020 that vessel order to ensure that the facility is able to carry out the fuel only emits a maximum of 0.5% Sulphur, down from recycling in a safe and environmentally sound manners a previous limit of 3.5%. This can be complied with by hand have adequate procedures in place. using vessel fuel with low Sulphur content or by installing scrubbers on vessels. A scrubber is a device No Clipper Group vessels have been recycled during that removes damaging particles from the exhaust. 2019. These regulations also apply for Seatruck Ferries. The company has decided not to install scrubbes and now COACH SOLUTIONS uses low Sulphur fuel oil in all vessels and thus complies with the new IMO regulation. We believe this Clipper Dry Bulk has, via its recently divested is also the more environmental friendly choice subsidiary, COACH Solutions, developed a commercial between the two options. performance monitoring system with the purpose of improving fuel consumption of vessels. COACH has been accepted into ShippingLab, a non-profit RESPONSIBLE SHIP RECYCLING innovation and project collaboration in the Danish Clipper adopted a recycling policy in 2015 committing shipping industry with the vision that Denmark will be us to ensure that fully owned vessels are recycled, as a the driver of the smart shipping of the future. COACH minimum. according to the principles laid down in the facilitates optimal voyage planning and can result in fuel savings of 5 to 15%. 11 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GOALS 2020-2022 Clipper Dry Bulk • The average GHG rating as defined by RightShip shall for vessels chartered in by Clipper Bulk be rated 3.5 or lower for year 2020 and 3.0 or lower for year 2021 (Category A equals 1, Category B 2 etc.) Seatruck Ferries • Oil spill (>1 barrel) shall be zero each year • Co2 emissions measured as CO2 per ton-mile shall decrease each year 12 ANTI-CORRUPTION As an international shipping company, Clipper Dry Bulk MARITIME ANTI-CORRUPTION is exposed to requests for facility payments and other corrupt practices in countries where our vessels call. NETWORK Our anti-corruption policy adopted in 2012 stipulates a Tackling corruption and facilitation payments is a zero tolerance towards traditional bribery such as difficult task as an individual company. Clipper Dry Bulk kickbacks. continues to be an active member of the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN). Clipper Dry Bulk is Facility payments (small payments for services that the also a member of a special dry-bulk working group company is already entitled to) are a separate within the MACN focusing on eliminating corruptive challenge, and given some of the areas we operate in, behavior in relation to inspections of vessel holds and we are not yet able to implement a zero-tolerance tanks when calling certain ports in Argentina. This work policy in this regard. In some areas of the world, facility has materialized into a new regulatory framework now payments are an integrated part of the social structure permanently in force in Argentina, and corruptive and a zero-tolerance policy would create several incidents have consequently decreased by more than irresolvable deadlock situations and potentially 90 percent. Argentinian authorities have throughout threatening conditions for the local crew onboard. this process supported the initiative, which has also been covered widely in Argentinian media. MACN now ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING PROGRAM train public officials, private surveyors, and agents in Argentina on the new legislation. We have chosen to actively fight facility payments in what-ever form or shape and have for some years had a global anti-corruption training program for all our employees. The training material and an online test were developed by the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN), of which Clipper continues to be an active member. Today, 66% of Clipper Dry Bulk’s employees have received anti-corruption training, up from 41% in 2018. Our goal is that all employees in the Clipper Group shall be trained. The Maritime Anti-Corruption Network is a global business network working towards the vision of a maritime industry free of corruption that enables fair trade to the benefit of society at large. Established in 2011 by a small group of committed maritime companies, MACN has grown to include ANTI-CORRUPTION GOALS 2020-2022 over 130 companies globally, and has become one of the pre-eminent examples of collective action to tackle corruption. Clipper Dry Bulk Through the nature of • All employees shall have been trained its operations, MACN • Continue active membership of MACN is a good example of SDG 17 (Partnerships for the Goals) Seatruck Ferries • All employees working on shore and Tackling corruption ashore shall have received training has a strong alignment to SDG 16 (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions). 13 COMPANY INFORMATION Clipper Group Ltd. Sundkrogsgade 19 DK-2100 Copenhagen Denmark VAT No. 34 03 45 08 Tel: +45 11 80 00 www.clipper-group.com
