Sustainability Report 2019 Natural Transformation Sustainability Report 2019 Contents LETTER FROM THE CEO 03 2019 A YEAR OF TRANSFORMATION 05 1 WHO WE ARE 07 1.1 UBESOL, A STORY OF QUALITY AND COMMITMENT 08 1.2 UBESOL, A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 10 1.3 INVOLVED WITH THE SECTOR AND THE ENVIRONMENT 16 2 SUSTAINABILITY, THE AXIS OF OUR BUSINESS CULTURE 19 2.1 COMMITTED TO SOCIAL WELFARE AND THE ENVIRONMENT 22 2.2 OUR SUPPLIERS, KEY ELEMENT OF OUR SUCCESS 28 3 OUR PEOPLE: THE BEST TALENT 31 3.1 COMMITTED TO OUR PEOPLE 32 3.2 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 37 3.3 A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT 39 4 WE IMPROVE OUR CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE 44 4.1 RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION AND MAXIMUM QUALITY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCTS 45 4.2 CONSOLIDATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT 48 5 COMMITTED TO THE ENVIRONMENT 51 5.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 53 5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY 55 5.3 CONTROL OF RESOURCES CONSUMPTION 56 6 ABOUT THE REPORT 61 6.1 RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS 61 6.2 IDENTIFICATION AND ANALYSIS OF MATERIAL ISSUES 63 6.3 MATERIALITY MATRIX 64 7 GRI CONTENT INDEX 66 7.1 GENERAL CONTENTS 66 7.2 MATERIAL TOPICS 70 8 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TABLE OF CONTENTS 75 Sustainability Report 2019 Letter from the CEO We are in the midst of natural transformation and Grupo Ubesol’s business strategy confirms this: we are making sustainability a fundamental pillar of our activity. (102-14) This year, we have taken another step towards our worked on in recent years to help build, playing our firm commitment to sustainability. We renew our part, a better planet and society. To do this, we commitment to the United Nations Global have followed the methodology and standards of the Compact. As evidence of this, our sustainability report Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the most widely used shows our willingness to consolidate, develop and reporting framework in the world. implement good practices that are aligned with our activity and that help us advance in our commitment We want to be a company recognized for to sustainability and with the 10 principles of the Global our commitment to quality, innovation and, Compact. specially, sustainable development. During the past year, we have consolidated our corporate In addition, as an important symbolic gesture for the responsibility through the implementation of group, we have transformed our entire corporate different initiatives, highlighting the advances in identity from the original blue of 40 years ago ecodesign, managing to save in the last year to the colour green, so that our logo also represents over 110 tons of plastic in our packaging. At the this paradigm shift. same time, we have been working with our suppliers to reuse the packaging of the raw materials we use, thus For the first time, in this Sustainability Report, we promoting circular economy and waste management 03 collect each of the projects and actions that we have initiatives throughout our value chain. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 At Ubesol we have a permanent commitment to people. 2019 has been a year of great transformation and Our challenge is to turn our work centres into “a good preparation to keep moving forward. My most place to work”. We promote stability in employment, sincere appreciation to each and every one of the we have an Equality Plan, and different programs that group’s employees, they are the ones who make this facilitate work-family balance. Likewise, in 2019 we possible, and to those who, with their commitment carried out an organisational health survey, which and dedication, ensure that our company continues to allowed us to know the expectations of our employees establish itself as a quality, responsible and sustainable and the aspects that we must improve. business. #TogetherWeAddUp #JuntosSumamos Jorge Úbeda 04 CEO Grupo Ubesol Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 2019 a year (102-7) of transformation Our business • Our turnover (4.8 % higher compared to 2018) • Presence in Spain and Portugal + de 121 • 100 % national ownership and capital • 2 production plants in Valencia millon euros Our products • More than 173 million units produced 1.15 millon • More than 60 references euros invested • We are present on the shelves of the leading supermarket in R&D in Spain Our team 36% 64% Women Men 355 people • 82,5 % permanent in our team • 90,7 % full-time 05 • 37 scientists specialized in R&D and Quality areas Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Our suppliers • 76.5 millons in purchases 81% of the • More than 80 raw materials suppliers, 73,3% located purchase volume in Spain comes from Spanish suppliers • We incorporate sustainability criteria in the assessment of suppliers 81% of local purchases (Valencia) 34,4% from the rest of Spain Commitment to the environment 6.8% 44% water discharge GHG emissions 110 tons reduction reduction of plastic avoided in We consume electricity from our packaging 100% renewable sources Our contribution to the SDGs ODS •We have concrete actions in 11 out of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals 06 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 1 Who we are We are committed to family well-being, offering innovative solutions, with the highest quality, guaranteeing the best price and respecting the environment. 1.1 Ubesol, a story of quality and commitment 08 1.2 Ubesol, a responsible business 10 1.3 Involved with the sector and the environment 16 07 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 1.1 UBESOL, A STORY OF QUALITY AND COMMITMENT WE DEVELOP AND MANUFACTURE INNOVATIVE AND SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS (102-1, 102-4, 102-10) We offer products and cleaning materials, for home care and personal hygiene, with the highest quality and at the best possible price. We have over 30 years of experience in the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products. (102-2, 102-6) We seek excellence in all our references. We work for distribution companies in the mass consumption sector in Spain and Portugal. We distribute different brands, including Deliplus and Bosque Verde. Our products are split in two categories: Textiles for home care and cleaning • Wipes, cloths and textile duster • Mops and feather dusters • Wet mops • Cleaning wipes: crystals, furniture, multipurpose, bathrooms, kitchen, leather, glasses • Wipes for clothes’ treatment, anti-colour transfer 08 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Textiles for personal care and hygiene • Wipes for babies and children • Cosmetic and personal hygiene wipes • Hair accessories We have two production plants in Atzeneta d’Albaida (Valencia): 1 Textile plant Manufacture of textile products for home care and cleaning. 2 1 2 Hygiene plant Manufacture of wet wipes for household 09 cleaning, and for hygiene and personal care. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 1.2 UBESOL, A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 1.2.1 OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR BUSINESS MODEL ALLOWS US TO GENERATE INNOVATIVE, SUSTAINABLE AND SHARED GROWTH WITH SOCIETY Focused on the wellbeing of our final customer, we have consolidated a business management model that guarantees the satisfaction and expectation fulfilment of all those involved in our value chain. This model of action helps us generate solid and stable relationships of trust. These are the five components of our business management model: Customer We seek to offer a portfolio of quality, innovative and sustainable products that respond to your needs and wishes. Employee We want to be an excellent place to work, a place where people feel inspired to give their best every day, and a place where their personal and professional development is fostered. We want to ensure your well-being in a safe and healthy work environment. Supplier We want to develop long-lasting relationships with suppliers who share our values, promoting beneficial results for both of us. Society We want to be a company recognized for its quality, innovation and commitment to the sustainable development of people and the environment, adding value and making a difference by helping build and support a sustainable planet and society. Capital We seek to generate results that allow the growth and sustainability of the company to be maintained over time, for the safety and benefit of the people who make it and 10 the customers it serves. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 1.2.2 PILLARS THAT GUIDE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PURPOSE AS WELL AS OUR VALUES AND PRINCIPLES ARE THE BASIS OF WHO WE ARE (102-16) Mission To be specialists developing and manufacturing innovative and sustainable products that solve the needs of our clients, with the highest quality and always at the best possible price. Vision To be a leader company, respected and admired, that people want to belong to, and that offers innovative and sustainable products of the highest quality, obtaining the highest degree of satisfaction from our customers. Values Our values are an essential part of our identity, they reflect our commitment to the pillars on which our business culture is based: RESPONSIBILITY AND HONESTY We are able to self-direct and work with passion, being honest in our words and deeds. EFFICACY AND TEAMPATHY INNOVATION (Teamwork + Committed with a Empathy) spirit of improvement, OUR We promote teamwork to continuously improve and VALUES based on trust, collaboration and by devise creative and maintaining a positive challenging projects. attitude. LEADERSHIP We are humble, honest and committed leaders, with a service vocation. 11 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 (102-9) COMMITTED TO GENERATING VALUE THROUGHOUT OUR CHAIN Our business strategy encompasses all the actors in our value chain. We work to develop a chain that is made up of the best, promoting innovation, collaboration and the generation of value at all levels. OUR VALUE CHAIN PEOPLE “Happy people, happy products” Our professionals are the engine that makes us grow and be more competitive. Their well-being is our priority. CUSTOMER We listen and study the needs of our customers, knowing today what they will want tomorrow, in order to develop products of the highest quality at the best possible price. SUPPLIER We develop long-lasting relationships with them, allowing us to guarantee the highest quality and safety of the product and service. PRODUCTION ProductionP Packaging Finished product QA SERVICE Flexibility and speed of service. Design of sustainable logistics that allow us to optimize the volume of truck loads to the maximum. CLIENT • Complete client support • Cosmetics vigilance service • Customer service system 12 People Quality Sustainability Innovation Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Our system ensures that an effective compliance culture is implemented, which goes beyond regulatory compliance, through an ethical framework. We want all our professionals to act in accordance with behaviors based on honesty and integrity. 1.2.3 A CORPORATE CULTURE FOCUSED ON ETHICS, INTEGRITY AND GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS WITH ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS (102-16, 102-17) We have established clear and rigorous procedures, codes and policies that guide and regulate the behavior of the people involved with our daily activities, to avoid corruption cases or unfair practices, and to know how to act in the event that it occurs. One of Grupo Ubesol’s goal is with society, its employees and suppliers, is the principle of transparency, and we reject any type of unethical practice. Our framework of ethical action is made up of the following elements among others: Code of Ethics Approved by the Administrative Body in 2018. Its main objective is to establish the values that should guide the behavior of Ubesol, SL and Laboratorios Maverick, SLU (hereinafter, Grupo Ubesol) and the third parties with which it is related, as well as strengthening business conduct accepted and respected by all Group employees, managers and administrators. Compliance area Grupo Ubesol decided in 2018 to implement a compliance management system based on the international standard UNE-19601 on Criminal Compliance Management Systems and UNE ISO 19600 Compliance Management Systems. As a sign of the Management’s commitment to compliance, not only was the Code 13 of Ethics approved, but a Chief Compliance Officer was appointed in accordance with the provisions of Art. 31 bis, 2, 2 of the Penal Code. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Commission and Compliance Links The Chief Compliance Officer has the support of the Compliance Liaisons, responsible for the Group’s risk areas. It also has the support of the Compliance Commission made up of those responsible for the main risk areas, who provide support and help in their work. Ethical Channel Since 2019 Grupo Ubesol has a confidential channel (hereinafter the Ethical Channel) managed by the Chief Compliance Officer. This Ethical Channel is available to all its employees, executives, members of the Administration body, temporary staff and interns. Any queries or complaints, deem necessary, can be sent through the e-mail address provided. As such, they can fulfil the obligation established in the Code of Ethics of communicating any suspicion or violation of any legal or internal rule, of which they are aware. Harassment Protocol The main objective of the Harassment Protocol is to protect the health of employees by ensuring psychosocially healthy environments and offer the necessary help to affected employees. Grupo Ubesol assumes that the attitudes and acts of moral or labour, sexual and gender-based harassment are an attack on the dignity of the employees. For this purpose, in 2018, the Group updated its action protocol, opening a channel for each of its companies, with the aim of ensuring that every employee is able to report the situation. During 2019, we completed the implementation of the pillars of the compliance model in accordance to the provisions of art. 31 bis 5 of the Penal Code. Also, the assessment of the normative risks and criminal risks of Ubesol were updated through the identification and analysis of the applicable regulations, as well as the processes and controls established internally by the company. Additionally, we have spread the culture of compliance to all employees, with the aim of guaranteeing at all times a corporate environment of “zero tolerance” towards the Crime Commission in our company. In addition, we have developed internal policies and procedures with the aim of improving the Compliance System, including the Anti-Corruption Policy, the Conflict of Interest Policy and the Policy on the Use of Technological Media and Social Networks. 14 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 (102-18) Governing bodies Ubesol, is managed by Sancana Gestión de Inversiones S.L. and Gestión de Inversiones, Jorisa S.L. These, as Solidarity Administrators, oversee management, organisation and representation of the company through the corresponding individuals designated in each of them. The governing and management bodies give impetus and supervise the general guidelines, the proper functioning of the organisation and compliance with the policies and procedures established by the Administrators. To this end, we have a Management Committee led by the Honorary President, the Vice President and the CEO. Organisational chart José Luis Soler Jorge E. Úbeda Jorge Úbeda Honorary President Vice President CEO Grupo Ubesol Grupo Ubesol Grupo Ubesol Toni Guerola Pedro Pérez María Luisa Soler Managing Director Managing Director General Director, 15 Ubesol Laboratorios Maverick Administration, Finance and Legal Grupo Ubesol Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 1.3 INVOLVED WITH THE SECTOR AND THE ENVIRONMENT WE STRENGTHEN TIES TO GENERATE MUTUAL BENEFIT. WE WANT TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF THE BUSINESS AND THE ENVIRONMENT (102-13) 1.3.1 ALLIANCES FOR THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF THE BUSINESS AND THE ENVIRONMENT We promote different collaborations and alliances to respond to the needs of stakeholders and society. We work hand to hand with organisations in the territory where we operate. Partnerships for sustainability During the past year, we have subscribed to different initiatives that reiterate our commitment to sustainability. Principle, program Adoption Countries and Stakeholders Tipo de date operations to iniciativa or initiative which it applies involved United Nations Global Compact June 2019 Spain All Voluntary New regulation UNE 149002: 2019 development on disposable February 2019 España All Voluntary WC products Adherence to the Guide of good practices on disposable WC April 2019 España All Voluntary products (STANPA) Adhesion and participation in the European project Novel packaging films and textiles with tailored Agosto 2019 Europe All Voluntary end of life and performance based on bio-based copolymers and coatings Corporate tax solidarity fee Year 2018 España Society Voluntary 16 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Organizations membership and collaboration We are part of different institutions that have a special relevance with the sectors in which we operate. With them, we develop research projects, provide advisory services or promote testing trials on topics that allow us to be at the forefront. Sector / Especialidad Descripción Generation of test comparisons that allow Textiles us to validate tests in our facilities. Collaboration in a European project for the Plastics development of sustainable packaging. Plastics and efficacy test Packaging Carrying out tests, research and laboratory analysis for specific products and development of consultancies. Textiles and efficacy tests Textiles and efficacy tests Collaboration and adherence to the Guide Cosmetics of good practices on disposable WC products. Since 2018, collaboration and participation Participation and member in the new UNE 149002: 2019 generation of new standard development on disposable WC standards products. Generation of new patents, Generation of numerous utility models of trademarks or utility models products that lead to market novelties. 17 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Association actions In order to continue consolidating our culture of innovation and guaranteeing the best quality in our products, in 2019 we carried out partnership and joint work with the following organisations: 18 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 2 the axis of our business culture Sustainability, We consider sustainability a part of our strategy and recognize its importance. We want to value the commitment and effort we make to return to society part of what we receive from it. 2.1 Committed to social welfare and the environment 22 2.2 Our suppliers, key element of our success 28 19 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 WE SEEK THE BALANCE BETWEEN SOCIAL WELFARE, ENVIRONMENTAL CARE AND ECONOMIC GROWTH We are committed to create unique long-term value by manufacturing the highest quality products, addressing social needs and maintaining environmental balance. We have a clear commitment and stance to establish a roadmap to promote sustainability in our products and activities throughout the value chain. We have established objectives and actions in each of the pillars of sustainability: SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL ECONOMIC This purpose has been materialized through different actions that involve and impact our entire value chain, summarized below: 20 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We have transformed our identity and corporate image. Our logo and brand evidence this commitment and paradigm shift. We consolidated our corporate commitment through the definition of codes and policies, such as the Code of Ethics and the Policies of People. We participate in alliances that reinforce our commitment to sustainability: • Adhesion to the Spanish Network of the United Nations Global Compact • Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Ordinary Partner We reaffirm our commitment to continue developing natural and sustainable products. We advance in the promotion of sustainable suppliers; we aim to increase the consumption of raw materials and materials from renewable sources. We have a short-term plan to increase the consumption of RSPO materials, FSC cardboard, among others. We started the supplier assessment process from the point of view of sustainability. We have incorporated a pilot program for the assessment of our supply chain 21 using EcoVadis. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We want to improve energy, water and waste consumption, as well as reduce CO2 emissions throughout our production and logistics chain. We implement plans to promote our employees well-being, gender equality and guarantee support for at-risk groups. We promote sustainability through our value chain. • We promote social improvements in the geographical area. • We communicate our commitment to our stakeholders through the preparation of independent and globally recognized reports and certifications, such as the carbon footprint registration of scopes 1 and 2, EcoVadis, United Nations Global Compact, among others. 2.1 COMMITTED TO SOCIAL WELFARE AND THE ENVIRONMENT WE WANT TO BE A COMPANY RECOGNIZED FOR OUR QUALITY, INNOVATION AND OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2.1.1 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS, A COMMITMENT FOR UBESOL The 2030 Agenda is a universal, inclusive and indivisible agenda that requires everyone’s action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. At Ubesol, we are adding value and making a difference by helping build and support a planet and a sustainable society. We want to make a difference, and therefore we are considering the Sustainable Development Goals in each of our actions. In recent years we have been carrying out actions and defining policies and objectives that contribute directly to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. Specifically, we are contributing through our activity to 11 of the 17 SDGs. 22 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 The following table summarizes the main actions and contributions made within the framework of the 2030 Agenda. • Blood donation campaign • Automation of manual processescontainer unloading • “Cuídate” project (Take care) • Work safety training • Leadership training • Equality Plan • Payment above the collective bargaining agreement • “Progresa” Project (Progress): potential employees assessment • Harassment Protocol • “Concilia” Project (Balance) • Design of the UNE 149002: 2019 standard to reduce the environmental impact of wipes • Carrying out a study for the installation of an osmosis water recovery plant 23 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 • Wastewater treatment plant • ISO 14001 Environmental Management System • Carbon footprint registration certification, offset and carbon dioxide absorption projects, ISO 14064-1 • Study for the installation of solar panels • Occupational health survey • ISO 9001 Quality Management System • ISO 22716 Good manufacturing • Conflict of interest policy • Creation of the Compliance Area • Anti-corruption Policy • EcoVadis assessment • Sustainability kit distribution eradicating water bottles consumption • Shrink film saving • Project to replace a bag with triple baby sashes • Wipes awareness campaign “Por un planeta limpio, las toallitas a la papelera” (“For a clean planet, the wipes to the wastebasket”) • Use of recycled paper in our offices • Water fountains installation and glass bottles distribution to eradicate the use of 24 plastic bottlesbotellas de plástico Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 2.1.2 OUR INVOLVEMENT WITH THE TERRITORY A CONTINUOUS COMMITMENT WE ARE CONVINCED THAT “WHAT DIFFERENTIATES COMPANIES IS NOT WHAT THEY SAY BUT WHAT THEY DO” As part of our commitment to the territory, in 2019 we carried out different actions and supported local initiatives that reinforce not only our commitment to the surroundings where we operate, but also our commitment to sustainability: Sustainable product kit With the aim of raising awareness on all the people that work with us on the importance of sustainability, and reminding them of the impact of our daily actions, we have distributed a kit of sustainable products, which includes a thermo to avoid the use of plastic bottles. This action was developed in collaboration with the DINS Association, which provides decent employment to disable people. Support was also provided to the Novaterra Foundation, which accompanies persons with difficulties in getting a job and living with dignity. 25 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Commitment to the future During a workshop held with the Atzeneta d’Albaida Summer School, we shared our company values through workshops and activities with the boys and girls of our region. In 2019 we welcomed kids in our facilities, where we reiterated the importance of equipment, innovation and responsibility. During this day, our guests learned that with small actions we can achieve great changes, and we reinforced the campaign “Por un planeta limpio, las toallitas a la papelera” (“For a clean planet, the wipes to the wastebasket”). We open our doors to students In 2019 we received in our facilities university and secondary education students from the region, to introduce them to our company. Through these conferences we want to be an example and stimulate workforce interest within the region’s youth, as well as meet future talents. 26 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Saving lives “Blood is the most valuable gift we can offer to another person: the gift of life.” Ubesol joined the blood donation campaign of the Blood Transfusion Centre in Valencia. Thanks to the participation of several people from our team, it was possible to save 81 lives. Box for social purposes With the aim of helping the most vulnerable persons, Ubesol promotes the possibility of marking the solidarity box when disclosing the income statement. This box is called “Actividades de Interés Social” (“Activities of Social Interest”) and through it, 0.7 % of the full amount of corporation tax is used to finance social projects. 27 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 2.2 OUR SUPPLIERS, KEY ELEMENT OF OUR SUCCESS WE COLLABORATE AND COOPERATE WITH OUR SUPPLIERS TO MAINTAIN THE CREATION OF SHARED VALUE. (102-9) We want to develop long-lasting relationships with suppliers that share our values, promoting beneficial results for all. Furthermore, we want to ensure maximum efficiency from the beginning of the chain, guaranteeing the safety and quality of our products. Commitment to local suppliers WE ARE AWARE OF THE IMPACT OF OUR ACTIVITIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES TOWARDS THE TERRITORY WHERE WE OPERATE Our suppliers are important to the success of our business, and we know that Ubesol is important to them, that is why we always try to generate value in our relationships. Our commitment to the territory is evident in the number of local suppliers that are part of our supply chain. In 2019 we had a total of 82 suppliers of goods and raw materials 73 %from The purchase volume amounted to 76,5 millon euros Spain 13 suppliers in Valencia The volume awarded to suppliers from countries outside the European 47 % local Union is purchases 13,7 % of the total value 28 of our purchases Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We are committed to developing innovation projects with our suppliers. 2.2.1 EXCELLENCE, INNOVATION AND SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN INNOVATION, JOINT WORK AND SPECIALIZATION ARE KEY TO ACHIEVE EXCELLENCE IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN We are committed to quality and excellence at all levels, a requirement that we transmit to our suppliers. Working with them we can guarantee the safety and quality of the product, the service and the lowest possible price to our customers. We want to progress with our suppliers, to do so we facilitate two-ways permanent communication channels. As part of our commitment to quality, annually and to the extent of possible, we monitor and assess the performance of our suppliers, which considers the certifications in place, audits results, the number of non-conformities or incidents, compliance with delivery terms and purchase volumes. Sustainable supply chain WE ARE MAKING PROGRESS IN PROMOTING AND CONSOLIDATING SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIERS We want to guarantee an increase in the consumption of raw materials and materials from renewable sources: 29 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 • We design an RSPO Consumption Implementation Plan • We increase the consumption of cardboard certified by the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council cardboard FSC or PEFC). In 2019 we have incorporated the assessment process of our suppliers through EcoVadis, a platform that values the performance of sustainability in supply chains. This assessment considers environmental criteria, sustainable practices, employment and human rights policies among others. Thus, 10 of our main suppliers carried out this assessment process and we hope to increase the total number of suppliers participating in this process in the coming years. On the other hand, we have been working for some years with our most important raw material supplier to reuse and return packaging we receive, so that a proper use of these materials is made, and they can be incorporated once again in the supply chain. Such is the case for pallets, cones of yarn bobbins and cardboard box fabrics. 30 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 3 Our people: The best talent We consider our employees as one of our strategic pillars, with their well-being being one of our priorities. 3.1 Committed to our people 32 3.2 Equal opportunities 37 3.3 A safe and healthy work environment 39 31 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 3.1 COMMITTED TO OUR PEOPLE WE HAVE A PERMANENT COMMITMENT TO THE PEOPLE THAT ARE PART OF OUR TEAM (102-7, 102-8, 102-41) Thanks to our employees we can continue to grow and offer our customers innovative and sustainable products. At Ubesol we are convinced that you can only be the best when you have the commitment of a team of people that carry out their work with commitment, quality and dedication. We recognize that we have the best talent. Our strategic plan aims to retain and recruit talent. We aim to consolidate ourselves and be recognized as “a good place to work”, we want people to be happy working with us. The well-being of each of the 355 persons that are part of our team is a priority for us. Total number of employees by gender Workforce staff 2018 2019 Own personnel 347 355 220 226 Men 63 % 64 % 127 129 Women 37 % 36 % Well-being and benefits for all WE GUARANTEE EXCELLENT CONDITIONS IN THE WORK ENVIRONMENT. WE WANT EACH OF OUR EMPLOYEES TO FEEL AT HOME 32 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We are leading initiatives that allow us to ensure our team well-being and, at the same time, quality throughout our value chain. Our employees are not just a number on our staff: they are all important to us. In the organisational health survey that we carried out in 2019, it was shown that our employees are satisfied working at Ubesol. Almost 80 % of the workforce recommends our company to work. Based on the results of this survey, we are building an improvement plan that will be developed over the next 3 years. We are carrying out actions that promote our employees well-being, we highlighted the following: • Approval of the Equality Plan. • We have a Company Committee, established by our employees, whose purpose is to meet monthly with the People Department to convey concerns, needs and recommendations of our employees. • We invest and promote the increase of middle management leadership. • We have an internal promotion plan to fill company vacancies. • We launched the Progresa Project to facilitate our employees’ skills development path. • We launched a new digital internal communication tool for the entire company, a space in which our employees can interact and be informed. 33 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Some of our benefits WE ARE CONVINCED OF THE IMPORTANCE OF HAVING HAPPY PEOPLE WORKING WITH US One of our strategic objectives is to attract and retain talent. To achieve this, we have launched various initiatives and we want to promote benefits that go beyond legal compliance. For this reason, we have made available to our employees some additional social benefits, highlighting the following: • English and Portuguese courses. • Childcare check. • Baby set and flower bouquet to celebrate the birth of a new child. • One free meal a day. • Vending machines. • Variable remuneration: a third extra payment is considered as an additional bonus for achieving objectives. • Christmas gift basket. • Discounts in establishments. • Product delivery on a regular basis. • Monthly, quarterly and annual recognition system for production employees. Specifically, through a gift voucher, the results are recognized to those people who had an excellent performance. • Given the great 2019 results, exceptionally, the Ubesol’s Management will pay in 2020 an extra bonus to its employees. 34 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We want people to feel inspired to give their best every day. We want to be a place where personal and professional development is fostered. Stable and quality employment WE BET ON JOB STABILITY. WE ENCOURAGE PERMANENT EMPLOYMENT We recognize the tranquillity that having a stable job offers. 82.5 % of our employees have permanent contracts and 90.7 % have a full-time job. Of the 129 women that are part of our staff, 115 have a permanent contract. 89 % of the women in our team have job stability. Professional growth and development WE VALUE THE GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PEOPLE We promote a professional career plan that identifies the potential and capabilities of our employees. We carry out three competency assessment processes per year; two of them are carried out in descending order and one in an ascending manner (among the collaborators, their managers, or those responsible). We invest in our employees because we want to develop and improve their skills, we want them to be leaders and improve their careers. We believe in continuous learning and the need to have a team with the best of talents. In the past year we invested approximately 116,000 euros in training, exceeding the 90,000 euros invested in 2018. 35 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Progresa Project In 2019 we developed the Progresa Project with the aim of designing the talent map of the staff. 99 % of our employees participated on it. The project methodology considers an individual interview and uses group dynamics in which the corporate and jobs own competences are evaluated. With this, it is possible to identify in which values and competencies talent is concentrated in our company, as well as groups of people with high potential and those with specific talents. “Progresa” facilitates the development of tailor-made career plans and opens the possibility of covering internal promotions. Personal, family and work balance WE HAVE IMPLEMENTED DIFFERENT PRACTICES THAT ALLOW A BETTER WORK-LIFE BALANCE. As a result of continuous communication with employees, we have chosen to implement flexible hours measures. These measures have been carried out successfully thanks to everyone’s commitment to guarantee minimum services within our normal hours. To date we have flexible working hours, which allow us to enter and comply with the schedule according to the convenience of our employees: we have adopted continuous working days on Fridays, and a reduction in working hours which has been embraced by 30 people. 36 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 3.2 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES WE CONSIDER EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AS A BASIC AND STRATEGIC PRINCIPLE IN THE MANAGEMENT OF OUR ORGANISATION Non-discrimination and equal treatment (103-1,103-2, 406-1) The existence and effective application of policies that avoid discrimination are a basic factor in companies committed to their staff. For this reason, we declare our commitment to establishing and developing policies that integrate equal treatment and opportunities between women and men, without discriminating directly or indirectly for any reason. We are committed to drive and promote measures to achieve equality in our organisation. The Code of Ethics of Grupo Ubesol, in its article 10 establishes the following: 1. Grupo Ubesol is committed to promoting equal opportunities and non-discrimination of employees based on their race, nationality, social origin, age, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, ideology, religion, illness or disability, as well as by the use of any of the official languages within Spain. 2. To this end, Grupo Ubesol Equality Plan is in place since 2011, whose main objective is to guarantee due respect of the principle of equal treatment and opportunities between men and women, by eliminating any type of discrimination in the work field, as well as promoting equality between the genders. 3. The professional career values those who, overcoming obstacles, contributing to the best of their knowledge and experience, being leaders and sharing their value with the rest of the team, achieve consistent objectives and help achieve the general goals. The policies carried out promote equality and are managed by the Equality Committee. The Ethical Channel manages the risks and impacts related to non-discrimination at work. 37 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We stand by the principle of nondiscrimination not only in relation to gender, but with any other characteristic that may originate it. Actions that promote equal opportunities In general, we have different initiatives that promote equal opportunities in our company. A clear example of this is the percentage and number of women who hold scientific positions: out of the 37 people who hold scientific positions, belonging to the R&D and Quality departments, 28 are women. • Remuneration Policy It is set according to the job position, levels of autonomy and responsibility assumed, the training and experience shown, and the level of contribution (objectives + compliance with competences obtained) regardless of gender. • Conciliation measures They favour work-family balance for both genders according to the type of schedule that the person has, continuous or split working hours (regardless of gender). • Recruitment and promotion processes Candidates are valued for their professional profile. Gender is not a factor of discrimination. • Investment in training with equal rights The team participates in the training actions proposed by the company and its managers. During 2019 we highlight the presentation of the Code of Ethics to the entire staff by the Chief Compliance Officer and the unification of the Protocol Against Moral and Sexual Harassment. 38 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 (406-1) We have a complaints channel enabled to receive complaints, which at the end of the year had not received any type of complaint on discrimination issues. At Ubesol, we respect and support the rights of collaborators, guaranteeing the rights of association, affiliation and representation in all its manifestations, as an essential part of business organisation, without its exercise leading to retaliation. We support the eradication of all forms of forced or coerced labour, and we strongly support the abolition of child labour. 3.3 A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT WE STRIVE TO CREATE A HEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT FOR OUR EMPLOYEES (103-1, 103-2, 403-1, 403-2,403-9) We proactively develop safety and health actions. We put all the means at our disposal to achieve this goal. We act in the areas of prevention, training and health promotion, continuously improving our systems for the prevention of occupational risks and integrating them into the overall management of the company. We have a preventive policy that incorporates the following principles: • Eliminate or reduce work-related risks. • Continuously protect employees health and safety. • Establish the necessary information, consultation and participation mechanisms to carry out the preventive activity. Health and prevention PREVENTION IS INTEGRATED AT ALL LEVELS OF THE COMPANY; WE MAKE THE WORKPLACE A SAFE AND HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT (403-4) We promote the health and well-being of employees, investing in programs and activities within the company. Occupational health and safety are essential for our organisation, and the application of legislation on the prevention of occupational risks is mandatory for all employees and collaborators. 39 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We are committed to a safe environment that takes into account both physical and psychosocial work risks. We care about our employees beyond our physical space, that is why we promote actions related to their health. For example, we make available, free of charge, a physiotherapy and Pilates service with the aim of improving muscle and joint ailments. This is a preventive measure, intervening in risk employees, which helps to raise awareness among employees of the importance of having good habits in their workplaces and to collect useful information for the prevention of occupational hazards department to identify efforts and / or works that may end up causing injuries. (103-2, 103-3, 403) To manage aspects related to occupational health and safety, and in compliance with Royal Decree 39/1997, we have preventive organisation contracted services with an External Prevention Service for the 4 specialties: • Safety at work • Industrial hygiene • Ergonomics and psychosociology • Health surveillance We have set up an employee’s Health and Safety Committee with representatives (delegates) and company representatives that meets quarterly. Likewise, we have open communication channels for all employees. During 2018 and 2019 we carried out hygiene studies and measurements, specifically on lighting, temperature, chemical agents’ exposure and noise, as well as ergonomic studies and workstations measurements. 40 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Each year, medical surveillance is carried out on our workforce, and exams are also managed according to new incorporations, incorporations after long-term sick leaves and medical checks for job adaptation. Cuídate (Take care of yourself) During 2019, Ubesol launched the “Cuídate” Project, to raise staff awareness and instill the importance of incorporating healthy lifestyle habits into their daily lives. Among others, actions have been taken to help our employees quit smoking, eat more fruit and have a healthy nutrition. Risks The risk assessment is reviewed and updated throughout the year. We carry out an annual risk assessment of all workstations, and in accordance to it, the corresponding individual protection equipment is delivered, so that we can guarantee the development of the work activity in safe conditions. This assessment considers the technical instructions generated by other departments, the introduction of new work equipment or new technologies, the modification or conditioning of workplaces, or the modification of production processes, to include or update if necessary, the information necessary for occupational risks prevention. Risks and safety at work training With the aim of promoting a preventive culture in all work lines, we carry out permanent training processes that involve all staff roles, including management. Among others, we carry out reception processes for new incomers and positions with the highest risk level 41 are prioritized for accompaniment and training. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We invest in preventive training programs and activities within the company in preventive matters, so that staff know all the techniques, processes and work procedures and thus guarantee maximum health and safety conditions, and their physical integrity in the workplace. Zero accidents and low absenteeism rate MAINTAINING A LOW ACCIDENT RATE IS ONE OF OUR PRIORITY OBJECTIVES One of our objectives is to continue reducing the absenteeism rate attempting to remain below 1.5 % by 2020. We have already met this objective, since in 2019 absenteeism rate was 1.31 %, compared to 1.38 % in 2018. (403-9) Work accident injuries 2018 2019 Number of deaths resulting from work accident injury 0 0 Number of occupational accident injuries with major 0 0 consequences (not including deaths) Number of recordable work-related injuries ** 3 5* Injury rate with serious consequences at work (not 0 0 including deaths) Recordable workplace injury rate*** 4.72 7.70 Number of worked hours 635,224 649,379 *1 of the 5 is during commute. ** Main types of injuries were skeletal muscle disorders. *** The injury rate includes small-scale accidents. At Ubesol we assess accidents that may occur according to the stipulated procedure, focusing on preventive planning the actions derived from the investigation carried out. In addition, every day we carry out plant visits and security rounds to identify possible risks associated with the workplaces and take appropriate measures on time. 42 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 In 2019 the following actions were carried out to improve health and safety at work: • Preparation of annual work risk prevention schedules, as well as annual reports. • Generic training for new incomers and specific ones after job changes. • Specific training for forklift truck users. • Health surveillance through medical examinations. • We carry out specific evaluations on areas in which the formation of explosive atmospheres is defined. There is an Explosion Protection Document (DPCE). • Investment in new, safer equipment (covered pallet trucks) and in the automation of manual processes (unloading clamps, embedded robots). Likewise, in 2019, the expansion and delimitation of new storage areas for raw materials and finished product in our plants was carried out, as well as the resizing, delimitation, removal and signalling of crossing areas for pedestrians and lifts. In 2020 the start of an internal audit plan is contemplated, in turn, every 5 years an audit is carried out by the external prevention service. 3.3.1 People and facility safety ENSURING THE PHYSICAL SAFETY OF FACILITIES, THE SAFETY OF PEOPLE, AND OF THE DIGITAL ASPECT IS ONE OF OUR PURPOSES With the aim of ensuring the physical integrity of our people and facilities, since 2018 we have a security coordinator. In 2019 we have incorporated a cybersecurity policy, so that we are prepared to face all the threats derived from the digital world, protecting people, information and our infrastructure. We have also carried out an online training process aimed at our employees in cybersecurity issues, so that they are protected at the individual and corporate level. We also have an updated access control policy. We care about the integrity of the people who work with us. Thus, we have protocols to ensure the safety of employees from the time they leave their homes until they return to them. For example, we can provide information to minimize alerts of environmental phenomena’s that may affect them on the go. 43 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 4 We improve our customer experience We offer top quality, innovative and sustainable products that meet the needs and expectations of our customers. 4.1 Responsible innovation and maximum quality in the development of our products 45 4.2 Consolidated quality management 48 44 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Developing innovative products and processes allows us to improve our productivity and have a differentiating element from the competition. Innovation allows us to offer products that exceed the expectations of our customers. OUR CUSTOMER IS THE CENTRE OF OUR ACTIONS, AND THE FOCUS OF ALL THE EFFORTS WE MAKE (102-43) We seek excellence in all our references, we manufacture quality products that improve the consumption experience of our customers. We want to guarantee the best product and always achieve clients total satisfaction. 4.1 RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION AND MAXIMUM QUALITY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCTS RESEARCH, SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE AND CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT IS PART OF OUR DNA (103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Innovation and continuous improvement are present transversally in all processes and departments, being one of the company’s strategic lines of action. At Ubesol we are committed to research on scientific knowledge as a differential market value. The commitment to innovation is established throughout our corporate strategy: through research, development and innovation we can guarantee the functionality, sustainability and security of our references. 45 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 INNOVATION IS PRESENT IN ALL STAGES OF OUR PRODUCTS DEVELOPMENT At Ubesol we work day after day to develop and improve the products and materials used, stepping ahead of regulations, all efforts are focused on the development of increasingly sustainable products both from the point of view of formulation and packaging development. The objectives in matters related to the management of innovation and technological development are in line with what is established in our strategy that defines the main milestones to address natural and digital transformation. The evolution in these aspects is evident. Since 2012, we are committed to creating and promoting the R&D&I Departments and the Product Development Department, thus moving from 2 experts to over 13 specialists in these fields. We have a team made up of experts in each of our products categories, with exclusive dedication to their specific development. Our team of scientists comprises 37 experts, almost 10 % of our workforce. In our facilities we have the most advanced technology, equipment and machinery that allow us to be at the forefront. In the last two years we have invested over 2.3 million euros in innovation and development, and we continue to make progresses in the following aspects: • Development of a product line with a high percentage of natural ingredients. • Development of packaging designed to be recycled through the incorporation of recycled material or the development of single-dose packaging mostly paper composed. • Projects development to incorporate recycled material in the product, and not only in the packaging. • Participation in different circular economy projects with the aim of introducing part of the waste we generate into the production cycle and, in turn, focusing on product ecodesign. We are committed to implement the requirements proposed by the new legislation or requirements regarding single-use plastics and best practice guidelines related to more sustainable packaging. 46 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Grupo Ubesol’s innovation model Concept Pre-development Assessment Development Product New idea New project Viability Development in itself From idea to shelf presentation Innovative Development Digital Productivity Infrastructures Demand, concepts experts transformation and facilities rigor and follow-up Collaboration for innovation WE RECOGNIZE THE IMPORTANCE OF WORKING AND DEVELOPING COLLABORATIVE PROJECTS We have launched initiatives that allow us to be at the forefront and make use of cutting-edge technology for the development of new products, in engineering processes and manufacturing equipment. Some of these initiatives carried out in collaboration with third parties are highlighted below: • Project with a technological institute for the development of more sustainable packaging. • Collaboration in the development of the new ISO 149002: 2019 standard, which defines the criteria that products that can be rejected in the WC must meet. • Exhibition session of ecodesign results. • “3R” compliance on current product packaging. • Permanent collaborations with our supply chain and its suppliers to be at the forefront in the use of materials. • Collaboration with experts in formulation for the development of natural products. 47 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We don’t want security issues to arise related with any of our products. 4.2 CONSOLIDATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT WE ENSURE THE TOTAL QUALITY OF ALL OUR PRODUCTS, ENSURING THE QUALITY AND SAFETY OF EACH OF THEM Customer health and safety (102-15, 103-2, 103-3, 416-1,416-2) We guarantee that all the products we manufacture and commercialise comply with the standards and requirements established in the applicable local and international legislation. We position the most sustainable products on the shelves, with the highest quality, and with all the security guarantees. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT THROUGHOUT ALL OUR PROCESSES IS ONE OF OUR PILLARS Our systems have evolved with the introduction of new methods, projects, indicators and operational strategies, prioritizing our client’s safety. To guarantee the quality of our products we have: • Advanced measurement equipment. • Standardized laboratory equipment. • A team of 24 people, that guarantee the quality of our products. • We have a team of 13 professional R&D&I specialists. • Access to innovative raw materials for new developments. 48 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Management system We have an integrated management system based on the requirements of ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 22716 standards for quality and good manufacturing practices. WE ASSURE THE QUALITY AND SAFETY OF OUR PRODUCTS To guarantee customer health and safety, we have product quality assurance and safety protocols at all stages of the product manufacturing process. The Regulatory & Safety Department with the support of the Customer Service Department and the Medical Officer collect the information from our customers regarding product safety. The Cosmetics vigilance team assesses the need to carry out improvements in our products. In 2019, there were no cases of non-compliance with regulations that have led to fines or sanctions, or warnings, and no cases of non-compliance with voluntary codes were reported, nor were there cases of non-compliance related to impacts on health and security of product and service categories. There have been no notable events that affect our products end-users health and safety. At Ubesol, audits are conducted by our main client, as well as by ISO certification certified entities. In addition, we have implemented and validated an action protocol in the event of a product safety alert, which we define as a Product Safety Accident Management Method. WE LISTEN TO OUR CUSTOMERS At Ubesol we recognize the importance of listening and communicating with our customers, for this reason we have procedures in place for the correct management of complaints, suggestions, information and / or compliments from end customers, which define the methodology to be followed in case of receiving a claim from a client or an end customer. 49 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Similarly, to be aware of our customers’ expectations, we carry out market studies, and internal studies of our products benchmarking them with other similar products. We also hold regular meetings with our purchasers and seek an active presence at events and conferences in the sector. We have enabled a communication channel through the free customer service line, enabled by our main client. This channel allows us to receive complaints, compliments or inquiries about our products. In 2019 we received 122 information inquiries, which were managed and answered on time. We gave a timely response to 100 % of the complaints received during the year. At Ubesol we listen to our customers and ensure an individual follow-up to identify motives and proceed to provide a timely solution. 50 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 5 Committed to the Environment As a socially responsible company we are committed to finding the balance between social welfare, environmental care and economic growth. 5.1 Environmental management 53 5.2 Energy efficiency 55 5.3 Control of resources consumption 56 51 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 We work to minimize environmental impact THE PRESERVATION OF NATURAL RESOURCES, THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE HEALTH OF NEIGHBOURING POPULATIONS IS ONE OF OUR BASIC PRINCIPLES OF ACTION We have an adequate environmental policy and among its objectives is a zero tolerance for negligent behavior in the environment, as well as the implementation of an environmental management system in order to consolidate the observance of practices and standards guided by criteria for excellence. Thus, the people who are part of our company must, within the scope of their functions, know and assume our Policy and act at all times in accordance with the criteria of respect, ecosystems balance and sustainability. (102-11, 102-15) As a company at the forefront of textile cleaning products and hygiene products, Ubesol’s mission is to offer high-quality products, using, as much as possible, the best materials that guarantee the useful life of the product, while maintaining product quality and generating the least possible impact on the environment. To do so, we implemented the ISO 14001 environmental management system and developed key circular economy actions. EC YCLING R CIRCULAR MANUFAC ECONOMY TURING CO NS UM P TI ON 52 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Our environmental commitment extends to our entire value chain, developing actions such as the evaluation of suppliers and products, establishing associations and responsible sourcing policies and environmental education and awareness campaigns, and supporting the customer in the optimal final management of their products. 5.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT We have an environmental policy in place that sets out the company’s objectives to preserve the natural resources, the environment and the health of neighbouring populations. Therefore, we are committed to: Reduce environmental impacts, such as emissions, discharges and waste. Optimize the use of natural and energy resources.. Guarantee compliance with current regulations and legislation on environmental matters. Integrate environmental criteria in the development of new projects. (102-11) One of our environmental objectives is zero tolerance to negligent environmental behavior. Thanks to the implementation of the ISO 14001: 2015 Environmental Management System, a key instrument of environmental policy, it is possible for us to anticipate future impacts. This is done through a set of procedures with which the most relevant environmental aspects are detected and assessed, allowing 53 to develop the necessary actions to prevent and / or mitigate them. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 WE WANT TO REDUCE THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF OUR PRODUCTS Our commitment to the prevention of future environmental impacts of our products is evidenced in the collaboration carried out with the National Association of Perfumery and Cosmetics (STANPA) and AENOR. We work together to define the criteria of wipes’ degradability and ensure that only those that are effectively disposable end up in the toilet. We also participated in the Technical Committee of the new standard UNE 149002: 2019, where we were involved in the design of the standard and prematurely adopted the established indications. In addition, since the end of 2019 we have a chain of custody system following the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) standard, which has the double effect of demonstrating a commitment to managing sustainable resources and adding value to our products. Additionally, to improve the impact of the products developed and considering that some of the materials consumed are derived from palm oil, we have opted to join the international organisation RSPO. We are aware of the impact that a misuse of hygienic wipes can have on the environment, and for this reason during 2019 we have carried out awarenessraising campaigns promoting the correct deposition of the used wipe and incorporating clearer messages on the packaging “Por un planeta limpio, las toallitas a la papelera” (“For a clean planet, the wipes to the wastebasket ”). COMPLIANCE WITH CURRENT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS IS A KEY PILLAR IN OUR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY (307-1) During 2019 we have conducted periodic reviews of the textile and hygiene plant in terms of industrial wastewater discharge and atmospheric emissions. We currently have environmental licenses in place in all our facilities. On the other hand, we have an external management service for the identification of environmental requirements that facilitates decision-making to prevent incidents, guaranteeing compliance with the 54 official requirements applicable to the company. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 100 % of our electricity comes from renewable energy sources. 5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY WE WANT TO REDUCE OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT (302-1) Optimizing energy consumption is of utmost importance. We are making progress in the automation of consumption and we are developing our energy policy pending the certification of the Energy Management System in accordance with ISO 50001: 2018. We launch our 2018-2021 Climate Change Action Plan With the implementation of the Climate Change Action Plan, we want to achieve a 50 % reduction in our carbon footprint by 2021. During the past year, the following measures have been developed to reduce energy consumption: • We renewed of vehicles fleet by purchasing hybrid or electric models. • We replaced the lithium lead batteries of our trucks. • We maintained the consumption of green energy in 100 % of our facilities, obtaining renewable origin guarantees (GdO) that certify it. 55 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Emissions Since 2015 (our baseline year), we have calculated our carbon footprint and have achieved a 44 % GHG emissions reduction in recent years. The footprint calculation is verified externally on an annual basis and complies with the requirements established by the ISO 14064-1: 2012 methodology. Energy consumption within the organisation (kWh) 2018 2019 Electrical consumption 4,072,696 4,270,701 The 4.8 % increase in energy consumption is due to the start-up of two new production lines. However, if we analyse the ratio per unit manufactured, greater energy efficiency is observed: the ratio of kWh per unit of product has dropped from 0.024 kWh/u in 2018 to 0.023 kWh/u in 2019, meaning, 4 % energy consumption reduction. 5.3 CONTROL OF RESOURCES CONSUMPTION 5.3.1 Water WE TAKE CARE OF SUSTAINABLE WATER MANAGEMENT (303-1) Water is a fundamental resource for our activity since our products are made with aqueous based formulas. It is necessary that strict water quality parameters are met, which leads to higher consumption due to the need to perform reverse osmosis, always leading to water discharge. Water consumption (ML) 2018 2019 Total water consumption in all areas 69.176 73.534 The 6.3% increase in water consumption is due to the start-up of two new production lines. 56 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 (303-4) At Ubesol we have our own industrial wastewater treatment plants prior to its discharge into the public sewerage system. Due to the water consumption improvements achieved, and mostly on the osmosis plant (conducted in 2018), the percentage of water discharged has been reduced, meaning by 6.8 % compared to 2018. Total water discharge (ML) 2018 2019 Discharged water in public sewage network 10.22 9.528 Additionally, it is noted that discharged water main parameter quality control is the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), with an average value of less than 63 % of the established legal limit. In our case, this parameter is regulated by the municipal ordinance of Atzeneta d’Albaida. 5.3.2 Proper management of materials WE ARE WORKING TO REDUCE OUR WASTE AND RAW MATERIALS CONSUMPTION (301-1) We work to reduce raw materials consumption, which results in less waste generation. Thus, in 2019 we have managed to reduce plastic consumption in the packages of wipes by 5.7 57 % and cardboard consumption by 1.8 %. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Although its usage is much smaller, the reduction in the use of bags, tubes, covers and secondary packaging is also important in relative terms, with a 43.8 % consumption reduction when compared to the previous year. Materials of renewable origin (t) 2018 2019 Cardboard: box/cases 2,596.81 2,549.55 Crepe cleaning paper 104.82 112.03 Paper 3,324 3,439 Materials of non-renewable origin (t) 2018 2019 Flexible-complex laminated film 1,157.54 1,188.00 Threads 1,370.00 1,446.00 Fabrics 553.9 595.2 Mix: Materials of non-renewable and renewable origin (t) 2018 2019 Flexible-complex laminated film 10,038.5 10,368.2 Threads 380.01 300.70 Fabrics 1,581.10 1,581.20 (301-2) We have increased recycled materials consumption in recent years. For example, in 2019 recycled paper was introduced, which already occupies 66 % of all the paper we consume at Ubesol. WE ARE COMMITTED TO REDUCE MATERIALS CONSUMPTION IN OUR PACKAGING (301-3) We have implemented a packaging optimization plan for various products and incorporated ecodesign actions. Thanks to this we have achieved a reduction in the consumption of materials such as cardboard and plastics. 58 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Cardboard reductions We achieved the reduction of 4,500 kg of cardboard, through the adjustment of the quality of the cardboard used in the box cloth product. Plastic reductions Plastic reductions: We highlight the elimination of the bag from the package of fresh and perfumed baby wipes 240 units and its replacement by an adhesive sash handle, which allowed a plastic savings estimated of 110 tons per year. On the other hand, the project carried out at the Ubesol Textile plant to reduce the consumption of shrink wrap due to “pre-stretch” and “micron” improvements in shrink-wrapping lines, has achieved savings of 11 tons per year. Likewise, with the replacement of the packaging “film” in the box pairs by a union seal, 1.7 tons of plastic have been saved. We also develop internal awareness actions with our employees and carry out the installation of water fountains in our facilities in order to reduce the use of plastic bottles. With this action we stopped consuming approximately 11,900 2-liter bottles per year. 59 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 5.3.3 Tratamiento de los residuos WE AIM TO HAVE ZERO WASTE TO DISPOSE (306-2) Most of the waste we generate at Ubesol is non-hazardous (99.5 %). Although a large part of the waste generated in our operation is recycled or composted, part of it continues to go to landfill. With the aim of improving this situation, we have started the Minimization Plan for the Verification of Zero Disposal Waste. In this area, due to the large volume of wastepaper (cellulose) generated in the hygiene plant, we have started since 2018 with the waste from the manufacture of wet toilet paper with the Efficient Paper Waste Management project, Life Ecopapel. Since its implementation, over 39 % of paper has been recovered thanks to the work carried out with our supplier, with who we have favoured the recovery of clean discharge paper, which would otherwise been sent to landfill. Tons of main non-hazardous waste Waste for recycling / fertilizer (t) 2018 2019 Wet fabrics 924.52 1,251.50 Paper and cardboard 308.37 335.23 Sewage sludge 391.34 335.2 Textile 24.78 30.15 Regarding hazardous waste, the amount generated in 2019 increased by 65 % due to the increase in packaging that contains residues of dangerous substances or are contaminated by them. For this reason, since 2019 we are developing our own lotion formulas. Overall, hazardous waste accounts for 0.5 % of total waste generated. 60 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 6 About the report To determine which issues are relevant to Ubesol (internal level) and its stakeholders (external level), during 2019 a process with several phases was carried out, as established by the GRI Standards. The materiality analysis process has been carried out from the internal perspective (including the people who have decision-making power within the company) and from the external perspective, taking into account the opinion of Ubesol’s stakeholders. 6.1 RELACIÓN CON LOS GRUPOS DE INTERÉS (102-43) For Ubesol, stakeholders are all those groups with which the company connects, and on which it has an impact through its daily activity. Their integration in the daily management of the organisation is a key element to carry out socially responsible management. For this reason, Ubesol carries out all possible measures to build solid and trusting relationships with them, as to create added value that adapts to their needs and concerns. This is achieved through a fluid and participatory dialogue, in a way that the creation of value for stakeholders is always a premise. (102-40,102-42) The selection of the stakeholders has been based on the bidirectional influence between them and the company in economic, social and environmental aspects. The dependence of the main client, customers, owners, responsibility towards employees, administration and society, the influence of the scientific 61 community, industry associations and suppliers of raw materials, materials and services have determined this selection. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Ubesol maintains, a constant dialogue with all the groups listed below through different communication channels: Stakeholders Main channels of communication Frequency of and dialogue participation Main client • E-mail, telephone, meetings Recurring • Social media (LinkedIn, Instagram, Facebook Final customer and Twitter) Recurring • Customer service telephone number of our main client Employees • Employee registration Recurring • Periodic meetings (annual, monthly, etc.) (according • Yammer (online platform) to need) • Employee portal • Boards • Screens • Methacrylates Owners • E-mail / phone. director’s assistant Recurring Suppliers of • Registry of approved suppliers Recurring services Proveedores de • Registry of contracts (Ctaima CAE) Recurring servicios Society • External relations with institutions, Recurring associations, through events, social media, (according e-mail to need) • Social media, e-mail, client communications Government / • Registries and official communications of the Recurring Administration City Council and / or regions, country Scientific • Publications, statements Recurring community Asociaciones • E-mail, meetings, statements Recurring 62 del sector Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 6.2 IDENTIFICATION AND ANALYSIS OF MATERIAL ISSUES (102-43, 102-44, 102-46, 102-49) In the framework of the preparation of the 2019 sustainability report, Ubesol has carried out a new materiality analysis that allowed us to identify the relevant issues for our stakeholders. This process followed 3 phases: • Identification: The first step has been the exploration of potentially relevant topics for the organisation and its stakeholders. The compilation of relevant topics was based on an internal analysis of the organisation and an external analysis based on a sector benchmarking study considering the main reference standards in sustainability. The list has been validated by departments responsible. • Priorization: In order to prioritize the most relevant issues according to the degree of importance from the perspective of the company and the stakeholders, a participatory process was carried out taking into account the materiality principle and the participation of stakeholders. Internal prioritization was carried out through a participatory session with managers and technicians from different areas, while external prioritization was carried out through direct consultation with stakeholders through an online questionnaire. For the statistical analysis of the external sphere, responses were weighted according to the importance that each of the stakeholders has in the company. This approach allows us to give a more coherent overview in accordance to Ubesol’s reality. • Validation: Through Management’s review and validation, it is guaranteed that the report offers a complete representation of the organisation’s sustainability context, considering both positive and negative impacts. During the validation process, we decided to incorporate “Energy”, “Effluents and waste” and “Nondiscrimination” in the material topics due to its relevance for both the organisation and stakeholders. Thus, the material issues resulting from the materiality analysis are the following: (102-47) Economy Environment Social 18. Innovation and 3. Materials 10. Health and safety at technological development 4. Energy work 5. Water 13. Non-discrimination 7. Effluents and waste 16. Customer health and 8. Environmental compliance safety 63 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 As a result of the materiality analysis review, a materiality matrix has been obtained reflecting the degree of importance of each aspect considered during the assessment based on: • The importance regarding the economic, social and environmental effects for the organisation. • The importance in the valuations and decisions of the stakeholders. (103-1) Parallel to the materiality analysis, the coverage of each of the identified material issues has been determined, identifying the involvement (direct or indirect) of the organisation in these impacts. The results have been worked on the internal session with managers and technicians from different areas. Topic Implication No GRI Innovation and technological development Direct-Indirect GRI 301 Materials Direct GRI 302 Energy Direct GRI 303 Water and Effluents Direct GRI 306 Effluents and Waste Direct GRI 307 Environmental Compliance Direct GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety Direct GRI 406 Non-discrimination Direct GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety Direct-Indirect 6.3 MATERIALITY MATRIX The result of this process is a matrix that details the most important social, environmental and economic issues for Ubesol and its stakeholders. These topics, which compile the organisation’s improvement efforts, will be the basis of the future sustainability strategy. 64 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 The following matrix reflects all the topics that were considered when carrying out the materiality analysis. Relevant topics are highlighted in bold: (102-47) Alta (≥ 4,14) 16 Customer health and 4 Energy 10 Work health and safety safety 13 Non-discrimination 18 Innovation and 5 Water technological development * Medium (3.90-4.13) 7 Effluents and waste 8 Environmental 6 Emissions compliance 3 Materials 14 Local communities 17 Product Life Cycle 1 Economic performance Assessment (LCA) * 20 Traceability of raw 19 Packaging* materials * 15 Social assessment of suppliers 9 Environmental assessment of suppliers Relevance for stakeholders 11 Training and education Low (≤ 3.89) 12 Diversity and equal opportunities 2 Fight against corruption Low (≤ 3.64) Medium (3.65-4.09) High (≥ 4.10) Relevance for Ubesol Environment Social Economy 65 In bold the material topics. * Topics not covered in GRI Standards. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 7 GRI content index (102-54,102-55) This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards according to the Core compliance option. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals have also been considered. The following table presents the index of general and specific basic contents of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) organisation according to GRI Standards for the option of Core compliance. 7.1 GENERAL CONTENTS GRI Standard Content Paragraph in memory / Direct response GRI 101 FOUNDATION GRI 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organisational Profile 102-1 Name of the organisation UBESOL, S.L. 102-2 Activities, brands, 1.1 UBESOL, A STORY OF QUALITY AND products, and services COMMITMENT 66 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 102-3 Location of headquarters Grupo Ubesol, S.L. Calle la Costera, 9 46869 Atzeneta d’Albaida (Valencia) 102-4 Location of operations Grupo Ubesol (sociedad matriz) Ubesol Plantas Textil e Higiene Calle la Costera, 9 46869 Atzeneta d’Albaida Valencia, España 102-5 Ownership and legal form UBESOL, S.L. is a family business, limited partnership 102-6 Markets served 1.1 UBESOL, A STORY OF QUALITY AND COMMITMENT 102-7 Scale of the organisation 2019 A YEAR OF TRANSFORMATION 102-8 Information on employees 3 OUR PEOPLE: THE BEST TALENT and other employees 102-9 Supply chain 1.2.2 PILLARS THAT GUIDE OUR PERFORMANCE 2.2. OUR SUPPLIERS, KEY ELEMENT OF OUR SUCCESS 102-10 Significant changes to the There has been no significant change. organisation and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or The assessment of environmental aspects approach is carried out within the framework of the environmental management system. The objective of this identification and assessment is to know which are the main impacts and to be able to act to reduce their effects. A review of these environmental aspects is carried out periodically, including potential or emergency situations. For example, the quality of discharged water into the network 67 is controlled daily. Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 102-12 External initiatives 1.2 UBESOL, A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 102-13 Membership of associations 1.3 INVOLVED WITH THE SECTOR AND THE ENVIRONMENT Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior LETTER FROM THE CEO executives responsible for decision-making Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, 1.2 UBESOL, A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS standards and norms of conduct Governance 102-18 Governance structure 1.2.3 A CORPORATE CULTURE FOCUSED ON ETHICS, INTEGRITY AND GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Stakeholder involvement 102-40 List of stakeholders 6.1 RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS 102-41 Collective bargaining 100 % of our workers are covered in a agreements collective bargaining agreement. 102-42 Identification and selection 6.1 RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS of stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 6.1 RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS engagement 102-44 Key issues and voiced 6.1 RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS 68 concerns Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Reporting practices 102-45 Entities included in the Grupo Ubesol (including dependent consolidated financial company Laboratorios Maverick). statements 102-46 Definition of the reports’ The Report covers information related to Ubesol’s contents and the economic, social and environmental spheres coverage of the topic and contains transparent, reliable and balanced information on the organisation’s social, economic and environmental performance. It reflects both positive and negative aspects so that stakeholders can obtain a reasonable assessment of the organisation’s performance. 102-47 List of material topics 6.2 IDENTIFICATION AND ANALYSIS OF MATERIAL ISSUES 102-48 Restatement of There has been no restatement of the information information. 102-49 Changes in reporting There are no changes in the preparation of the report (this is the first sustainability report carried out). 102-50 Reporting period Ubesol Sustainability Report 2019 refers to the period from January 1 to December 31, 2019. 102-51 Last report date 2019. This is the first sustainability report carried out by Ubesol. 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact person for For any report related question, contact: questions about the report Juan Miguel Monllor, Environment and Sustainability coordinator juanmiguelmonllor@ubesol.es. 102-54 Declaration of preparation This report has been prepared in accordance of the report in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. with GRI standards 69 102-55 GRI Table of Contents 7 GRI CONTENT INDEX Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 7.2 MATERIAL TOPICS GRI 200 Economic topics NO GRI INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT GRI Standard Content Paragraph in report / Direct response 103-1 Explanation of the material 4.1 RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION AND topic and its Boundary MAXIMUM QUALITY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCTS 103-2 The management approach 4.1 RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION AND and its components MAXIMUM QUALITY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCTS 103-3 Evaluation of the 4.1 RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION AND management approach MAXIMUM QUALITY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCTS GRI 300: Temas ambientales GRI Standard Content Paragraph in report / Direct response GRI 302: Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material 5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY management approach 302-1 Energy consumption 5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY within the organisation 302-4 Reduction of energy 5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY 70 consumption Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 301: Materials 103-1 Explanation of the material 5.3.2 PROPER MANAGEMENT OF MATERIALS topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 5.3.2 PROPER MANAGEMENT OF MATERIALS and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 5.3.2 PROPER MANAGEMENT OF MATERIALS management approach 301-1 Materials used by weight 5.3.2 PROPER MANAGEMENT OF MATERIALS or volume GRI 303: Water and Effluents 103-1 Explanation of the material 5.3.1 WATER topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 5.3.1 WATER and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 5.3.1 WATER management approach 303-4 Water discharge 5.3.1 WATER 303-5 Water consumption 5.3.1 WATER GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 103-1 Explanation of the material 5.3.3 WASTE TREATMENT topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 5.3.3 WASTE TREATMENT and its components 71 103-3 Evaluation of the 5.3.3 WASTE TREATMENT management approach Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 306-2 Waste by type and disposal 5.3.3 WASTE TREATMENT method GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material 5.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 5.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 5.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT management approach 307-1 Waste by type and disposal 5.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT method GRI 400: Social topics GRI Standard Content Paragraph in report / Direct response GRI 403: Salud y seguridad en el Trabajo 103-1 Explanation of the material 3.3 A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK topic and its Boundary ENVIRONMENT 103-2 The management approach 3.3 A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK and its components ENVIRONMENT 103-3 Evaluation of the 3.3 A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK management approach ENVIRONMENT 403-1 Occupational health and 3.3 A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK safety management ENVIRONMENT system 72 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 403-2 Hazard identification, risk Ubesol complies with the obligation derived assessment, and incident from Law 31/1995, of November 8, on the investigation prevention of occupational risks and Royal Decree 171/2004, of March 30, on the coordination of business activities through various actions. Among others, it includes the timely delivery of information to external companies, the request for documentation without which access is denied, and the management of work permits for external companies. 403-3 Occupational health 3.3 A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK services ENVIRONMENT 403-4 Employee participation, 3.3 A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK consultation, and ENVIRONMENT communication on occupational health and safety 403-5 Employee training on 3.3 A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK occupational health and ENVIRONMENT safety In addition to the actions carried out by Ubesol, part of the requirements that are demanded of external companies is evidence of the training required in terms of risk prevention for the tasks they perform. 403-6 Promotion of employee 3.3 A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK health ENVIRONMENT Ubesol has staff trained in first aid and emergencies to be able to act if needed, whatever the cause of the internal or external emergency. For example, we have defibrillator equipment and trained personnel in its use, as well as equipment against choking. 403-8 Employees covered by an 3.3 A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK occupational health and ENVIRONMENT safety management 73 system Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 403-9 Work-related injuries 3.3 A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT 403-10 Work-related ill health 3.3 A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT GRI 406: Non-discrimination 103-1 Explanation of the material 3.2 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 3.2 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 3.2 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES management approach 406-1 Incidents of discrimination 3.2 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES and corrective actions taken GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material 4.2 CONSOLIDATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 4.2 CONSOLIDATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 4.2 CONSOLIDATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT management approach 416-1 Assessment of the health 4.2 CONSOLIDATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT and safety impacts of product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non4.2 CONSOLIDATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT compliance concerning the health and safety 74 impacts of products and services Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 8 United Nations Global Compact table of contents Principles of the United Page / Direct Most relevant GRI Category Nations Global Compact response standard Human 1. Businesses should support 3 OUR PEOPLE: THE 406 Non-discrimination Rights and respect the protection of BEST TALENT 407 Freedom of Association internationally proclaimed and Collective Bargaining human rights 408 Child Labor 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor 410 Security Practices 413 Local Communities 414 Supplier Social Assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 2. Businesses should make sure 3 OUR PEOPLE: THE 406 Non-discrimination that they are not complicit in BEST TALENT 407 Freedom of Association human rights abuses and Collective Bargaining 408 Child Labor 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor 410 Security Practices 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 75 criteria Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the 3 OUR PEOPLE: THE 402 Labor/Management freedom of association and the BEST TALENT Relations effective recognition of the right 407 Freedom of Association to collective bargaining 7 GRI CONTENT and Collective Bargaining INDEX 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 4. Businesses should uphold the 3 OUR PEOPLE: THE 409 Forced or Compulsory elimination of all forms of forced BEST TALENT Labor and compulsory labor 5. Businesses should uphold the 3.2 EQUAL 408 Child Labor effective abolition of child labor OPPORTUNITIES 6. Businesses should uphold the 3.2 EQUAL 402 Labor/Management elimination of discrimination OPPORTUNITIES Relations in respect of employment and 403: Occupational Health occupation 3.3 and Safety A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK 404 Training and Education ENVIRONMENT 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 414 Supplier Social Assessment 103 Management Approach 406 Non-discrimination Environment 7. Businesses should support 5.1 301 Materials a precautionary approach to ENVIRONMENTAL 302 Energy environmental challenges MANAGEMENT 303 Water and Effluents 305 Emissions 306 Effluents and Waste 307 Environmental Compliance 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 76 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 8. Businesses should undertake 5.1 301 Materials initiatives to promote greater ENVIRONMENTAL 302 Energy environmental responsibility MANAGEMENT 303 Water and Effluents 305 Emissions 306 Effluents and Waste 307 Environmental Compliance 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 9. Businesses should encourage 5 COMMITTED TO 301 Materials the development and diffusion THE ENVIRONMENT 302 Energy of environmentally friendly technologies. 303 Water and Effluents 305 Emissions 306 Effluents and Waste 307 Environmental Compliance 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment Anti10. Businesses should work 1.2.3 A CORPORATE 205 Anti-corruption corruption against corruption in all its CULTURE FOCUSED 415 Public Policy forms, including extortion and ON ETHICS, bribery. INTEGRITY AND 102-16 Values, principles, GOOD CORPORATE standards, and norms of GOVERNANCE behavior 77 Pag. Sustainability Report 2019 Grupo Ubesol Ubesol Textile and Hygiene Plants Calle la Costera, 9 46869 Atzeneta d’Albaida, Valencia, Spain T. +34 962 359 002 78 Pag.
