Corporate Responsibility Report Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Contents Introduction 3 About this report 4 01. Grupo Catalana Occidente 5 1.1 Introduction 5 1.2 Business model 7 1.3 Corporate governance 9 02. Corporate responsibility 15 2.1 Materiality 17 2.2 Sustainable development goals (SDG) 18 2.3 Corporate responsibility master plan 20 03. Commitment to our stakeholders 22 3.1 Employees: our most important asset 23 3.2 Customers: the central link in our activity 31 3.3 Shareholders: the key to sustainability 35 3.4 Intermediaries: agents and brokers 35 3.5 Suppliers: service providers 37 3.6 Society 39 04. Our environment 42 GRI disclosure index 45 Materiality GRI SDG Table 51 Contents | 2 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Introduction 102-14 For the third year running, we are presenting the Grupo Catalana Today we are living in a world without borders, operating in a For its part, the Fundación Jesús Serra continues to show strong Occidente Corporate Responsibility Report which is designed global economy and sharing space with public and private inand sustained growth in its action areas of research, company to share the most important information about our financial, stitutions that, along with the rest of society, show clear concern and education, social action, sport and promotion of the arts. social and environmental performance in 2019. This document about the sustainability of our planet. As a result, we promote has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting initiatives designed to contribute to achieving those Sustainable I encourage you to read this Corporate Responsibility Report Initiative (GRI) Standards, using the core option. The informaDevelopment Goals (SDG) that we can influence as a company. which shares our position as a Group in a simple and transpartion that appears in this report is that for Grupo Catalana We have done this on a voluntary basis and also through supent manner. Lastly, I would like to take this opportunity to Occidente and the companies that comprise it, companies that porting the work being carried out by UNESPA and Finresp express my gratitude for the hard work of our employees and are leaders in the Spanish insurance sector and the interna(Spain’s Centre of Sustainable and Responsible Finance). associates over the year, the support received from our sharetional credit insurance sector. holders and the trust our customers have shown in us. In 2019 we have renewed our commitment to the principles of Our business, insurance, has a clear intrinsic social value since the United Nations Global Compact and we have signed up to it improves the wellbeing of society by protecting individuals new initiatives such as the EWI network which aims to promote and companies from the risks involved in their lives and acthe presence of women in the management of insurance comJosé M.ª Serra tivity. panies. I would also like to announce that in 2020 Grupo Chairman Catalana Occidente has signed up to the United Nations Principles Throughout our hundred-year history we have demonstrated for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and Principles for Responsible our ability to adapt to the most varied historical, political and Investment (PRI) and these will be discussed and reported on social circumstances. You could say that we have always known in next year’s Report, reinforcing our commitment to sustainhow to be sustainable over time without moving away from ability and transparency. our true nature as an insurance company and with the desire to provide good customer service in all the stages that we have During 2019 we have continued to make progress in the creaexperienced. For decades, Grupo Catalana Occidente has detion of the internal model for reporting non-financial informasigned its business strategy to include the principles of corpotion, looking in more depth at the standardisation of concepts rate responsibility, focussed mainly on ethical management across the different companies comprising the Group and the which covers our entire value chain. traceability of data. Letter from the Chairman | 3 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Corporate Responsibility Report About this Report 102-50,102-52, 102-54 Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI 2019 102-1, 102-5 Standards in its Core option. In line with these principles, this document presents the issues that reflect the significant economic, environmental and social impacts of Grupo Catalana Occidente during the year 2019, from 1 January to 31 December 2019. The information it contains may be supplemented with that found on www.grupocatalanaoccidente.com. Scope of information 102-10, 102-45, 102-48, 102-49 The scope of the information within this Report corresponds to Grupo Catalana Occidente and the companies that comprise it. The financial information it includes comes from the consolidated annual accounts from the year ending 31 December 2019. In those cases in which the information reported presents a different scope to that established for this document, this is specified in the corresponding section or table with a footnote. About this Report | 4 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Group brands 102-2 Seguros Catalana Occidente Plus Ultra Seguros 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 1.1 Introduction Seguros Bilbao NorteHispana Seguros 102-1, 102-6 Grupo Catalana Occidente is one of the leaders of the Spanish Atradius Atradius Reinsurance insurance sector and the credit insurance sector worldwide. Over its more than 150 years it has seen a steady growth, thanks to its ability to adapt to changes and to remain faithful to its true character as an insurer. The Group has a presence in more than 50 countries through a diversified and balanced business portfolio, serving more than 4 million customers. Crédito y Caución Its consolidation as one of the largest Spanish capital insurance groups is largely a result of its acquisition model, which has allowed it to gradually integrate the leading companies in their field or geographical area. Grupo Catalana Occidente | 5 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment 2019 in numbers 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, 102-8, 201-1 5th Largest 7,668 17,327 insurance group in employees* brokers Spain 1,612 4 million 2nd Largest 55 countries branches customers credit insurance group in the world No. 2 Worldwide (25%) Turnover Consolidated Traditional business earnings recurring profit** €4,547.7 m +4.7% €424.5 m +9.9% €212.1 +8.4% No. 2 (8.8%) No. 4 No. 6 Credit insurance business Shareholder (6.1%) (5.8%) recurring profit payout No. 10 (3.0%) No. 9 (2%) €238.2 m +18.6% €105.9 m +7.3% Life Non-Life Multi-risk Motor Health Credit insurance * Work contracts in force at 31/12/2019 ** In the traditional business Grupo Catalana Occidente | 6 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment 1.2 Business model Distribution of premiums billed payment. This business is structurally linked to economic de102-2, 102-7, 102-9, 201-1 Life velopment and, in particular, the evolution of non-payments 30.0% and the volume of trade at the global level. Multi-risk The purpose of the group is based on leadership in the long-term 25.3% Its business lines are: Traditional Motor protection and welfare of families and businesses in Spain, business 25.2% Credit insurance Surety insurance Reinsurance through its traditional business, and on the coverage of comHealth mercial credit risks at an international level, through the credit 2.3% Protects against Protects the Wide range of insurance business. Funeral financial losses beneficiary if the reinsurance 5.3% resulting from the supplier fails to solutions for the Traditional business Various inability of a buyer meet its contractual main insurers in the 11.9% to pay for goods obligations. world. purchased on credit. The traditional business provides families and small and medium-sized businesses with a wide range of insurance products to cover any need, at any stage of life. It is covered through the Distribution by consolidated earnings companies Seguros Catalana Occidente, Plus Ultra Seguros, Seguros Bilbao and NorteHispana Seguros, who serve their customers through a network of professional brokers and more Distribution of premiums obtained in credit insurance than 1,600 offices. Consolidated Traditional business Credit insurance 47.1% The lines included in the traditional business are as follows: recurring 74.3% Credit insurance business earnings 52.9% Surety insurance 6.1% Multi-risk Motor Credit Reinsurance accepted insurance 7.0% Family-home, businesses, Products and services related to business Information revenue 6.8% communities, offices automobiles or transport fleets. and SMEs. Revenue from addiVarious Life tional activities 5.9% Credit insurance business Industrial products, engineering, Products in life accidents and civil liability. insurance, endowment, pension In terms of credit insurance, the company Atradius Crédito y The credit insurance turnover for 2019 represents 42.6% of the plans and investment funds, Caución, a member of Grupo Catalana Occidente, offers products total for the Group, standing at €1,935.3 million. as well as funeral and health expenses. and services that contribute to the growth of companies throughout the world, protecting them from the risks of non-payment The turnover of the traditional business stood at €2,612.4 million inherent in the sale of products and services with deferred and it accounts for 57.4% of the group’s total. It is distributed as indicated below: Grupo Catalana Occidente | 7 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Strategy Innovation 102-14, 103-1. 103-2. 103-3 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 203-2 Grupo Catalana Occidente bases its strategy on three pillars: growth, profitability and solvency, which it implements through Grupo Catalana Occidente focusses its transformation plan on the following action areas. three different areas: culture, the offer and the customer. Strategic pillars 2019 Achievements 2020 Guidelines The Group considers that a culture that embraces change and at the same time encourages and motivates its employees to Growth • 4.7% increase in turnover, • Development and efficiency of the distribution innovate is the fundamental pillar to be able to adapt the offer Definition of the Group’s target markets, reaching €4,547.7 million. networks: plan to expand the agencies and of products and services to the needs of all types of customer. development of appropriate products and services • Acquisition and integration of Antares, gaining increase the number of strategic brokers. As a result, since 2016 we have been implementing different and establishment of appropriate distribution market share in the health insurance area. • Adapting of the offer to new market trends, including a review of the products initiatives aimed at achieving this objective. channels to reach the customer. • The insurance offer has been increased and reinforced in different business relating to health and funeral expenses. areas, for example, with innovative cyber• Prioritising of the customer concept in In 2019 we have strengthened innovation with a 41% year-onrisk products and incorporating new management and a focus on their satisfaction. year increase in investment in R&D+innovation, to stand at guarantees in home insurance policies. €66.6 million. Through the Group we have been driving various projects aimed at improving the customer experience, Profitability • 9.9% increase in consolidated profit, • Increase in technical and financial earnings process optimisation and risk minimisation thanks to the proRecurring and sustained profitability through reaching €424.5 million. greater than the increase in turnover. cessing of big data. technical-actuarial rigour, diversification of • Technical profit grew by 15.2% to stand at • Advances in the simplicity of investments and processes that allow for low cost €538.2 million thanks to the application products, processes and systems. ratios and a high quality service. of sound underwriting principles and a • Evolution of the Contact Centre in which In recent months we have worked on the construction of a brand continued improvement in efficiency. new technology will be implemented and that identifies the main innovation trends and on the basis of • Excellent combined ratio: the sales management will be reviewed. which the 2020-2023 plan has been defined. -90.4% in the traditional business (non-life). -73.4% in the credit insurance business. In 2019 we established a plan for cooperation with universities • The Group has remained active in terms of in order to develop courses linked to the business needs. This diversification and the search for profitability, making various investments in properties. project involves such prestigious institutions as Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Universitat de Barcelona and Universidad de Deusto, in topics as diverse as life insurance, third and fourth Solvency • The estimated solvency ratio at • Development of new ways in which to age, general-risk insurance, cyber-security of individuals and Prioritise the generation and continued growth of the close of 2019 is 213%. interact with customers through the introduction of electronic policies, mobile mobility. own resources in order to finance the expansion • AM Best has maintained the rating of the main of the Group, ensuring a comfortable fulfilment operational companies, both traditional insurance self-service and e-Customers. of commitments made and an adequate return to and credit insurance, at A excellent with a stable • Development of talent and management of shareholders. outlook for the credit insurance companies. productivity at the human resources level. • Maintenance of financial strength, the ability to manage risk and control systems. Grupo Catalana Occidente | 8 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Xplora Crowdfunding platform for innovation among the Grupo Catalana Occidente employees. 1.3 Corporate Governance Aggregate results since the start of the project: In 2019, the Group continued its model of corporate governance aligned with international best practices, with a commitment to transparency, rigour and accountability. 1,661 users 18 challenges 3 in project phase Corporate governance model More than 100 ideas 1 in implementation 102-18, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 300 ideas supported phase The Grupo Catalana Occidente governing bodies are intended to provide appropriate management structures and measures Progress with Xplora As a result, the project for the transformation of the Contact of control in order to protect the interests of shareholders, monOne of the key initiatives in this pathway to cultural transforCentre has been consolidated in 2019 with the aim of responditor the implementation of the strategy and ensure the creation mation is an intra-entrepreneurship programme known as ing to the new communication needs of our customers. of value and the efficient use of resources in a transparent Xplora, launched in 2017. This programme brings together framework of information. training and a platform designed so that the employees can Ongoing improvement in operations: cyber-security, big propose ideas that allow Grupo Catalana Occidente to improve data and technology The Group applies the recommendations of the Code of Good its products and services. During 2019, the cyber-security strategy has been reinforced Governance of the National Securities Market Commission to create a solid layer of protection for the Group’s information, (CNMV) for listed companies as well as advanced practices in The platform acts as a crowdfunding tool, in which employees guarantee the control and security of its internal networks and corporate governance. can suggest ideas that are then validated by their peers in the minimise its exposure. form of virtual coins. If their ideas reach a minimum level of Shareholding structure investment, they are then evaluated by the Innovation Similarly, progress continues to be made on the unification of Committee, which analyses how they could be implemented platforms, a project that allows all of the Group’s companies in The main shareholder of Grupo Catalana Occidente is INOC, and attempts to launch a pilot test. the traditional business to have a shared technological frameS.A., which controls approximately 61.42% of the share capital. work in order to improve the efficiency of processes and exploit The Group has treasury stock of 2,095,017 securities, repreThe core of the strategy: the customer technological synergies. senting 1.75% of own shares, through Sociedad Gestión Catalana For Grupo Catalana Occidente, the customer is at the very core Occidente, S.A. (Sogesco). 33.91% is free-float and roughly half of its strategy, being the driving force behind all innovation For its part, Atradius makes effective use of business, managof this amount is in the hands of institutional investors. processes. During 2019 progress has been made with the CX ing an exposure of €650,000 million and underwriting more project, defining a new segmentation based on the mathematthan 4.1 million credit limits. With the new data mining, maical model of family units. In the next financial year the focus chine learning and neural network technologies, it is constantwill be on giving customers the ability to manage their affairs ly improving the process for underwriting risks with solutions in an autonomous, immediate and digital manner through an for its customers. omni-channel approach. Grupo Catalana Occidente | 9 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Governing bodies The way it operates and acts is governed by the company’s articles of association and the Regulations of the Board of Directors, both of which are available on the Grupo Catalana Occidente corporate website. General Shareholders’ Meeting At the end of 2019, the Board of Directors is comprised of 16 directors of who 10 are nominees, 2 are independent and 4 are Board of Directors executive. The representation of women is 6%. Committees to which they Audit Appointments and Remuneration Name or business name of director (representative) Position Category First appointed belong Committee Committee José María Serra Farré Chairman Executive 1975 Management Committee GESTIÓN DE ACTIVOS Y VALORES, S.L. Member of the Appointments Vice-Chairman Nominee 2017 (Javier Juncadella Salisachs) and Remuneration Committee General Shareholders’ Meeting Chief ExecuJosé Ignacio Álvarez Juste Executive 2012 tive Officer The General Meeting is the representative body of the shareSecretary Francisco José Arregui Laborda Executive 1998 holders who make up the share capital of the Group. Its funcdirector tioning and activities are governed by the articles of association Federico Halpern Blasco Director Nominee 1993 and the Regulations of the General Shareholders’ Meeting which Chairman of the Appointments can be found on the corporate website. Indeand Remuneration Committee Francisco Javier Pérez Farguell Director 2015 pendent Member of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Audit Board of Directors Committee Inde405-1 Juan Ignacio Guerrero Gilabert Director 2011 Member of the Appointments pendent and Remuneration Committee The Board of Directors is the highest body responsible for the María Assumpta Soler Serra Director Nominee 2009 management and supervision of the company and the Group. The guiding principle of its activities is to delegate the day-toHugo Serra Calderón Director Executive 2013 day management to the management team and concentrate its Jorge Enrich Izard Director Nominee 1993 activity on oversight, which includes, among others: • Strategic responsibility, consisting of guiding the Group's JUSAL, S.L. (José María Juncadella Sala) Director Nominee 2010 policies. COTYP, S.L. (Alberto Thiebaut Estrada) Director Nominee 2012 • Oversight responsibility, to control management. VILLASA, S.L. (Fernando Villavecchia Obregón) Director Nominee 1997 • Communication responsibility, to serve as a link to shareEnrique Giró Godó Director Nominee 2007 holders. ENSIVEST BROS 2014, S.L. (Jorge Enrich Serra) Director Nominee 2015 LACANUDA CONSELL, S.L. (Carlos Federico Halpern Serra) Director Nominee 2010 Member of the Audit Committee Grupo Catalana Occidente | 10 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Delegate Committees Grupo Catalana Occidente Management Committee The Board of Directors has two delegate committees: the Audit Committee and the Appointments and Remuneration Committee. Traditional business Credit insurance business Audit Committee Seguros Plus Ultra Seguros NorteHispana Atradius Atradius Aside from the responsibilities assigned previously and conCatalana Occidente Seguros Bilbao Seguros Crédito y Caución Re tained in the Regulations of the Board of Directors, from the year 2016 and in relation to the Corporate Responsibility Policy, the Group has attributed to the Audit Committee responsibility for monitoring the corporate responsibility strategy and of Directors, the delegate Committees and the performance of Ethical Framework practices and assessing its level of compliance. The Audit the Chairman. The result was positive, highlighting the appro102-16, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Committee has met 11 times during the 2019 financial year. priateness of the procedures and the operation of these bodies. During 2019 this evaluation was carried out internally through The Catalana Occidente Group has a code of ethics that encourAppointments and Remuneration Committee a self-evaluation by the members of those bodies. ages responsible and transparent management, considers people The Appointments and Remuneration Committee ensures, to be its greatest asset, and puts the customer at the centre of among other things, that the candidate selection process does More information on corporate governance is available in the its activity. not suffer from implicit bias that hinders the selection of female 2019 Annual Report (p. 40-43). directors, raising proposals or informing the Board of Directors, The Group's Code of Ethics, approved by the Board of Directors, where appropriate, with complete objectivity and respect for Management Committee is the document that establishes the guidelines that must govern the principle of equality between men and women, as regards the ethical behaviour of directors, employees, brokers and astheir professional conditions, experience and knowledge. Grupo Catalana Occidente has a corporate Management sociates of Grupo Catalana Occidente in their daily work, with Committee that governs and coordinates the day-to-day manregard to their relationships and interactions with all stakeThe information about the remuneration of the members of agement of the Group. In addition, the main insurance compaholders. the Board of Directors can be found in the Annual Report on nies that are part of the Group have their own Management Remuneration provided to the CNMV which is subject to an Committees. The Code incorporates the operating principles of the Group advisory vote at the General Shareholders’ Meeting and which and is available on the corporate website is available on the Group's corporate website. The Group's corporate governance not only encompasses the www.grupocatalanaoccidente.com Board of Directors and other governing bodies, but also extends Evaluation of the Board and Committees to all aspects of the organisation and management teams. General Principles Following the good governance recommendations of the CNMV To ensure that positions are filled by the correct people, the Group has a Remuneration Policy and Policy on Fitness and • Integrity and honesty to carry out an external evaluation every three years, during Good Repute. • Impartiality the 2018 financial year this work was carried out by KPMG in • Transparency and confidentiality its role as an independent expert on the functioning of the Board • Professionalism • Corporate social responsibility Grupo Catalana Occidente | 11 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Atradius Crédito y Caución, due to the unique nature of its strucCompliance and prevention They must disclose the results of that examination in an annual ture and its business, has its own Code of Conduct that is in 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 205-2, 205-3 report. During 2019, the Group has given the Prevention of keeping with the guidelines defined in the Group’s Code of Ethics. Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing course to 2,554 Operating in a highly regulated sectors means that there is an employees. In 2019, Grupo Catalana Occidente has continued to disseminate essential role for the verification of compliance, which ensures its code of ethics among all employees and it must be read and that we are fulfilling the obligations that affect the Group’s Fight against fraud and corruption 205-3, 419-1 accepted by everyone working in its companies. organisation. This includes both the mandatory regulations The Group has procedures to combat fraud that contribute to and those that are adopted on a voluntary basis, including the identifying potential malicious actions or omissions in taking To ensure full employee awareness on this issue, during 2019 legal, regulatory and administrative provisions that affect the out insurance, in the statement of claims or the accreditation the Group has offered the Criminal Responsibility of Legal Group, as well as its own internal regulations. of damages and losses, with the aim of obtaining improper Entities course to 1,686 employees. benefits, money laundering or unjust enrichment. Atradius Crédito y Caución has its own structure which includes Whistleblower channel 419-1 both the function of compliance at the company level and those Any employee in Spain can bring to the attention of the internal Employees have a whistleblower channel accessible from the of local compliance and support for the company in its compliaudit department behaviours that could be tantamount to crimintranet of each company in the Group. Atradius Crédito y ance with the applicable laws, rules and regulations. inal acts through the whistleblower channel. Caución has its own whistleblower channel. Prevention of Money Laundering During 2019, Corporate Internal Audit has been notified of 51 Complaints regarding violations of the Code of Ethics are govThe Group has a Manual on Prevention of money laundering cases of breaches, irregularities and fraud, 29% fewer than in erned by the relevant provisions of the operating procedure and terrorist financing, as well as control processes that intethe previous year. relating to irregularities and fraud (whistleblower channel). grate the computer procedures for the purchase of products Once a report has been received, a first analysis of its reasonthat could be used for money laundering. It is applicable to all The distribution of complaints by type was as follows: ableness is performed by the Internal Audit team which will employees and brokers of the companies in Grupo Catalana in turn send the case to the Human Resources team where Occidente covered by this regulation and based in Spanish terInsurance purchase fraud 26 appropriate and if it involves employees. ritory. The latest version of that document was approved in Claims fraud 4 January 2019. Improper appropriation 8 The main principles contained in the Group's Code of Ethics are Other 13 those of integrity and honesty, which implies that it will avoid The measures implemented by the Group are subject to annual any form of corruption, implementing the necessary measures analysis by an external expert who prepares a report and rules The 51 have been resolved and represented a 29% reduction in to combat it. whether the Group has a satisfactory prevention of money launcases compared to 2018. dering system. The Board of Directors examines this report In 2019 only one substantiated complaint was recorded across together with proposals for possible improvements. Similarly, During 2019 the Group has not recorded any corruption-relatthe entire Group in relation to ethical issues or the violation of the Group has continued to run training activities on this issue. ed public legal cases. human rights and this is currently being resolved through the Each year, all of the Group’s companies subject to Law 10/2010 courts. produce a Training Plan and are subject to external independInternal supervision ent examination. The system is based on a solid culture of supervision, where the fundamental principles are clearly defined and communicated at all levels of the organisation. The internal control system Grupo Catalana Occidente | 12 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment is subject to an independent supervision process that ensures Risk Management Model Risk Management System that it works properly over time. The comprehensive supervi103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 102-11 The governance of the Grupo Catalana Occidente risk managesion of the system is carried out by internal audit. ment system is implemented following the “three lines of defence” The risk management strategy and policies of Grupo Catalana principle, as shown in the previous image: Within the supervisory environment, the Group emphasises Occidente fall under the responsibility of its Board of Directors. Through the application of this principle, the Group’s own orcontrols on financial and property investments. Each month ganisational structure carries out a clear allocation and segrethere is supervision of the concentration and spread of fixed gation of responsibilities with regard to risk management. income and equity, average rating of the portfolio, exposures by rating (their changes and the reasons for these), evolution A similar governance structure is repeated within each of the of asset optionality according to interest rates and control of 1st line of defence Group’s companies, ensuring that decisions relating to risk are Parties responsible for assumed risk and its management. underlying assets. taken in a controlled manner and that their management is present throughout the organisation. Additionally, in 2019, progress has continued in improving the Grupo Catalana Occidente Management Committee quality of the risk map. In total, the Group has more than 5,000 Risk strategy internal controls. Grupo Catalana Occidente defines its risk strategy as the level Traditional Credit insurance business of risks that the companies that form it are willing to take on business and ensures that its integration with the business plan allows it to comply with the risk appetite, tolerance and limits approved by the Board of Directors. Seguros Plus Ultra Atradius Catalana Occidente Seguros Crédito y Caución Risk management policies A structure of risk management policies has been established Seguros NorteHispana Atradius Re Bilbao Seguros to ensure supervision through the measurement, monitoring and information of these. 2nd line of defence. Define controls that guarantee compliance with risk For more information on risk management, see p.46-47 of the management processes and policies. Annual Report 2019. Risk Actuarial Verification of management role compliance role control role 3rd line of defence. Carry out independent evaluations on the effectiveness of the governance system, the risk management system and internal control. Internal Audit Role Grupo Catalana Occidente | 13 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Transparency Fiscal Transparency 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 In November 2015 the Group's Corporate Tax Policy was approved. The objective of this policy is to describe the strategy In order to be accountable to its stakeholders, Grupo Catalana to meet its fiscal obligations in all the countries and territories Occidente makes available both financial and non-financial in which it operates, as well as maintaining an appropriate information through various documents available on the correlationship with the tax administrations concerned. porate website www.grupocatalanaoccidente.com. In addition, the information relating to Corporate Governance is provided This policy is reviewed each year by the Company’s Board of each year to the National Securities Market Commission (CNMV) Directors and its last update took place in January 2020. and is available on that regulator’s website. Prior to the drawing up of the annual accounts and the filing The non-financial information is mostly disclosed in the of the corporation tax return, the person responsible for tax Corporate Responsibility Report. matters in the Group informs the Board of Directors about the tax-related strategies deployed during the financial year and Annual Report the degree of compliance with the policy. Each year Grupo Catalana Occidente publishes its annual report, prepared in accordance with the framework of information of The Group promotes transparent, clear and responsible comthe International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and based munication of its main financial figures, by providing its difon the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). ferent stakeholders with information concerning the payment of all taxes that are applicable in each of the jurisdictions in The report contains the consolidated annual accounts, the corwhich it is present. porate governance report and the management report, which for the second year includes the non-financial information report in compliance with Law 11/2018. Quarterly earnings report Within the quarterly earnings reports there is an annex with information on corporate responsibility and the activity of the Fundación Jesús Serra. Grupo Catalana Occidente | 14 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Corporate responsibility policy 102-16 In February 2018 the Board of Directors approved the Grupo 02 Catalana Occidente Corporate Responsibility Policy. Its essential principles are the same as those set out in the Code of Ethics. Through this policy, the Group wants to contribute to the following objectives: Corporate responsibility in • Carry out its activities and those of the companies that Grupo Catalana Occidente make up the Group following the principles of responsibility, ethics, transparency and commitment. • Maximise the creation of sustainable social value for its stakeholders across three dimensions of corporate responsibility: economic, social and environmental. For Grupo Catalana Occidente, corporate responsibility is the voluntary commitment to integrate into its strategy responsi• Prevent, minimise and mitigate potential negative impacts in social and environmental matters arising from ble management with regards to economic, social and enviits activities. ronment factors, promote ethical behaviour towards its stakeholders, rigorously apply the principles of good governance, In addition, it defines the stakeholders and outlines specific and contribute to the wellbeing of society through the creation commitments in relation to them. of sustainable social value. The Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. Board of Directors is reSocial value is the result of not only focusing the Group's activsponsible for establishing and guiding the corporate social ity on obtaining good financial results, but also promoting the responsibility strategy, which acts in a cross-cutting manner wellbeing of the stakeholders that are part of it and to which and involves all business areas. There is a Corporate the Group’s entities must be answerable. This value becomes Responsibility Committee that is linked to the Management sustainable when it is integrated not only in the short term, but Committee through the managing director reporting to the also in the medium and long term. Chairman. This Committee is made up of the heads of the different areas that represent the stakeholders. The companies in Grupo Catalana Occidente contribute to improving social and economic conditions in the regions in which The function sits within the department for relationships with they operate. The very nature of insurance implies the concept analysts, investors, rating agencies and corporate responsibilof social responsibility, because it is about accompanying cusity, which in turn reports to the Finance Department. tomers at every moment of their professional and personal lives, anticipating risks to protect them. Corporate responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente | 15 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Atradius Crédito y Caución, in addition to integrating the Group's In Spain, moreover, the Group's companies are involved in the to promote the presence of women in the management of insurpolicy, has also published on its website its own declaration of main sector associations (ICEA and UNESPA), which have corance companies. corporate responsibility outlining its commitments to society. porate responsibility programmes. Finresp (Spanish Centre for Responsible and Sustainable Finance), which brings togethSince its creation, the Corporate Responsibility Committee has er the banking and insurance sectors, was also launched in met seven times and, among other matters, it has defined ma2019. The Group has also joined the Ewi Network, which aims teriality and the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan 2019-2021. Signing up to the PSI and PRI In addition, the Group is aware that the exercising External initiatives of its corporate responsibility can contribute to an 102-12, 102-13 integrated and stable global economy that helps Grupo Catalana Occidente has signed up to the protect the world's assets. For this reason, from Externally, Grupo Catalana Occidente continues to follow the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) the perspective of its role as an investor, it has ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact and is comproduced by the United Nations Environment decided to sign up to the Principles for mitted to aligning its strategies and operations with these uniProgramme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), which Responsible Investment (PRI) agreed by the UN in versally accepted principles in four areas: human rights, labour create a frame of reference for the insurance sector 2005 standards, environment and corruption. in relation to addressing social, environmental and governance risks and opportunities. • Incorporate Environmental, Social and In addition, through its current activity and social action, it also Corporate Governance (ESG) issues in supports the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) promoting • Integrate environmental, social and governance investment analysis and decision-making aspects such as economic growth and progress, equal opporissues (ESG issues) relating to insurance activity processes. tunities, quality learning, energy efficiency and care of health into the decision-making process. • Act as active owners by incorporating ESG and wellbeing through the prevention of and protection from • Collaborate in raising awareness about issues into its investment policies. risks. It also contributes to creating sustainable communities environmental, social and governance issues, where the companies operate through responsible production • Publish the appropriate information on ESG manage risk and develop solutions. and consumption and the creation of wealth and employment, issues. which helps to reduce inequalities and promotes peace, justice • Collaborate with key stakeholders to promote • Promote the acceptance and application of the and strong institutions. broad action across society on environmental, Principles of socially responsible investment social and governance issues. within the investment industry. In 2020, it has signed up to the United Nations Principles for • Be accountable and show transparency by Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and Principles for Responsible • Work with other member companies to publicly and periodically disclosing progress in Investment (PRI), which will be implemented in the Group and improve the effectiveness of the application of the application of the Principles. discussed in next year's Report. This is the way in which Grupo the Principles. Catalana Occidente implements its commitment to anticipate • Report on progress made in applying the risks to prevent the impact they could have on society and its Principles. responsibility as a financial investor. Corporate responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente | 16 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment 2.1 Materiality Coverage* Source Implication** 102-43, 102-46, 102-47, 102-49 Material issues GRI standards Internal External Direct Indirect Related SDG Economic, profitability GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 In order to identify the key issues for Grupo Catalana Occidente and solvency SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth and its stakeholders, a materiality analysis was performed for performance the first time in 2017. Risk management and GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 regulatory compliance SDG 16 Peace, justice GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016 and strong institutions The issues relevant to the Group were identified through the GRI 419: Socio-economic compliance 2016 analysis of different leading sources of information for the sector. Corporate Governance GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 SDG 16 Peace, justice and strong institutions Ethics, integrity and GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 SDG 8 Decent work and Once these relevant issues had been identified, there was an economic growth transparency GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 internal assessment through interviews with executives and SDG 12 Responsible proGRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 2016 members of the Group's Management Committee and there was duction and consumption also an external assessment through criteria and aspects evalSDG 16 Peace, justice uated in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index questionnaire and and strong institutions the analysis of the maturity of the aspects in eight companies Customer experience N/A SDG 3 Good health and well being in the sector. In the final phase, the Corporate Responsibility SDG 12 Responsible proCommittee validated the results of the analysis performed, duction and consumption reaching a consensus on 10 material aspects, which were subData Protection. GRI 418: Customer privacy 2016 sequently submitted to and approved by the Grupo Catalana Cybersecurity N/A Occidente Management Committee. Innovation N/A SDG 9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure A review of the material issues is planned for 2020, paying Quality employment GRI 401: Employment 2016 SDG 5 Gender equality particular attention to the environmental factor. GRI 402: Labour/Management relations 2016 SDG 8 Decent work and GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunities 2016 economic growth GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 SDG 10 Reduced Determination of content inequalities GRI 407: Freedom of association and col102-44. 102-46, 102-47 lective bargaining 2016 Professional GRI 404: Training and education 2016 SDG 16 Peace, justice development and strong institutions The definition of the Group's materiality integrates the critical Commitment to society GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016 issues and matters of high importance. From this, each of their SDG 16 Peace, justice GRI 413: Local communities 2016 and strong institutions related GRI standards are identified and the contents to disclose are defined, along with the Sustainable Development Goals * Coverage: Indicates whether the impact is internal, external or both Direct: The organisation is directly linked to the impact associated with each of them. ** Implication: Indicates the involvement of the organisation in terms of the impact. Indirect: The organisation is linked to the impact through its business relations N/A: not applicable (See Materiality GRI SDG Table on page 41) Corporate responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente | 17 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment 2.2 Sustainable development SDG and goals Company Best practices goals 1. No poverty 1.2. Reduce at least by half the proportion FJS Day centre project in Almería with of people living in poverty according to Aldeas infantiles for at-risk minors. The approval of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and national definitions Project with FESBAL food bank the 2030 Agenda in 2015 implies the commitment not only of and Tenerife food bank. governments, but also of civil society, educational institutions Charity Euro project. and companies, to contribute to their achievement. 3. Health and well-being 3.1. Reduce the maternal mortality rate FJS Project to improve maternal and child health The business of the Grupo Catalana Occidente companies and in the town of Meki, Ethiopia, in collaboration with the Pablo Horstmann Foundation. the projects of the Fundación Jesús Serra intrinsically impact on the SDGs due to the very nature of their core activities. These 3.2. End preventable deaths of newborns FJS Be a mother, be a woman project in Senegal organisations are promoting new initiatives that are impleand children under 5 years of age aimed at training healthcare workers and mented through actions, programmes and published informapreventing complications that lead to high maternal and neonatal mortality. tion. In 2020, there are plans to make progress in defining the priority goals, as well as in the alignment of the SDGs with the 3.7. Ensure universal access to sexual and FJS Simao Mendes Hospital Project in Guineareproductive health-care services Bissau to reduce infant mortality and social action initiatives run by the Foundation, including the improve medical training, in collaboration measurement of impacts in both cases. with Doctors without Borders. 3b. Support the research and development FJS Fundación Jesús Serra Research Awards in In terms of reporting, a table showing the correlation between of vaccines and medicines food and nutrition, with an impact on health. the GRI content, the material issues and the SDGs was included in the 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report and this has been 4. Quality education replicated in the 2019 Report, supplementing the information 4.1. Ensure that all girls and boys complete FJS Project for the construction and in this chapter with the inclusion of the goals. free and equitable primary and secondary refurbishment of schools in disadvantaged education. areas to promote access to education. * GCO: Grupo Catalana Occidente Becoming Aware Programme for training in healthy habits. FJS: Fundación Jesús Serra 4.3. Ensure equal access to quality technical, FJS Training programme for dentists in Mauritania vocational and tertiary education with Planetary Action (Dentists on wheels). 4.5. Eliminate gender disparities in FJS “África digna” scholarship programme for education and ensure equal access to underprivileged female students in Kenya. education “Pushing towards the future” 4b. Expand the number of scholarships FJS programme for training people with available to developing countries disabilities in new technologies. “Entrepreneurs classroom” programme and university scholarships programme for people with disabilities in collaboration with the Prevent Foundation. Corporate responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente | 18 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment 5. Gender equality 11. Sustainable cities and communities 5.5. Ensure equal opportunities GCO Joining the EWI Network. 11.3. Enhance inclusive and GCO Portfolio of sustainable properties. at all levels of decision-making in Code of Ethics of Grupo Catalana Occidente and Atradius. sustainable urbanisation and political, economic and public life capacity for participatory planning Equality plans. 5a. Reforms for equal rights to GCO Position levelling project. and management economic resources Recognition of the right to disconnect. 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions 5c. Policies and legislation for the Flexible working as a form of organisation. promotion of gender equality and 16.5. Substantially reduce GCO Policy to fight corruption and bribery. Public information on the pay gap in the the empowerment of women corruption and bribery in all their Protocol for cases of irregularity and fraud. Annual Report (see page 61). forms Whistleblower channel. 16.6. Develop effective, accountable GCO Management report and Annual report. and transparent institutions at all Corporate responsibility report. levels 8. Decent work and economic growth Corporate website and the websites of the companies. 8.1. Sustain per capita economic GCO Strategic pillars: growth, profitability and solvency. 17. Partnerships to meet the goals growth Ongoing growth which creates wealth where it operates. 17.10 Promote a universal, rulesGCO/ Through the credit insurance business in 55 8.5. Achieve full employment and GCO/FJS 92 disabled employees. based, open, non-discriminatory Atradius countries, including developing countries in decent work among disadvantaged and equitable multilateral trading the Middle East, America, Asia and Africa. Hiring in Special Job Centres. groups system under the World Trade Equality plans. Organization Employability Analysis Service project for people with disabilities and teaming project with group 17.17. Encourage and promote GCO UNESPA, ICEA. employees to support the Femarec association. effective public, public-private and United Nations Global Compact. 8.8. Protect labour rights and GCO Equality plans. civil society partnerships Joining the EWI Network. promote safe and secure working Collective bargaining agreements. environments (migrant workers, Protocol for the prevention and treatment of women, etc.) 17.19. Build on existing initiatives to GCO The reporting model followed is in keeping sexual and psychological harassment. develop measurements of progress with the Global Reporting Initiative in its core 8.a. Increase Aid for Trade support GCO/ Through the credit insurance business in 55 on sustainable development option according to the GRI Standards. for developing countries Atradius countries, including developing countries in the Middle East, America, Asia and Africa. 10. Reduced inequalities 10.2. Empower and promote the GCO Equality plan. social, economic and political Hiring in Special Job Centres. inclusion of all people Femarec Project. 10.3 Ensure equal opportunities, GCO Code of ethics. eliminating discriminatory policies Equality plan. and practices and promoting Whistleblower channel. appropriate action Corporate responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente | 19 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment 2.3. Corporate Responsibility 1. Trust: the insurance business of Grupo Catalana Occidente is based on a trust factor that defines our relationship with our Master Plan stakeholders. Preserving this trust is essential to guarantee 102-16 the Group's sustainability over time. 2. Excellence in service: the insurance business is based on a The Grupo Catalana Occidente Corporate Responsibility Master desire to serve, offering high quality products tailored to the Plan established for the 2019-2021 period is based on the aim needs of the customers and fully personalised professional of being a benchmark in good governance and responsible advice through its employees and network of associates. management in the sector, recognised for its values ​​with its stakeholders. 3. Positive impact: Grupo Catalana Occidente bases its business model on respect for people and maximising the creation of The objectives of the master plan are as follows: sustainable social value for its stakeholders in the three areas • Offer a common framework in the area of corporate ​​ of corporate responsibility: economic, social and environmental. responsibility for the companies that form part of Grupo Catalana Occidente. In parallel, a cross-cutting area has been defined, called dis• Promote those areas of corporate responsibility that supsemination and reporting, that aims to improve both internal port the Group's strategic objectives and respond to the and external communication. For this plan to be implemented, challenges identified, both those of the insurance sector it needs to be understood and promoted, so its effective internal and those specific to Grupo Catalana Occidente. communication is the key to success. • Make progress in the commitments made to stakeholders in the Corporate Responsibility Policy. Likewise, the external reporting of corporate responsibility • Establish a work programme for the defined period with management and the results obtained with the launch of the responsible parties. different programmes is important in maintaining its reputation and improving its positioning in this area. It has been structured identifying three key areas: trust, excellence in service and positive impact; and a parallel cross-cutting area of dissemination and reporting. For each area, specific objectives have been established for the 2019-2021 period. Corporate responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente | 20 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Basic principles of the Corporate responsibility plan Integrity and Transparency and honesty Impartiality confidentiality Professionalism Corporate responsibility plan 2019-2021 Regulatory Fundamental areas changes Challenges for the sector 1. 2. 3. Employees Trust Excellence in service Positive impact Adapting to demand Health and well-being Ethics and Integrity Digital transformation Customers Driving towards Technological the desired Meeting the commitments made evolution Formalise investment in the community and situation: Shareholders volunteering and investors Data New ways of Grupo Catalana Occidente Cultural keys wants to be a benchmark protection working Products that generate in good governance and added social value responsible management Brokers in the insurance sector, recognised for its values Model for relationship Socially responsible and its commitment to its Challenges for GCO with stakeholders investment Environmental awareness stakeholders. Co-existence of Associates and generations suppliers Cross-cutting area Improving Society communication Dissemination and reporting through communication Growth Profitability Solvency Supporting Grupo Catalana Occidente’s strategic pillars Corporate responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente | 21 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Chapter in which performance Stakeholders Commitments is reported Employees • Equal opportunities 3.1 03 • Fair wages Employees: • Ongoing training our most important • Work-life balance asset Commitments to our Customers • Development of competitive products 3.2 Customers: the stakeholders • Personal advice • Excellence in service central link in our activity • Preserve confidentiality of personal data 102-40, 102-42 Shareholders • Attractive return 3.3 and investors on investment Shareholders: Grupo Catalana Occidente has a commitment to its stakehold• Prudent risk management the key to ers, meaning it maintains a continual and transparent dialogue • Transparency of sustainability with them to allow them to be understood and integrated into information the company's activity. • Long-term strategy Distributors/ • Continuous support for 3.4 The relationship with the different stakeholders involves the brokers professional development Intermediaries: and training agents and implementation of specific commitments based on the Group’s • Pay equity brokers cultural keys, which define its way of being and working: people, • Trust and security commitment, self-criticism, austerity, long-term vision and innovation. Associates and • Objectivity and impartiality 3.5 suppliers in selection and recruitment Suppliers: • Transparency in service These commitments are set out in the Corporate Responsibility management providers Policy and will determine the strategy in this area. Compliance • Equal treatment with these is one of the objectives of the Corporate Responsibility Society • Proactive cooperation 3.6 Plan. with sector organisations Society • Contribution through The various sections in this chapter detail the Group's manageFundación Jesús Serra ment in line with these commitments and present the indicators • Cooperative relationships with tax administrations that allow current performance to be measured and the goals for the future to be established. Commitment to our stakeholders | 22 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Channels for communication, participation and dialogue 3.1 Employees: our most 102-42, 102-43 important asset Stakeholders Channels of communication 102-8, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Grupo Catalana Occidente has identified six stakeholders based Employees • Intranet on the impact that the Group has on them and the relevance of • Bulletin boards and suggestion boxes The team is the most important asset when it comes to creating each to the company. • Workers’ representatives value for the customers and shareholders of the Group's entities. • Whistleblower channel This is why Grupo Catalana Occidente emphasises continuous There are various channels for communication, participation learning, a good work-life balance, equal opportunities, team Customers • Website and dialogue made available to these stakeholders to ensure spirit and dialogue. • Social media adequate attention. These include the Group's website, as well • Customer service department as that of each of their companies and the Fundación Jesús • Satisfaction surveys The pillars of the human resources policy are: Serra, where we publish the most relevant documents such as the Annual Report, the Foundation’s Activity report and this • Offices and brokers • Fair and competitive remuneration. Corporate Responsibility Report. • e-client • Transparency and truthful information. Shareholders and • Corporate website • Respect for the dignity of persons. There are also dedicated helplines and email addresses for reinvestors • General Shareholders’ Meeting • Sustained cooperation over time. sponding to customers, analysts and investors, shareholders • Roadshows and journalists. Internal communication is carried out through • Analysts and investors area and At the end of 2019, the Group had 7,668 employees, a figure that shareholders' attention area company intranets. maintains the company’s stable growth over the past three Distributors/brokers • Internal portal years. Of that total, approximately 52% corresponds to employThese are used to maintain a smooth, close and transparent • Training workshops ees in the traditional business compared to 48% for the credit relationship with the stakeholders. In addition, the various • Whistleblower channel business. By gender, 52% of employees are male, compared to channels allow the Group to identify the needs and expectations • Corporate app 48% female. of all of them and thus be able to respond to them. Associates and • Intranet suppliers • Annual meetings • Whistleblower channel • Prepersa website Number of employees* 7,668 Society • Corporate website 7,570 7,621 • Social media • Fundación Jesús Serra Website +0.7% +0.6% • Media 2017 2018 2019 * Work contracts in force at 31/12/2019 excluding those for the Management Board of Atradius and commercial contracts in the traditional business Commitment to our stakeholders | 23 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Total staff by type of contract and gender Total staff by type of work schedule and gender 175 849 Temporary contract 127 Part time 156 Permanent contract 3,516 3,850 Full time 2,842 3,821 Women Men Women Men Total staff by type of contract and age Total staff by type of work schedule and age > 50 years old 2,886 25 > 50 years old 2,601 311 40-49 years old 2,463 51 40-49 years old 2,088 426 30-39 years old 1,562 84 30-39 years old 1,416 229 < 30 years old 455 142 < 30 years old 558 39 Permanent contract Temporary contract Full time Part time Commitment to our stakeholders | 24 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Total employees by professional category and contract type Total by professional category and type of work schedule 137 131 Senior management 0 Senior management 6 Middle management and Middle management and 1,065 2 1,476 86 technical supervision technical supervision Qualified administration and Qualified administration and 5,525 147 4,474 625 sales staff sales staff Administrative support 639 153 Administrative support 582 288 Permanent contract Temporary contract Full time Part time There are currently two generations coexisting within the and resignations, and also to new recruitment. To quantify the Group's companies: people who have spent more than twenty flow of staff leaving and joining the Group as a proportion of the Spain Holland 59% 7% to thirty years working for the company, who possess valuable total workforce, the following staff turnover ratios have been France United Kingdom knowledge, and another generation of younger professionals, calculated: Geographic 3% 5% who have joined in recent years and bring new skills to the distribution Germany Other team. Collaboration between the two is key to the success of 6% 17% the business. Italy 2019 3% %Turnover 401-1 During 2019, Grupo Catalana Occidente decided to terminate the Men Women Overall total employment relationship with a total of 85 employees. < 30 years old 23% 25% 24% Between 30 and 39 years old 8% 11% 10% The Group's staff structure has seen changes due to dismissals Other 2% 1% 1% General total 4.6% 5.2% 4.9% Women * Turnover has been calculated as resignations/total employees for the year. New 38 recruitment Men 401-1 47 Commitment to our stakeholders | 25 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment In its commitment to the generation of quality employment, Grupo Catalana Occidente offers competitive salaries to those who Labour relations 102-41, 402-1, 407-1 work for its companies. To improve the regulation of the working conditions of its emChange in average remuneration 405-2 ployees, the Group strives to guarantee that the largest possible proportion of its staff throughout the world are covered by 200,000 collective bargaining agreements. 180,000 160,000 The companies in the Group promote participation of the work140,000 ers’ representatives in the collective bargaining processes, 120,000 2018 men notifying those issues that may affect the workers, as well as 100,000 2018 women the situation of the company and changes to its employment. 80,000 60,000 In the traditional business, all companies are governed by some 40,000 2019 men sort of agreement. Within the Group, only the funeral business 20,000 2019 women is not covered by an agreement. 0 Senior Middle management and Qualified admin. and Administrative management technical supervision sales staff support In the credit insurance business the percentage of employees * The data reported in 2019 cover 100% while those for 2018 covered 91% covered by an agreement is closely linked to the different national laws. Covered by a collective bargaining agreement Culture Project In the 2019 financial year, the Group has continued to dissemin the credit insurance business 102-16 inate the cultural keys across the entire organisation. In particular, there have been workshops involving more than 250 2016 saw the start of the Culture Project, where the first objecemployees with the greatest levels of responsibility. In 2019 Country % tive was to identify the cultural keys of Grupo Catalana Occidente, these were the persons and self-criticism cultural keys. Spain 100% especially in the traditional business. These keys define the Holland 97% common values that explain the Group's way of being and As an example of good practice within the Group, Atradius working and that of its entities. Crédito y Caución is developing the Evolve+ project, the aim of Germany 99% which is to enhance innovation and improve the connection Italy 100% Cultural keys with customers in a personal and significant way. Evolve+ is • Persons the continuation of the Evolve initiative, which was launched France 97% • Commitment in 2012 in order to support the company’s business strategy, United Kingdom 89% • Austerity encouraging staff to participate in its continuous improvement, • Long-term vision increasing efficiency and raising the quality of customer service. Benelux 100% • Self-criticism Nordic countries 96% • Innovation Other countries 0% Commitment to our stakeholders | 26 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment e) Promote a balance in the professional, personal and famThe companies in the credit insurance business are covered In addition, several of the companies have an Equality Plan ily lives of the staff. by an agreement with the European Works Council. This agreeand Protocol for the prevention and treatment of sexual and ment implies the creation of works councils operating at the psychological harassment. The Equal Opportunities Committee local level in the majority of locations where the Group is presis responsible for ensuring compliance with this. It should be noted that the composition of the workforce is in ent. These councils are principally focussed on the promotion general balanced in relation to gender. In addition, in recent and fulfilment of the provisions of the fundamental conventions The general objectives of these plans are: years we have seen a positive trend towards parity in terms of of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). a) To promote the principle of equal treatment between men gender. The Group has recently joined the EWI Network, which and women, ensuring the same professional opportunipromotes the presence of women in the management of insurties in employment, recruitment, remuneration, training, ance companies. Equal opportunities development, promotion and working conditions. 103-1, 103-2, 103.3, 405-1, 406-1 Although the Group's most senior positions are mostly held by b) Guarantee the absence of discrimination, direct or indimen, the intention is for these differences in distribution to be rect, due to gender, and especially related to maternity, reduced over the coming years as new recruitment takes place. paternity, the assumption of family responsibilities, In line with its Code of Ethics, the Group does not support any marital status and working conditions. kind of discrimination due to birth, sex, religion, opinion or The Group is also committed to employing people with disaany other personal or social condition or circumstance. It also c) Prevent all types of harassment, especially sexual harbilities. At the end of the year, 92 people with different abilities guarantees respect for human rights. assment and harassment based on gender, introducing a formed part of the Group's workforce (compared to 16 at the end code of conduct to protect the entire staff. of 2018). Several of the companies that make up the Group have d) Promote awareness about equal opportunities at all organisational levels through communication initiatives. Distribution of staff by professional category and gender 102-8,405-1 Distribution of staff by age and gender 21 Senior management 116 > 50 years old 1,181 1,730 Middle management and 482 1,080 40-49 years old 1,320 1,194 technical supervision Qualified administration and 2,554 2,544 30-39 years old 865 780 sales staff Administrative support 630 241 < 30 years old 324 274 Women Men Women Men Commitment to our stakeholders | 27 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment the exemption certificate granted by the State Public Professional development Employment Service, under the provisions of Royal Decree 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-1 364/2005, of 8 April, which regulates alternative compliance, exceptionally, with the reserve quota for workers with disaGrupo Catalana Occidente is committed to the professional debilities. velopment of its employees, strengthening the skills of new generations of professionals who, in the mid to long term, will Hours of training 2019 During 2019, the Group received no cases of discrimination occupy positions of responsibility. In addition, it focussed on through its relevant channels. 406-1 upgrading the skills of the more veteran professionals, to help 2017 2018 2019 them be more in line with the new challenges of the business environment. In short, the Group guarantees the provision of Senior management 5,886 9,251 5,716 continuous training to its professional staff through the most appropriate methods. % Women 25.50% 33.20% 19.80% During 2019 the Group has maintained its training activities Middle management 30,521 32,611 38,446 focusing on professional development, in line with the Training Plan. The traditional business’ training plan is established an% Women 26.60% 39.10% 31.50% nually by means of meetings held with the heads of each unit and is drawn up from three complementary sources: Technical and administrative 47,664 69,089 86,894 • The Group's strategic plan. % Women 47.80% 33.60% 52.41% • The results of the surveys sent to each department and the teams regarding their training needs. Support functions 17,002 25,841 18,898 • Specific training needs derived from professional evaluations that began to be implemented in December 2018. % Women 64.40% 57.20% 70.62% Total 101,073 136,792 149,954 In the case of the credit insurance business, the Atradius Academy is a learning platform available to all employees in the credit business where they can find a wide selection of online courses. The platform receives regular updates that include the addition of new courses. In total, more than 150,000 hours of training have been given, representing a total of 19 and a half hours per employee (8% more than in 2018). Commitment to our stakeholders | 28 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment The Group has a job standardisation model that is has produced The different collective bargaining agreements that apply, deProfessional evaluation itself and that is common to all companies. This management pending on the company, establish salary bands to ensure tool is considered essential in establishing professional develinternal equity and competitive pay in order to attract talent. opment pathways. The Group has a professional evaluation system in the traditional business aimed at Work has also been done on a managerial skills model, in which managers, technicians, personnel with nine key skills have been identified that specify the leadership development potential and new recruits. Responsible pension fund style that best suits the Group's cultural keys. These patterns define the development of managerial training programmes. The process consists of four phases, selfThe Group's investment policy applies to In 2019, two management workshops were held in which aspects evaluation, evaluation by the manager, employee pension funds and includes a related to the management of people were addressed in a way that is fully in keeping with the Group’s cultural keys. face-to-face interview and personalised socially responsible investment clause. improvement plan. There is also a model of In 2020, work will continue on improving the Development managerial skills that has been applied to The Committee controlling the “Grupo Plan with the aim to strengthen the professional development the senior management. Catalana Occidente Employee Pensions, and talent management system, prioritising the identification Pension Fund” sees socially responsible of career potential and improving skills required in the organinvestment as a long-term commitment to isation, while also promoting a collaborative culture. those investment policies that cause a positive impact on society and the Fair remuneration 201-1 environment. They intend to progressively Atradius: Shaping Tomorrow Together The common remuneration policy in the traditional business consolidate a line of action to move forward is characterised by making a wide range of flexible pay options in this regard. This project is a call to all Atradius available to employees, a highlight of which is the annual offer employees to involve themselves in the of payment in shares for the workforce in the insurance busiThe Control Committee is considering nondigital transformation of the company, ness. Throughout 2019, a total of 119 Group employees have taken advantage of this opportunity, through which they have financial criteria for the control, taking responsibility for their own personal received 24,681 shares. measurement and management of risks in development, adapting to the new systems decisions on investment in its portfolio, and training in the new technologies. In addition, the Group employees have an extensive programme taking into account its social responsibility of social benefits including pension plans, company cafeteria, as an institutional investor. Since 2018, funding for employee training (university, MBAs, languages), help for disabled family members, personal loans, etc. socially responsible investment clauses have been included in the pension plans for the Basque Country (EPSV) sold by Seguros Catalana Occidente and Seguros Bilbao. Commitment to our stakeholders | 29 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Work-life balance well as recommendations to promote the responsible and efHealth and safety 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 401-3 fective use of digital tools. Grupo Catalana Occidente companies have a health and safety Grupo Catalana Occidente, in its commitment to equal opporThroughout the year, the Group's employees receive training service in accordance with current labour legislation. In additunities and a balance between personal and professional lives, and education on the use of electronic devices and digital retion, there are internal procedures and regulations related to applies the work-life balance policies as laid out in current colsources. occupational health and safety, including self-protection plans lective bargaining agreements, as well as in Spanish and for all buildings, risk assessments and annual action plans. European regulations. In addition, it offers a flexible schedule Likewise, Group employees of both genders have the right to that allows employees to accumulate hours for their future take maternity or paternity leave without this damaging their At the corporate level, there is a joint health and safety service free use. professional career. During 2019, a total of 222 employees took that covers most of the Group's insurance companies, allowing parental leave. for a more consistent management. Companies that are not The aim of such policies is to facilitate the balance between covered by this service maintain their own or outsourced serwork, personal and family life for employees, while also envice, adhering to the criteria of efficiency and specialty. hancing productivity and efficiency. Men Women Total The aim is to achieve the following objectives in occupational To achieve this, there are a number of internal protocols that health and safety: seek to meet criteria for the work-life balance, as well as reaEmployees with the right to 176 221 397 parental leave. a) Compliance with current legislation for the prevention of sonable hours, ergonomics in the workplace, hygienic and enoccupational risks and the working conditions of employvironmentally-friendly working conditions, facilities for emEmployees using the right to 87 135 222 ees. ployee training, strict adherence to current laws and, all in all, parental leave. a healthy working environment and levels of comfort that in b) The reduction and elimination of workplace accidents Employees returning to work in 71 110 181 and occupational diseases in all work centres. turn create better management of each of the employee positions the reporting period after parental of the Group. leave finishes. c) Development of a health and safety culture based on the consideration of people as its main asset. At Atradius N.V., measures designed to facilitate and encourage Employees returning to work in 74 98 172 a work-life balance are subject to the regulations of each the reporting period after parental Given the Group's activity, no employee carries out professioncountry. leave finishes and who are still al activities with a high risk of contracting certain diseases and employed 12 months after returning only one disease related to the Group's activity was registered As a reinforcement of its commitment, the Group recognises, to work. during 2019. through an internal policy, the right to disconnect from work Return to work rate. 82% 81% 82% for all employees outside the normal working hours established Likewise, a total of 74 accidents have been registered during in the collective bargaining agreement or contract, as well as Retention rate. 85% 73% 77% the year covered by the report. during periods of holiday, sick leave and unpaid leave. Among other items, this policy includes the right of employees not to answer emails, messages and calls of a professional nature, as Commitment to our stakeholders | 30 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Although there is no specific generally applicable health and Objective: a healthy company safety policy, the Group's commitment to the health and safety of its employees is implemented through the preparation of disease protocols and the inclusion in collective bargaining Grupo Catalana Occidente is concerned about the wellbeing of its employees, promoting agreements of benefits in the event of not being able to do the sports and healthy living. In 2019, the “Healthy Company” initiative was launched with the job for any reason. notable milestone of the renovation of the Catalana Occidente Sports Club, located in the central office area in Sant Cugat del Vallès. The objective is to extend this type of initiative to Men Women Total the rest of the locations where the Group’s companies operate. Theoretical hours worked 6,284,427 5,654,904 11,939,330.12 Hours of absenteeism 150,927 190,175 341,102.6 Absenteeism rate (Number of hours of 2.9 3.2 Customers: the central link The Group's companies adhere to the UNESPA guide to good practices on transparency in the marketing of insurance. absenteeism*100)/No. 2.4 3.4 hours worked) in our activity Customer experience project Total number of accidents 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Excluding during the 46 28 74 The Group's commitment to continuous improvement of the commute. customer experience has continued to provide high levels of In 2016 the Customer Experience Project began, a cross-cutting customer satisfaction and loyalty. initiative within the traditional business, the main objective No. occupational illness 0 1 1 of which was to create a customer-focused culture, understandThe main objective of the relationship between the Grupo ing their needs, measuring opinions during all phases of the Frequency index Catalana Occidente companies and their four million customso-called “customer journey” and ensuring an optimal, conNumber of accidents per 7.32 4.95 6.20 ers is to offer them competitive products and quality services, sistent and dependable experience regardless of the channel million hours worked. based on personal, transparent and holistic advice. of contact. Severity index The Group also undertakes to provide insured customers clear As a tool to identify initiatives to be launched, we have a graphNumber of days lost per 0.14 0.17 0.16 and simple information, as well as resolving any doubts that ic representation of the customer journey, a journey that shows 1,000 hours worked. may arise about the content of their policies and services, or in the different phases at which customers interact with the Grupo the event of an incident. Catalana Occidente companies, with special attention paid to claims interactions. The purpose is to better understand the This commitment goes hand in hand with the nature of insurcustomer at each of these stages, in order to meet their different ance, in which the concept of social responsibility is implicit. needs. The mission is to provide customers with continuous support in both their professional and personal lives, anticipating risks to protect them. Commitment to our stakeholders | 31 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment The actions undertaken have been classified into 4 blocks: commercial procedure, claims management, communications Observation Action and channels, and customer experience. Create culture In recent years, new self-service functionalities have been deUnderstand needs veloped and implemented in the e-Customer tool. Now users Record customer input Provide an optimal service can consult the status of their claim live and track its different Design of all points of Improve customer relations stages. In 2019, progress has been made in the self-service value contact with customers proposition with the aim of continuing to provide customers with an autonomous, immediate and digital capacity to manage their affairs. To guarantee customer satisfaction, the professionals who provide services to them during a claim have customer experience Customer Journey guidelines. These guidelines establish clear protocols on how they should treat customers and interact with them, therefore standardising the processes in order to offer the highest level Share of service from its professionals. Inform Manage To analyse the impact of these initiatives, customer input was recorded through various surveys conducted at key moments in the customer journey. Purchase Use Finalise Maintain Resolve Discover Compare Commitment to our stakeholders | 32 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Customer experience of the traditional business The first step in resolving complaints and claims is to offer the service in keeping with the standards that the customer expects customer immediate attention from whoever is directly in confrom the company. tact with them. The staff, as well as all branches and operating SLP SSI centres that provide customer service, must strive to respond In the event of complaints and claims that exceed the powers 39.6% (+5.5%) 65.5% (+3.0%) to these complaints and claims in a quick and friendly manner, trying to resolve matters in favour of the customer in all cases of the customer service offices and centres, or when they have not been able to provide a solution in a manner satisfactory to Suggested level Service satisfaction where this is justified and their level of responsibility so allows. the customer, companies have a customer service department of promotion index (promoters critics) The professional must adopt those measures that minimise and also a customer ombudsman who guarantees their rights. (satisfied dissatisfied) the risk of the incident being repeated and strive to provide a Complaints received through the different channels in 2019 Retention rate Admission status/Pending Result/Current status 89% Admitted for processing Customer retention Not Admitted Fully/partially in favour rate With agreement for processing/rejected of the customer In favour of Started Pending between the parties Year the Company Step Customer care ∆ % % % % % % Customer Service/ 2019 4,636 18% 713 15% 130 3% 3,793 82% 1,269 33% 186 5% 2,338 62% Good management of customer complaints and claims is a basic Customer Service element in the quality of service. Grupo Catalana Occidente Department 2018 3,916 433 11% 206 5% 3,277 84% 1,026 31% 327 10% 1,924 59% Complaints has regulations governing customer protection adapted to the requirements of Order ECO/734/2004, 11 March, regarding the Customer/ 2019 378 7% 140 37% 16 4% 222 59% 20 9% 33 15% 169 76% Pension Plan customer service departments and services of financial instiOmbudsman tutions and the commitments made by the insurance sector Complaints 2018 353 162 46% 12 3% 179 51% 22 12% 22 12% 135 75% through the guide to good practices of internal resolution of claims, as supported by the Spanish Union of Insurers and DGSFP/CNMV/ 2019 374 -9% 9 2% 300 80% 65 17% 17 26% 30 46% 18 28% Reinsurers (UNESPA). Banco de España Requests 2018 413 19 5% 240 58% 183 44% 30 16% 7 4% 117 64% * The increase in the total number of complaints compared to 2018 is due, first, to the incorporation of a new company into the Group (Seguros de Vida y Pensiones Antares, S.A.) and, second, to the fact that in this financial year the figures for Seguros Catalana Occidente, S.A. de Seguros y Reaseguros also include the complaints received through outsourced/third-party services as a supplement to the insurance activity. These were previously split, in relation to their handling and resolution, between the Service Centres and the brokers themselves Commitment to our stakeholders | 33 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Protection of personal data Atradius: Credit business transformation (CIBT) 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 418-1 Grupo Catalana Occidente believes the information that it colAmong the main projects in the credit business for 2019 is the Atradius business lects, processes, stores and transmits to be a strategic asset, one transformation programme that aims to improve its range of services and product that is essential to ensure the continuity and evolution of the development to maintain its strong value proposition for its customers. CIBT will replace the business and safeguard the value it offers to investors, sharecurrent credit insurance management tools at Atradius. This radical change is taking place in holders, customers and associates. It is therefore a priority to two waves. It will first be implemented in the sale, products and pricing areas. The second preserve the confidentiality and protection of this information, as well as the systems that manage and support it. stage will cover the defining of risk management requirements. The Group's companies have an information security policy approved by the Board of Directors. All employees have to undergo training in this area. New solutions There is a personal data protection committee in the traditionToday, the online availability of products and services is an al business that coordinates and updates the policies and proOn the basis of a thorough knowledge of its customers, the Group essential part of any strategy to attract, satisfy and retain clients, cedures for regulatory compliance in this area. This committee works to design and offer new products adapted to their needs brokers and agents. is made up, among others, of the data protection officers from to give them confidence. In 2019, the following initiatives have the Group's main companies. stood out: Atradius' efforts to innovate have begun to bear fruit. The innovations included in its credit management tool Atrium and Potential cyber attacks are considered one of the main risks of The innovation culture being used to serve the customers. its online platform for customers have been recognised by the the sector. Grupo Catalana Occidente has a Chief information The Group's innovation strategy clearly focuses on new ways media outlet HongKong Business who has named Atradius security officer responsible for planning, implementing and to improve or expand its main proposal. We will not outsource winner of its Insurance Technology Award. managing procedures and actions to handle information seinnovation to a separate centre or incubator since our ambition curity. is to create a culture of lifelong learning and openness to change across the entire organisation. During 2019, Grupo Catalana Occidente did not receive any complaints about customer privacy or data loss through its The Atradius Business Transformation programme addresses communication channels. the need for cooperation and collaboration in response to new digital trends (such as big data and blockchain) and offers staff the opportunity to play a role in these new challenges. In 2019, a mandatory webinar for all staff called “Shaping Tomorrow Together” was introduced, whose purpose is linked to the Group's new open mindset, considered necessary to overcome the challenges of digitisation and technology. Commitment to our stakeholders | 34 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment 3.3 Shareholders: ation, maintaining a policy of increasing dividends over the In 2019, the Group put forward its value proposition to the filast ten years. nancial markets through the quarterly relay of the published the key to results, on the website in Spanish and English, and other actions: sustainability More information about the evolution of the shares is available on the Group's corporate website. In 2019, Grupo Catalana Occidente achieved a favourable profit, Transparency of information +750 11 taking another step forward on the path of profitable growth. Grupo Catalana Occidente carries out its business in accordance Calls received Roadshows Shareholder confidence is key to our sustainability over the with, among others, the principles of good governance and long term. As such, the relationship between the Group and its shareholders and investors is based on providing as much incorporate responsibility, which implies a continuous improvement in accessibility, quality, frequency and clarity in its rela5 + 200 formation, transparency and proximity as possible. tionship with its main stakeholders. Forums and Meetings conferences Dividends: attractive return on investment 201-1 The communication and contact policy with shareholders, institutional investors and voting advisers, published on the 0.88 corporate website describes the various tools and channels of 0.82 communication to ensure the principles of integrity, transpar0.78 +7.3% ency and equality in relations with these groups. +6.1% 3.4 Intermediaries: agents 2017 2018 2019 The Group has two specific areas within the organisation to respond to queries from shareholders and institutional invesand brokers tors, their proposals and expectations on the management in The historical behaviour of the distribution of dividends demona close and individualised way. strates the Group's clear commitment to shareholder remunerBrokers are a key part of the Group's relationship with its enation. The total remuneration charged to the 2019 financial Shareholder service: +34 915 661 302 vironment. They come into contact with customers, generate year was €0.8821 per share. The Group has increased its diviaccionistas@catalanaoccidente.com confidence in order to understand their particular needs, and dend by 7.3%, which translates into a distribution of €105.85 provide value through their professionalism and closeness. million. Institutional investors and analysts service: +34 935 820 518 Good communication and a trusting relationship with brokers analistas@catalanaoccidente.com are fundamental to providing good customer service. During the 2018 financial year, Grupo Catalana Occidente shares underperformed the Eurostoxx Insurance and Ibex 35. The The latter covers relationships with financial analysts, stock Grupo Catalana Occidente's commercial network of companies average share price of Grupo Catalana Occidente in 2019 was market analysts and ratings agencies, since all of their reports is made up of 1,612 offices in the traditional business and 17,801 €32.09. and opinions influence the decision-making process of instibrokers, primarily exclusive agents and insurance brokers. tutional investors. As such, they play a key role in the liquidiThe historical behaviour of the distribution of dividends demonty and share price of Grupo Catalana Occidente. strates the Group's clear commitment to shareholder remunerCommitment to our stakeholders | 35 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Distribution network composition Seguros Catalana Occidente 18,514 17,801 17,327 The Catalana Occidente Establishment of • Continued individualised training Professional Agents Programme, which programmes about products, marketing promotes the professional development of techniques and management. its agents, is a pioneer in the insurance • Training and supervision from Day 1. A sector. Its prestige and excellent quality 1,648 1,649 1,612 team of people to support them and help vocational training for agents has been them achieve their goals. 2017 2018 2019 widely recognised. It is made up of: • Financial support over seven years. Number of offices Designed to consolidate their income Number of brokers level. Professional development and training Trust and security Broker satisfaction Training of agents is a fundamental value, allowing the Group The Group's companies manifest the values of confidence, peace Each year Grupo Catalana Occidente measures the satisfaction to build its business through quality of service and customer of mind and security that they wish to provide to their customindicators for its brokers in its traditional business companies. satisfaction and retention. ers through the broker network. For this, they are provided Through an opinion survey for exclusive agents carried out by with support that, in addition to training, includes other tools ICEA, the latest edition of which took place in October 2019, the The various companies that make up the Group make available that have a positive impact on their activity. Among these is Group ascertains the level of general workplace satisfaction of to their brokers training pathways and tools focused on facilthe possibility of creating their own website and social network its agents. itating connectivity and access to services, thereby improving profile within the framework of the brand for which they work efficiency in their work. and using the corporate material necessary to present their According to the responses given by the Group's agents this services to the end public in a visual way. year, the initiatives relating to agent development (IT tools, Training across the distribution network in the traditional training, workshops, clubs, etc.), followed by sales campaigns, business is focussed on developing the sales force and business are what have the greatest impact on commercial activity. growth. Projects such as management training and entrepreTraining and information, the portfolio of products and servicneurship stand out. A special focus was also given to cross-selles, IT support, contact personnel and services in the event of a ing, prevention of cancellations, customer loyalty and the use claim are also highly rated. Sales support and customer service of new tools and systems. have room for improvement. Commitment to our stakeholders | 36 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment 3.5 Suppliers: Supplier selection procedure service providers A need Supplier Supplier Contract is signed arises selection approval The companies in Grupo Catalana Occidente work with two types of suppliers: Once the needs have been In the selection process, either Once selected, they must be The contract is signed and is • General, who supply products and services of a general detected, they must be covered by the suppliers by tender or otherwise, the legal and financial aspects of approved by the department responsible for the contract. binding during the stipulated time in relation to the services nature, not directly related to the business: cleaning, the suppliers are analysed. to be provided by the supplier. maintenance and IT support. Contracts are reviewed and • Specialist, whose service is essential for the performance validated by the legal of insurance activity: automobile claims adjusters, gendepartment of the contracting company. eral claims adjusters, lawyers, medical claims adjusters, workshops and repairers. The workshops are part of a network named AutoPresto and the repairers are from All suppliers explicitly undertake to comply with a series of During 2019, Grupo Catalana Occidente suppliers have received the Technical Repairs Service (known as STR for its clauses that in summary cover: a total of 7,994 hours of training. In this way, and by developing Spanish initials). • Compliance with the Grupo Catalana Occidente Code of supplier skills, the company enhances its commitments to the supply chain. Ethics. The Group adheres to the criteria contained in its internal regulations and, in particular, the supplier selection manual, which • Compliance with the European Data Protection RegulaManagement of suppliers in the traditional business tion. regulates the acquisition of goods, services and supplies, as 102-9 well as the selection of suppliers. These criteria are based on • The obligations of the associate with the Treasury and objectivity, impartiality, transparency, equal treatment and with Social Security. Prepersa (Peritación de seguros y prevención AIE) is the Grupo quality, and try to avoid any conflict of interest or personal, • Compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Catalana Occidente company that manages specialised supplifamily or financial ties in the selection of suppliers. Regulations. ers involved in resolving claims, except for lawyers. • The confidentiality of the information collected in their For the selection of claims adjusters, no distinction is made on work. Its services are aimed at assessing or repairing claims, as well the basis of gender, race or religion. In figures, in the traditionas providing companies with technical information related to al business during 2018 the percentage of female claims adrisks, claims and other circumstances. For this reason, Prepersa's Professional development and training justers was 20%, while in 2019 this percentage has risen to 22%. actions must always be quality-oriented. To this end, its activThe Group is therefore demonstrating its commitment to equal Most of the Group's strategic suppliers those who supply prodity is governed by the UNE-EN ISO 9001-2015 quality certificate, opportunities. ucts or services with special characteristics within the sector renewed in 2019, that guarantees that the processes are orientare internalised or are intra-group services within Grupo ed towards continuous improvement and have efficient organThe Manual establishes a classification of suppliers according Catalana Occidente itself, allowing for better management of isation for planning, control and analysis of results. Additionally, to criticality and details the selection procedures based on the these. different types of suppliers. Corporate responsibility in Grupo Catalana Occidente | 37 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment the company ensures respect for the corporate responsibility Suppliers are continuously evaluated according to different Supplier satisfaction commitments of the Group through its extensive network of parameters, such as activity, cost, time management, treatment associates. of customers and good practices. The results are presented in Twice a year Prepersa runs a survey to learn associates’ opinreports received by the suppliers and doctors in each area. Based ions about the company’s doctors, management, and supervion the findings, where necessary an action plan is developed, sion of the quality of the work of the associate network. The which includes control and supervision actions. In 2019, 10,775 results allow measures to be taken to improve different aspects supervisory actions were carried out, 30% more than in 2018. of this activity. Boost for local businesses Motor claims adjustments 36.73% STR claims adjustments 2017 2018 2019 The business model implemented, which has been followed for 11.64% decades, favours the use of local freelance workers or small 1,024,706 STR satisfied customers* 72% 77% 86% Medical insurance claims businesses. In this way, the Group contributes to the developAssignments adjustments received 14.72% ment of the business sector in the geographical areas where it AutoPresto satisfied customers* 89% 90% 94% operates. Motor inspections 5.57% * The source of the data has changed since the measurement carried out in 2017. This was based Sundry claims adjustments on external surveys but its own measurement model is now used. In addition, the data reported in 2017 was calculated using the satisfied-dissatisfied customers/total customers formula, which Average payment period for suppliers 31.6% does not correspond to the literal definition of satisfied customers, which is satisfied customers/ total customers. This is what has been used this year. With regards to training, it is worth noting the Customer The Group has no pending payments to suppliers beyond the Experience Programme given to general claims adjusters and legal deferral allowed (30 days, unless there is an agreement STR about the values to convey and behaviour to maintain in between parties), with an average period of 17 days. the interpersonal relationships with customers. In the case of Prepersa, companies pay for network associate As an innovation, during 2019 the following improvements interventions twice per month, following quick and rigorous 688 (+20) 811 (+70) have been made: payment terms. Suppliers have at their disposal an app in which general claim adjusters repairers • A new car claims adjustment form for use on the move. they can consult and reconcile payments of assignments and 257 (+4) 325 (+34) • A new biometric user identification system for the invoices issued to the companies in the Group. This prevents motor claim adjusters AutoPresto workshops the associate from having to communicate their information contract signing process. requirements to different company departments. 127 (-5) • Non-invasive STR repair techniques have been medical claim adjusters developed. During 2019, total payments made to suppliers amounted to • A new course on the General Data Protection Regulation. €346 million. • Publication of the new website. Commitment to our stakeholders | 38 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Enhancing corporate responsibility 3.6 Society It is worth noting the role of credit insurance as a benefit to 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 201-1, 203-1, 203-2, 413-1 society, through its support for business activity to ensure comFrom Prepersa, best practices related to efficiency and minimercial operations even in times of instability and, consequentmising the use of resources are promoted among its suppliers, Grupo Catalana Occidente bases its business model on respect ly, stimulating economic growth. Around 2% of the value of including the policies of repair rather than replacement and for people and contributing positively to the environment and the world export trade takes place because of the coverage of the use of new technologies that allow water damage to be more its stakeholders. The commitment made to the societies in which credit insurance. More than 60,000 companies are able to opefficiently located and repaired. it operates has been linked to economic development, well-being erate, mobilise and market in close to €800 billion in goods and and quality employment for more than a century. services around the world thanks to this insuring function. In addition, actions have been carried out to ensure the quality of the services, among which the following stand out: In parallel, its social action is coordinated through the Fundación Commitments of the Group's companies • Claims review controls. Jesús Serra. In their articles of association they declare and define both their lines of action and their commitment to adhering to Grupo Catalana Occidente’s social work is coordinated through • Management controls. and complying with all the policies established at the group level. the Fundación Jesús Serra. However, its companies also invest • Training controls. each year in initiatives related to local communities, with their • Career plan controls. In 2019, the Group contributed €4,034 million to society, with own historical past and identity. Atradius also helps contribute • Knowledge assessment controls. customers being the main stakeholders, accounting for 54% of to society through its employees, such as collecting donations the total. for various causes or charity races. • Follow-up interviews. In the traditional business, also of note is Seguros Catalana Verification controls for corporate image and first contact with Occidente’s support of the Symphony Orchestra of Sant Cugat the customer were also carried out in order to guarantee that and the auditorium in this town, where its headquarters are Thousands of Euros suppliers are acting in accordance with the quality standards Economic value generated and located. Plus Ultra Seguros focuses on the promotion of sportdistributed promoted by Grupo Catalana Occidente. 201-1 2017 2018 2019 ing disciplines such as paddle tennis or collaboration with the Spanish Federation of Sports for Persons with Physical Economic value generated 4,225 4,345 4,548 Disabilities (FEDDF). Meanwhile, Seguros Bilbao focuses on Economic value distributed 2,255 3,724 4,034 local cultural sponsorships such as the Guggenheim Museum Payments made or the Naval Museum. Atradius Crédito y Caución invests in 388 2,252 2,462 projects closely linked to its own business, such as initiatives to customers to support business development. Overall, the amount allocatPublic administrations 471 407 465 ed to these projects in 2019 amounted to €952,000. Brokers 479 489 506 Employees 88 481 500 At Atradius, employees coordinate campaigns in order to maximise their contribution to society. Among the actions promotShareholders 584 95 101 ed are fund-raising activities for various causes and charity Economic value retained 584 621 513 runs as part of the Atradius cares initiative. This initiative came about with the purpose of allowing the local staff at to share and earn recognition for local social projects. Some of Commitment to our stakeholders | 39 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment this year's initiatives include supporting entrepreneurs in deA good example is the Luisa Farré Maternal and Child Health Fundación Jesús Serra’s investment in social projects veloping countries and donating the amount that would have in Developing Countries Project. This initiative arises in rebeen spent on Christmas presents to be used for planting trees. sponse to the obstetric and gynaecological damage inflicted on For more information see the Fundación Jesús Serra website many women in developing countries each day during preghttps://www.fundacionjesusserra.org/ nancy and deliveries and that often results in death. The companies which Fundación Jesús Serra supports include 2019 €2,330,545 Fundación Jesús Serra the Foundation for Cardiovascular Research, the National 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 203-1, 203-2, 413-1 Oncology Research Centre (CNIO), the Spanish Federation of Sports for Persons with Physical Disabilities (FEDDF), the Winter 2018 €2,222,081.54 Sports Centre for the Disabled (CDIA), Manos Unidas, Doctors The Fundación Jesús Serra is a private non-profit entity creatwithout Borders, the Prevent Foundation and Food Banks. ed in memory of Jesus Serra Santamans, a renowned business2017 €2,004,421.28 man and patron and founder of Grupo Catalana Occidente, which The annual increase in the Foundation's budget is an example aims to support and promote initiatives in research, business of the commitment that Grupo Catalana Occidente has to soci2016 €1,751,434.09 and education, social action, sport and promotion of the arts. ety and its positive impact on it. The Foundation undertakes projects in order to make a better society for all, always guided by values such as solidarity, effort and team work. Distribution of the budget between the different action areas Fundación Jesús Serra approves its action plan on an annual basis, detailing the set of activities it intends to undertake, their Research potential beneficiaries and the necessary human and material 23% resources. In order to ensure objectivity, there is a formal proBusiness and education tocol which specifies the selection criteria for the proposed 8% programmes and initiatives. The project valuation committee Action Social action is the responsible body. Through bi-monthly meetings, they areas 16% select the set of new projects and assess the status of ongoing Sport 30% projects, among other duties. Promotion of the arts 23% In addition, Fundación Jesús Serra is involved in initiatives for the benefit of certain groups and conducts impact assessments and specific development programmes. In 2019, 84% were direct and only 16% were indirect. Most of these projects and initiatives have participation programmes, impact assessments and development programmes. Commitment to our stakeholders | 40 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment 3rd edition of the Xpress Tennis Cup to promote grassroots tennis The championship is aimed at boys and girls between the ages of 5 and 12 who are members of a tennis club. The third edition, held in 2019, was divided into different qualifying phases in the under-10 and under-12 categories and the provincial phase of mini-tennis. As a new development this year, the tournament had three different circuits (Catalonia, Community of Madrid and Valencian Community) in which the participants represented formed teams for their respective clubs in an innovative 20-minute match format. In addition, activities were organised around the tournament with the aim of promoting the values of ​​ sport, teamwork and solidarity among the participating children and teenagers, who could also enjoy a wheelchair tennis exhibition given by Quico Tur and Lola Ochoa. In total, the tournament had 1,500 participants and the winning teams in the provincial phases competed in the Cercle Sabadellès, in Barcelona, in the RACE Sports Complex, in Madrid, and in the Spanish Tennis Club in Valencia. Commitment to our stakeholders | 41 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment • In the traditional business, AutoPresto workshops are required to comply with certain environmental compliance provisions related to the recycling of plastics and 04 the disposal of oil. • Atradius has incorporated into its dialogue with its suppliers aspects such as the minimisation of waste or the Our environment search for eco-efficient solutions. The company also has an environmental policy that establishes its management approach to the main challenges of the business. Environment Materials 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 307-1 301-1, 301-2 The environmental impact of the day-to-day activity of Grupo In an effort to achieve effective document management and Catalana Occidente is limited. Even so, the Group’s companies reduce paper consumption, the implementation of electronic are committed to reducing waste generation, promoting the documentation has been promoted in business processes, inuse of biodegradable materials and recycled paper, the optimicluding those involving the customer. sation of energy consumption, rational water consumption and, as far as possible, the reuse of computers through donations. In an effort to achieve efficient document management and reduce paper consumption, Grupo Catalana Occidente has proThe Group carries out its activities in compliance with current moted the use of recycled paper. Over the last year, almost 25% legislation on the environment as well as voluntary commitof the paper consumed came from recycled sources, which is ments to promote good environmental practices, as well as 5.3% more than in 2018. energyand eco-efficiency. As a sign of this commitment, over the last three years the Group has received no environmental complaints. Consumption of The companies in the credit insurance business have demonmaterials* 2017 2018 2019 strated their commitment by preparing their own environmenPaper consumption (kg) 1,504,458 1,616,209 1,413,535 tal policy, which sets out the principles of the continuous im% recycled paper 24.5% 19.4% 24% provement process they are undergoing in relation to environmental performance and pollution prevention. The environmental impact of the supply chain in the business * Includes information from Seguros Catalana Occidente, PlusUltra Seguros, NorteHispana Seguros, Seguros Bilbao and Atradius Crédito y Caución, excluding Graydon, Gestifatura, Informes and is low. However, the Group's companies take environmental Iberinform Portugal. * Paper consumption of Atradius Crédito y Caución has been estimated from the number of considerations into account in their relations with suppliers: sheets, assuming 70g per sheet. Our environment | 42 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Energy The commitment to the environment is also linked to the daily The environmental policy drawn up by Atradius N.V. includes 301-1, 301-2, 302-4 activities of the employees in the Group's companies. For this a commitment to reduce the impact on the environment of the reason, electric vehicle charging stations have been installed in transport used by its employees. As a result, it promotes alterGrupo Catalana Occidente promotes good energy practices some of its most emblematic buildings. natives that reduce fuel consumption, such as car-sharing iniamong its companies, promoting the consumption of renewatiatives and the use of electric cars. ble energies. For example, 29% of electricity consumption in Emissions the credit insurance business came from renewable sources 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Waste in 2019. 306-2 Grupo Catalana Occidente calculates direct (Scope 1, associated The maintenance and refitting of Group buildings are governed with the combustion of natural gas) and indirect (Scope 2, assoThe Group has general practices for recycling office materials by principles of energy efficiency, with the aim of reducing ciated with the generation of the electricity purchased) greenhouse across its different buildings and branches. Furthermore, the their consumption and CO2 emissions. As of today, a total of six gas emissions according to the international guidelines of the environmental policy of the credit insurance business includes Group buildings have sustainable building certificates. The new World Resources Institute (GHG Protocol, 2004). In addition, it the minimisation of waste generated as a key principle for imworks and reforms include motion detectors, automatic light promotes good energy practices among its companies to promote proving its environmental performance. intensity control and replacement of air conditioning facilities its reduction. with other more energy-efficient units. These actions have In the Group, an ongoing effort is made to improve performance helped to reduce energy consumption in the main buildings Total emissions in waste management. For example, during 2019, the credit used by the Group in the traditional business. During 2019, the Group managed to reduce its CO2 emissions insurance business generated 51% less than in the previous into the atmosphere by 33% compared to the previous year. year. In the traditional business, the potential generation of some electronic waste is minimised with the donation of comEnergy consumption Emissions (kgCO2e) puters to schools and social centres. In 2019, 585 units were given away. 2019 17,046,107.09 81,254.43 Waste generated in the Group in 2019 2018 Electricity 25,471,750.01 Scope 1 83,070.46 (kWh) 2017 24,387,616.88 73,007.52 Hazardous Non-hazardous 5,199,062.66 waste (t) waste (t) 401,971.00 2019 Electricity Scope 2 7,768,883.75 14.8 688 Natural gas 410,955.00 2018 7,438,223.148 (kWh) 361,173.00 2017 * Emissions calculated from the reported energy consumption (See note 1). Source of emission factors used for the electricity purchased: World Resource Institute (2017). GHG Protocol tool for purchased electricity V.4.9, Spain; for purchased natural gas: World Resource Institute (2015). GHG Protocol tool for stationary combustion. V.4.1. Our environment | 43 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Best practices in the fight against climate change • Controlling building temperature throughout the year according to best practice standards • 100% of the property investments made in recent years for office use have been made by adding buildings with an LEED energy rating. The investment managed amounts to €216m. • A product has been developed to reduce the use of plastics at the Group level and this is under study • In the networks of claims adjusters and collaborating workshops, proximity is promoted to reduce contamination due to travel. Rapid car repairs are also promoted to reduce the time spent in the drying cabins and, consequently, to consume less energy. Our environment | 44 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment For the Content Index Service, GRI Services has confirmed that the GRI GRI disclosure index disclosure index in the report is clear, and that the references for each 102-55 disclosure included correspond to the indicated sections of the report. GRI standard Disclosure Page number or URL Omissions General Disclosures GRI 101: Foundations 2016 GRI 102: Organisational profile General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organisation 4, 5 Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 5, 7 102-3 Location of headquarters Paseo de la Castellana nº4 28046 (Madrid) 102-4 Location of operations 6 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4 102-6 Markets served 5.6 102-7 Scale of the organisation 6.7 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 6, 23 102-9 Supply chain 7, 37 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 4 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 13 102-12 External initiatives 16 102-13 Membership of associations 16 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3.8 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 11, 15, 20.26 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 9 GRI disclosure index | 45 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment GRI standard Disclosure Page number or URL Omissions General Disclosures Stakeholder engagement GRI 102: 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 22 General Disclosures 2016 Organisational profile 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 26 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 22.23 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 17, 23 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 17 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 4 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 16.17 102-47 List of material topics 16.17 102-48 Restatements of information 4 102-49 Changes in reporting 4 102-50 Reporting period From 1/1/2019 to 31/12/2019 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018 102-52 Reporting Cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Grupo Catalana Occidente comunicacion@catalanaoccidente.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 4 102-55 Index of GRI disclosures 45 The Grupo Catalana Occidente Corporate Responsibility Report is not 102-56 External assurance currently verified by an independent third party GRI disclosure index | 46 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment GRI standard Disclosure Page number or URL Omissions Material issues Economic performance, profitability and solvency (GRI 201 Economic performance 2016) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 8 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 8 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6,7,29,35,39 Economic performance 2016 Risk management and regulatory compliance (GRI 307 Environmental compliance 2016, GRI 419 Socio-economic compliance 2016) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 12.13 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 12.13 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 12.13 GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 42 Environmental compliance 2016 GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 12.13 Socio-economic compliance 2016 Corporate governance (GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunities 2016) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 9 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 9 GRI 405: Diversity and equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 10.27 opportunities 2016 Ethics, integrity and transparency, GRI 205 Anti-corruption 2016, GRI 203 Indirect economic impacts 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11,12,14,31 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 11,12,14,31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 11,12,14,31 GRI disclosure index | 47 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment GRI standard Disclosure Page number or URL Omissions Material issues 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 12 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 12 GRI 203: Indirect economic 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 8 impacts 2016 Protection of data cyber-security (GRI 418 Customer Privacy 2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34 GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 Management approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 34 Customer privacy 2016 Innovation 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 8 GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its components 8 Management approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 8 GRI disclosure index | 48 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment GRI standard Disclosure Page number or URL Omissions Material issues Quality employment (GRI 401: Employment 2016, GRI 402: Labour/management relations 2016, GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunities 2016, GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016, GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 23.27 GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its components 23.27 Management approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23.27 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 25 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-3 Parental leave 30 GRI 402: Labour/Management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 26 Relations 2016 GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 10.27 Diversity and equal opportunities 2016 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 26 GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 27 Non-discrimination 2016 GRI 407: Freedom of association and Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may 407-1 26 collective bargaining 2016 be at risk GRI disclosure index | 49 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment GRI standard Disclosure Page number or URL Omissions Material issues Professional development (GRI 404: Training and education 2016) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 28 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 28 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28 GRI 404: 404-1 Average annual number of hours of training per employee 28 Training and education 2016 Commitment to society (GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016, GRI 413: Local communities 2016) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 39, 40 Management approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 39, 40 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 39.40 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 39, 40 GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 39 GRI 413: Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development pro413-1 39. 40 Local communities 2016 grammes GRI disclosure index | 50 Contents / Introduction / About this report / GRI disclosure index / Materiality GRI SDG Table Corporate Responsibility Report, Grupo Catalana Occidente, S.A. 2019 01 Grupo Catalana Occidente 03 Commitment to our stakeholders Print 02 Corporate responsibility 04 Our environment Materiality GRI SDG Table Material issues GRI standards Related SDG Economic, profitability and solvency performance GRI 201 Economic performance 2016 SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth GRI 102 General Disclosures 2016 Risk management and regulatory compliance GRI 307 Environmental compliance 2016 SDG 16 Peace, justice and strong institutions GRI 419 Socio-economic compliance 2016 GRI 102 General Disclosures 2016 Corporate Governance SDG 16 Peace, justice and strong institutions GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunities 2016 SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth GRI 102 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 Ethics, integrity and transparency GRI 205 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 SDG 12 Responsible production and consumption GRI 206 GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 2016 SDG 16 Peace, justice and strong institutions SDG 3 Health and well-being Customer experience N/A SDG 12 Responsible production and consumption Data Protection. Cybersecurity GRI 418 Customer privacy 2016 N/A Innovation N/A SDG 9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure SDG 5 Gender equality GRI 401 Employment 2016 GRI 402 Labour/Management relations 2016 Quality employment GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunities 2016 SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth GRI 406 Non-discrimination 2016 GRI 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 2016 SDG 10 Reduced inequalities Professional development GRI 404 Training and education 2016 SDG 4 Quality education GRI 203 No poverty SDG 1 No poverty Commitment to society GRI 203 Indirect economic impacts 2016 SDG 3 Health and well-being GRI 413 Local communities 2016 SDG 11 Sustainable cities and communities 17 goals to transform the world Sustainable development goals | 51 www.grupocatalanaoccidente.com
