telling stories touching lives expanding worlds Annual & Sustainability Report 2019 Content At a glance This is NENT Group At a glance 2019 highlights 2 CEO’s statement 4 Who we are 7 Perfectly positioned 9 Our investment proposition 26 Sustainability 28 NENT Group is the Nordic region’s leading entertainment provider. The NENT Group Share 42 Governance report 45 Our primary revenue stream is the sale of subscriptions, which Governance and responsibilities 46 have grown significantly in recent years following our early and Internal control report Board of Directors 50 51 significant investments in streaming. Today, we are the Nordic Group Executive management 53 Risks and risk management 55 region’s leading streaming company, with the broadest and most Administration report 59 relevant content offering spanning all Nordic contries, best-in-class Administration report 60 Business segments 67 content discovery and a stable and scalable technology platform. Financial statements 69 Notes to the accounts 78 Signatures 118 Audit report 119 Historical overview 123 Alternative performance measures 124 Geographical sales split 2019 Sustainability reporting 126 Our key brands Sweden Norway 39% Other 21% Definitions & Glossary 152 Financial calendar 152 Finland Addresses 153 6% Denmark About this report 30% The statutory Annual Report covers pages 59–118. The Sustainability Report (including the statutory sustainability report) covers pages 28–41, 49, 57, 126–150. NENT Group Rest of the reports its sustainability work according to GRI Standards world, 4% – Core option. The Annual & Sustainability Report is published in Swedish and English. The Swedish version is the original and shall apply in any instance where the two versions differ. Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting NENT Group has two reporting ­segments: Broadcasting & ­S treaming and NENT Studios Net sales by segment Operating income by Broadcasting & Streaming accounted for 87% segment, before IAC of Group sales in 2019. The segment primarily provides TV and video streaming services in the Nordic region, as well as radio networks and music streaming services in Sweden and ­N orway. Subscriptions and related services accounted for 71% of segment sales, with the remaining 29% derived from advertising. NENT Studios accounted for 13% of Group sales Broadcasting Broadcasting in 2019. NENT Studios is the leading content crea& Streaming, 87% & Streaming, 95% tion, production and distribution business in the Studios, 13% Studios, 5% Nordic region, and also operates internationally. The studios comprise 32 companies in 17 countries, and are focused on scripted and non-scripted content, branded entertainment and events. Net sales Number of ­e mployees Nationalities (SEKbn) at the end of 2019 in our team 15.7 1,976 40+ GRI 102-4 GRI 102-7 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 2019 highlights 2019 was an historic year for NENT Group. The highlights included the listing of the company’s shares on Nasdaq Stockholm, healthy organic growth, higher profits for all business segments, strong Viaplay subscriber growth, the implementation of a new operating model, and the announcement of the proposed merger of Viasat Consumer with Canal Digital. This progress has been reflected in a total shareholder return of 41% since the listing of NENT Group on 28 March to 31 December 2019. 2 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Financial highlights Strategic highlights Sustainability highlights • Net sales increased by 6% on an organic basis • NENT Group completed its split from Modern • A new three-year sustainability strategy, including to SEK 15,671m. Subscriptions and related reveTimes Group MTG AB and successfully listed on integrated goals, has been launched and is nues accounted for 61%, advertising for 26% Nasdaq Stockholm on 28 March 2019. The comfocused on five focus areas: (1) developing Nordic and S­ tudios for 13% of Group sales. pany has a new purpose, brand, culture, values storytelling and the creative industry, (2) promotand sustainability strategy. ing an equal, diverse and inclusive society, and • The combined operating income for both busidriving excellence in our (3) culture, (4) conduct ness segments increased by 6% to SEK 1,813m. • A new organisational and operating model was and (5) content. Total operating income before items affecting implemented in the second half of 2019. The new comparability (IAC) was stable at SEK 1,545m set-up is based on focused areas of responsibility • NENT Group is a signatory of the United Nations due to the higher central operating costs of that operate across the Group, and enable NENT (UN) Global Compact and UN Sustainable Develbecoming an independent and listed company. Group to take decisions faster, ensure strategic opment Goals (SDG) Media Compact, and has alignment, scale flexibly and efficiently, while also committed to the UN’s SDGs and Women • The Viaplay subscriber base grew by 310k, generating significant savings. Empower­m ent Principles. or 25%, to 1,568k subscribers. Streaming customers accounted for 62% of NENT Group’s • A 50/50 joint venture between Viasat Consumer • NENT Group stepped up its engagement in total s­ ubscriber base at the end of 2019. and Canal Digital was announced (subject to regthe fight against diabetes by establishing the ulatory approval). This will yield substantial cost pan-Nordic BEAT Diabetes foundation and synergies and shareholder value, enhance the ­con­t inuing to raise awareness of the disease customer proposition and further enhance NENT and funding for diabetes research. Group’s focus on Viaplay. Organic EBIT Stakeholders Viaplay # of Total sales before IAC engaged in setting our subscriber premiered shareholder growth (SEKm) ­s ustainability strategy growth Originals return1) 6% 1,545 3,000+ +25% 21 +41% 1) 28 March–31 December 2019 3 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting CEO’s statement NENT Group has led the way with our early and ambitious investments in streaming, as well as innovative partnerships with content owners and ­distributors. This clearly yielded results in 2019 with higher sales and profits, and accelerating subscriber growth. The spread of the Coronavirus is bringing significant challenges in 2020, and we are working hard to ensure the wellbeing of our employees and the continued delivery of the best entertainment experiences to our customers and partners. We are well positioned to recover quickly when things start to normalise, and to take advantage of the long-term opportunities that lie ahead of us. An historic and successful year 2019 was an historic year for NENT Group. Our split from MTG, listing on Nasdaq Stockholm and implementation of a new operating model have created an even more engaged, effective and aligned organisation. We have created a culture and brand based on a new purpose and set of values, which we are working hard to implement across the Group, in order to drive future success and make NENT an even better place to be. We have significantly stepped up our content investments, especially in key categories such as sports and originals. Particularly significant are our new long-term Nordic rights to the English Premier League football, the FIS Alpine and cross-country skiing and the IIHF Ice Hockey World Championship, and the 21 high-quality Viaplay originals that we have premiered in 2019. We have also added even more Hollywood content following deals 4 GRI 102-12 GRI 102-14 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting with MGM, NBCUniversal and Disney. Having the broadest We have delivered on our profitable growth commitment, while strengthening and most relevant content offering is vital in realising our ambition to be the Nordic region’s leading streaming our content leadership and growing our Viaplay base by over 25%. Scaling company. Viaplay remains our top priority simply because it’s the best way to drive long Our organic sales were up 6% and our Viaplay subterm value. We have also continued to transform including the implementation scriber base grew by 310k to 1.6 million. Operating profits for both our segments were up. We are committed to of a new operating model, the announced joint venture with Canal Digital and growing our sales, profits and, most importantly, our the restructuring of NENT Studios. Viaplay subscriber base even further. Scaling Viaplay is simply the best way to drive long-term shareholder value. Iceland in the first half of 2020, which will complete A streaming leader our footprint in all five Nordic countries and showcase The entertainment business is changing rapidly and will Viaplay’s ability to expand internationally in a fast and continue to do so. The growth of streaming has driven cost-efficient way. the rise in total video viewing, even though linear video consumption is declining. Establishing our position as the Strategic partnerships Nordic region’s leading streaming company is essential, Long term and innovative partnerships accelerate our as this is where consumers are spending more and more growth and drive value. In 2019, our partnerships included of their time and money. a 50/50 joint venture that combines Viasat Consumer, our Viaplay’s paying subscriber base rose by over 25% in satellite and broadband-TV business, with Telenor’s Canal 2019 and now accounts for 62% of our total subscriber Digital. This deal is subject to regulatory approval, which base. We have gained market share in a very competitive we expect to receive during Q2 2020. It will yield substanenvironment. This is the result of our strategic investments tial cost synergies and will also further accelerate our in content delivered on a world-class technology platgrowth by enabling us to focus even more on streaming form that is getting smarter and learning all the time, and offer Viaplay directly to Canal Digital subscribers. enabling us to offer even more personalised content disWe have also signed long-term and innovative distribucovery and a constantly evolving customer experience. tion agreements with almost every major operator in the At the same time, we have invested significantly in Nordic region to make our services and channels even attracting and retaining the talents needed to win in more broadly available, and to create new wholesale streaming, and we have changed our operating model revenue opportunities for Viaplay. in order to accelerate the development of our streaming In addition, we established a UK-based joint venture with business. We are now preparing to launch Viaplay in leading independent studio FilmNation Entertainment and 5 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting invested in new US studio Picturestart. These are important steps towards realising our global storytelling ambitions and will provide more original content for Viaplay. Our sustainability commitment Sustainability is central to all that we do and sits alongside our business strategy, culture and values as the foundations of NENT Group. Our sustainability activities make us better both on and off the screen and contribute to a better society. We launched our sustainability strategy during the year, after we had asked over 3,000 of our stakeholders about the priorities that we should have as Group. In developing this strategy, we looked at some of the biggest challenges that face our society and have sought to be true to our company values of Bravery, Diabetes Gala Equality, Appreciation and Trust. Our strategy is to create value by developing Nordic storytelling and the region’s creative industry, and by ­p romoting an equal, diverse and inclusive society. We are groups focused on equality, diversity, inclusion, and enviPerfectly positioned committed to telling stories that challenge stereotypes ronmental awareness across the group. Our commitment 2019 was a busy and successful year. 2020 started well but and reflect the diverse society in which we live. We want led us to sign the UN Global Compact and commit to the the spread of the Coronavirus is having an adverse impact to continue achieving gender balance in the creative Sustainable Development Goals Media Compact and the on the business. We have acted fast to implement a range value chain, while investing in original productions that Women’s Empowerment Principles. of measures to protect the business, and I am convinced explore urgent contemporary themes such as injustice As the Nordic region’s leading entertainment provider, that NENT Group has the focus, agility and bravery to and inequality. our people, platforms and storytelling contribute to raising deliver in challenging circumstances and to emerge even The key to our success is our people and culture. We awareness of, and engaging, in societal issues. Diabetes is a stronger and fitter to capture the opportunities that lie must attract, motivate and retain the best of the best in case in point – a disease that is affecting more and more ahead. I truly appreciate the exceptional work of our order to continue to be at the forefront of technological people, especially in the Nordics. We held our third annual ­talented and dedicated team, and I would also like to development and content creativity. This requires us to Diabetes Gala on World Diabetes Day on 14 November thank the millions of customers who trust us every day to make a continuous commitment to our conduct, nurture and raised record funds for diabetes research. We have tell stories that touch lives and expand worlds. our culture and produce quality content. To ensure we also established the pan-Nordic BEAT Diabetes foundation, live according to our values and sustainability priorities, which will bring together organisations, entrepreneurs we continually train and encourage our managers and and passionate individuals to support those living with, or Anders Jensen employees. We have initiated cross-functional working affected, by diabetes. President & CEO 6 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Who we are Our vision is to be the leading Nordic streaming service provider and content producer with a global appeal. This means ­providing best-in-class experiences, both for our customers and for our employees. We are clear about what NENT Group stands for, and what we expect of each other. We have four values and a common purpose that were proposed and chosen by our teams in hundreds of workshops. Purpose Vision Values Tellling stories, touching lives, e ­ xpanding worlds To be the leading Nordic streaming We are a company that prioritises people ­s ervice provider and content producer over everything else – from every single It’s fundamentally about who we are – what we with a global appeal. employee to every single one of our millions do – and why it matters. It is beyond making of customers. What unites us all at NENT money. It is our cause and belief. We exist with Group is our passion to create meaningful the purpose of Telling stories; Touching lives; and emotional moments with our content. Expanding worlds. We are all storytellers, we tell stories. Stories Bravery, Equality, Appreciation and Trust connect us and guide us in making sense of the are our NENT Group values – and together, world. Stories matter and, if they’re inspiring and Mission they form a powerful BEAT, the heartbeat of exciting, they set our mood, change our mind, and To offer NENT Group’s customers the best entertainment! give us our attitude. A good story touches lives, it ­s torytelling entertainment experiences moves us. And we’re not here to just tell any story. For more information about our values, see that are relevant, engaging, simple to We want to tell the story that touches your life. page 24. use, broadly available, and great value The story that makes you think differently, makes for money. you reflect and expand your mind! 7 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting W E C R E AT E VA L U H OW E Developing Nordic Promoting an Sustainability approach storytelling and the creative Our val ues equal, diverse and inclusive industry society We are a values-driven company and we want to make a sustainable impact. This is reflected in our Our purpose strategic priorities and approach. Our sustainability Telling stories strategy is based on input from our customers, Touching lives shareholders, employees and partners, and it is Expanding worlds | T fully aligned with our purpose, values and business B ra v ru st ­o bjectives. er | y io n Our content and platforms provide a unique Eq Nurturing ua iat Producing opportunity to inspire and engage. And, away l i t y | A p p re c our culture quality content from the screen, the way we conduct our business and nurture our culture makes a difference – for our people, the creative industry and society. Committing to our conduct HO ES S W W E DO B ETTER B USI N 8 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Perfectly positioned The entertainment industry is changing rapidly. Taking a long-term view and staying on the right side of disruption is essential. NENT Group is the Nordic region’s leading streaming company and our scale is a key success factor. It allows us to invest in our people, technology and content – and as we grow, more users means more data, which we protect carefully and enables us to deliver even better user experiences. The world is changing Linear scheduled TV viewing that is not live is falling fast As technology evolves at an ever-faster pace, so does and the rate of change is highest in the Scandinavian behaviour. The number of connected devices (smartmarkets. phones, games consoles, tablets and smart TVs) capable of displaying high-quality streamed video continues to We have proactively adopted increase. Combined with faster, more reliable, affordable We launched our first video streaming service in 2007 and accessible fixed and mobile broadband networks, – the same year in which Apple launched the iPhone, and consumers can now access an unprecedented range of long before our competitors. This early mover advantage streaming services on more devices than ever before. has been important, but even more significant was our The fierce competition for consumer time and money decision in 2012 to disrupt our traditional linear TV busimakes it even more important for streaming service proness by aggressively pushing streaming services and viders to offer great user experiences through a combiaccelerating our investments in Viaplay’s content and nation of a broad-based high-quality content offering technology. and best-in-class technology platforms. Consumers now This has been followed by fundamental changes in the hold the power, the power of instant choice. skillsets of our people and in the content we acquire and produce. These decisions were often painful for our linear Video consumption rising TV business but have been key to the success of Viaplay. Video consumption is higher than ever before and con­ Many traditional broadcasters have only recently woken tinues to grow. However, the way content is viewed is up to the new streaming reality, and trying to catch up changing rapidly, with consumers increasingly choosing with established streaming services will now be both to stream on-the-go and on-demand, instead of linear ­d ifficult and expensive. viewing in-home. 9 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting NENT Group is unique that work across markets and products. This enables us to and has substantially increased its focus on original As a result of our early and significant investments in take decisions faster, work smarter, and ensure strategic ­content, which has proved popular both with viewers streaming, NENT Group is very different from most of alignment across the business. in the Nordic region and international buyers. our peers and competitors. Firstly, our primary revenue stream is subscriptions, Viaplay is a unique service Viaplay is growing fast which accounted for 61% of our sales in 2019. Our focus is Viaplay is a pioneer in streaming with a successful track Viaplay’s paying subscriber base increased by 310k, or on creating recurring revenue streams that will grow over record of innovation. Viaplay is today a premium Nordic 25%, in 2019 to 1,568k. This represents an acceleration in time, which will also improve visibility and resilience and video streaming service that can be viewed anywhere, growth compared to the 2016 to 2019 annual growth rate reduce volatility. anytime and on almost any device In addition, Viaplay of 19%. These figures do not include subscribers who have Secondly, streaming customers make up over 60% of offers electronic sell-through (EST), transaction video access to Viaplay as part of a Viasat pay-TV subscrip­t ion our total ­s ubscriber base and this share is growing quickly. on-demand (TVOD) and TV Everywhere (TVE) function­ or as a free trial. Thirdly, we are set up in the right way to capture the alities. Viaplay has an estimated market share of approximately significant growth opportunities that we see in the streamViaplay’s content offering includes sports, acquired 25–30% based on the number of stand alone paying ing market. Instead of a traditional country-based model, local and international series and movies, kids content, ­subscribers. Its ­revenue market share is materially higher we are organised according to focused areas of responand original scripted and non-scripted content. Viaplay because Viaplay has a leading position in sports packages, sibility, such as people, content, marketing and technology, has leading positions in Sports, Movies and Kids content, where the price of a subscription is much higher. A subscription-based business model Viaplay subscriber base growing fast Transaction Sales split 2019 Subscriber split 2019 video on-demand 1,568 CAGR 19% Electronic TV 939 sell-through everywhere Subscription Viaplay 62% Thousands & Others 61% Viasat DTC 19% Subscription 2016 2019 Subscription video on-demand, Advertising 26% Viasat 3rd party 19% video on-demand sports NENT Studios 13% 10 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Prices aligned We believe that this penetration level will move closer We have strategically aligned our prices between distrito that of TV or the internet, both of which are now bution platforms. For a user, the cost of subscribing is approximately 95%. therefore broadly the same via NENT Group’s satellite or In addition, each streaming household today has broadband TV services, third partly distribution partners an average of approximately 1.8 streamed video subor directly from Viaplay. Over time, this should support scriptions, and we expect this to rise to approximately positive margin development, given that the acquistion 3 subscriptions in the future. In the US, a streaming houseand running costs are significantly lower for streaming hold already subscribes to an average of 2.8 services. services than traditional pay-TV platforms. Streaming is therefore clearly not a winner-takes-it-all market. Our ambition is to position Viaplay as a core Significant growth potential streaming service to which most households subscribe Viaplay has grown fast but there is plenty of room for before topping up with other services that cater to indimore. Today, approximately 50% of households in the vidual interests. There are 12.5 million households in the Nordic region subscribe to at least one streaming service. Nordic region, Nordic SVOD No of subscriptions/ Prices have been aligned 1) penetration SVOD household SEK ~95 500 400 ~3 300 ~50 200 ~1.8 100 % 0 2019 Future 2019 Future Viasat Viaplay Viasat Viaplay TV, movies, sports TV, movies 1) Monthly subscription prices 11 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Partnerships powering growth Distribution partnerships represent an additional key growth driver. As a result of technology improveThe partnerships reflect our unique ments, users can now access Viaplay through a set­content offering as well as our strategic top box and enjoy the same high-quality e ­ xperience focus on long-term distribution deals as a stand-alone subscription. This also enables us to leverage operators’ existing customer relation­s hips. that are beneficial for all ­parties. During 2019, we have signed numerous strategic long-term partnerships that ensure the broad availability of Viaplay, along with our freeand pay TV-­ channels, across the Nordic region. Our partners include Boxer, Stofa, Waoo and YouSee in Denmark; Altibox, Get, ­N extGenTel, RiksTV and Telenor in ­N orway; A3, Bahnhof, Connect TV, Kalejdo, Media­teknik, Ownit, Sappa, Serverado, Tele2, Telia and ­U niversal Telecom in Sweden; and DNA, Elisa and Telia in F­ inland. These partnerships reflect our unique content offering as well as our strategic focus on long-term distribution A history of innovation deals that are beneficial for all parties. Launch of Transformation Viaplay to Expanding to Iceland first streaming of costs, content enter Iceland We will launch Viaplay in Iceland during the first half service acquisition & skill sets of 2020. Iceland is an ideal market for Viaplay given the proven local appetite for Nordic language content and the country’s position as one of the most highly connected societies in the world. 2007 2011 2015 2019 2020 We have ambitions to expand Viaplay into additional markets in the future, and the I­celandic launch will be an opportunity to showcase the scalability of the platform. Launch of Viaplay Scaled Viaplay Originals 12 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting We are positioned to win Viaplay is already one of the leading streaming services in the region and has gained market shares during 2019. Viaplay has three differentiating ­factors that position the service to continue growing faster than the overall streaming market: Content Tech People A content champion Best in class tech Platform & content discovery A unique culture with the right skill sets Being a content champion is about quality as much Streaming involves much more than making content We are making significant investments in attracting, as quantity. Viewer tastes are highly individual and available online. Platforms must be stable and scalable inspiring and retaining the talents needed for success change over time. Consumer insight is very important with great content discovery, which in turn requires in streaming. Today, we have over 300 developers but sometimes people don’t know what they want recom­m endation engines that provide a personalised from around the world in our tech team alone. Our until something is presented to them. Viaplay’s conexperience based on individual preferences. The fact that people focus also extends externally, where we use tent strategy therefore spans three major content peoples tastes also change means that content can live everything from A/B testing and big data analytics, categories; Original content, acquired content and much longer than has been the case in the traditional as well as direct customer contact, to understand our sports. Each one of these have a number of sub-­ broadcasting industry, consumer insight is increasingly customers better. We have recently also changed categories such as live sports, international movies becoming consumer science, and the Viaplay team is from a country to a functional operating model, and series, kids shows, local language scripted drama able to capture and analyse huge amounts of data that which will speed up decision making and develop and non-scripted reality. Today, Viaplay has catecan improve the viewing experience and bring greater skills hubs that can focus even more on understanding gory leadership in several of these areas through a innovation to the service. In 2019 we also showed over customers’ current and future wants and needs. Our combination of investments in acquired and original 50,000 live hours of sports with an incredible platform consumer insights are also reflected in our sustainabilcontent. Read more about our content strategy on up-time of 99,97%. Read more about our technology ity strategy, as over 1,500 Viaplay viewers had their pages 14–17. strategy on pages 18–21. say in setting NENT Group’s sustainability priorities. Read more about our People on pages 22–25. 13 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Spotlight on Content Content is king but viewer tastes vary widely and change over time. Offering a broad and relevant range of content portfolio, and anticipating customers’ needs, are vital for our success. Scalability and flexibility We are one of Europe’s leading content buyers, and the e als biggest buyer in the Nordic region by some distance. i od ­B uying for multiple platforms and territories increases our st ud scalability and flexibility. We now acquire most rights at d Su a fixed price and can use them across all of our different i re pe services and territories or resell to third parties. We have rio Acq transformed the way we acquire content and, as a result, u r sp we can constantly optimise our offering according to the o rt o f fe ri n g latest consumer insights and data analysis. This set-up is a key success factor in the scaling of Viaplay. Category leadership We are a content champion in the Nordic region, based on our leadership in the strategically important categories of sports, original programming, and acquired content from local and international studios. Having a broad Or and relevant product portfolio is essential, and we are ig also ambitious about developing our category leadership in lc a The content offering even further. We have the following three major content on can be divided into categories, each of which then have a number of sub-­ te n three categories with t sub-categories in each one. categories. 14 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 50,000 live hours of Sports We have an unrivalled sports rights portfolio. We showed over 50,000 live hours of sports in 2019, including football, ice hockey, motorsport, handball and golf from around the world. Our major sports rights include UEFA Champions League, English Premier League, Danish Superliga, Bundes­ liga, NHL, Formula 1, UFC, PGA golf, NFL, IIHF Ice Hockey World Championship, IHF World Handball Championship and EHF European Handball Championship. These rights are typically acquired across all media windows and on an exclusive, multi-year and often multi-territory basis from a variety of rights holders. In 2019, we continued to invest in sports rights, in order to drive future growth. We have signed new agreements to become the exclusive Nordic home of FIS Alpine and cross-country skiing from 2021 to 2026, the Ice Hockey World Championship from 2024 to 2028, ISU speed and figure skating until 2023, and IndyCar racing until 2021. We Premier League have also extended key rights such as the Premier League until 2028 (including the Norwegian rights for the first time from 2022), the Open golf championship until 2024, and the Danish Superliga football until 2024. The addition of winter sports to our portfolio is a parti­ A large and wide ranging sports offering that is secured to sports rights inflation and maintain our discipline of cularly important strategic step, since it establishes leader­ for years to come is a key success factor. It creates econonever buying rights where we cannot make a good return ship in an additional key category and one that is particumies of scale as more subscribers enable us to invest more on our investment. We do also enter into sublicensing larly popular in Norway. and further enhance our coverage. Sports broadcasting agreements from time to time, in order to maximise our We have also increased our coverage of women’s requires a high degree of craftmanship, including insightmonetisation opportunities with rights that we have sports, including top-division women’s football in the UK, ful local language commentary, attractive studio shows acquired. Our focus on providing complete on-demand Germany and France, selected international women’s and the use of social media to boost viewing and fan streaming coverage of all events provides much more football matches, WTA tennis and W Series motorsport. engagement. variety and breadth of coverage than before – from The interest in women’s sport is growing all the time and The scale and range of our offering means that we are fast emerging sports such as padel tennis to 100% of the our coverage will continue to lead the way. also not dependent on any single right, so less vulnerable upcoming FIS Alpine and cross-country skiing rights. 15 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Number of originals premiered Original content Since launching our first original series in 2016, we have Original content (drama shows, documentaries, kids series significantly ramped up our investment in this area and and feature length movies) is a core part of our customer we premiered a total of 21 originals in 2019, with many >30 proposition and a key competitive advantage. This conmore in production or development. The response from tent is typically commissioned by Viaplay, in order to be viewers has been very positive, with originals representing 21 able to deliver exclusive, high-quality and locally relevant 7 out of the 10 most viewed new series on Viaplay in 2019. stories to Nordic streaming audiences. Our creative net There is simply no substitute for local drama. This is a stra12 10 spans new scripted drama ideas generated internally by tegic investment area and we feel very comfortable with 5 NENT Studios, concepts pitched by third party production the long-term returns, given the performance to date and companies, and new series of established local or interthe fact that this content has a long usage life, often runs 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020E national formats. to multiple series and can also be monetised on our TV Face to face 16 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting channels. The ability to package and sell international Acquired rights to these shows around the world is an increasingly Acquired content is the majority of the content that important factor in the funding of the originals, with we show on our channels and services, and comprises around half of our originals already sold to international premium series and movies from studios all over the partners (distributors, broadcasters and streamers). world, most notably Disney and 20th Century Studios, Among the highest profile originals premiered during MGM, NBCUniversal, Sony Pictures and Viacom. Our 2019 were ‘Love Me’; ‘Fixi in Playland’; ‘Honour’; ‘Face to ­s tudio deals are typically signed on a multi-year and Face’; ‘Straight Forward’; ‘Saga’s ­S tories’; ‘Wisting’; ‘The multi-­territory basis. First and second pay window deals Inner Circle’; and ‘Those Who Kill’’. Our stories are diverse are usually exclusive and library agreements are usually and offer viewers content with which they can feel culturnon-exclusive. ally and socially connected. They reflect our efforts to We signed new agreements in 2019 with MGM and NBC­ Bohemian Rapsody increase equality, diversity and inclusion, both on and off Universal, and have since signed a new long term agreethe screen, and are an important part of our work to ment with Disney. Our new agreements include the ­p romote the Nordic creative industry and talents. co-production of new originals, which Viaplay has the Our ambition is to premiere more than 30 originals in option to stream in the Nordics. 2020 and to increase the number to 40 in future years. This The hottest new movies and series from Hollywood help will also include an increasing number of exclusive English to attract new subscribers, while the library of previous language productions, some of which will be sourced from shows includes a number of evergreen titles that continue to the UK-based joint venture that we formed in 2019 with drive viewing and are an important customer retention tool. leading independent studio FilmNation Entertainment, as Tastes vary so the slate of new releases and the deep well as from Picturestart, the newly formed studio based library provide customers with an unrivalled choice. We in Los Angeles that we acquired a minority shareholding have category leadership in both acquired movies and in during the year. In both cases, NENT Group has the first acquired kids content, and the recent agreements have option to the exclusive Nordic media rights for all new proadded further to this leadership position. ductions. In today’s highly competitive market for premium Local language originals and live sports are clear drama, this gives us a compelling advantage and comple­d ifferentiating factors for us. However, it is the combinaments our investments in local language original content. tion of these categories with acquired content that We have also added a number of massively popular ­represents the foundation for our position as the Nordic local non-scripted series, including firm favourites such region’s leading entertainment provider. as ‘Paradise Hotel’, ‘Robinson Ekspeditionen’, ‘Familien fra Bryggen’, ‘Masterchef’ and ‘Efterlyst’. These shows are sourced internally from NENT Studios or externally from third party production companies. 17 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Spotlight on Technology Streaming involves much more than making content available online. In many cases, viewers don’t know what they want until they see it. NENT Group has built a platform that competes with the best in terms of performance, functionality and content discovery. A proud history of innovation Unrivalled ­performance NENT Group is no stranger to ‘firsts.’ From launching the We rely on the technical quality of our offering to help Nordic region’s first commercial TV channel in 1987 to the differentiate us in a competitive streaming market, and region’s first satellite TV platform in 1991, we were also the to drive customer value. first in Europe to digitalise a TV platform fully and to add We have made significant investments in ensuring our progressive download functionality to our set-top boxes. streaming platforms are both robust and resilient. We We launched our first streaming service in 2007 and are confident in our ability to meet the demands put on added download-to-go in 2012. Two years later, NENT the service every day. In 2019, our users streamed more Group became Europe’s first commercial broadcaster to than 730 million hours of content, including coverage of show the Olympics. In 2019, we launched ‘Fixi in Playland’, more than 50,000 live sports events, with an impressive a first-of-its kind animated kids series recorded using up-time of 99.97%. 3D gaming technologies and with hidden interactive ­e lements in every episode. Focus on content discovery The volume of content offered on our streaming platA winning approach forms has increased exponentially in recent years. A platform agnostic approach that makes our content as This is great news for our customers, but it also makes broadly available as possible has always been a cornera personalised experience even more important. stone of our strategy. This is an increasingly important ­Customers today often face the so-called ‘paradox ­s uccess factor as more and more homes become multi-­ of choice,’ where seemingly endless entertainment platform and viewers use our services across multiple options make it harder to find something to watch. Fixi in Playland, programmed to include hidden devices. inter­a ctive elements in every episode. 18 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting By tailoring our content blocks and post-play recommendations, we aim to strike a balance between showing viewers content similar to previously viewed series and movies, and offering titles they may have overlooked but are likely to enjoy. We have also invested in embedding dynamic and fulllength trailers across the ‘in-app’ experience. This showcases the depth of our content library while, at the same time, helping consumers make informed decisions about what to watch. Our launch of Viaplay user profiles in May 2019 has ­f urther enhanced the individual experience for customers. A family can now manage up to six unique profiles as part of the same subscription. In doing so, we have been able to refine our personalisation algorithms and create customised homepages that are aligned with viewing preferences. The platform is getting smarter We are focused on our customers and on driving engagement by enhancing our offering. As a result, we are shifting away from traditional insight-gathering to more datadriven decision making in our approach to customer intelligence. For example, we use comparative A/B testing User profiles for enhanced individual experiences in different segments before rolling out new features to all markets. This gives us a better understanding of how The launch of user profiles in May 2019 has ­f urther enhanced the individual customers are likely to respond to changes in the platform. experience for ­c ustomers – enabling a family to manage up to six unique As a consequence of the content discovery algorithms profiles as part of the same subscription. In doing so, we have been able we have developed, customer viewing levels are increasrefine our personalisation algorithms and build on this strong foundation to ing. The algorithms use machine learning and artificial customise each homepage according to different ­v iewing preferences. intelligence. They are based on individual viewing patterns 19 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting and simultaneously feed information back into the platform about viewer preferences, which creates a sustain­ able competitive advantage. We are therefore confident that the user experience we offer will improve even ­f urther. Tech for impact In today’s competitive entertainment landscape, nurturing customer relationships is key to driving loyalty and lowering churn. We use our in-house expertise to develop new and exciting products that reinforce these relationships. Our new kids’ series ‘Fixi in Playland’, which premiered during 2019, is a clear example of this. The Fixi character is an animated squirrel created using performance capture and virtual reality (VR) animation technology in NENT Group’s own VR studio, StudioV. The idea for the series, which targets children aged from 5 to 8 years, came from one of our annual Hack Days. We kept the production in-house and this enabled incredibly fast and agile development – it took just eight months to go from the initial concept to the premiere of the 20-episode first season. We are excited to see how this production method can change the game in terms of our digital animation pipeline, by returning quality entertainment in a short timeframe. The public reaction to the series has been so positive that work is already underway on a second season to premiere in 2020. But Fixi has more than commercial value. In the series, VR animation technology in StudioV she encourages younger viewers to take an interest in technology and to embrace their differences. She also 20 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting promotes an active lifestyle by getting viewers off the couch through regular dance breaks. As a character and mascot for kids’ content on Viaplay, we believe Fixi has the potential to make a really positive impact in Nordic households. People and products Our talented Product, Data & Technology team is made up of more than 300 developers from all over the world. Every day, we develop cutting-edge technology that is both stable and scalable. In this work, we focus on people as well as products, particularly on personalising customer experiences. In recent years, we have transformed our skillset away from traditional broadcasting towards computer science and advanced analytics. This helps ensure we can continue to set the pace in the streaming industry. Our Product, Data & Tech team 21 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Spotlight on People Our people are our greatest strength. We work to attract and inspire talents who want to grow, develop and contribute in a fun, trusting and appreciative company. Taking care of our people and making sure everyone can be the best version of themselves is essential to our success. A culture based on our people This work resulted in four values: Bravery, Equality, We value everyone’s uniqueness – you can just be yourOur company has clear values with a high level of buy-in. Appreciation and Trust – BEAT! self here. With the ‘Hearts of NENT’ initiative, we want to This is because we have built our purpose and values in Our focus on individual values and self-leadership is also highlight the uniqueness of each individual and bring each a unique way. Instead of a top-down decision, we used unique. We believe that creating motivation requires more person’s perspective to life, showing what our values a democratic and transparent crowdsourcing process. than organisational values. True motivation and engagemean to our people. Every employee was invited to workshops to discover ment come when people can be themselves at work, while our values together and, through an iterative creative being aligned with our shared values and purpose. Building a company for the long run process, everyone could give input on the outcome of We dare to look beyond short-term goals and to build a these discussions through multiple channels. The best version of ourselves company for the future. Financial sustainability is imporWe prioritise our people. We want everyone at our comtant, since it enables us to take care of our people, cuspany to grow, and our aim is to provide a safe, fair and tomers and shareholders, but we want to do more than inclusive work environment where everyone can thrive and simply maximise our short-term profits. Nurturing a culture feel empowered to be the best versions of themselves. that helps us attract and develop the best people will This is how we define success, and this is why we have ensure we always have the best ideas and talents, which people-focused ­values. We also believe this is the best is how we will ultimately meet our high ambitions. way to achieve great results. When our people grow, so does our business. Autonomy and self-leadership allow More information about our people and culture can be us to act, fail and recover faster, and stay ahead of the found on pages 35–36. curve in our extremely fast moving industry. 22 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Equality is the basis of our respect for each other Meygol Tarahomi CX Dialogue Manager, Viaplay 23 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Feel the BEAT When you join us and hit play, you will become part of our culture and learn to live our values. Hit play on Our values are defined by the beat we all have first-class, world-class inside us. Defined by the passion we all share at NENT and how we inspire everyone around us. entertainment! Bravery • I step outside my comfort zone to learn and grow We’re a vibrant, upbeat and passionate • I challenge myself, others and the industry company. We buzz with energy, creating • I keep trying in the face of setbacks ground-breaking entertainment and pop • I dare to ask for help and support culture for people to follow. We have fun, encouraging our people to step out of Equality the box with fresh ideas the enable us to • I bring my whole self to work stay ahead of the rest – it’s part of our • I ask questions and listen to understand • I stand up for what I think is right challenger DNA! • I seek co-creation based on diverse perspectives We’re a place where creativity thrives, Appreciation ­creating original content that’s as exciting • I give positive feedback and credit to make ­people feel valuable to make as it is to watch. Our culture • I give, listen to and learn from constructive feedback and identity are best described in our • I get inspiration from celebrating with my team, big and small employer value proposition – hit play. • I seek opportunities to pursue my passions, ­a mbitions and strengths Trust • I understand the value of learning from mistakes • I do what I say, I am responsible and accountable • I am open, honest and straightforward • I respect and look out for you – I have your back and you have mine 24 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Our people are engaged 87% 89% are ­w illing to make feel they an extra effort to cooperate well We operate in a fast moving industry and make NENT Group in their teams we are moving even faster, 2019 was our successful ­ first year as an independent and separately listed company, and we have moved from a country based to a functional operating model, launched our new values, and announced the proposed merger of our Viasat Consumer business and Telenor’s 90% 91% feel they are feel they can Canal Digital. respected by be themselves We conducted a group wide engagement their manager at work survey in December 2019 and it is clear from the results that we have a strong foundation from which to build NENT Group moving ­f orward. Here are some highlights from the people who completed the survey (81% of all staff). 88% 75% feel that challenge the way all employees we do things have the same in order to learn ­o pportunities and grow The percentage equals the share of our people answering 4 or 5 on a 5 point scale. 25 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Our investment proposition NENT Group is, first and foremost, an investment in Viaplay which is the leading Nordic streaming service. Our market share in streaming is significantly higher than in the traditional pay TV market meaning that we are benefitting from the change in the way people consume content. Scaling Viaplay is simply the best way to drive significant and sustainable shareholder value. A unique play on the Nordic streaming market NENT Group is the Nordic region’s leading entertainment provider and also the region’s leading streaming service. NENT Group’s high-profile brands offer both subscription and advertising funded streaming services. Viaplay is the leader in the fast growing subscription funded streaming market. The penetration of streaming services in the Nordic region, and the number of services to which each household subscribes, are both expected to grow significantly over the coming years. The subscription model ­c reates recurring and growing revenues with high incremental margins. In addition, it provides additional benefits such as increased visibility, reduced volatility and more resilient revenue streams. All success factors already in place NENT Group is today a content champion in the Nordic region. We offer a unique combination of the broadest and most relevant content, and hold category leadership positions in sports, originals and films. Listing ceremony on 28 March 2019 26 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Viaplay is a world-class streaming platform that offers A proven track record more functionality than any other service. The platform NENT Group has delivered healthy top and bottom line has also proven to be extremely stable demonstrated growth, while investing substantially in content, technolby its ability to deliver more than 50,000 hours of live ogy and our people, in order to take a leading position in streamed sports every year with almost no down-time. the Nordic streaming market. Our focus is on maximising In addition, Viaplay is continually getting smarter by long term shareholder value by scaling Viaplay. We aim ­a nalysing user data and competes with the best when it to do so through continued investments in the customer comes to personalised and relevant content discovery. experience and through strategic partnerships such as Finally, we have a world-class team with a shared purour recently announced joint venture between Viasat pose, values and behaviours. We have invested significantly Consumer and Canal Digital, our investment in Picturestart, in attracting, motivating and retaining the talents needed joint venture with FilmNation Entertainment, and our chanto win in streaming, and we have also changed our organnel and service distribution deals with the leading regional isation and operating model during 2019 to accelerate the telecom and broadband partners. NENT Group has a development of our streaming business further. long-term commitment to profitable growth and ongoing dividends. Net sales EBIT for combined business segments 1,813 CAGR 15,671 CAGR 1,427 8% 12,897 7% SEKm SEKm 2016 2019 2016 2019 Subscription Advertising Studios Broadcasting & streaming Studios and other Before central operations & IAC 27 Sustainability Content How we create impact 29 Developing Nordic storytelling and the creative industry 31 Promoting an equal, diverse and inclusive society 32 Nurturing our culture 35 Committing to our conduct 37 Producing quality content 40 28 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting How we create impact At NENT Group, sustainability is integrated with our business strategy, culture and values. In 2019, we set our sustainability ­strategy, which will shape how we create value and make a positive impact in the years to come. W E C R E AT E VA L U H OW E Our strategy Sustainability is integrated with NENT Group’s business Developing Nordic Promoting an strategy, culture and values. Our ambition is to make storytelling and equal, diverse a positive impact in society while doing better business. the creative Our val ues and inclusive industry society Our priorities are presented in our sustainability strategy, which consists of five focus areas: developing Nordic story­ Our purpose telling and the creative industry, promoting an equal, Telling stories diverse and inclusive society, and driving excellence in Touching lives Expanding worlds st our culture, conduct and content. B ra v | T er ru Through these areas, we aim to create value for society y | io n Eq as a whole, as well as for our shareholders, customers Nurturing ua iat Producing l i t y | A p p re c our culture quality content and employees and for the creative industry. The sustainability strategy was set during 2019 and is based on a thorough stakeholder dialogue that included over 3,000 survey respondents and 55 internal and external meetCommitting to ings held during autumn 2018. our conduct HO ES S W W E DO B ETTER B USI N Sustainability strategy for NENT Group GRI 102-15 29 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Our world and our opportunities We operate in a fast-changing environment that creates both challenges and opportunities for our business. When setting our sustainability priorities, we considered today’s megatrends and the biggest challenges faced by the world and our Nordic society. These include ­c limate change, rapid technology shifts, and a society with in­­creasing levels of inequality and segregation. As the Nordic region’s leading streaming company, we create value by investing in new and diverse talents and promoting Nordic storytelling globally. We have an opportunity to promote a more equal, diverse and inclusive society through our stories and platforms. At the same time, we are focusing on equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) throughout our entire production value chain. During productions, we are working to create a more inclusive, safer and fairer environment, and by telling unique stories and reflecting today’s diverse society on screen, we are challenging stereotypical attitudes, norms and prejudices. This also increases our relevance by ­h elping us reach a more diverse and broader audience. In short, we can make a positive difference by developing Nordic storytelling and the region’s creative community, investing in new and diverse talents, and promoting ­N ordic storytelling globally. On climate change, we encourage green conduct s­ ustainable solutions to global challenges. This commitWhen it comes to technology shifts, we are at the very amongst our employees, and in our operations to miniment is also reflected in being a signatory member of forefront of change as a streaming leader. In addition to mise our environmental impact and in that way mitigate the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. We are offering entertainment on demand through a wide range climate changes. also committed to the SDG Media Compact and the of platforms, we use the latest technologies to create NENT Group’s sustainability strategy is directly aligned Women’s Empowerment Principles. interactive kids content that both educates and entertains with 8 of the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals while offering safe and trusted experiences. (SDGs). This highlights our commitment to helping find 30 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Developing Nordic storytelling and the creative industry We are writing a new chapter for Nordic storytelling and the region's creative ­industry by investing in original content and promoting local talents. A new chapter for Nordic storytelling our kids original series ‘Saga’s Stories’, the factual programmes ‘Troll Hunters’ and ‘Tjafs’, and our coverage of In brief See pages 132–134 for details We are Nordic in origin and global in terms of our themes, partnerships and audiences. We offer a broad and diverse the IHF World Handball Championship. In addition, the Goal 2021 SDG and targets product portfolio that includes some of the best inter­ Danish series ‘Chemo Brain’, produced by the NENT Studios • Invest in Nordic storytelling with a global appeal. When doing so we create national content available. At the same time, we work company Splay One, was shortlisted at the Sundance Film job opportunities in the local creative closely with local talents to produce critically acclaimed ­Festival – the first time a Danish series has been recogindustry. 8.8 Nordic storytelling. Through the 32 production companies nised at this prestigious event. that comprise NENT Studios, we produce series, films and Target 2019 Status Strategy dimension documentaries in every Nordic language. In this way, we We develop the creative community • Increase the number of Value engage millions of people every day and provide a platCreativity contributes to an open, vibrant, and inclusive ­p remiered Viaplay originals creation (from 10 in 2018 to 21 in 2019). form to promote the Nordic creative industry, along with society. For this reason, we think it is important to create Better the region’s languages, while contributing to local coma Nordic hub for creative talents and to invest in and business munities and talents. develop the local creative community. In 2019, NENT Group premiered 21 original productions Every year, NENT Group hosts an award ceremony Target 2020 across the Nordic region (10 in 2018). Around half of our in Denmark highlighting talents from our production • Increase number of • Launch a recognition concept ­p remiered Viaplay ­o riginals promoting new and diverse originals have been sold internationally in regions such as ­companies who create content for the Danish market. from 21 to at least 30. ­talents in the creative industry. Europe, North and South America, Oceania and Asia to The awards cover categories such as talent of the year, broadcasting and streaming partners such as the BBC, Viaplay originals, Viafree originals, programme of the ARTE and Amazon. We aim to continue this success story year and innovation. by premiering at least 30 original productions over the For new talents, accessing the creative community can to launch in 2020. Giving opportunities to new talents is coming year. be very challenging. We want to change that by devel­ good for NENT Group as well as the creative community, Our content is critically acclaimed. In 2019, we received oping a recognition concept that connects talents with since we are continuously searching for unique stories 11 nominations at Sweden’s ‘Kristallen’ awards, including opportunities in media production, which we are planning and to reach a broader audience. GRI 103-1 GRI 103-2 GRI 103-3 GRI 203-1 M3 31 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Promoting an equal, diverse and inclusive society Our work with equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) starts with our people, shapes our stories and touches our societies. We use our platforms and our reach to inspire, engage and form partnerships that can raise awareness and promote ­positive change. A holistic approach to EDI Equality in front of and behind the camera In brief See pages 132–134 for details At NENT Group, we take a holistic and integrated We work for greater diversity including gender balance approach in our work with EDI. We want our stories to in the entertainment industry. At the same time, we underGoal 2021 SDG and targets reflect a plurality of views and to appeal to diverse stand that successfully telling diverse stories requires us to • Increase diversity and inclusion off and on screen. ­a udiences. In order to achieve this, our company needs look at our whole value chain. • Improve gender balance in our content to reflect our society. To get a better insight into just how equal we are value chain and organisation. 3.4 5.1, 5.5 It is therefore important for us to give a voice to different today, we mapped the gender balance in our creative • R aise awareness of diabetes through partnerships. groups and to be a safe space where people from all value chain for scripted and non-scripted content in our backgrounds can express themselves. In 2018, we created Nordic markets for 2018 and 2019. The mapping covered EDI working groups focusing on EDI in our workplace, and five key positions in each production: director, writer, 10.2, 10.3 17.16 in our product portfolio and content value chain. The task ­p roducer, cinematographer and lead actress/actor. Target 2019 Status Strategy dimension of these two groups is to continuously identify our EDI chalThe results show that we have improved our gender bal• I dentify EDI challenges and Value lenges and enablers, and to develop an improvement plan ance for these groups from 46% women in 2018 to 61% enablers (internally and in creation and metrics. The goal for this work is to raise our awarewomen in 2019. The main reason for this is an increased content value chain) and develop improvement plan. Better ness about this topic in the organisation and make it show percentage of mainly female producers and actresses in • M ap gender balance in business in our work, both internally and in our content. our scripted content. An example is the comedy-drama ­c ontent value chain. To reinforce this work, and to ensure we meet our ‘Love Me’, starring and written and directed by Josephine ambitions and goals, we have appointed a Head of Bornebusch. Target 2020 Diversity & Inclusion tasked with leading our efforts to However, we see room for further improvement, • Include unconscious bias in values training. • E stablish Diabetes • Increase percentage of women in key Foundation with at make NENT Group the most equal, diverse and inclusive ­e specially when it comes to female directors, cinema­ positions in the creative value chain. least 4 partners. company in our industry. tographers and writers. We will therefore focus our 32 GRI 103-1 GRI 103-2 GRI 103-3 GRI 406-1 M2 M3 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting efforts on scripted productions while continuing to work on attracting and investing in diverse talents. Our goal for The Ambassador 2021 and onwards is 50/50 gender balance in our scripted productions (baseline: 44% women in 2019). A key activity in this area will be to rollout a recognition concept that aims to help new talents enter the creative industry. We will also include unconscious bias in the roll out of our ­values training. In our productions, we are taking the lead in creating a safer and fairer work environment free from any kind of discrimination and sexual harassment. For example, we screen people in key positions in each production to make sure they share our values. We provide information about our whistleblower service to all productions (both at start-up meetings and during set visits) to ensure everyone knows what to do and who to contact in the event of any violations. Creating a safer work environment is an industrywide challenge as many of our creative talents work across the industry. Our annual employee engagement survey includes We tell diverse and unique stories of investment in women’s sports, including women’s handquestions relating to discrimination, and we follow up the We want our stories to be both unique and to reflect ball, top-division football from England, Germany and results of the survey throughout the year and take appro­s ociety. This means we need to challenge stereotypical France, LGPA golf and WTA tennis. Diverse content creates priate measures where required. There have been no ways of depicting people and societies, and to adapt value for society and gives us an opportunity to engage reported discrimination incidents in 2019. our scripts when needed (for example turning the action and reach a wider audience. NENT Group has been involved in the #metoo discusman into an action woman). That also means we invest sions and we helped initiate an ongoing industry-wide in storytelling that raises societal issues. For example, our Positive change through partnerships working group with our peers to create a positive path original series ‘Honour’, which is created by and stars some In addition to our platforms, we aim to raise awareness forward. In 2019, we hosted an industry discussion and of Sweden’s leading female creative talents, explores and create positive change in society through partnerengaged in forums such as ‘Pulse Check’ and ‘Tystnad urgent contemporary themes such as injustice and in­­ ships. We are particularly focused on helping to create ­tagning’ that aim to address issues relating to working equality, created by and starring a stellar line-up of a more equal, diverse and inclusive society. Examples of environment, diversity and gender in productions. top female talent. We also believe in the importance our partnerships include: GRI 203-2 33 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting BEAT Diabetes within three areas: health tech, healthy lifestyles, and in­­ Hello World In the Nordic region, diabetes currently impacts over 1.5 clusion and wellbeing. We believe joining the fight against We believe in cultivating interest in technology amongst million people, according to the International Diabetes diabetes also contributes to a more inclusive society. both boys and girls at an early age. As a result, we partFederation. The region is also home to the highest amount ner with Hello World to sponsor talented kids in learning of people with Type 1 diabetes in the world per capita. In Women in Tech digital skills. response, NENT Group has organised a Diabetes Gala on In Sweden, we are a founding partner of Women in Tech, World Diabetes Day every year since 2017, in collaboration an annual event that aims to promote equality and to Locker Room Talk with the Swedish Diabetes Association. During this time, the inspire talented women to pursue careers in technology. The sports world is not always equal, diverse or inclusive. event has raised over SEK 20 million for research into type In 2019, the event took place for the sixth consecutive year This is why our studio programmes raised awareness of I and II diabetes, and set a new record in 2019 by raising on International Women's Day, 8 March, and we hosted a homophobic issues in Danish Superliga football, and why over SEK 8 million. In 2020, we will step up our engagement seminar in which some of our leading female tech talents we sponsor and collaborate with Locker Room Talk, an by initiating the pan-Nordic BEAT Diabetes Foundation, an shared their experiences from product development. For organisation that aims to educate boys in fairness and independent entity in which we will invest SEK 2.5 million the second year in a row, we also streamed the event free equality. During the year, we have used our platforms every year to raise awareness and drive positive change on Viafree in order that more people could take part. and programmes, such as our NHL ice hockey studio, to discuss these issues. Reach for Change and additional partnerships In 2019, we teamed up with Reach for Change to help social entrepreneurs develop solutions that help children lead healthy lives. We have also been engaged with Gener­a tion PEP, which aims to inspire children to be more active. In Norway, we supported #SheGotThis in a quest to achieve a more gender equal society. Splay One Norway hosted an auction with the Red Cross to highlight the problem of loneliness amongst youth, raising over EUR 4,000 for the cause and reaching over 20,000 unique viewers. We have also donated airtime to organisations with an important cause, giving them the possibility to reach a larger audience with their important messages. In total in 2019, we have donated airtime in the value of over SEK 45 Women in Tech million to e.g. Red Cross, UNICEF, SOS Children's villages UNHCR and Reach for Change. 34 GRI 203-1 GRI 203-2 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Nurturing our culture We believe equal opportunities and inclusion for our people will fuel our success. Our values build the foundation of our culture and help creating an open and ­engaging workplace that aims to inspire employees, audiences, and creates ­long-term business value. The best version of ourselves Integrating our values – creating our culture In brief See pages 132–134 for details We want everybody at NENT Group to be the best verWe believe self-leadership is vital for professional and sion of themselves. This is the only way we can continue personal growth. When we are empowered to act, colGoal 2021 SDG and targets to attract the best talents and deliver the best results in laborate and trust in each other's strengths, our teams • E nsure all managers have tools and knowledge to work for trust and everything we do. Our culture is, in short, the key to our become even greater than the sum of their parts. In 2019, ­i nclusiveness in their teams. sustainability and success. our people came together to create four shared values • R aise employee rating of health, safety and wellbeing at the workplace from 5.5 8.8 We operate in a dynamic industry and in 2019 the pace for NENT Group. We call it 'the BEAT': Bravery, Equality, 76% in 2019 to 78% in 2021 in the Engageof change for our people was particularly high. During Appreciation and Trust. We also rolled out values training ment Survey. the year, we completed our split from Modern Times across the company. The high scores in the BEAT Index in Group and moved from a country-based to a functional this year’s Engagement Survey show we are on the right 10.3 operating model. As a result, our most recent annual track with high scores on questions like “do you feel you Target 2019 Status Strategy dimension Engagement Survey, carried out in December 2019 with can be yourself at work” and “do you give positive feed• D evelop culture and values Value a response rate of 81%, shows a slight decline in both the back in your team” (see more info on page 25). training for all employees. creation Engagement Index (from 77% to 76%) and the Team In 2020, we will work even harder to build an inclusive • R aise awareness of travel and workplace security. Better ­E fficiency Index (from 78% to 77%). Nevertheless, these and positive culture. We will launch a new Employer Value business are still high numbers. Our new psychosocial Working Proposition (EVP) while continuing to integrate our values Environ­m ent Index (76%; global benchmark 73%) was also into our daily activities. For example, we will review our Target 2020 positive. Overall, we have both room for improvement talent acquisition and succession planning processes from • P rovide values training for at • Identify challenges and enaleast 80% of all employees. blers for a healthier and safer and a solid foundation on which to build. an equality perspective. We have also recently recruited • Review  talent acquisition and workplace. NENT Group’s first-ever Head of Diversity and Inclusion. succession planning processes from an equality perspective. GRI 103-1 GRI 103-2 GRI 103-3 35 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Developing our people Every year, we conduct training for direct and indirect managers, and each function carries out additional ­t raining for their people. We also operate the one-year Challenger program to reward and acknowledge top talents across the organisation. In 2019, 76% of our people received a performance and career development review. In 2020 we will keep focusing on the implementation of our values building an inclusive and engaging culture. In return we can continue delivering the best experience for current and future audience. Staying safe at work The safety and security of NENT Group's employees and assets is of high importance. For this reason we have a Risk and Security function working closely with all other functions in the organisation to identify potential risks, find ways to mitigate them, train teams and implement processes, systems or insurance policies that protect both the employees and the business. In 2019 we had 5 reported incidents with connection to safety and security and we have taken relevant measures for all of them. In 2020, offering healthy and safe workplaces will continue to be a top priority at NENT Group. We will focus on identifying and acting upon challenges and enablers in this area, and on raising awareness through communication and training. 36 GRI 404-3 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Committing to our conduct We conduct business responsibly and with integrity, and we expect our suppliers and partners to do the same. Keeping information and data relating to our business, ­customers and stakeholders safe is a top priority. We work hard to minimise our environmental footprint and we raise awareness of eco-friendly behaviour across the organisation. Our governing framework Every other year, our employees must complete e-learnings covering our CoC (including human rights, In brief See pages 132–134 for details In 2018, NENT Group established a Code of Conduct (CoC) for our employees along with a Supplier CoC. anti-bribery & corruption, asset/data protection, and Goal 2021 SDG and targets Together with our Group policies and directives, these competition). These e-learnings were rolled out in 2018 • Raise awareness of our Code of Conduct (CoC) and values (including data privacy). documents constitute a framework that defines how and will be rolled out again in 2020. From 2018 to the end •A  ddress and engage with all identified we do (and do not do) business and helps ensure we of 2019, 88% of the employees had done the e-learning. high-risk suppliers to ensure committment 13.3 16.5 do not breach any regulations and live our values: During 2019, we conducted compliance workshops, which to our ethical standards. • R educe total CO2 emissions from business Bravery, Equality, Appreciation and Trust. The frameinter alia included competition and AB&C, for all leadertravel, facilities and energy use by 10% work is based on accepted standards and principles, ship teams. We are planning to launch risk and compli(base year 2019). including those relating to human rights, and it is subance awareness workshops for our new management teams in 2020 and relevant parts of our sales staff will Target 2019 Status Strategy dimension ject to regular reviews and follow-ups. • Evaluate CoC rollout receive targeted ethical sales training. Value ­p rogramme. creation Implementing our framework It is important that our suppliers and business partners • Improve data protection NENT Group operates in a fast-moving industry and conduct business responsibly. We have established routines ­m anagement. Better • S et launch plan for green business we have also carried out a major reorganisation in designed to track that our major suppliers support our awareness week and 2019. In this context, it is even more important to ensure Supplier CoC. We are in the process of reviewing the green initiatives. that our governing framework is implemented and im­p lementation of our Supplier CoC and improving our processes in this area. In 2020, we will identify our highTarget 2020 sustained in every part of the organisation. We have • I ncrease employee • R educe total CO2 emissions evaluated the implementation of the CoC throughout risk suppliers and conduct a detailed follow-up that ­a wareness of CoC. from business travel, facilities the year and have found that 100% of new employees aims to make sure their businesses are aligned with • R aise supplier awareness and energy use by 5% of Supplier CoC. (base year 2019). have signed the Code. our ­S upplier CoC. GRI 102-16 GRI 102-17 GRI 103-1 GRI 103-2 GRI 103-3 GRI 205-2 GRI 205-3 GRI 412-2 37 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting In 2019, NENT had zero incidents of corruption. One whistle­b lower-related matter was reported where an in-depth investigation was initiated. The matter related The Ten Principles of the UN’s Guiding Principles for Business The ILO’s UN Global Compact and Human Rights Core Conventions to a potential conflict of interest and was resolved during the year. We encourage our employees to report any concerns and we aim to raise awareness of our whistleblower ­p rocess in 2020. The OECD Guidelines for The Universal Declaration Laws and ­M ulti­n ational Enterprises of Human Rights regulations Protecting our data and content As part of NENT Group’s new organisational model, we have reviewed and updated our Data Protection Manage­m ent network in order to be better equipped to assess and handle data privacy matters. NENT Group’s Code of Supplier Code FOLLOW UP Data Protection Officer is now supported by a network Conduct of ­Conduct Internal Audit of full-time dedicated Data Protection Managers across Internal audit following up that the business is conducted the organisation. In 2019, we reviewed and improved in a way that aligns with the governing framework. our Data Protection & Security Management system, which inter alia contains information about the personal POLICIES Review of policies data we process within the organisation. Policies are adopted by the Board of Directors and • Anti Bribery • Data Protection • Communication Protecting our content from piracy activities is a priority revised annually. Directives are adopted and revised and ­Corruption • People • Competition for us. Our work managing this risk is structured within our by CEO and CFO. • Sustainability • Risk & Security • Others Information Security department, but also closely tied to Whistleblowing our legal, technical and operational entities. We continuNENT Group encourages employees to raise concerns ously review this risk and take appropriate measures. at the earliest possible stage, and through the usual We also cooperate with specialised external organisareporting lines as appropriate. There is also a possibility tions (such as APAA and NCP). to report anonymously through our Speak up line DIRECTIVES – Complement to CoC and Policies ­c hannels without the risk of retaliation. • Equality and • Global Tax • Whistleblower Diversity • RIsk manage• Others • IT ment NENT Group’s Governing Framework 38 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting off a Green Awareness Week in 2020 throughout all Small efforts make a difference ­m arkets, with the intention of informing, engaging and We want our facilities to be sustainable as well as fun inspiring our teams to contribute proactively to making places to work. In Sweden, our main office is a green buildNENT Group a greener business. We also started an ing, and both the coffee and cleaning products used are Energy Consumption Network focused on reducing CO2 green certified. In Denmark, we use CO2 neutral electricity emissions generated by energy consumption in our faciliand purchase about 80% fruit and vegetables compared ties. When it comes to business travel, we implemented with below 20% meat, all having our CO2 footprint in mind. green travel tips on our intranet that aim to nudge p ­ eople In Norway, we use two electric bicycles for travel to meetinto choosing eco-friendlier travel alternatives, such as ings, while one of our Norwegian NENT ­S tudios offices uses taking the train instead of flying to destinations in the renewable hydropower. The NENT Studios office in StockNordic region. Our travel booking system also recomholm also uses renewable energy. In Finland, the share of mends greener hotels. biogas in our heating supply increased during 2019, while in the UK, we use solar panels, and our electronic equipWe manage our environmental impact ment has a sleep mode, similar to our main Swedish office We measure our carbon footprint from travel, energy where our lighting s­ ystem has sleeping mode. consumption and office materials by applying the Our efforts also cover office waste recycling in Sweden, ­industry-standard Greenhouse Gas Protocol. In 2019, our Norway, Denmark and the UK, and we work on replacing climate impact totalled 7,484 tonnes of CO2e equivalent. all paper cups and plastic cutlery with wooden, metal About 74% of these emissions came from business travel, and porcelain alternatives, which has already been done with air travel representing 63% of our total emissions. in the UK, Denmark and one of our NENT Studios offices in Thinking and acting greener Almost all remaining emissions came from energy conNorway. Our environmental efforts are focused on two areas: sumption in our facilities (20%). changing behaviours by raising awareness, and taking We monitor our carbon footprint for 100% of our oper­ action to reduce CO2 emissions from business travel ations. Our Group Sustain­a bility Policy covers environand energy consumption. We apply the precautionary mental issues and sets out our preventative approach to principle when assessing the environmental and health managing our carbon footprint. Because business travel impact of our operations. is our biggest emission factor, in 2019 we updated our During 2019, we initiated a Green Working Group with draft Group Travel Directive to include more sustainable representatives from across the organisation. The aim travel practices, such as train travel for shorter distances, is to raise environmental awareness and inspire our increased use of video conferencing, and booking direct employees to embrace greener behaviour. We are kicking flights for long-haul destinations. GRI 102-11 GRI 103-1 GRI 103-2 GRI 103-3 39 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Producing quality content We follow responsible sourcing, production and advertising practices, and comply with Ofcom's regulations protecting minors and minorities. We are working to bring down barriers through subtitling and ­dubbing so our content is more easily accessible. A proactive approach to broadcast compliance We require all advertising shown on our channels and In brief See pages 132–134 for details Most of NENT Group’s broadcast licenses are held in the services to follow Ofcom’s rules, and all commercial conUK, where the regulator Ofcom sets out clear rules on tent is approved by our Content Compliance Team prior Goal 2021 SDG and targets programme content, sponsorship, product placement, to broadcast. If necessary, we adjust the content. Our • Improve the family experience on Viaplay by offering safe & trusted fairness and privacy through its Broadcasting Code. team regularly reviews Ofcom’s bulletins detailing ‘in ­d igital experiences. Viewers can file a complaint relating to our linear chanbreach’ material on other services, along with the regula• Increase content accessibility beyond 10.2 12.6 nels or streaming services (including advertising) at any tor’s guidance on how broadcasting rules should be interregulatory requirements. time, either to the regulator or via our websites. We preted. We also work to ensure continued adherence to Target 2019 Status Strategy dimension record details of every complaint received, and the scope regulations through annual training for all relevant inter• Create Editorial G ­ uidelines. Value of complaints covers both original, acquired, and advernal and external staff. In 2019, we received 7 programme • B roadcast content on our creation tising content. content complaints, 5 of which were not upheld, and 2 still channels with audio descriptions (10%) and subtitles (70%). Better In the event of a complaint, Ofcom will request a copy pending at the year end. business of the content and will assess both the specific subject of the complaint and the programme as a whole. For examLiving our values Target 2020 ple, if a viewer complains about violent content in a proWe incorporate the Ofcom Broadcasting Code in our • E stablish kids and parents • Introduce audio descriptions agreements related to content production, and NENT focus groups for all our kids and signed language content gramme, the regulator will also check sponsorships and original productions to ensure to our streaming platforms. product placement in the same programme. This ensures Group’s Code of Conduct is always included in agreeour content is responsible, ments with production companies and forms part of the educational and entertaining. effective monitoring and means we assess all complaints and treat them equally. agenda at every start-up meeting for a new project. We also make our own assessment of the content to All our original productions are screened before ensure our pre-broadcast compliance procedures have broadcast on our linear channels. Our Viaplay team been followed and are fit for purpose. ­f requently consults our Content Compliance Team and 40 GRI 103-1 GRI 103-2 GRI 103-3 GRI 417-2 GRI 417-3 M2 M3 M5 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting we are currently establishing a process to ensure all ­s ubtitles (60%). In 2019, we exceeded these targets on all Viaplay originals are reviewed by the Content Compliance our free-TV channels in Sweden and Denmark, with 18% of Mia’s magic Team. Edits are all reviewed and approved multiple times content including audio descriptions and 95% including playground before a final sign off at each stage of the production. subtitles. We have also introduced sign language captionWe stand up for freedom of expression, privacy and ing to TV3 in Sweden. In 2019, 3% of content on the channel editorial independence, and in 2019 we created editorial included sign language captioning, and 29% included hard guidelines for all NENT Group’s content. In particular, we of hearing subtitling. promote diversity and plurality in our content: more inforTo further improve content accessibility, in 2020 we will mation can be found on page 32. introduce audio descriptions and signed language content onto our on-demand platforms. Also, launching Viaplay in Safe and trusted entertainment for everyone Iceland in the first half of 2020 will allow our Viaplay subWe help our viewers make informed decisions about what scribers in Iceland to enjoy the benefits of the EU Portability to watch. We screen all sensitive content and apply approRegulation. priate scheduling restrictions to protect younger viewers. We provide on-screen warnings if a series or film contains Educating, entertaining and responsible platforms potentially offensive, sexual or violent content. In addition, Kids are one of our main audiences, and we want to offer we do not show adult content on any of our platforms. content that both educates and entertains. popular online concept ‘Little Baby Bum’, in which the lead In 2017, our research found that parents feel safer letting Examples in 2019 include our original kids’ series ‘Fixi in characters explore an imaginary land that contains lessons their children use Viaplay than any other streaming service. Playland’, which mixes animation with virtual reality and about life for the real world. Parents can set the Viaplay kids’ section as a default, conencourages kids to take an interest in technology and join To ensure we tell understandable and relevant stories, trol access to other content via a pin code, and create Fixi for a physical exercise. Fixi is an animated squirrel with we include kids in the creation of our content. In turn, dedicated kids profiles that filter out unsuitable content. a robotic arm; so besides promoting an active lifestyle this process helps kids to analyse, evaluate and critically As we want both the kids and their parents to feel safe and tech knowledge learning, she also visually encourages consume our content. ‘Fixi in Playland’ was developed when consuming our content, we work with responsible viewers to embrace the way they are. Our third season of together with a school class of 8 year-olds, and we have distributors and producers to make sure we do not publish ‘The Great Escape’ which won Sweden’s Kristallen Awards a focus panel that includes 60 kids aged up to 12 years to content that goes against our values. In addition, our Kids for Children’s Programme of 2017, aims to inspire kids to help us assess our kids’ content and product initiatives. We principles provide us with moral guidelines, emotional learn more about maths and chemistry. Moving forward, also use research and surveys to make sure our content insights and guides our work. this series will also focus on climate change and saving the resonates with different age groups. oceans. Another of our kids’ originals, Peppy Pals, comIn 2020, we will expand our annual survey that focuses Making our content accessible bines engaging entertainment with focus on developing on the streaming service requirements of kids and their Ofcom’s regulations require us to broadcast a certain emotional and social intelligence. In 2020, we will premiere parents. We will also establish additional focus groups for amount of content with audio descriptions (10%) and ‘Mia’s Magic Playground’, an animated series based on the our kids’ original content. GRI 103-1 GRI 103-2 GRI 103-3 M4 M6 M7 41 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting The NENT Group share From listing on Nasdaq Stockholm on 28 March, 2019 to year end, our share price increased by 38%, compared to 16% for the OMX Stockholm All Share Index (OMXSPI) and 9% for STOXX Europe Media Index. Share price performance and total return NENT Group’s shares were listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Share price development 28 March – 31 December 2019 Large Cap list under the symbols ‘NENT A’ and ‘NENT B’ on 28 March 2019. The share price at the end of the first day SEK of trading was SEK 219.4 for the B share. The price of NENT 350 Group’s B share increased by 38% from the listing and ended the year at SEK 302.8, corresponding to a market capitalisation of SEK 20.4 billion. The parent company 300 paid an ordinary dividend of SEK 6.50 per share to shareholders in 2019, resulting in a total shareholder return of 41% since listing. The corresponding performance for the 250 OMX Stockholm Return Index (OMXGI) was 20% for the same period. 200 Dividend and dividend policy The Board of Directors is not proposing the payment of a cash dividend for 2019. This is due to the uncertainty caused by the spread of the Coronavirus, and its impact 150 on the operating performance and financial position of Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec the Company. NENT B OMX Stockholm All Share Index STOXX Europe Media Index NENT Group's dividend policy to distribute an annual cash dividend of between 30% and 50% of adjusted net profit remains unchanged for future years. 42 GRI 102-5 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Shares and share capital The Group’s share capital amounted to SEK 135m at the end of the year. Share information The total number of issued shares at the end of 2019 Marketplace Nasdaq ­S tockholm, Large Cap segment was 67,342,244, comprising 545,662 Class A shares Ticker NENT A, NENT B and 66,796,582 Class B shares. The quota value is SEK ISIN code (A share) SE0012324226 2.00 per share. ISIN code (B share) SE0012116390 Market cap as of 31 December 2019 20.4 SEK bn Class A Class B shares shares Total Share price as of 31 December 2019 303 SEK Share price development Issued shares as of 31 December 2019 545,662 66,796,582 67,342,244 28 March–31 December 2019 38% Highest closing price during the year 308 SEK Voting rights Lowest closing price during the year 214 SEK Each Class A share is entitled to 10 voting rights. Each Class B share is entitled to one voting right. Ownership structure The total number of shareholders according to the share register held by Euroclear Sweden AB (Swedish Analysts covering NENT Group Securities Centre) was 60,270 at the end of 2019. The Company Name E-mail shares held by the 10 largest shareholders corresponded to approximately 47% of the share capital and 45% of Carnegie Mikael Laséen mikael.laseen@carnegie.se the voting rights. Swedish institutions and mutual funds Citi Thomas Singlehurst thomas.singlehurst@citi.com owned approximately 30% of the share capital, inter­ DNB Martin Arnell martin.arnell@dnb.se national investors owned approximately 50% and Handelsbanken Fredrik Olsson frol16@handelsbanken.se ­Swedish ­p rivate investors owned approximately 11%. Kepler Cheuvreux Stefan Billing sbilling@keplercheuvreux.com Other/­a nonymous ownership was 9%. Morgan Stanley Omar Sheikh omar.sheikh@morganstanley.com Nordea Erik Lindholm-Röjestål erik.lindholm-rojestal@nordea.com SEB Johanna Ahlqvist johanna.ahlqvist@seb.se 43 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Share buy-backs Share related long-term incentive plans Reclassifications The 2019 Annual General Meeting resolved to authorise If all share awards granted to senior executives and key According to the Articles of Association, owners of Class A the Board to (i) issue at most 500,000 own Class C shares employees as of 31 December 2019 were exercised and shares are entitled to conversion to Class B shares. In 2019, and (ii) to resolve to repurchase own Class C shares. Class all shares awarded, the outstanding shares of the Comno Class A shares were converted to Class B shares. More C shares held by the company should be convertible to pany would increase by 332,902 Class B shares and be information can be found in the Articles of Association on B-shares, when so decided by the Board, in order to carry equivalent to a dilution of 0.49% of the capital and 0.46% www.nentgroup.com. out the resolutions regarding the delivery of shares to of the related voting rights as at the end of 2019. Further participants in the LTIP 2019. The Board resolved to issue details about the programmes can be found in note 7. and repurchase 500,000 class C shares after the reportOutstanding share rights granted ing period. There were no Class C shares issued in 2019. LTIP 2019 332,902 Shareholders as of 31 December 2019 Shareholders by geography Name Class A Shares Class B Shares Total Capital Votes Norges Bank 6,284,117 6,284,117 9.3% 8.7% Sweden, 42% Swedbank Robur Funds 5,168,112 5,168,112 7.7% 7.2% United States, 16% Nordea Funds 4,511,659 4,511,659 6.7% 6.2% United Kingdom, 15% TimesSquare Capital Management 3,286,302 3,286,302 4.9% 4.5% Norway, 11% Marathon Asset Management 2,671,473 2,671,473 4.0% 3.7% Others, 10% Handelsbanken Funds 2,190,000 2,190,000 3.3% 3.0% Anonymous Lannebo Funds 1,888,285 1,888,285 2.8% 2.6% ownership, 6% Vanguard 1,873,955 1,873,955 2.8% 2.6% Skandia Life 159,315 1,621,036 1,780,351 2.6% 4.4% Lansdowne Partners 1,676,085 1,676,085 2.5% 2.3% Other 386,347 35,625,558 36,011,905 53.5% 54.7% Total outstanding shares 545,662 66,796,582 67,342,244 100% 100% Source: Euroclear and Modular Finance. The table may reflect aggregate shareholdings of each shareholder. 44 Governance report Content Governance and responsibility 46 Internal control report 50 Board of Directors 51 Group Executive management 53 Risks and risk management 55 Auditor’s report on the corporate governance statement 58 45 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Governance and responsibility Corporate Governance share buy-backs, please refer to the Section “The NENT Committee hold approximately 18 percent of the total Corporate Governance in Nordic Entertainment Group Group share” on pages 42–44. voting rights in NENT Group. The members of the NominaAB (“NENT Group”) is based on Swedish legislation, tion Committee appointed Erik Durhan as Committee the Rulebook for Issuer’s on Nasdaq Stockholm and the The Nomination Committee Chairman at their first meeting. ­Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the “Code”), The Nomination Committee consists of representatives of Information about how shareholders can submit propossee www.corporategovernanceboard.se. During 2019, some of NENT Group’s largest shareholders, and its als to the Nomination Committee has been published on NENT Group has been compliant with the Code and responsibilities include: https://www.nentgroup.com/about/corporate-governance/ the Rule Book for Issuers on Nasdaq Stockholm and the •• To evaluate the Board of Directors’ work and composition nomination-committee, where the Nomination Committee’s generally accepted principles in the securities market. ••To submit proposals to the Annual General Meeting motivated statement re­g ard­ing its proposal to the Annual regarding the election of the Board of Directors and the General Meeting and a brief presentation of its work will Shareholders Chairman of the Board also be published well in advance of the Annual General For information about the ownership structure, share •• To prepare proposals regarding the election of Auditors Meeting on 19 May 2020. capital and the NENT Group share, please refer to the in cooperation with the Audit Committee (when approIn its work, the Nomination Committee applies Section Section “The NENT Group share” on pages 42–44. priate) III, 4.1 of the Swedish Corporate Governance Code as its Information regularly provided to shareholders includes ••To prepare proposals regarding the fees to be paid to diversity policy. Accordingly, the Nomination Committee interim reports and full year reports, Annual Reports and the Board of Directors and to the Company’s Auditors gives particular consideration to the importance of an press releases on significant events occurring during the ••To prepare proposals for the Chairman of the Annual increased diversity on the Board, including gender, age year. All reports, press releases and other information General Meeting and nationality, as well as depth of experiences, profescan be found at www.nentgroup.com. ••To prepare proposals for the administration and order sional backgrounds and business disciplines. Further of appointment of the Nomination Committee for the ­information may be found in the Nomination Committee’s Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting motivated statement regarding the proposal for the The Swedish Companies Act (2005:551) (the “Swedish Board which was given in connection with the 2019 Companies Act”) and the Articles of Association deterIn accordance with the resolution of the 2019 Annual Annual General Meeting. mine how the notice to the Annual General Meeting and General Meeting of NENT Group shareholders, the Chairextraordinary general meetings shall occur, and who man of the NENT Group Board of Directors has convened The Board of Directors has the right to participate in and vote at the meeting. a Nomination Committee to prepare proposals for the Board members are elected at the Annual General There are no restrictions on the number of votes each 2020 Annual General Meeting. Meeting for a period ending at the close of the next shareholder may cast at the general meeting. The Nomination Committee comprises David Chance, Annual General Meeting. The Articles of Association Class A shares entitle to ten votes, whereas Class B Chairman of the NENT Group Board of Directors; Erik ­contains no restrictions pertaining to the eligibility of shares entitle to one vote. Distance participation and ­D urhan, appointed by Nordea Funds;Joachim Spetz, Board members. According to the Articles of Association, ­voting at the general meeting is not possible. appointed by Swedbank Robur Funds; and Oskar Börjesthe number of Board members can be no less than three For information on authorisations approved by the son, appointed by Skandia Life. The three shareholders and no more than nine members as elected at the Annual General Meeting for the Board to resolve on who have appointed representatives to the Nomination Annual General Meeting. 46 GRI 102-24 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting The Board of Directors of Nordic Entertainment Group ­ doption of the financial statements. Reports from the a Evaluation of the Board of Directors AB has during the year comprised six Non-Executive Audit and Remuneration Committees, as well as reports and the Chief Executive Officer Directors. The members of the Board of Directors were on internal control and financing activities are also reguThe Board complies with an annual performance review David Chance, Simon Duffy, Natalie Tydeman, Kristina larly addressed. The Chief Executive Officer presents matprocess to assess how well the Board, its committees and Schauman, Anders Borg, and Henrik Clausen, who were ters for discussion at the meetings, and the Company’s processes are functioning and how they might be all elected at NENT Group’s first Annual General Meeting Chief Financial Officer and other members of manageimproved. in 2019. In 2019, the Board of NENT Group complied with ment also participate and present specific matters. The The review focus on whether the Board is adding value the Code’s provision that the majority of members shall Group General Counsel is the Board secretary. to the organisation and on enhancing its performance be independent in relation to the company and its The attendance of Board members at Board and comthrough examination of Board structure and composition, manage­m ent, and that at least two of them also shall mittee meetings is presented in the table on page 52. its operation and effectiveness, and its role in monitoring be independent in relation to the company’s major Important issues addressed during the year include strathe execution of agreed strategies. The survey also in­ ­s hareholders (i.e. those with a holding exceeding 10%). tegic issues, with a particular focus on structural changes cludes an individual performance review. Answer options Biographical information on each Board member is (such as the completion of the distribution of shares and include both a quantitative ranking system as well as an ­p rovided on pages 51–52. the listing of Nordic Entertainment Group on Nasdaq Stockopportunity to provide any relevant comments, particuholm, the decision to create a joint venture between Viasat larly in relation to ideas for improvement. At the Q4 Board Responsibilities and Duties of Consumer and Canal Digital, and the implementation of Meeting the Chairman provides the full Board with a the Board of D ­ irectors NENT Group’s new organisation and operating model). report of the outcome of the Board evaluation process. NENT Group’s Board of Directors is responsible for the A summary is also presented by the Chairman and disoverall strategy of the Group and for organising its adminEnsuring Quality in Financial Reporting cussed with the Nomination Committee. istration in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act. The reporting instructions approved annually by the In addition, a more extensive Board evaluation will The Board’s work and delegation procedures, instrucBoard include detailed instructions on the type of financial be undertaken either by an independent Board member tions for the Chief Executive Officer, and reporting instrucreports and similar information which are to be submitted or an external consultant at least every three years. tions are updated and approved at least annually. to the Board. In addition to the interim reports, the yearNENT Group is planning to carry out an extensive board A Remuneration Committee and an Audit Committee end and the annual report, the Board reviews and evaluevaluation in the year 2020. have been established within the Board. These committees ates comprehensive financial information regarding the are preparatory bodies of the Board and do not reduce Group as a whole and the entities within the Group. Remuneration Committee the Board’s overall responsibility for the governance of The Board also reviews, primarily through the Audit During the year, the Remuneration Committee comprised the Company and decisions taken. Committee, the most important accounting principles Natalie Tydeman as Chairman, David Chance, and Henrik applied by the Group in financial reporting, as well as major Clausen. The Remuneration Committee’s assignments The work of the Board changes in these principles. The tasks of the Audit Committee are stipulated in Section III, 9.1 of the Code, and comprise During the year, the Board of Directors held fourteen also include reviewing reports regarding internal control issues concerning salaries, pension terms and conditions, Board meetings. Prior to each ordinary Board meeting, and financial reporting processes, as well as internal audit incentive programs and other conditions of employment the members receive a written agenda, based on the reports submitted by the Group’s internal audit function. The for the senior executives. The guidelines applied by the Board’s established rules of procedure, and a complete Group’s external auditors report to the Board as necessary. Group in 2019 are presented in note 7 for the Group. set of documents for information and decision-making. The external auditor also attends the meetings of the Audit ­M inutes are kept at the Remuneration Committee’s meetRecurring items include the company’s financial results Committee. Minutes are taken at all meetings and are ings and are reported to the Board at its next meeting. and position, the market situation, investments and made available to all Board members and to the auditor. GRI 102-22 GRI 102-25 47 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Audit Committee and was previously MTG’s external auditor since 1997. including shareholding as of 31 December 2019, on each During the year, the Audit Committee comprised Simon Joakim Thilstedt, Authorised Public Accountant, has been member of the Group Executive Management is provided Duffy as Chairman, Kristina Schauman and Anders Borg. responsible for the audit on behalf of KPMG of NENT Group on pages 53–54. The Audit Committee’s assignments are stipulated in since the listing and for MTG since December 2013. Audit Chapter 8, Section 49b of the Swedish Companies Act. assignments have involved the examination of the Annual Chief Executive Officer The Audit Committee’s tasks include monitoring NENT Report and financial accounting, the administration by The CEO is responsible for the ongoing management of Group financial reporting and the efficiency of NENT the Board and the CEO, other tasks related to the duties the Company in accordance with the instructions estabGroup internal controls and internal audits, as well as of a company auditor, and consultation or other services lished by the Board. main­taining frequent contacts with the external and interthat may result from observations noted during such In consultation with the Chairman of the Board, the CEO nal auditors. The Audit Committee’s work primarily focuses examination or the implementation of such other tasks. prepares the information and documentation required on the quality and accuracy of the Group’s financial All other tasks are defined as other assignments. as a basis for the work of the Board and in order to enable accounting and the accompanying reporting, as well as The auditor reports its findings to the shareholders by Board members to make well-informed decisions. The CEO the internal financial controls within NENT Group. Furthermeans of the auditors’ report, which is presented to the is supported by the Executive Management team. more, the Audit Committee evaluates the auditors’ work, Annual General Meeting. In addition, the auditors’ report The Board evaluates the performance of the CEO on a qualifications and independence. The Audit Committee detailed findings at each of the ordinary meetings of the regular basis. The Board also holds a meeting to evaluate monitors the development of relevant accounting policies Audit Committee and to the full Board as necessary. the CEO’s performance, without the attendance of the and requirements, discusses other significant issues conKPMG provided certain additional services in 2019. These CEO or any other member of management. The CEO nected with NENT Group financial reporting and reports services comprised work in relation to the split of MTG and and the Executive Management, supported by the various its observations to the Board. Minutes are kept at the Audit Nordic Entertainment Group, tax compliance work, advice employee functions, are responsible for the adherence Committee’s meetings and are reported to the Board at on accounting issues, and advice on processes and internal to the Group’s overall strategy, financial and business conits next meeting. controls and other assignments of a similar kind and closely trol, financing, capital structure, risk management and related to the auditing process. For more detailed informaacquisitions. Among other tasks, this includes preparation Remuneration of Board Members tion concerning the auditors’ fees, see note 27. of financial reports information to and communication The remuneration to the Board members for Board work, with the stock market. NENT Group has established a and work in the committees of the Board, is proposed by Pre-approval of Policies and Procedures for Steering Document Framework consisting of Codes of the Nomination Committee and approved by the Annual Non-audit related Services Conduct, Group policies, and directives, expressing our General Meeting. The Nomination Committee proposal is In order to ensure the auditor’s independence, the Audit values and commitment to conduct business in full complibased on benchmarking of peer group company compenCommittee has established pre-approval policies and ance with laws and regulations, international initiatives sation and company size. Information on the remuneration procedures for non-audit related services to be performed and standards. to Board members is provided in note 7. Board members by the external auditor. The policy was approved in do not participate in the Group’s incentive plans. November 2019 by the Audit Committee. External Auditors Executive Management KPMG was elected as NENT Group’s auditor for the finanAt year-end of 2019, the members of the Executive cial year 2019 for a term-of-office ending at the end of ­M anagement in NENT Group included Chief Executive the 2020 Annual General Meeting. KPMG was chosen as Officer Anders Jensen, Chief Financial Officer Gabriel the Group’s external auditor in connection with the listing Catrina and six other members. Biographical information, 48 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Sustainability Governance relevant goals and targets. In addition, working groups Proposal for 2020 executive NENT Group’s sustainability work is a central part of the have been established for driving improvement across remuneration ­g uidelines company’s business and governance. It is based upon our the business and markets. Progress in the sustainability The Board’s proposed guidelines for determining remuner­ purpose, values, culture and business strategy and includes work is reported as an integrated part of the Annual ation to the CEO and other members of Group Executive our sustainability strategy, policy framework and initiaand Sustainability Report 2019. Management (the “GEM members”) can be found in the tives. Reporting is conducted in accordance with the core Administration report on pages 64–66. level of the GRI standards, and is reviewed and approved Executive remuneration by the Board of Directors. Responsibility for the overarchThe existing guidelines for remuneration to senior execuing sustainability strategy, goals, actions and follow-up tives approved at the 2019 Annual General Meeting, as rests with the Head of Sustainability and the Board of well as information regarding the application of, and the Directors. The Board monitors the work through regular deviations from, the existing guidelines and remuneration updates from the Head of Sustainability (at least twice for the senior executives paid out during 2019, can be a year), which also includes information on sustainability found in note 7 for the Group. Senior executives covered trends, risks and developments. For integrated work, by these guidelines include the members of Group Executhe functions and individual entities in the group have tive Management. operational responsibility for implementing and meeting Governance structure Nomination Committee Annual General Board of Chief Executive Executive Shareholders Meeting Directors Officer Management External Remuneration Audit Internal Auditors Committee Committee Auditors GRI 102-18 GRI 102-20 GRI 102-26 GRI 102-27 GRI 102-31 GRI 102-32 GRI 102-35 GRI 102-36 49 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Internal control report The processes for internal control, risk assessment, control activities, information and communication, and monitoring regarding the financial reporting are designed to ensure reliable overall financial reporting and external financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, applicable laws and regulations and other requirements for listed companies on Nasdaq Stockholm. This process involves the Board, Executive ­Management and other personnel. Control environment Board of Directors and by the Audit Committee, and the employees identified as significant. Guidelines for The Board has specified a set of instructions and working include both the risk of losing assets as well as irregulariexternal communication ensure that the Company processes regarding the roles and responsibilities of the ties and fraud. The process involves all Group companies, applies the highest standards for providing accurate Chief Executive Officer and the Board committees. The segments and business units. Overall coordination is coninformation to the capital markets. Board also has a number of established basic guidelines, ducted centrally by the Group’s Risk Management funcwhich are important for its work on internal control activition. In addition, a Risk Committee comprising Group top Follow-up ties. This includes monitoring performance against plans management representatives is tasked with providing The Board of Directors regularly evaluates the informaand prior years. The Audit Committee assists the Board in a group-wide overview and a basis for decision-making tion provided by the Executive Management and the overseeing various issues such as monitoring internal audit regarding risk management. Risk management is perAudit Committee. The Board receives regular updates and establishing accounting policies applied by the formed through an appropriate balance between preof the Group’s development between the meetings. The Group. ventive and risk-reducing measures. The most important Group’s financial position, strategies and investments are The responsibility for maintaining an effective control aspects are regulation compliance, license requirements, discussed at every Board meeting. The Audit Committee environment and internal control over financial reporting legal change, information and IT security, political and reviews the quarterly reports prior to publication. The is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer. Other Execueconomic risks. The respective managers are in charge Audit Committee is also responsible for following up on tive Managers at various levels have respective responsiof risk management in the Group’s companies, segments internal control activities. This work includes ensuring that bilities. The Executive Management regularly reports to and business units. The responsibility encompasses the day-­ measures are taken to deal with any inaccuracy and the Board according to established routines and in addito-day work focused on operational and other relevant ­f ollowing up suggestions for actions emerging from the tion to the Audit Committee’s reports. Defined responsi­ risks, and on leading risk management activities in their internal and external audits. bilities, instructions, guidelines, manuals and policies own areas of responsibility. The managers are supported The Company has an independent internal audit functogether with laws and regulations form the control by central Group functions. tion responsible for the evaluation of risk management environ­m ent. All employees are accountable for com­ and internal control activities. This work includes scrutinispliance with these guidelines. Information and communication ing the application of established routines and guidelines. Guidelines used in the Company’s financial reporting The internal audit function plans its work in cooperation Risk assessment and control activities are updated and communicated to the employees conwith the Audit Committee and reports the result of its The Company has prepared a model for assessing risks cerned on an ongoing basis. There are formal as well as reviews to the Audit Committee. The external auditors in all segments in which a number of items are identified informal information channels to the Executive Managereport to the Audit Committee at each ordinary meeting and analysed. These risks are reviewed regularly by the ment and to the Board of Directors for information from of the Committee. 50 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Board of Directors David Chance Natalie Tydeman Chairman of the Board Non-Executive Director American and British, born 1957. Elected September 2018 British, born 1971. Elected July 2018 David was Deputy Managing Director of the BSkyB Group between Natalie is a private equity investor at v t partners. She was previously a 1993 and 1998, and has also served as a Non-­E xecutive Director of ITV Senior Partner at GMT Communications Partners. Natalie helped launch plc and O2 plc. David is also Chairman of Modern Times Group MTG AB, Excite in Europe, built Discovery Communications’ European internet a Non-Executive Director of PCCW Limited (Hong Kong) and Chairman of operations, was Managing Director of Fox Kids Europe’s Online & Inter­ its NOW TV media group. David has a BA in ­P sychology, BSc in Industrial active division and was Senior Vice President at Fremantle Media. Natalie Relations and an MBA from the ­U niversity of North Carolina. is also a Non-Executive Director of Modern Times Group MTG AB and a Trustee of Nesta, where she chairs the Venture Investment Committee and Nesta Investment • Member of the Remuneration Committee. Manage­m ent. Natalie is a graduate of the University of Oxford and Harvard Business School. • Independent of the Company and management and ­independent of major shareholders. Direct or related person ownership: 3,565 Class B shares • Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. • Independent of the Company and management and ­independent of the major shareholders. Direct or related person ownership: 0 Class B shares Anders Borg Simon Duffy Non-Executive Director Non-Executive ­D irector Swedish, born 1968. Elected September 2018 British, born 1949. Elected July 2018 Anders was Sweden’s Minister of Finance from 2006 to 2014. Anders is Simon has been Executive Chairman of Tradus plc and Executive also Chairman of Sehlhall Fastigheter AB’s Board of Directors and a Vice-Chairman of ntl:Telewest, having joined ntl in 2003 as CEO. Simon member of the Board of Directors of Stena International, Rud-Pedersen has also served as CFO of Orange SA, CEO of End2End AS, and CEO Group, as well as senior advisor to IPsoft, Amundi, Kinnevik, Nordic Capital and Deputy Chairman of WorldOnline International BV, and has held and East Capital. Anders has served on the Boards of a number of com­senior positions at EMI Group plc and Guinness plc. Simon has also been panies in the telecommunication, fintech and public administration secChairman of Bwinparty digital entertainment plc and Mblox Inc and tors. Anders has previously worked for Citigroup, ABN AMRO, SEB, Alfred Berg, Tele2 and Millicom a Non-­E xecutive Director of Millicom International Cellular and Avito AB. Simon is Non-Executive and has been an active member of the World Economic Forum for many years. Anders’ educaChairman of YouView TV Ltd and Telit Communications Plc,, as well as a Non-Executive Director of tional background is in economics, economic history, political science and philosophy from the Wizz Air Holdings Plc and Modern Times Group MTG AB. Simon holds a Masters from the University ­u niversities of Stockholm and Uppsala. of Oxford and an MBA from Harvard Business School. • Member of the Audit Committee. • Chairman of the Audit Committee. • Independent of the Company and management and ­independent of the major shareholders. • Independent of the Company and management and independent of the major shareholders. Direct or related person ownership: 5,238 Class B shares Direct or related person ownership: 1,750 Class B shares GRI 102-23 51 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Kristina Schauman Henrik Clausen Non-Executive ­D irector Non-Executive Director Swedish, born 1965. Elected September 2018 Danish, born 1963. Elected September 2018, resigned February 2020 Kristina is a partner and owner of Calea AB and was a Board member Henrik has been President & CEO of Bang Olufsen, EVP of Strategy of Apoteket AB from 2009–2018, including a period as acting CEO & Digital for ­Telenor Group, CEO of Malaysia listed Digi, CEO of and CFO. Kristina previously served as CFO of Carnegie Investment Bank ­Tele­n or Denmark and CEO of Cybercity. Henrik previously worked AB and OMX AB, and held finance roles at Investor AB, ABB and Stora at Aarsø Nielsen & Partners, A.T. Kearney and Accenture. He is also Finance. Kristina is a Board member of Coor Service Management a member of the Board of Directors of the Technical University of ­H olding AB, BillerudKorsnäs AB, ÅF Pöyry AB, BEWiSynbra Group AB and Denmark. Henrik holds a Masters in Electrical Engineering from the Diaverum AB. Kristina holds a degree in Business Administration and Economics from Stockholm Technical University of Denmark, a degree in International Trade from Copenhagen Business School of Economics. School and an MBA from INSEAD. • Member of the Audit Committee. • Member of the Remuneration Committee.until resignation. • Independent of the Company and management and ­independent of the major shareholders. • Independent of the Company and management and ­independent of the major shareholders. Direct or related person ownership: 3,000 Class B shares Direct or related person ownership: 1,330 Class B shares Board of Directors and attendance at Board and Committee meetings 2019 Board meeting Audit Committee Remuneration Independent of­ Independent of company Board of Directors ­a ttendance1) ­a ttendance2) ­Committee attendance3) major ­s hareholders and its management David Chance 14/14 – 5/5 Yes Yes Simon Duffy 14/14 6/6 – Yes Yes Anders Borg 14/14 5/6 – Yes Yes Henrik Clausen 12/14 – 4/5 Yes Yes Natalie Tydeman 12/14 – 5/5 Yes Yes Kristina Schauman 13/14 6/6 – Yes Yes 1) The total number of meetings during 2019 were fourteen, of which seven were held prior to the Annual General Meeting held on 22 May 2019 and seven were held following the 2019 Annual General Meeting. 2) The total number of Audit Committee meetings during 2019 were six, of which two were held prior to the Annual General Meeting held on 22 May 2019 and four were held following the 2019 Annual General Meeting. 3) The total number of Remuneration Committee meetings during 2019 were five, of which two were held prior to the Annual General Meeting held on 22 May 2019 and three were held following the 2019 Annual General Meeting. All shareholdings reported as per 31 December 2019. 52 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Group Executive management Anders Jensen Gabriel Catrina President & CEO EVP & Chief Financial Officer and Head of Strategy & M&A Swedish, born 1969 Argentinian, born 1974 Anders was appointed President and CEO on 23 March 2018. He was Gabriel was appointed CFO on 29 May 2018, a role he combines with previously EVP & CEO of Nordic Entertainment at MTG, having joined his position as EVP, Head of Strategy & M&A. He joined MTG in 2013 and the company in 2014. His earlier roles include Senior EVP and CEO of was ­p reviously Chief Strategy Officer. His earlier roles include Head of the consumer division at TDC Group; CEO of ­Telenor Hungary; CEO Booz & Company’s Media, Communic­a tions and Technology Practice of Grameenphone in Bangladesh; and Chief Marketing Officer of in the Nordic region; CFO and COO of Educ.ar; and VP of ­B usiness ­Vodafone/Telenor in ­Sweden. Anders is a board member of the ­D evelopment, Europe & Latin America, for TCS. Gabriel has an MBA Los Angeles-based studio Picture­s tart. from Stockholm School of Economics and an MSc in Business AdministraDirect or related person ownership: 31,507 Class B shares tion from UCC in Argentina. Direct or related person ownership: 11,203 Class B shares Filippa Wallestam Kaj af Kleen EVP & Chief Content Officer EVP & Chief Technology & Product Officer Swedish, born 1983 Swedish, born 1982 Filippa was appointed EVP and Chief Content Officer on 1 October 2019. Kaj was appointed EVP and Chief Technology & Product Officer on Prior to that, Filippa was EVP and CEO of NENT Group Sweden. Filippa 1 October 2019. His previous positions include SVP and Group Chief joined MTG in June 2014 as Head of Strategy for free-TV and radio in Techno­logy & Product Officer and CTO of Viaplay. Kaj joined the Sweden, Norway and Denmark. She previously worked at Boston Con­company as a Management Trainee in 2007 and he is a board sulting Group in London and New York, and at Daily Mail General Trust. ­m ember of Soundation. Kaj holds a Masters in Industrial Engineering Filippa holds an MSc in Economics and Business Administration from from Luleå ­U niversity of Technology and an MBA from the University Stockholm School of Economics. of Oxford. Direct or related person ownership: 3,121 Class B shares Direct or related person ownership: 4,009 Class B shares 53 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Kim Poder Matthew Hooper EVP & Chief Commercial Officer EVP & Chief Corporate Affairs Officer Danish, born 1968 British, born 1970 Kim was appointed EVP and Chief Commercial Officer on 1 October 2019. Matthew was appointed EVP and Chief Corporate Affairs Officer on Prior to that, Kim was EVP and Group Chief Commercial Officer and CEO 1 October 2019. He was previously EVP and Group Head of Corporate of NENT Group Denmark. Kim joined MTG in 1999 and has held positions Affairs and CEO of NENT Group UK. Before that, he served as EVP and including CEO of Viasat Denmark and Finland, CEO of TV3 ‑Denmark and Head of Corporate Communications at MTG. Prior to joining MTG in 2011, CEO of MTG Denmark. Kim was previously Media Director at Omnicom ­M atthew was a co-­founder and Managing Partner of Shared Value Media Direction and a Media Analyst at Gallup. He holds a Masters in ­L imited, and a Board Director of Shandwick ­Consultants Limited. Economics and Business Administration from Copenhagen Business School. ­M atthew is a Masters graduate of the University of Oxford. Direct or related person ownership: 12,126 Class B shares Direct or related person ownership: 20,467 Class B shares Mia Suazo Eriksson Sahar Kupersmidt EVP & Chief Marketing Officer EVP & Chief People & Culture Officer Swedish, born 1977 Swedish, born 1977 Mia was appointed EVP and Chief Marketing Officer on 1 October 2019. Sahar was appointed EVP and Chief People & Culture Officer on She was previously VP of Marketing & Communications at NENT Group 1 ­O ctober 2019. She joined MTG in 2007 and has held several leadership Sweden. Before joining MTG in 2015, Mia spent 14 years in New York roles including SVP and Head of Nordic DTH TV. She was a member of where she held a range of marketing, production and creative roles Viasat Sweden’s leadership team from 2012–2018 and MTG Sweden’s at VIACOM and studied International Marketing at Pace University. leadership team from 2015–2018. Sahar is the sponsor of NENT Group’s Direct or related person ownership: 68 Class B shares Challengers ­talent program and in 2018 was named Female Role Model of the Year at Sweden’s ­Telekomgala industry awards. Direct or related person ownership: 1,078 Class B shares All shareholdings reported as per 31 December 2019. Other members of Group Executive Management during 2019 From 1 October, NENT Group moved to a new operating model and the new set-up is based on specialities that operate across the Group in areas such as people, sales, content, marketing and technology. The Executive Management team was reduced from 15 to eight members. The following people were members of General Executive Management during 2019 but were not part of the Group Executive Management at the year-end: Morten Mogensen, Jakob Mejlhede Andersen, Kim Mikkelsen, Jonas Gustafsson, Mathias Norrback, Alexander Bastin, Jennie Jacobs, Susan Gustafsson, and Vegard Klubbenes Drogseth. 54 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Risks and risk management Competitive risks on a 16–36-­m onth forward basis in order to reduce the Market (the “DSM”) strategy. These include the revised Competition for viewers, subscribers, advertising and disimpact of short-term currency transaction effects on Copyright Directive 2018, the revised Audiovisual Media tribution is intense from broadcasters, cable and broadthe Group’s cost base. The Group’s equity is not hedged. Services Directive 2018, the Online Broadcasters’ Directive band networks, satellite and terrestrial platforms, online 2019 and the Geoblocking Regulation 2018. The impact and mobile operators, movie studios and independent Tax related risks of these initiatives on the Group’s business activities is content producers and distributors, video gaming sites NENT Group operates through subsidiaries resident in dif­d iscussed in further detail below. and other media, as well as pirated content. The Compaferent jurisdictions. The business is conducted in accord•• In May 2016, as part of the DSM Strategy, the Commission ny’s ability to compete successfully is dependent on a ance with NENT Group’s understanding or interpretation published a proposal to amend certain provisions of the number of factors, including the ability to adapt to new of applicable tax laws, tax treaties, other tax regulations Audiovisual Media Services Directive to reflect market, technologies and product innovations, to achieve wideand requirements from the tax authorities concerned. consumer and technological changes in the 10 years spread distribution, and to develop quality content and Amended laws, agreements and other regulations may since the Directive was last updated. The Directive was user communities in a sustainable manner. The Company affect the tax position of the Group as well as if the tax finalised in May 2018 and will come into force in October currently depends on a number of third-party network authorities disagree with the Group’s interpretation of 2020. The new Directive is not likely to pose any significant operators for the distribution of programming, which existing tax rules. risk on the Group’s business activities. represents a significant proportion of its revenues. ••In September 2016, as part of the DSM Strategy, the NENT Group is also increasingly reliant on a wide variRegulatory risks Commission published a proposal for a Regulation on ety of technological platforms and could therefore face The Group’s businesses are regulated in many different the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable the risk of new market entrants, as well as new ways of jurisdictions. The regimes that regulate the Group’s business to certain online transmissions of broadcasting organidistributing content. This could mean significant changes include both European Union and national laws and regusations. The Proposal extends certain principles of the for the entertainment industry and could potentially lations related to broadcasting, telecommunications, com1993 Satellite and Cable Directive to the online environcause disruption to established contracts and negotiation petition (antitrust) and taxation. Changes in such laws and ment. The Proposal was renamed the “Online Content structures, as well as to business practices, technological regulations, particularly in relation to licensing requirements, Directive” and was finalised by the EU institutions in standards for distribution of content, and ways in which access requirements, programming transmission and spec­February 2019. The Directive could pose a risk to the advertising is traded and sold in the online environment. trum specifications, consumer protection, taxation or other Group’s business in its current form, especially provisions The increasing shift towards online viewing and platforms aspects of the Group’s business, or those of any of its comrelating to joint liability for “direct injection” transmission could also potentially make the Group a target for cyber-­ petitors, could have a materially adverse effect on the which could result in higher levels of music royalties attacks, intrusions, disruptions or denials of service. Group’s business, financial condition or operational results. being paid. Current potential changes in EU law that may have •• On 14 September 2016, the Commission published its Economic and political risks an adverse impact on the Group’s business include the ­p roposal for a Directive on copyright in the Digital Single Substantial foreign exchange rate movements can cause following: Market. This Proposal aims at modernising the copyright impacts on the Group’s income statements, financial •• During the last European Commission’s (the “Commission”) framework dating back to 2001 by allowing wider online ­p osition and cash flows. NENT Group hedges the main mandate from 2015–2019, several legislative initiatives availability of content across the EU, adapting exceptions part of its US dollar denominated contracted outflow were passed as part of the Commission’s Digital Single and limitations to the digital world, and achieving a well-­ 55 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting functioning DSM. Article 17 of the Directive proposes to period. In December 2018, the Group’s Board approved risks. The Group’s financial policy is subject to review and tackle the “investment or value gap” by making online the Group’s Brexit Contingency Plan, which will see the approval by the Board of Directors and constitutes a content sharing service providers liable for copyright Group applying for broadcasting licences in Sweden framework of guidelines and rules for financial risk manprotected content uploaded illegally by its users. Once whilst maintaining its UK operations as they currently agement and financial activities in general. The Group’s implemented, this Article will be positive for the Group’s are today. financial risks are continuously evaluated and monitored business activities as it will strengthen the Group’s content •• On 3 December 2018, the Commission’s Geo-blocking to ensure compliance with the Group’s financial policy. protection enforcement. The new Copyright Directive Regulation came into force and put an end to geoThe exposures are described in note 22. also includes provisions that improve remuneration and graphically based restrictions which would undermine transparency for authors and performers. These pose online shopping and cross-border sales in the Digital Foreign exchange risk a small risk to the Group’s studio/production b ­ usiness. Single Market. The audio-visual industry was excluded Foreign exchange risk is divided into transaction exposure ••EU’s new General Data Protection Regulation entered from the scope of the Geo-blocking Regulation but is and translation exposure. into force on 25 May 2018, replacing the EU Data Protecspecifically included in the “Review Clause” (Article 9). tion Directive 95/46/EC. The new regulation has resulted The Review Clause will be triggered on March 3, 2020. Transaction exposure in changes to how the Group deals with the personal If the audio-visual industry is included within the Geo-­ Transaction exposure is hedged mainly for unmatched data of EU citizens. NENT has implemented changes to blocking Regulation, this will have a significant n­ egative contracted programme acquisition outflows through its data protection policies, procedures and processes in impact on the Group’s streaming and content business. ­f orward exchange agreements based on a maximum order to become compliant with the regulation. of 36 months forward. ••On 23 June 2016 the UK voted to leave the European Financial risk management and financial policy Union. The UK triggered Article 50 of the Treaty on NENT Group is reliant on access to financing and is thereTranslation exposure European Union in March 2017, with an initial deadline fore exposed to risks associated with disruptions in the Translation exposure arises from the conversion of the to leave the EU by 31 March 2019. The EU agreed sub­ financial markets, which could make it more difficult and/ Group’s subsidiaries and associated companies’ earnings sequent extensions to the Brexit deadline, and the UK or more expensive to obtain financing in the future. Potenand balance sheets into the Swedish krona reporting left the European Union on 31 January 2020. A UK-EU tial events affecting this may include the adoption of new ­c urrency from other currencies. Since many of the sub­ Withdrawal Agreement was approved and ratified by regulations, implementation of recently enacted laws or sidiaries report in currencies other than Swedish krona, both the UK and European Parliament prior to the UK’s new interpretations, or the enforcement of existing laws the Group is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. exit, thereby guaranteeing a transition period until and regulations applicable to financial institutions, the Translation exposure is not hedged. 31 December 2020. During this transition period there financial markets or the financial services industry, which is legal status quo in terms of trade between the UK could result in a reduction in the amount of available Interest rate risk and EU. Since the audiovisual sector will not be part of credit or increases in the cost of credit. The Group’s existNENT Group’s sources of funding are primarily share­ a future trade deal between the UK and the EU, the ing credit facilities are currently considered sufficient. holders’ equity, cash flows from operations and external Group’s UK (Ofcom) broadcasting licences will no longer The Group’s financial risk management is centralised to borrowing. Interest-bearing debt exposes the Group be valid for broadcasting the Group’s TV channels and the parent company to capitalise on economies of scale to interest rate risk. VOD services into the EU after the end of the transition and synergy effects, as well as to minimise operational 56 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Financing and refinancing risk year by the sustainability team in stakeholder d ­ ialogues, co­­operate with ­s pecialised external organisations such External borrowing is managed centrally in accordance audits and working processes. NENT Group’s sustainability as the Audio-visual Anti-piracy Alliance and the Nordic with the Group’s financial policies. Loans are primarily risks are followed up in regular updates to the Board of ­Content Protection body. taken up by the parent company and transferred to subDirectors (at least twice a year) and monitored in the Environmental issues are not a principal focus of the sidiaries as internal loans or capital injections. There are Governance Risks Compliance (GRC) Committee. ­s ustainability strategy; however, the Group takes action to also companies who have external loans and/or overminimise its negative environmental impact. Read more draft facilities connected directly to these companies. Main sustainability risks include: on page 39. The refinancing risk is managed by seeking to diversify ••Breach of applicable data privacy protection funding sources and maturities, and by typically initiating ­regulations Covid-19 the refinancing of all loans 12 months prior to maturity. ••Illegal access, distribution and consumption of our The outbreak of the Covid-19 virus in China and its subse­content through piracy activities quent pandemic spread to the rest of the world after the Credit risk end of the reporting period does constitute a substantial ••Provision of safe and fair work environment The credit risk with respect to NENT Group’s trade receivrisk for NENT Group’s people, operations and financial ables is diversified among a large number of customers, ••Application of human rights and labour standards performance and position. Extensive measures have been both private individuals and companies. High credit ratin the value chain and in productions. taken to safeguard employees and to ensure the conti­ ings are required for all material credit sales and solvency Read more how the Group mitigates these risks in the nuity of the business. The primary risks are to the health information is obtained to reduce the risk of bad debt. ­s ustainability section on pages 29–41. and wellbeing of the workforce and talents, reductions in advertising spending, the inability to produce programInsurable risks People and social issues, data protection and human ming, the cancellation of events or shows to be shown on The parent company ensures that the Group has sufficient rights are covered in the sustainability strategy, and NENT Group’s channels or services that drive subscription insurance cover, including business interruption, director Group policies and directives. Read more on page 37–38 and advertising revenues, the reduction in the value of and officer liabilities, and asset losses. This cover comprises about how NENT Group address risks in these areas, and NENT Group’s publicly traded securities, and the ability corporate umbrella solutions to cover most territories. implement and follow-­u p through the governance frameto raise finance in the capital markets. The human and work, which also covers prevention of corruption. economic effects of the very recent pandemic are not Sustainability risk management NENT Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct outlines the yet known but NENT Group is taking all possible actions to The Company’s sustainability-related risks de­­scribed in this standards the Group expects from suppliers, and the evaluate and mitigate the risks that are arising, and will report are managed in accordance with NENT Group’s Group has a clear goal to address and engage with all announce the impacts as and when they become clear, risk management framework, which is integrated in the identified high-risk suppliers, to ensure commitment to as well as further actions to be taken. Company’s operational processes. The short and longthe Group’s ethical standards by 2021. term sustainability goals are aligned with NENT Group’s Protecting the Group’s content from piracy activities sustainability work, risks and mitigating actions. Identificais a priority, and managing this risk is structured within tion of sustainability risks is performed throughout the the ­Information Security Department. NENT Group also GRI 102-15 GRI 102-30 GRI 102-31 GRI 102-33 57 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Auditor’s report on the corporate governance statement To the general meeting of the shareholders ­g overnance statement is different and substantially in Nordic Entertainment Group AB, less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance corporate identity number 559124-6847 with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe Engagement and responsibility that the examination has provided us with sufficient It is the board of directors who is responsible for the basis for our opinions. ­corporate governance statement for the year 2019 on pages 45–57 and that it has been prepared in Opinions accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the The scope of the audit second paragraph points 2–6 the Annual Accounts Act Our examination has been conducted in accordance and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s same law are consistent with the annual accounts and examination of the corporate governance statement. the consolidated accounts and are in accordance with This means that our examination of the corporate the Annual Accounts Act. Stockholm 2 April 2020 KPMG AB Joakim Thilstedt Authorised Public Accountant and Auditor in Charge Hök Olov Forsberg Authorised Public Accountant 58 Administration report Content Administration report 60 Business segments 67 Financial statements 69 Notes 78 Signatures 118 Audit report 119 Historical overview 123 Alternative performance measures 124 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Administration report The Board of Directors and President and CEO of Nordic Entertainment Group AB (publ), with corporate registration number 559124-6847 and registered office in Stockholm Sweden, hereby submit the annual report and consolidated accounts for the 2019 financial year. Operations and market NENT Group primarily derive revenues from subscripAn exciting year NENT Group is one of the leading entertainment providtion fees and the sale of advertising space. Subscription 2019 was an exciting year for NENT Group. The Group ers in the Nordic region. The Group provides broadcast revenues are derived by offering pay-TV packages and delivered 6% organic sales growth, both business segTV and streaming services in Sweden, Denmark, Norway streaming services direct to consumers for a subscription ments grow its operating ­p rofits and the Viaplay suband Finland, with satellite pay-TV platforms, TV channels fee, or by making these channels and services available in scriber growth, which is the single most important KPI, and video streaming services in each country; commerthird party networks in return for a carriage fee or reveaccelerated to 25 percent. In the midst of this the Group cial free-TV channels in all countries except Finland; comnue share. Advertising revenues are generated by selling launched a new brand, set its new p ­ urpose and values, mercial radio networks and streaming services in Sweden advertising time and space on TV and radio channels as published the listing prospectus and successfully listed its and Norway; and a bundled TV and broadband offering well as streaming services. shares on Nasdaq Stockholm on 28 March. The listing of in Sweden. The majority of NENT Group’s broadcasting NENT Group changed to a new organisation and operNENT Group followed the decision to split MTG (Modern and streaming licences are held in the UK, from where it ating model from 1 October. Instead of a country operatTimes Group MTG AB (publ)) into two separate companies. acquires, and makes editorial decisions regarding, a subing model the Group is now focused on specialities that stantial proportion of the content for its services. operate across the company in areas such as people, Significant events after the reporting period NENT Group also creates, produces and distributes telesales, content, marketing and technology. This led to a Significant events after the reporting period are vision shows, commercials, feature films and branded consmaller and more focused Group Executive Management described in note 30 on page 116. tent. The majority of the production business lies within the team and also resulted in staff reductions. In 2019, the NENT Studios, where the Group produces content for Group’s average number of employees was 1,844 (1,724). broadcasters, streamers, distributors and advertisers. The As the staff reduction occurred at the end of the year, this majority of NENT Studios activities are in the Nordic region did not affect the Group’s average number of employees. but it also operates production companies in other European countries and sells content to customers worldwide. 60 GRI 102-1 GRI 102-3 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Significant events in 2019 by quarter Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 ••The formation of a new UK-based • •Acquired the exclusive media ••Acquired exclusive rights to the ••Acquired exclusive Nordic rights to joint venture with FilmNation Enterrights to a comprehensive range ISU ice skating for the next four IIHF Ice Hockey World Championship tainment was announced, which will of the world’s leading winter seasons and women’s football from 2024 to 2028. develop, produce and finance presports competitions. The landrights from England, Germany ••Entered into an agreement with Telmium scripted television content for mark five-year deal secures the and France. enor to form a 50/50 joint venture global audiences. hugely popular FIS Alpine Ski ••Announced the intention to between Viasat Consumer (satellite ••New distribution partnerships were World Cup and FIS Cross Country launch Viaplay in Iceland in the pay-TV and broadband-TV operasigned with Boxer, YouSee and Stofa. World Cup and much more from first half of 2020. tions) and Canal Digital (satellite 2021. pay-TV). The combination is expected • •Extended its exclusive content •• Announced a new organisation partner­s hip with NBCUniversal and • •Invested in a minority stake in and operating model. The new to yield annual cost synergies of also entered into a three-year deal new US studio Picturestart, which set-up is based on specialties approximately SEK 650m and is subwith Metro Goldwyn Mayer. will create, co-finance and prothat operate across the Group in ject to regulatory approvals and duce premium scripted content areas such as people, sales, conexpected to be completed during ••A medium term note programme for young adult viewers around tent, marketing and technology. the first half of 2020. was established, enabling NENT the world. ••Extended Nordic distribution agreeGroup to issue notes up to SEK 4bn to the Swedish capital market. • •SEK 1.5bn was raised by issuing ments with Telenor. 3 and 5 year senior unsecured ••Announced the financial effects from • •On 28 March 2019, NENT Group’s bonds. the new organisation and operating shares started trading on Nasdaq Stockholm. This followed the decision • •Extended Nordic rights to Danish model, including restructuring and to split MTG into two separate Superliga football to 2024. redundancy costs of SEK 190m with ­companies. •• Extended Swedish distribution expected saving of approximately agreements with Telia and Tele2. SEK 250m . The Group also announced write-downs totaling SEK 541m of content related assets. ••Extended exclusive rights to UFC, the world’s premier MMA organisation. GRI 102-10 61 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Financial performance 2019 Net sales Net interest and other financial items Tax Net sales were up 7.6% to SEK 15,671m (14,568) following Net interest and other financial items totalled SEK –46m Tax charges amounted to SEK –122m (–160), corresponding 6.4% organic growth and a 1.1% FX contribution. (–52). Net interest amounted to SEK –37m (–37), of which to an effective tax rate of 17% (11). SEK –18m (0) related to the interest on net lease liabilities. Operating expenditure before items affecting Other financial items amounted to SEK –9m (–15) and Net income and earnings per share comparability mainly comprised the impact of exchange rate differNet income totalled SEK 590m (1,292), with basic earnings The Group’s operating costs excluding items affecting ences on financial items. per share of SEK 8.77 (19.24) and diluted earnings per share comparability increased to SEK 14,126m (13,024). The of SEK 8.74 (19.09). increase was driven primarily by the ongoing investment in digital expansion and Viaplay. Depreciation and amortisation charges increased to SEK –336m (–202), mainly reflected by amortisation of Right of use assets, the investments in radio licenses in Sweden and the Viaplay Financial overview and Viafree platforms. Impairment charges amounted to SEKm 2019 2018 SEK –7m (–7). Net sales 15,671 14,568 Organic growth 6.4% 3.8% Operating income and items affecting Change in reported net sales 7.6% 6.4% ­comparability Operating income for the combined business segments Operating income – Business segments 1,813 1,706 increased by 6% to SEK 1,813m (1,706). Operating income Central operations –268 –162 before IAC amounted to SEK 1,545m (1,544). The central Operating income before IAC 1,545 1,544 operation costs included initial advisory costs of SEK 24m Items affecting comparability (IAC) –787 –40 related to the proposed Viasat Consumer / Canal Digital Operating income 758 1,504 combination. Items affecting comparability amounted to Operating margin before IAC 9.9% 10.6% SEK –787m (–40) and reflected SEK 190m of restructuring Operating margin 4.8% 10.3% and redundancy costs as well as an write downs of SEK 541m relating to free-TV content and other assets that Net income 590 1,292 have limited remaining value. See note 8 on page 92 for Basic earnings per share (SEK) 8.77 19.24 a comprehensive list of items affecting comparability. Net debt 4,139 3,944 62 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Cash flow The net change in cash and cash equivalents amounted Share and share capital Cash flow from operations to SEK 787m (339), and the Group had cash and cash At year end, NENT Group’s share capital totalled SEK 135 Cash flow from operations before changes in working equivalents of SEK 1,238m (428) at the end of the period. million (50 thousand). The total numbers of issued NENT capital amounted to SEK 1,393m (1,496). Depreciation, Group shares were 67,342,244 shares, whereof 545,662 amortisation and imparment charges totalled SEK –343m Net debt class A shares and 66,796,582 class B shares. For more (–208). The Group reported a SEK –791m (–380) change in The Group’s total net debt position amounted to SEK information, see section “The share” on page 42–44 and working capital, reflecting investments in Viaplay Originals 4,139m (3,944) at the end of the period, and comprised note 18 Shareholders’ equity. and higher payments in relation to new and prolonged financial net debt of SEK 3,542m (3,944) including cash sports rights compared to last year. In addition, working and cash equivalents of SEK 1,238m (428) net of lease liaDividend and proposed appropriation of earnings capital increased in NENT Studios resulting from the strong bilities and sublease receivables of SEK 598m (0). The following funds are available for disposal by the sales growth in Q2 and Q3 with receipts typically followAnnual General Meeting: ing production payments. Net cash flow from operations Parent company SEK 2019 totalled SEK 602m (1,116). Nordic Entertainment Group AB (publ.) is the Group’s parent company and is responsible for Group-wide manageProfit brought forward 1,447,712,000 Investing activities ment, administration and financing. The company was Net income for the year 2019 311,548,568 Investments in business operations amounted to SEK –15m established during June 2018. Total 1,759,260,568 (–19). Capital expenditure on tangible and intangible Nordic Entertainment Group AB reported net sales of assets totalled SEK –176m (–550), where last year includSEK 43m (0) in 2019. Net interest and other financial items The Board of Directors does not propose the previously ing the impact of the investment in the new Swedish radio totalled SEK 48m (6). Income before tax and appropriaindicated cash dividend of SEK 7.00 per share for 2019 to licences. Other investing activities totalled SEK –99m (2). tions amounted to SEK –210m (–124). Income after tax and the upcoming 2020 Annual General Meeting of shareTotal cash flow related to investing activities therefore appropriations amounted to SEK 312m (0). holders. The Bord of Directors proposes that the un-apamounted to SEK –290m (–567). The parent company had cash and cash equivalents of propriated earnings be allocated as follows: SEK 974m (0) at the end of the period. At the end of the SEK 2019 Financing activities reporting period SEK 4,190m (N/A) of the SEK 4,390m total Carried forward 1,759,260,568 Cash flow from financing activities amounted to SEK available credit facilities, including SEK 390m overdraft Total 1,759,260,568 475m (–209). New long-term borrowings amounted to facilities, was unutilized. SEK 2,300m (0) and related to a 7-year loan within the framework of the Group’s MTN program that was used to replace short-term borrowings. The change in shortterm borrowings of SEK 2,480m (0) reflected the repayment of the financing from MTG. 63 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Corporate governance report and Significant risks and uncertainties guidelines by the 2020 Annual General Meeting. The sustainability report How risks are managed is of great significance for the intention of the Board of Directors (“the Board”) and its In accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act NENT Group’s success. The risks that could have the greatRemuneration Committee (“the Committee”) is that the Ch. 6 § 8 and 11, NENT Group has chosen to prepare the est impact on the Group are the various competitive risks guidelines will remain in place for four years from the date statutory corporate governance report and sustainability including the Company’s ability to adapt to new technolof approval. These guidelines do not apply to any remureport separately from the legal annual report. The corogies and product innovations, to achieve widespread neration decided or approved by the general meeting, porate governance report is provided on page 45–57, distribution, and to develop quality content and user for example share-related long-term incentive plans. and the sustainability report (including statutory sustainacommunities in a sustainable manner. bility report) is provided on page 28–41, 49, 57, 126–150. Other risks with a medium-high potential impact are Our approach to remuneration economic and political risks, and regulatory risks. NENT NENT’s remuneration policy is designed to i) drive and Outlook Group’s strategic and operational risks are described reward sustainable company and individual performance, NENT Group’s mission is to offer its customers the best and in more detail in section “Risk and risk management” on ii) be market competitive to attract and retain best-in-class broadest storytelling entertainment experiences that are pages 55–57, together with the risk management process. talent, and iii) to incentivise the creation of long-term sharerelevant, engaging, simple to use, broadly available, and The risks related to the Covid-19 virus for the Group are holder value in a rapidly changing industry. Specifically, our great value for money. also described in this section. NENT Group’s financial risks strategic priorities and our vision are reflected in the design NENT Group does not provide formal financial perforare described in note 22 Financial risk and financial risk of executive remuneration as set out below: mance targets or guidance. NENT Group’s objective is management. •• Deliver profitable growth: A substantial proportion of to deliver sustainable profitable growth in the form of remuneration is variable and linked to our key drivers of organic sales growth and growth in operating income Remuneration performance. Performance measures in our shortand before items affecting comparability. This is being Principles for remuneration, fees and other remuneration long-term incentive plans are carefully selected to pro­c hallenged in 2020 by the impact of the spread of the paid to the Board of Directors, the President and CEO, mote growth through stretching and relevant incentive Corona­v irus on NENT Group’s operations and market and other members of Group Executive Management as targets. positions. well as other statistics and the guidelines regarding remu•• Create long-term shareholder value: Incentive plans are NENT Group also intends to maintain its balance sheet neration and benefits to Group Executive Management designed to reward sustainable company performance leverage ratio of no more than 2.5x net debt to trailing as approved by the Annual General Meeting are speciand value creation. Resulting outcomes are intended twelve month adjusted EBITDA. NENT Group’s leverage fied in note 7. to reflect shareholder experience and contribute to may exceed these levels temporarily from time to time. increased alignment as executives are required to build NENT Group’s dividend policy is to distribute an annual NENT Remuneration Guidelines 2020 and maintain a significant shareholding in NENT. cash dividend of between 30% and 50% of adjusted The Remuneration Guidelines (“the guidelines”) will apply net income but, due to the effects of the spread of the to the President & CEO and members of the Group Execu••Be the leading Nordic streaming service provider and Corona­v irus, the Board will not propose the payment tive Management (“GEM”), currently comprising of seven content producer with a global appeal: A remuneration of a dividend in 2020 for 2019. members. The guidelines are forward-looking, i.e. they are structure and mix that provides agility to quickly adapt applicable to remuneration agreed and amendments to to business needs in a fast-moving industry and highly remuneration already agreed, after the adoption of the competitive talent market. 64 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Remuneration guidelines by element and long-term incentive (‘LTI’) plans. The long-term incenprovides more detail on the individual elements, their Total remuneration shall be on market terms and may tive plans are approved by the general meeting and, ­p urpose and their link to the buisness strategy. include base salary, pension, benefits and perforwhile not goverened by these guidelines, are included mance-linked elements in the form of short-term (‘STI’) in summary form for completeness. The table below Elements Purpose and link to strategy Description and operation Base salary To recruit, reward and retain executives Base salary shall be fair and competitive reflecting the individual executive’s responsibilities, skills and performance. Pension To provide local market competitive ­p ension Pension arrangements, including health insurance, shall be competitive and appropriate in context of the market practice in the applicable country of executives’ employment or residence and total remuneration. The pension arrangements shall be provided in the form of a defined contribution or as a cash allowance and shall amount to not more than 30 per cent of the fixed base salary. Pension arrangements may evolve year-on-year. Variable cash remuneration shall not qualify for pension benefits. Benefits and To provide local market competitive ­b enefits Benefits shall be competitive and appropriate in context of the market practice in the applicable country of executives’ employallowances and support recruitment and retention ment or residence and total remuneration. Benefits may include but are not limited to car allowance, travel allowance, tax support, life insurance and medical insurance. Premiums and other costs of such benefits shall constitute a limited proportion of total remuneration. Additional benefits may be provided in specific individual situations including changes in individual circumstances such as health status and changes in roles such as relocation, if considered appropriate. Any resolution on such remuneration shall be made by the Board based on a proposal from the Committee. Annual To incentivise and reward the achievement The maximum payment under the STI shall not excced 150% of base salary. The satisfaction of criteria for awarding STI shall be ­s hort-term of annual financial and, when appropriate, measured over a period of one year. incentive non-financial performance measures clearly The Board approves the corporate performance measures, targets and relative weightings at the start of each year, on recom(STI) plan linked to the strategic priorities and sustainable mendation by the Committee. The Board ensures that there is strong alignment with the business strategy and that the targets are development of the Group and the executives’ clear and sufficiently stretching. STI’s will also take into account the individual executives’ performance against pre-determined and area of responsibility measurable objectives within their area of responsibility defined to promote the Group’s sustainable development in the shortand long-term. Such objectives are agreed with the President & CEO (or, in the case of the President & CEO, the Chairman of the Board) and may be functional, operational, strategic and non-financial and include, inter alia, objectives relating to environmental, social and governance issues. Payment under this plan is made after year-end following the Committee’s and Board’s determination of achievement against the annual corporate targets and the achievement of annual individual objectives for the President & CEO. The President & CEO determines the achievement of annual individual objectives for other executives. The terms for the STI shall be structured so that the Board has the possibility to; (i) limit or refrain from paying variable remuneration, if such payment is considered unreasonable and incompatible with the company’s responsibility in general to the shareholders, employees and other stakeholders, (ii) to adjust payments before they are made (‘malus’) if special circumstances exist that warrant this, such as financial misstatement (iii) to claw back payments that have already been made on incorrect grounds and (iv) to adjust the targets retroactively for extraordinary circumstances. 65 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Elements Purpose and link to strategy Description and operation Long-term The LTI shall be linked to certain pre-deterThe LTI is generally delivered in shares, resolved upon separately by incentive (LTI) mined financial and/or share or share-price the general meeting and therefore excluded from these g ­ uidelines. related performance criteria and shall ensure a long-term commitment to the development of NENT and align the senior executives’ ­in­centives with the interest of shareholders. Extraordinary To aid recruitment or retention required to By way of exception, additional one-off arrangements can be made on a case by case basis, when deemed necessary, subject to arrangements ensure successful implementation of the Board approval on recommendation from the Committee. Each such arrangement shall be capped at two (2) times the individual’s ­company’s strategy and safeguarding its annual base salary. ­l ong-term interests. Share To ensure that executives build and maintain The President & CEO and members of GEM are required to accumulate NENT shares toward target ownership levels that are ­O wnership a significant shareholding in NENT Group and based on a ­p ercentage of net base salary. Target ownership levels: President & CEO: 150% and other members of GEM: 75%. Requirement are aligned with the interest of shareholders The Committee has the authority to adjust these requirements if considered appropriate in individual cases. Service contracts and payments upon Remuneration governance and decision-making Salary and employment terms for the broader termination of employment The Board has established a Remuneration Committee. population/company’s employees In general, executive contracts have indefinite duration. The Committee’s tasks include preparing the Board ‘s In preparing and applying these guidelines, the Committee However, the contracts may be issued on a fixed-term decision on guidelines for executive remuneration. The considers the pay and conditions elsewhere in the combasis if warranted by certain circumstances, such as for Board shall prepare a proposal for new guidelines at pany, which in turn are informed by general market coninterim positions or for executives close to retirement least every four years and submit these to the general ditions and internal factors such as the performance of age. Upon termination of employment, the notice period meeting. The guidelines shall be in force until new guidethe Group or relevant business unit. The Committee regumay not exceed twelve months. Fixed cash salary during lines are adopted by the general meeting. The Com­ larly consults with the President & CEO and HR to be mindthe notice period and any severance pay may combined mittee shall prepare, for resolution of the Board, remun­ ful of employee pay, conditions and engagement across not exceed an amount equivalent to two years’ fixed eration-related matters concerning the President & CEO the broader employee population. ­s alary. and any proposals on share-based or share-related In addition, executives may be compensated for non-­ ­long-term incentive plans in the company. In addition, Deviation from the guidelines compete restrictions invoked post termination. Such comthe Committee shall monitor and evaluate programs for The Board may temporarily resolve to deviate from the pensation shall be based on the base salary at the time variable remuneration for GEM, the application of the guidelines, in full or in part, if in a specific case there is of notice of termination of employment and be awarded guidelines for executive remuneration as well as the cur­s pecial cause for the deviation and a deviation is necesduring the restriction period which cannot exceed twelve rent remuneration structures and compensation levels in sary to serve the company’s long-term interests, including months. Such payment cannot be combined with severthe company. In order to avoid any conflict of interest, the its sustainability, or to ensure the company’s financial ance payments. Committee shall consist of non-executive members only. ­v iability. As set out above, the Committee’s tasks include Remuneration is managed through well-defined processes preparing the Board’s resolutions in remuneration-related ensuring that no individual is involved in the decision-­ matters. This includes any resolutions to deviate from the making process relating to their own remuneration. guidelines. 66 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Business segments NENT Group has two reporting segments: Advertising ­B roadcasting & Streaming and NENT Studios. Advertising sales, which accounted for 26% of Group Broadcasting & Streaming primarily p ­ rovides sales, were stable on a reported basis. TV advertising TV and radio services that are distributed on a sales were down slightly as higher prices and audience scheduled and on-demand basis, both on NENT shares were offset by lower linear TV viewing levels, as Group’s own and third-party networks and are well as softer advertising markets. NENT Group’s TV audifunded by advertising and subscription revenues. ence shares stable in Sweden and up in Denmark and The NENT Studios segment creates, produces and Norway but the TV advertising markets are each esti­distributes scripted, non-scripted and digital ­content mated to have declined. Viafree sales were up and the for in-house and third-party distribution platforms. service now has 2.6 million registered users and approximately 4 million downloaded apps across the region. Radio sales were up as continued growth in the Swedish business more than offset lower sales for the Norwegian Broadcasting & Streaming business. NENT Group’s Swedish radio audience share increased while the Norwegian share was down. The Honour Swedish and N ­ orwegian radio advertising markets are The Broadcasting & Streaming segment comprises pan-­ both estimated to have declined. Nordic commercial streaming and satellite TV platforms and pay-TV channels, as well as free-TV channels in each Subscription & other SEKm 2019 2018 of the Scandinavian countries and national radio networks Subscription & other sales, which accounted for 61% of Net sales 13,697 12,800 in Norway and Sweden. Key brands include Viaplay, Viafree, Group sales, were up 10% on a reported basis and driven of which advertising 4,005 4,017 Viasat, TV3, TV6, RIX FM and P4 Norway. Sweden and by the Viaplay subscriber intake, Swedish broadband-TV of which subscription & other 9,691 8,783 Denmark are the largest markets, and there are also subsales and content sublicensing deals. The total subscriber stantial growth opportunities in Norway and Finland. base was up compared to last year, driven by Viaplay Operating expenses –11,966 –11,139 Broadcasting & Streaming sales were up 6% (5) on an which added 310k customers to end the year at 1,568k Operating income 1,731 1,661 organic basis and driven primarily by the continued growth subscribers. Viaplay now represents 62% (57) of the total Operating margin 12.6% 13.0% of Viaplay. Operating expenses were also up and reflec­ subscriber base. The Viasat direct-to-consumer subscriber ted the ongoing investments in content and technology as base was down 4k to 489k as continued growth in the Net sales growth 7.0% 7.0% well as the depreciation of the Swedish krona. Operating broadband-TV base was offset by the decline in the Organic growth 6.0% 4.5% income amounted to SEK 1,731m (1,661), with an operating ­s atellite base. The third-party subscriber base was up Acquisitions/divestments – – margin of 12.6% (13.0). 3k to 469k. Changes in FX rates 1.0% 2.5% GRI 102-2 GRI 102-6 67 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting NENT Studios The NENT Studios segment is a leading content creation and production company in the Nordic region. It comprises 32 production companies in 17 territories and also includes DRG, which is a leading independent distributor of content, and Splay One, which is one of the Nordic region’s leading multi-channel network and next generation digital media houses. Sales were up 18% (–7) on an organic basis, primarily driven by exceptional growth in scripted drama productions for both Viaplay and ­t hird-party customers but also from healthy growth in non-scripted sales as well as for digital first productions. Operating income amounted to SEK 82m (45), with an operating margin of 3.6% (2.4). In January 2020, NENT Group announced the reorganisation of NENT Studios including the intention to divest non-­ scripted, branded entertainment and events businesses. This process has been temporarily paused due to the impact of the Coronavirus on market conditions. SEKm 2019 2018 Net sales 2,284 1,911 Operating expenses –2,202 –1,866 Operating income 82 45 Operating margin 3.6% 2.4% Net sales growth 19.5% –3.8% Organic growth 17.7% –7.3% ‘Thicker than Water’ Acquisitions/divestments – 0.1% produced by NENT Studios’ Nice Drama Changes in FX rates 1.8% 3.4% 68 Financial statements Content Consolidated income statement 70 Consolidated balance sheet 71 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 72 Consolidated statement of cash flow 73 Parent company income ­s tatement 74 Parent company balance sheet 75 Parent company statement of changes in equity 76 Parent company cash flow ­s tatement 77 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Consolidated income statement (SEK million) Note 2019 2018 Net sales 3, 4 15,671 14,568 Cost of goods and services 5 –10,616 –9,805 Gross income 5,055 4,763 Selling expenses –1,047 –857 Administrative expenses –2,598 –2,387 Other operating income 6 162 44 Other operating expenses 6 –32 –17 Share of earnings in associated companies and joint ventures 15 5 –3 Items affecting comparability 8 –787 –40 Operating income 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 758 1,504 Interest income 9 11 11 Interest expenses 9 –30 –48 Net leasing interest –18 – Other financial items –9 –15 Income before tax 712 1,452 Tax expenses 10 –122 –160 Net income for the year 590 1,292 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss net of tax Currency translation differences 52 46 Cash flow hedge 13 68 Other comprehensve income for the year 65 114 Total comprehensive income for the year 655 1,406 Net income for the year attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 589 1,286 Non–controlling interest 1 6 Net income for the year 590 1,292 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 654 1,400 Non–controlling interest 1 6 Total comprehensive income for the year 655 1,406 Earnings per share 11 Basic earnings per share (SEK) 8.77 19.24 Diluted earnings per share (SEK) 8.74 19.09 Number of shares 11 Shares outstanding at the end of the period 67,342,244 66,980,902 Basic average number of shares outstanding 67,279,875 66,854,133 Diluted average number of shares outstanding 67,484,565 67,362,405 70 GRI 201-1 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Consolidated balance sheet (SEK million) Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 (SEK million) Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Non-current assets Equity Goodwill 12 2,311 2,274 Equity 18 1,434 581 Other intangible assets 12 1,073 1,131 Non controlling interest 7 16 Machinery, equipment and installations 13 165 152 Total equity 1,442 597 Right-of-use assets 23 566 – Non-current liabilities Shares and participations 15 142 20 Long-term borrowings 22 1,800 – Sublease receivables 23 192 – Long-term lease liability 23 691 – Deferred tax assets 10 64 24 Provisions 20 275 171 Other long term receivables 107 103 Deferred tax liabilities 10 303 311 Total non-current assets 4,621 3,704 Other non-current liabilities 13 13 Current assets Total non-current liabilities 3,082 495 Inventories 2,551 2,428 Current liabilities Accounts receivables 16 1,112 1,224 Sublease receivables 23 34 – Short-term borrowings 22 2,980 – Prepaid programming expenses 3,359 2,875 Short-term lease liability 23 132 – Prepaid expense and accrued income 17 1,250 1,076 Accounts payable 22 2,199 1,750 Tax receivables 10 207 39 Accrued programming expenses 2,015 2,364 Other current receivables 325 428 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 21 2,080 1,793 Cash, cash equivalents and short term investments 1,238 428 Provisions 20 139 138 Total current assets 10,077 8,498 Tax liabilities 235 201 Other current liabilitites 394 492 Total assets 14,697 12,202 Liabilities related to MTG – 4,372 Total current liabilities 10,174 11,110 Total liabilities 13,256 11,605 Total shareholders' equity and liabilties 14,697 12,202 GRI 102-7 GRI 201-1 71 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Consolidated statement of changes in equity Non-­ Share Translation Hedging Retained controlling Total (SEK million) capital reserve reserve earnings Total interest equity Balance as of 1 January 2018 – –123 –31 2,717 2,562 10 2,573 Net income for the year – – – 1,286 1,286 6 1,292 Other comprehensive income – 46 68 – 114 – 114 Total comprehensive income for the year 2018 – 46 68 1,286 1,400 7 1,406 Paid share capital 1 – – – 1 – 1 Effect of share-based programmes – – – 20 20 – 20 Dividends to shareholders with non-controlling interests – – – – – –1 –1 Transactions with shareholders – – – –3,401 –3,401 – –3,401 Balance as of 31 December 2018 1 –77 37 621 581 16 597 Balance as of 1 January 2019 1 –77 37 621 581 16 597 Net income for the year – – – 589 589 1 590 Other comprehensive income – 52 13 – 65 – 65 Total comprehensive income for the year 2019 – 52 13 589 654 1 655 Bonus issue 134 – – –134 – – – Shareholder contribution – – – 620 620 – 620 Effect of share-based programmes – – – 15 15 – 15 Dividends to shareholders SEK 6.50 per share – – – –438 –438 – –438 Changes in non-controlling interests – – – 1 1 –9 –7 Balance as of 31 December 2019 135 –25 50 653 1,434 7 1,442 72 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Consolidated statement of cash flow (SEK million) Note 2019 2018 Cash flow from operations 26 Net income for the year 590 1,292 Depreciation, amortisations and ­write-downs 875 208 Other adjustments for non-cash items –72 –5 Cash flow from operations 1,393 1,496 Changes in working capital –791 –380 Net cash flow from/to operations 602 1,116 Investing activities Acquisitions of operations –15 –19 Capital expenditures in tangible and intagible assets –176 –550 Other investing activities –99 2 Cash flow from/used in investing activities –290 –567 Financing activities 26 New long-term borrowings 2,300 – Change in short-term borrowings 2,480 – Amortisation of lease receivables 33 – Amortisation of lease liabilities –121 – Change in financing to/from MTG –4,474 3,171 Shareholders' contribution 620 – Dividends to shareholders –438 –3,310 Other cash flow from/used in financing activities 75 –70 Cash flow from/used in financing activities 475 –209 Total cash flow 787 339 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 428 89 Translation differences in cash and cash equivalents 23 – Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,238 428 73 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Parent company income statement (SEK million) Note 2019 2018 Net sales 43 – Gross income 43 – Administrative expenses –252 –145 Other operating income – 15 Other operating expenses –2 – Items affecting comparability 8 –48 – Operating income 7, 8 –258 –130 Interest income and other financial income 9 103 26 Interest expense and other financial costs 9 –56 –20 Income before tax and appropriations –210 –124 Group contribution 597 124 Income before tax 387 – Tax expenses 10 –75 – Net income for the year 312 – Other comprehensive income – – Total comprehensive income for the year 312 – 74 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Parent company balance sheet (SEK million) Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 (SEK million) Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Non-current assets Equity 18 Capitalised expenditure 12 – 1 Share capital (67,342,244 shares) 135 1 Shares and participations in group companies 14 110 – Retained earnings 1,447 2,007 Other long-term receivables 3 – Net income for the year 312 – Total non-current assets 113 1 Total equity 1,894 2,008 Current assets Non-current liabilities Receivables from group companies 10,831 13,059 Long-term borrowings 1,800 – Other receivables 73 266 Total non-current liabilities 1,800 – Prepaid expense and accrued income 17 15 1 Current liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 974 – Short-term borrowings 2,980 73 Total current assets 11,893 13,326 Provisions 5 – Total assets 12,006 13,327 Accounts payable 20 2 Liabilities to group companies 5,083 11,201 Corporate tax payables 77 – Accrued expense and prepaid income 21 62 40 Other current liabilities 85 2 Total current liabilities 8,312 11,319 Total liabilities 8,312 11,319 Total equity and liabilities 12,006 13,327 For information about pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see note 25. 75 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Parent company statement of changes in equity Restricted equity Non–restricted equity (SEK million) Share capital Retained earnings Total Balance as of 1 January 2018 – – – Net income for the year – – – Other comprehensive income – – – Total comprehensive income for the year 2018 – – – Paid share capital 1 – 1 Shareholder contribution – 2,000 2,000 Effect of share-based programmes – 8 8 Balance as of 31 December 2018 1 2,008 2,008 Balance as of 1 January 2019 1 2,008 2,008 Net income for the year – 312 312 Other comprehensive income – – – Total comprehensive income for the year 2019 – 312 312 Bonus issue 134 –134 – Dividends to shareholders – –438 –438 Effect of share-based programmes – 11 11 Balance as of 31 December 2019 135 1,759 1,894 For information about changes in equity for the Parent company, see note 18. 76 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Parent company cash flow statement (SEK million) Note 2019 2018 Cash flow from operations 26 Net income for the year 312 – Adjustments for non-cash items 17 –115 Cash flow from operations 328 –116 Changes in working capital –264 223 Net cash flow from/to operations 64 –107 Investing activities Investment in non-current assets – –1 Other investing activities 3 – Cash flow from/used in investing activities 3 –1 Financing activities 26 New long-term borrowings 2,300 – Change in short-term borrowings 2,480 – Receivables/liabilities to/from group companies –6,405 106 Change in financing to/from MTG 855 – Shareholders’ contribution received from MTG 2,000 – Group contribution received 124 – Dividends to shareholders –438 – Other cash flow from/used in financing activities –9 – Cash flow from/ used in financing activities 907 106 Cash flow from the year 974 – Cash and cash equivalent at beginning of year – – Cash and cash equivalent at end of year 974 – 77 Notes Content Accounting and reporting fundamentals Shareholder equity and Liabilitites Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles 79 Note 18 Shareholders' equity 101 Note 2 Accounting estimates and judgements 81 Note 19 Proposed treatment of unappropriated earnings 102 Income statement Note 20 Provisions 103 Note 3 Business segements 82 Note 21 Accrued expense and prepaid Note 4 Revenues 83 income 103 Note 5 Nature of expenses 87 Note 22 F inancial instruments and financial risk management 104 Note 6 Other operating income and expenses 87 Note 23 Leases 111 Note 7 Salaries, other remuneration and social security expenses 88 Note 24 Future payment commitments 112 Note 8 Items affecting comparability 92 Note 25 Pledge assets and contingent liabilities 112 Note 9 Financial Items 92 Note 10 Taxes 93 Additional information Note 11 Earnings per share 95 Note 26 S upplementary information to the statement of cash flows 113 Assets Note 27 Average number of employees 114 Note 12 Intangible assets 95 Note 28 Audit fees 115 Note 13 Tangible assets 98 Note 29 Related party transactions 115 Note 14 Long-term financial assets 99 Note 30 Events after the reporting period 116 Note 15 Associated companies and joint ventures 100 Note 16 Accounts receivables 100 Note 17 Prepaid expense and accrued income 101 78 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Notes 1 Accounting and valuation principles Nordic Entertainment Group AB (NENT) is a company domibased on the carrying amounts they represent in MTG AB’s expense of the financial net. The Group has identified the ciled in Sweden. The Company’s registered office is located consolidated financial statements as from the date they ­f ollowing categories of leases: offices, cars and car parks. at Ringvägen 52, P.O. Box 2094, SE-103 13 Stockholm, Sweden. became part of the MTG Group. Studio equipment is normally leased on a short-term basis, On 7 February 2019 an extraordinary general meeting of The combined financial statements for the fiscal years 2018 and most types of leased office furniture and IT equipment Modern Times Group MTG AB (publ) resolved to distribute and 2019 are prepared in accordance with the International are of low value and are therefore out of scope. NENT Group all shares in Nordic Entertainment Group AB (publ) through Financial Reporting Standards, as approved within the EU. has applied the modified retrospective method, which implies a dividend to the shareholders of MTG, and to admit the The Group’s combined financila statements have been no restatements of previous periods. shares of Nordic Entertainment Group AB (publ) to trading prepared according to the same accounting policies and Other new and changed Accounting standards and interon Nasdaq Stockholm. The listing of NENT on Nasdaq Stockcalculation methods as were applied in the preparation of pretations are not judged to have any material effect on the holm took place on 28 March 2019. the prospectus “Admission to trading of shares in Nordic Group’s financial reports. The consolidated financial statements of the Company for Entertainment Group AB (pub) on Nasdaq Stockholm” (issued the year ended 31 December 2019 comprise the Company on 8 March 2019) except for the new standard IFRS 16 Leases New and amended Accounting standards and and its subsidiaries and their share of participation in joint that have been applied in 2019. interpretations after 2019 ventures and associated companies. The Group has not made any early adoptions of new or The annual report including the financial statements were The following new standard was applied changed Accounting standards and interpretations effective authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 2 April 2020. for the financial year 2019: after 31 December 2019. The consolidated income statement and statement of finanIFRS 16 Leases cial position, and the income statement and the balance A new standard for lease accounting – IFRS 16 Leases – has Consolidated accounts sheet of the parent company will be presented for adoption been introduced with effect from 1 January 2019. The main The consolidated accounts include the Parent company, all by the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2019. changes are the following: For the lessee, the classification subsidiaries and the share of participation in joint ventures according to IAS 17 of operating and finance leases is re­­ and associated companies. Basis of preparation placed by a single lease accounting model. All leases are The financial statements for 2018 and 2019 is presented as recognised on the balance sheet as a right-of-use asset Subsidiaries combined financial statements. The formation of the Nordic and lease liability. Leases of low value assets, as well as Subsidiaries are companies in which the Group exercises conEntertainment Group (NENT Group) comprised transactions leases of 12 months or less, are exempt from the requiretrol, meaning that the Group has power over the subsidiary between entities that are under common control. All entities ments. A substantial part of the London offices are subleased and has exposure or rights to its variable returns. The Group in these combined financial statements were under common and a financial receivable is recognised in accordance with must also have the ability to use the power to affect the return control via Modern Times Group MTG AB’s (MTG) ownership the standard. The expense for operating leases is replaced from the subsidiary. For all companies in which the Group prior to the listing. Since these transactions are not covered by depreciation on the right-of-use asset, and interest holds more than 50% of the votes the criteria’s of control are by any IFRS standard, a suitable and established method expense on the lease liability and interest income on the fulfilled and the companies are consolidated as subsidiaries. in accordance with IAS 8, is to use the previous carrying ­s ublease. The depreciation of lease assets is separately recAll business combinations are accounted for in accordance amounts, which is the principle the NENT Group has used. The ognised from the interest on lease liabilities in the income with the purchase method. At the date of acquisition, the assets and liabilities have been aggregated and recognized statement. This has increased the operating income at the acquired assets and assumed liabilities (net identifiable 79 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 1 cont. assets) are measured at fair value. The difference between Functional currency and reporting currency Sports rights are allocated over the seasonal year and the acquisition value of shares in a subsidiary and identifiable The functional currency of the parent company is the on a yearly basis. The programme inventory is valued at assets and liabilities measured at fair values at the date of ­Swedish krona (SEK). This is also the reporting currency for ­a mortised costs. acquisition is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the the Group and the parent company. Other inventories are valued at the acquisition cost or net cost of acquisition below the fair values of identifiable net realisable value, whichever is lower. Net realisable value is the assets acquired is recognised in the profit and loss in the Financial statements of foreign operations estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less period of acquisition. Acquisition related costs are expensed The balance sheets of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries are the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. The as incurred. Results for companies acquired during the year translated into Swedish krona (SEK). The translation is based cost of inventories is based on the first-in-first-out principle are included in the consolidated statement of comprehenon the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date, and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories sive income from the date of acquisition. while the income statements are translated using an averand bringing them to their existing location and condition. age rate for the period. The resulting translation differences Non-controlling interest are charged in other comprehensive income and accumuParent company In subsidiaries not wholly owned, the share of equity owned lated in the translation reserve in equity. The accumulated The Parent company has prepared the Annual Report by external shareholders is recorded as non-controlling intertranslation differences are reclassified to the income stateaccording to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the est. There are two alternatives for the recognition of non-­ ment when the foreign operation is divested. Swedish Financial Reporting Board recommendation RFR 2 controlling interests. One alternative is to recognise the non-­ Accounting for Legal Entities. RFR 2 involves application of controlling interest at its share of fair value of the acquired Inventories all IFRSs and interpretations endorsed by the European company; another alternative is to recognise the non-conA significant portion of the amount reported as inventory ­Commission, except where the possibility to apply IFRS is trolling interests at its share of the fair value of the acquired by the Group refers to the TV channels’ catalogue of prorestricted by the Swedish Company Act and due to tax rules. net assets. The former method (the full goodwill methods) gramme rights. Programme rights are reported as inventory Holdings in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company leads to a higher value of non-controlling interest and goodwhen the license period has begun, the programme itself is according to the purchase method which means that the will than the later method (the partial goodwill method). The available for its first broadcast, the cost of the programme is transaction costs are included in the recognised value of choice of method is made of each acquisition separately. known, and the programme content has been approved by shares in subsidiaries. The Group recognises these costs in the TV channel. Programme rights invoiced, but where the the income statement immediately when occurred. Associated companies license period has not started and the programme cannot Associated companies are reported based on the equity be reported as inventory, is reported as prepaid expenses. Group contributions method. An associated company is a company in which the Future payment commitments in respect of contractual proGroup contributions received and paid are recognised as Group exercises significant influence. Normally, this means gramme rights that have not yet been reported as inventory appropriations in the income statement. companies in which the Group holds voting rights of at least or prepaid expenses are reported as other commitments, 20% and no more than 50%. for each acquisition separately. see note 24. Programme rights are normally acquired for Untaxed reserves a specific number of runs, which can be played out during Untaxed reserves in the parent company comprise a tax Joint ventures a determined license period in certain territories. The proallocation reserve. The reserve makes it possible to defer tax, Joint ventures are arrangements in which two or more­ gramme rights are expensed per run according to how the and hence even out the tax cost between years. ­p arties have joint control and have rights to the net assets program is expected to be broadcasted during the license of the arrangement. Joint ventures are recognised accordperiod. The recognition of sports rights starts when the coning to the equity method (see Associated companies) tractual period starts or when an advance payment is made. 80 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 2 Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives Provisions and contingent liabilities IFRSs requires the Board of Directors and the management are subject to impairment tests yearly or when triggered A provision is recognised when a present obligation exists to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect by events. The impairment review requires management as a result of a past event, it is probable that economic the application of policies and reported amounts of assets to determine the fair value of the cash generating units on resources will be transferred, and reliable estimates can and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and assothe basis of cash flow projections and internal forecasts and be made of the amount of the obligation. In such a case, ciated assumptions are based on historical experience and business plans. For further information, see note 12 Intangible a provision is calculated and recognised in the balance various other factors that are believed to be reasonable assets. sheet. A contingent liability will be disclosed when a possible under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis obligation has arisen, but its existence has to be confirmed of making the judgements about carrying values of assets Valuation of liabilities at fair value by future events outside the Group’s control, or when it is and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other The calculation of fair values of options, to acquire non-­ not possible to calculate the amount. Realisation of any consources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. controlling interests of acquired subsidiaries, and contingent tingent liability which is not disclosed or for which no amount The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed considerations are based on terms defined in agreements is not currently recognised could have a material impact on on an on-going basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are set up in connection with the acquisitions. The valuations the Group’s financial position. recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if are usually based on projections and forecasts of future The Group regularly reviews significant outstanding litigathe revision affects only that period or in the period of the ­revenues and operating margin. The outcome of revenues tions in order to assess the need for provisions. Among the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and operating margin could deviate from projections and factors considered, are the nature of the litigation, claims, and future periods. The development, selection and disclosure forecast, and, as a result of this, affect the valuation and legal processes and potential level of damages, the opinions of the Group’s critical accounting policies and estimates and the eventual consideration for non-controlling interests. This and views of the legal counsellors, and the management’s the application of these policies and estimates are reviewed deviation would impact the income for the period and the intentions to respond to the litigations or claims. To the extent by the Audit Committee. financial position. the estimates and judgments do not reflect the actual outcome; this could materially affect the income for the period Key sources of estimation uncertainty Depreciation and amortisation of beneficial rights and the financial position. For further information, see note Note 12 contain information of the assumptions and the risk and programme rights inventory 20 Provisions. factors relating to goodwill impairment. Litigations and Depreciation and amortisation of beneficial rights and pro­p rovisions made are reported in note 20. gramme rights inventory are expensed in accordance with the estimated broadcasting period. A higher proportion of Goodwill and other intangible assets the costs are expensed in the beginning of the broadcasting Intangible assets, except goodwill and intangible assets with period than the following periods. The estimated broadcasting indefinite useful lives, are amortised and depreciated over period could change, and, as a result of this, affect net income their useful lives. Useful lives are based on management’s for the period and the financial position. For further informaestimates of the period that the assets will generate revenue. tion, see note 4 Revenue and note 12 Intangible assets. 81 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 3 Business segments The performance is monitored at the business segment level Broadcasting & Streaming tions comprise the leading national commercial networks in and the business segments are responsible for the manageBroadcasting & Streaming includes both pay-TV, free-TV and Sweden and Norway. ment of the operational assets. Financing is managed cenradio services for the Nordic region. Free-TV comprises TV trally in the Group. Consequently, liquid funds, borrowings, channels primarily financed by advertising in Sweden, Norway Studios lease receivables/ liabilities and equity are not allocated to and Denmark, as well as Viafree. Pay-TV markets and sells Studios comprise the Group’s content production and the business segments. ­Viasat’s premium pay-TV packages on the Viasat DTH satellite ­d istribution businesses in Scandinavia and Europe. The segThe Group’s financial reporting structure is divided into the platform, the Viaplay online platform and on third party IPTV ment comprises a number of leading creators, producers following segments: and cable networks. Viasat also distributes pay-TV channels and distributors of television shows, commercials, events via third party pay-TV networks. The segment’s radio operaand branded content. External sales Internal sales Net sales Operating income Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Broadcasting & Streaming 13,639 12,785 58 15 13,697 12,800 1,731 1,661 Studios 2,030 1,769 254 142 2,284 1,911 82 45 Central operations 2 13 77 71 79 84 –268 –162 Eliminations –389 –228 Total before items affecting ­comparability 15,671 14,568 389 228 15,671 14,568 1,545 1,544 Items affecting comparability –787 –40 Total 15,671 14,568 389 228 15,671 14,568 758 1,504 For a specification of Items affecting comparability, see note 8. Equity and Capital Capital ­ Depreciation Assets liabilities employed expenditure1) and amortisation Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Broadcasting & Streaming 10,230 9,744 6,618 7,475 3,611 2,270 146 490 –179 –150 Studios 2,721 2,625 811 903 1,909 1,722 13 35 –44 –45 Central operations 298 2,239 238 1,688 60 550 17 25 –7 –6 Total 13,248 14,608 7,667 10,066 5,581 4,541 176 550 –229 –201 Cash and cash equivalents 1,238 428 Borrowings 4,780 4,373 Lease receivables / liability 225 – 823 – Equity incl. non-controlling interest 1,442 598 Eliminations –14 –2,834 –14 –2,834 Total 14,697 12,202 14,697 12,202 5,581 4,541 176 550 –229 –201 1) Excluding investments in subsidiaries 82 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 3 cont. 4 Revenues Geographical area Revenue recognition Subscription revenue The Group’s business segments operate mainly in Europe. Revenue from external customers is mainly derived from sale The Group generates subscription revenue from subscription Net sales and non-current assets are shown below by geoof advertising air time, subscription, content production as fees for pay-TV and streaming services. graphical area. Non-current assets constitute of intangible well as licenses. To some extent, revenue is also derived from and tangible assets. Sales are shown per country from which the sale of goods. The accounting principles for the main Subscriptions for pay-TV the revenues are derived. ­revenue streams are described in further detail below. A subscription usually consists of a main subscription fee, hardware (a box) and card fee. Since the customer cannot Tangible and Net sales intangible assets Advertising revenue benefit from the subscription fee, hardware and card fee on A large component of the Group’s revenue derives from sale its own, these products and services are bundled into one Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 2019 2018 of advertising air time as well as sponsoring. Revenue generperformance obligation. The contract period for subscription Sweden 6,082 5,913 1,922 1,969 ated from advertising is generally recognised over time in of pay-TV varies between 6, 12 and 24 months and the cusNorway 3,268 3,031 878 852 a pattern that best depict the service performed (e.g. as the tomer receives and consumes the benefits as the Group proDenmark 4,714 4,232 170 162 ad is played out). A smaller portion of the Group’s revenue vides the service. Revenue is therefore recognised over time Finland 956 778 288 298 refers to ad sales, which is recognised at a point in time when over the binding period of the contract. The customer pays United Kingdom 150 63 288 270 the Group delivers the goods or service and control is transfor the subscription in advance on a monthly basis. Other 502 551 3 5 ferred to the customer The subscription contracts could also contain additional Total 15,671 14,568 3,550 3,556 For yearly contracts, which typically contain several perservices/products other than the main subscription fee, hardformance obligations (such as different campaigns or spots), ware and card fee as described above. These additional the transaction price is allocated to each performance obli­s ervices/products include, but are not limited to, extra hardgation based on their stand-alone selling price. ware and TV channel package. When a contract contains additional services/products, an analysis is performed in order Barter transactions to assess if these are separate performance obligations. Barter entails the exchange of air time on TV or radio for The additional services/products are normally regarded as other goods or services. Revenue from barter transactions separate performance obligations. is recognised at an amount equal to the fair value of the goods or services received from the customer. If the fair Streaming services value of the good or service received cannot be reasonably For streaming services, the customer pays a fee to access estimated, the Group recognises revenue equal to the standcontent which the customer has subscribed for. The customer alone selling price of the service promised to the customer. pays for the streaming service in advance on a monthly Revenue is recognised over time in a way that depict the basis. The streaming period usually consists of a trial period, transfer of control of the good or service as provided to the during which the customer is not committed to start a subcustomer. scription. The transaction price is not allocated to the trial 83 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 4 cont. period. The performance obligation is satisfied over time as Event revenue tions where the Group is acting as an agent, revenue is the Group provides access to the content over a period of Revenue from producing events on behalf of third party are ­recognised net in the income statement. In transactions time (in practice per month). recognised at a point in time. where the Group is acting as a principal, revenue is recogIn addition to the fee for the streaming service, the nised gross in the income statement. ­c ustomer can add other services to the contract such as Licenses and royalty rental or purchase of films and series. The services added A license arrangement establish the customer’s right related Revenue from performance obligations are regarded as separate performance obligations as the to the Group’s intellectual property and the obligation of satisfied in previous periods customer can benefit from these separately. Each service the Group to provide those rights. The Group are granting Within free-TV third party distribution fees occurs related added has a separate price and the revenue is recognised licenses to format and broadcasting rights. Licenses mainly to third party agreements for end customers usage of TV at a point in time. exist within the Studio business. All licenses are classified as channels. This fee is estimated based on historical data for The subscription contracts are without a binding period “right to use-licenses” and revenue are recognised when the previous period. When the actual usage is received from the with a notice period of one month. Both the Group and the license period begins. customer an adjustement is made for revenue recognised customer have the right to terminate the contract and the up to date. parties have no enforceable rights and obligations beyond Other that month. The contracts for streaming services are thereOther revenue consists mainly of revenue from products, Unsatisfied performance obligations fore accounted for as a month-to-month contract. such as hardware when sold separately from subscriptions. The Group does not disclose any information regarding unsatisfied performance obligations as at December 31 since Production revenue Significant judgement in revenue recognition the performance obligations refer to contracts where the Revenue in the Studio business is generated by production Agent or principal contract term is 12 months or less. of films and TV series. The contracts normally consist of one The Group assesses whether it is acting as a principal or performance obligation. Revenue for production of films agent in all transactions where another party is involved and TV series is recognised over time. in providing products or services to the customer. In transac84 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 4 cont. Disaggregation of revenue Revenue from external customers is mainly derived from sale of advertising air time, subscription, content production as well as licenses. 2019 2018 Broadcasting Central Broadcasting Central Group (SEK million) & Streaming Studios ­o perations Elimination Total & Streaming Studios ­o perations Elimination Total External revenue 13,639 2,030 2 15,671 12,785 1,769 13 14,568 Internal revenue 58 254 77 –389 – 15 142 71 –228 – Total revenue for the segment 13,697 2,284 79 –389 15,671 12,800 1,911 84 –228 14,568 Revenue streams Advertising 4,005 78 – 4,083 4,017 172 – 4,189 Subscription 8,771 – – 8,771 8,272 – – 8,272 Production 22 1,585 – 1,607 61 1,321 – 1,382 Licenses, royalities and other 841 368 2 1,210 438 276 13 725 Revenue from external customers 13,639 2,030 2 – 15,671 12,785 1,769 13 – 14,568 Timing of revenue recognition At a point in time 841 368 2 1,210 436 277 13 726 Over time 12,798 1,662 – 14,460 12,350 1,493 – 13,842 Revenue from external customers 13,639 2,030 2 – 15,671 12,785 1,769 13 – 14,568 85 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 4 cont. Cost to obtain or fulfill a contract Contract liability Part of the sales acquisition costs within pay-TV has been defined as cost to obtain or fulfill a Contract liabilities consist of the following prepaid income: contract. Cost to obtain a contract consist of external fees paid to third parties for the provi• Prepaid advertising revenues within free-TV and radio occurs when the customer has been sion of new subscriptions and are incremental costs to obtaining contracts the Group would invoiced in advance of the service delivery not have incurred if the contracts had not been obtained. Cost to fulfill a contract are cost • Prepaid subscription revenues as customers within pay-TV pay one month in advance related to installations, cost for hardware or freight. Cost to obtain or fulfill a contract are • Prepaid revenue related to content production as the revenue is recognised over time ­recognised as an asset and amortised over the expected contract lifetime. Cost to obtain or fulfill a contract are included in prepaid expenses. Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Opening balance 1 January 654 678 Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Net change in contract liability during the year 386 –24 Opening balance 1 January 271 202 Closing balance 31 December 1,040 654 Increase of contract assets due to new contracts during the year 458 310 Amortisation expense of costs to obtain or fulfill a contract –378 –242 Contract liabilities reported at the beginning of 2019 and 2018 has been recognised Closing balance 31 December 351 271 as ­revenue during each year. Contract asset Contract assets consists of accrued revenue, when the Group is entitled to compensation for completed work, but the invoice has not been sent on the closing date. The change during the year represents the net reclassification between accrued revenue and accounts receivable. Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Opening balance 1 January 575 608 A change in the timeframe for a right to consideration to become unconditional 134 –33 Closing balance 31 December 709 575 86 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 5 Nature of expenses 6 Other operating income and expenses Nature of expenses Accounting principle A function based income statement is presented as part of the financial statements of the Other operating income and expenses refers to income and expenses that does not derive Group. The table below presents how the operational costs are classified based on the from the Group’s core operations such as government grants, gains or losses on divestment nature of expense. of operations, gains or loss on sale of intangible and tangible assets, foreign exchange gains or losses on operating receivables and payables. Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Net sales 15,671 14,568 Other operating income 162 44 Other operating income Cost of programmes and goods –8,689 –7,804 Gain from exchange rate d ­ ifferences 41 – Distribution costs –2,436 –2,435 Government grants/ tax incentives 58 14 Salaries, remuneration, and social security expenses –2,108 –2,131 Other 63 31 Depreciation and amortisation –330 –201 Total 162 44 Impairment charges –6 –7 Other operating expenses Other expenses –724 –487 Loss from exchange rate d ­ ifferences –28 –6 Share of earnings in associated companies and joint ventures 5 –3 Depreciation and amortisation – –4 Items affecting comparability –787 –40 Other –5 –7 Operating income 758 1,504 Total –33 –17 87 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 7 Salaries, other remuneration and social security expenses Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 who were a part of MTG’s executive management team were subject to MTG’s remuneration guidelines. In the intermittent period between the listing of NENT and the 2019 Annual General Wages and salaries 1,852 1,609 Meeting there were no guidelines for remuneration in place. The principles in the 2019 NENT Social security expenses 323 392 guidelines were complied with during this period with exception for the one-time cash perforPension costs 163 118 mance plan granted to legacy MTG employees as compensation for the cancelled 2018 MTG Share-based payments 11 20 share plan. Social security expenses on share-based payments 3 –8 Total 2,351 2,131 The Remuneration Guidelines for the Group Executive M ­ anagement 2019 NENT’s remuneration policy is designed to drive and reward company and individual perforGroup (SEK million) 2019 2018 mance, be market competitive to attract and retain key talent, and to incentivise the creation Board of Directors, CEO and other senior executives 128 104 of long-term shareholder value by requiring executives to build and maintain a significant of which variable salary 63 10 shareholding in NENT. Total remuneration may consist of fixed salary, variable components in Other employees 2,223 2,027 the form of short-term (‘STI’) and long-term incentive (‘LTI’) plans, pension and other benefits/ Total 2,351 2,131 allowances. • Fixed salary shall be fair and competitive based on the individual executive’s responsibilities Parent company (SEK million) 2019 2018 and performance. • The STI shall be based on fulfilment of established targets for the Group and in the senior Board of Directors, CEO and other senior executives 59 22 executives’ area of responsibility. The result shall be linked to measurable targets (qualitative, of which variable salary 32 9 quantitative, general, individual). The targets within each area of responsibility are defined Other employees 75 49 to promote NENT’s development in the short and long-term. The maximum payment under Total 134 71 the STI shall generally not exceed 100 percent of the senior executives’ fixed salary. • The LTI shall be linked to certain pre-determined financial and/or share or share-price Remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Group Executive Management related performance criteria and shall ensure a long-term commitment to the development Remuneration to the Board of Directors of NENT and align the senior executives’ incentives with the interest of shareholders. The remuneration to the Board of Directors has been paid in accordance with the resolution • By way of exception, additional one-off arrangements can be made on a case by case approved at the 2019 Annual General Meeting (AGM). The remuneration includes fees for basis when deemed necessary, subject to Board approval. Each such arrangement shall be ordinary board work and fees for work within the committees of the Board. For 2018, and capped and never exceed two (2) times the individual’s annual base salary. the period leading up to the 2019 AGM, the board fees amounted to SEK 4.7m. • All benefits/allowances including pensions follow the competitive market practice in the applicable country of executives’ employment or residence. Remuneration to the Group Executive Management • The maximum notice period in any senior executive’s contract is twelve months during which The Remuneration Committee’s evaluation has resulted in the conclusion that there has been time salary payment will continue. compliance with the guidelines for remuneration to the senior executives resolved by the 2019 The Board of Directors shall be entitled to deviate from these guidelines if special reasons for Annual General Meeting. Prior to the listing of NENT, the remuneration to those executives doing so exist in any individual case. 88 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 7 cont. under the plan was conditional on fulfilment of the same compensation for the cancelled 2018 MTG share plan. The Remuneration and terms of employment for the performance conditions as for the 2019 LTIP. A notice of maximum award was three to four months’ base salary for President & CEO in 2019 ­termination period of one year applies for the President & members of the Group Executive Management. Payment The remuneration to the President & CEO includes fixed CEO if such notice is given by the Company or the President under the plan was conditional on fulfilment of the same per­s alary, variable components in the form of STI and LTI plans, & CEO respectively. The agreement does not provide for formance conditions as the 2019 LTIP. A notice of termination pension in the form of defined contribution and other beneany severance pay. period of six to twelve months applies to the Group Executive fits/allowances. For 2019, the base salary was set at SEK 7.2m. Management members if such notice is given by the ComIn December 2019 the Board made a minor adjustment to Remuneration and terms of employment for other pany or the Group Executive Management member respecthe President & CEOs remuneration to simplify the arrangemembers of the Group Executive Management in 2019 tively. Any severance pay is limited to six months’ base salary. ments. Part of the benefits/allowances provided were The remuneration to the Group Executive Management removed and converted to base salary taking into account members included fixed salary, variable components in the Group Executive Management the impact on incentives and pension. In addition to particiform of STI and LTI plans, pension in the form of defined conThe current Group Executive Management includes the pating in the 2019 NENT STI and LTI plans, the President & CEO tribution and other benefits/allowances. In addition to partici­P resident & CEO, the EVP & CFO and Head of Strategy and was eligible for two plans connected to the split from MTG: pating in the 2019 NENT STI and LTI plans, the majority of M&A and six other Executive Vice Presidents. The Group 1) the one-off listing bonus corresponding to six months’ base members were eligible for two plans connected to the split Executive Management is described on pages 53–54. During salary; and 2) the one-time cash performance plan granted from MTG: 1) the one-off listing bonus corresponding to three 2019 there were substantial changes to the Group Executive to legacy MTG employees as compensation for the canto six months’ base salary for the Group Excecutive ManageManage­m ent team primarily due to the reorganisation of celled 2018 MTG share plan. The maximum award for the ment members included in the plan and 2) the one-time cash the Company effective 1 October 2019. President & CEO was four months’ base salary. Payment performance plan granted to legacy MTG employees as Remuneration to the Board of Directors Board fee Board fee (SEK thousand) 20191) 20182) David Chance, Chairman of the Board 1,503 1,503 Anders Borg 630 630 Henrik Clausen 3) 553 553 Simon Duffy 735 735 Kristina Schauman 630 630 Natalie Tydeman 620 605 Total 4,670 4,655 1) Board fees consist of remuneration for ordinary Board work (SEK 3,950,000) and remuneration for work in the committees (SEK 720,000). 2) Board fees consist of remuneration for ordinary Board work (SEK 3,950,000) and remuneration for work in the committees (SEK 705,000). 3) Henrik Clausen stepped down from the Board of Directors on 4 February 2020. 89 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 7 cont. Remuneration and other benefits to the Variable Variable including acquisitions/divestments) for the 2019 financial year. Group Executive Management remuneraremuneraThreshold and maximum target levels were established by Base tion paid in tion due in Other (SEK thousand) salary 2019 1) 2020 2) LTIP cost 3) benefits Pension Total the Board at grant. If the minimum threshold level is achieved, 25% of the Performance Share Awards will vest. If the maxiAnders Jensen, President & CEO 7,216 3,600 9,616 1,287 243 427 22,388 mum level is achieved, 100% of the Performance Share Group Executive Management (17 members)4) 35,326 14,934 34,267 2,958 662 3,455 91,602 Awards will vest. For target achievement between the Total 42,542 18,534 43,883 4,245 905 3,882 113,991 threshold and maximum level, the vesting outcome will be 1) Variable remuneration paid in 2019 refers to the one-off listing bonus connected to the split from MTG earned during 2018 and 2019. measured linearly. 2) Variable remuneration due in 2020 refers to the STI payments for 2019 and the one-time cash performance award connected to the split from MTG. To ensure that senior executives build and maintain a signif­ 3) Non-cash share-based incentive programme costs for LTIP 2019 is calculated in accordance with IFRS 2. 4) The 2019 amounts disclosed for Group Executive Management relate to the full year for: Anders Jensen, Gabriel Catrina, Kim Poder, Matthew Hooper, icant shareholding in NENT, vesting is conditional on a share Jakob Mejlhede Andersen, Kaj af Kleen and Sahar Kupersmidt. Part-year for Susan Gustafsson (Jan–Jun), Jennie Jacobs (Jan–May), Cecilia Gave ­­ ownership requirement for the CEO and the full Group Exec(Mar–Sep), Mia Suazo Eriksson (Oct–Dec), Jonas Gustafsson, Vegard Klubbenes Drogseth, Mathias Norrback, Morten Mogensen, Alexander Bastin and Kim Mikkelsen (Jan–Sep). Filippa Wallestam was on partial parental leave during the period Jan–Jul. utive Management population. The CEO and members of the Group Executive Management are required to accumuOut of the remuneration to other members of the Group Executive Management SEK 59 million was expensed in the parent company and 69 million was expensed in the subsidiaries. late NENT shares toward target ownership levels that are based on a percentage of net salary. For the CEO, the target ownership level is 150% and, for the members of the Group Decision process payment is depending on the fulfillment of certain stipulated Executive Management, amounts to 75% and 50% dependThe remuneration to the Chief Executive Officer was performance conditions. ing on tier. For current Group Executive Management, 33% decided by the Board of Directors on recommendation by of the requirement must be met each year over three years. the Remuneration Committee. The remuneration policy for Long-term incentive plan (LTIP) 2019 The participants’ maximum profit per Performance Share the Group Executive Management is determined by the The Annual General Meeting 2019 approved a share-based Award in LTIP 2019 is limited to four times the volume-­weighted Remuneration Committee and the Board. long-term incentive plan, LTIP 2019. The plan is performanceaverage of the market price of NENT’s Class B Shares on based and directed to approximately 100 participants ­N asdaq Stockholm during the five trading days immediately Share-based compensation across NENT including the Group Executive Management, following the publication of the company’s interim report for The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to other senior executives and key employees. The plan is the first quarter 2019 (the “Share Price Cap”). If the value of certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are designed to attract, motivate and retain key talent within NENT’s Class B Share exceeds the Share Price Cap at vesting, measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value NENT and to align participants’ interests with shareholders. the number of Class B Shares that each right entitles the pardetermined at the grant date, including social security costs, The number of shares that vest in 2022 is dependent on ticipant to receive at vesting will be reduced correspondingly. is based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually the achievement of two equally weighted NENT targets; The performance outcome for LTIP 2019 was 99% and vest and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting (i) organic sales growth (organic sales growth refers to 100% of the maximum number of shares may vest and be period. The fair value expense excluding social fees is re­­ growth excluding the effects of acquisitions/divestments allocated to participants in 2022, as shown in the table ported in the income statement as personnel costs with the and adjusted for currency effects), and (ii) operating income below. Vesting is conditional upon that the participant, with corresponding increase in equity. For the recurring calculation (operating income before Items Affecting Comparability certain customary exceptions, at the time of the publication of social security costs the fair value is revalued quarterly. (IAC) may be adjusted for extraordinary or non-budgeted of NENT’s interim report for the first quarter of 2022, is still The current plan has a three-year vesting period and the items or events not related to the ordinary course of business employed by the NENT Group. 90 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 7 cont. Cost effects of the incentive programme Dilution LTIP 2019 is equity-settled. The initial fair value at grant date of the share programme, is If all the share rights awarded to senior executives and key employees as at 31 December expensed during the vesting period. The cost for the programme is recorded as an operating 2019 were exercised, the outstanding shares of the Company would increase by 332,902 Class expense. The cost is based on the fair value of the NENT Class B share at grant date and the B shares, and be equivalent to a dilution of 0.5% of the issued capital and 0.5% of the related number of shares expected to vest. The cost recognised for the programme in 2019 amounts voting rights at the end of 2019. to SEK 11 million excluding social charges. Social charges amounted to SEK 3 million and included Maximum Maximum in accrued expenses in the balance sheet. There were no share rights exercisable at the end number of value Category B shares1) (SEK Million)2) of 2019. President & CEO (Tier 1) 42,654 13 Other members of Group Executive Management (Tier 2 and 3) 108,741 33 Outcome of LTIP and one-time Cash Plan 2019 measured over one year Senior executives and key e ­ mployees (Tier 4 and 5) 181,507 55 Allocation of LTIP shares 2022 and One-time Cash Plan in Total outstanding as per 31 December 2019 332,902 100 Performance targets 2020 1) Representing 100% of the number of shares granted in May 2019. Performance conditions Threshold Maximum Actual Outcome Weight Allocation 2) Calculated based on a share price of SEK 301.28 on 27 December 2019. Operating income before IAC1) 1,386 1,617 1,621 100% 50% 50% Organic sales growth 5.0% 6.5% 6.4% 97% 50% 49% No of share awards outstanding LTIP 2019 Total allocation 99% Share awards outstanding of the beginning of the year – Total allocation decided by the Board of Directors 2) 100% Share awards allotted during the year 406,460 Share awards forfeit during the year –73,558 1) Refers to normalised operating income (EBIT) before items affecting comparability. In accordance with the plan rules, the Board of Directors has adjusted the calculation of actual level for non-budgeted items or events not Total outstanding as per 31 December 332,902 related to the ordinary course of business e.g. M&A iinvestments outside of budget. 2) The Board of Directors have decided to round up to 100% allocation, in accordance with the plan rules and manThe weighted average remaining contractual life for the remaining share awards is 2.5 years. dates of the Board. 91 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 8 Items affecting comparability 9 Financial items Accounting principle Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Items affecting comparability (IAC) refers to material items and events related to changes Interest income 11 4 in the Group’s structure or line of business, which are relevant to understanding the Group’s Interest income, MTG Group – 7 develeopment on a like-for-like basis. Total interest revenue 11 11 Separate reporting of items affecting comparability provides a better understanding of the Group’s operating activitites and offers more compareble figures between periods. Interest expense on borrowings –29 – Interest expense, MTG Group – –46 Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Interest expense, other –2 –2 Costs related to the separation and listing of NENT Group –56 – Total interest expenses –30 –48 Write down of free-TV content and other assets –540 –16 Leasing interest income 8 – Restructuring NENT Group –190 –53 Leasing interest expense –26 – Revaluation of liabilities related to options to acquire shares – 14 Leasing net interest –18 – Impairment of goodwill related to closed company – –6 Deconsolidation of the operations in Tanzania – 21 Net exchange rate differences 1 – Total –787 –40 Effect from discounting 2 2 Other –11 –17 Items affecting comparability classified by function Other financial items –9 –15 Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Net financial items –47 –52 Cost of goods sold –416 – Administrative expenses –368 –53 Parent company (SEK million) 2019 2018 Other operating income – 35 Interest income from external parties 10 19 Other operating expenses –3 –22 Interest income from Group ­companies 97 5 Total –787 –40 Net exchange rate differences –4 3 Total interest income and other financial income 103 26 Interest expense to external parties –29 –19 Interest expense to Group companies –16 –1 Borrowing costs –12 – Total interest expense and other financial costs –56 –20 Net financial items 47 7 92 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 10 Taxes Accounting principle Distribution of tax expense Corporate income tax 2019 2018 Tax expenses includes current and deferred tax Swedish Tax Current Deferred Total Tax Current Deferred Total Group (SEK million) base tax tax tax base tax tax tax and foreign corporate income taxes. Other taxes such as non-deductable VAT, withholding tax, property tax etc is Income before tax – Nominal tax rate, 21.4% / 22.0% 712 –152 – –152 1,452 –319 – –319 reported as operating expense based on the function of Non-taxable income –71 14 – 14 –189 40 – 40 the underlying transaction. Non-deductable expenses 105 –21 – –21 354 –79 – –79 Temporary differences 162 –34 34 – 161 –34 34 – Deferred tax Tax-losses, capitalised 146 –31 31 – – – – – Deferred tax refers to changes in temporary differences Tax losses, not capitalised 30 –6 – –6 31 –8 – –8 between an assets or a liability’s carring amount and it’s tax Tax losses carry-forward, previously capitalised –2 1 –1 – –39 9 –9 – base. A deferred tax asset is reported corresponding to the Tax losses carry-forward, not previously capitalised –113 24 – 24 –126 27 – 27 tax value of loss carry forwards if it is judged likely that the Group contribution from ultimate parent (MTG) – – – – –776 171 – 171 loss carry forward will be used to taxable income in the foreRevaluation of deferred tax – – –8 –8 – – – – seeable future. Effects from foregin tax rates – 23 – 23 – 30 – 30 Under/over provided in prior years – 4 – 4 – –21 – –21 Distribution of tax expense Total – –179 57 –122 – –184 24 –160 Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Current tax expense –183 –163 2019 2018 Adjustment for prior years 4 –21 Tax Current Deferred Total Tax Current Deferred Total Total current tax –179 –184 Parent company (SEK million) base tax tax tax base tax tax tax Deferred tax 57 24 Income before tax – Nominal tax rate, 21.4% / 22.0% –210 45 – 45 –124 24 – 24 Total –122 –160 Non-taxable income –63 13 – 13 – – – – Non-deductible expenses 28 –6 – –6 – – – – Parent company (SEK million) 2019 2018 Temporary differences 6 –1 1 – – – – – Group contribution 597 –128 – –128 123 –24 – –24 Current tax expense –77 – Total – –77 1 –76 – – – – Deferred tax 1 – Total –76 – 93 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 10 cont. Unrecognised tax losses carry-forward by expiry date Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 2019 – 17 2020 21 22 2021 49 47 2022 31 30 2023 and thereafter 135 130 No expiry date 6 95 Total 242 341 There were no tax losses carry forward in 2018 and 2019 in the parent company. Deferred tax attributable to: Opening Deferred tax Deferred tax Translation Deferred tax Deferred tax Closing ­b alance recognised recognised differences / 31 Dec 2018/ recognised recognised Translation ­b alance Group (SEK million) 1 Jan 2018 in the P&L in OCI reclass. 1 Jan 2019 in the P&L in OCI differences 31 Dec 2019 Tax losses carried forward – 21 – –21 – 28 – – 29 Goodwill –149 – – – –147 – – – –147 Intangible assets –152 9 – – –144 20 – – –125 Tangible assets 11 1 – – 11 –5 – – 7 Right-of-use assets – – – – – 1 – – 1 Financial assets –14 –3 –6 – –22 7 –2 –3 –21 Inventory – 3 – – 3 – – – 3 Current receivables 18 –11 – –6 1 1 – – 2 Provisions 4 5 – 1 10 4 – – 14 Current liabilities – – – – – 2 – – 2 Untaxed reserves – – – – – -2 – – –2 Total –280 24 –6 –26 –287 57 –2 –3 –239 whereof Deferred tax assets 24 64 whereof Deferred tax liabilities –311 –303 Opening Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Closing ­b alance recognised recognised Translation 31 Dec 2018/ recognised recognised Translation ­b alance Parent company (SEK million) 1 Jan 2018 in the P&L in OCI differences 1 Jan 2019 in the P&L in OCI differences 31 Dec 2019 Financial assets – – – – – 1 – – 1 Total – – – – – 1 – – 1 whereof Deferred tax assets – 1 94 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 11 Earnings per share 12 Intangible assets Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Accounting for intangible assets Intangible assets are reported net after deductions for accumulated amortisation according Earnings per share before dilution to plan and impairment losses. Amortisation according to plan are normally calculated on a Net income for the year ­attributable to equity holders of the straight-line schedule based on the acquisition value of the asset and its estimated useful life. ­parent company 589 1,286 The intangible assets are classified in the following categories: Shares outstanding on 1 ­January 66,980,902 66,725,249 Effect from share awards e ­ xercised 298,973 128,884 Asset Amortisation period Weighted average number of shares, basic 67,279,875 66,854,133 Capitalised development expenditure 3–10 years Basic earnings per share, SEK 8.77 19.24 Trademarks Trademarks being part of a p ­ urchase price allocaDiluted earnings per share tion are normally judged to have indefinite lives Diluted net income for the year attributable to the equity holders with impairment tests annually or if triggered by of the parent c ­ ompany 589 1,286 events Weighted average number of shares, basic 67,279,875 66,854,133 Customer relations 10–15 years Effect from share awards 204,690 508,272 Beneficial rights/ ­broadcasting licenses Estimated amortisation period based on the terms Weighted average number of shares, diluted 67,484,565 67,362,405 of the license Diluted earnings per share, SEK 8.74 19.09 Goodwill Indefinite lives with impairment tests annually or if triggered by events Potentially dilutive instruments Nordic Entertainment Group AB has one outstanding long-term incentive plan. The potential Capitalised development expenditure dilution is calculated in order to determine the number of shares that can be excercised at Expenditure on development activities, aiming at new or substantially improved products fair value based on the value of the share awards. Performance share awards are included and processes, are capitalised if the process is technically and commercially feasible and the in the potentially dilutive shares from the start of the program, and in accordance with the Group has sufficient resources to complete the development. The development expenditure performance targets achieved. The Company has one outstanding programme from 2019 capitalised includes the direct costs and, when appropriate, cost of direct labour and an where the vesting has not occured, but that might have a diluting effect. As per 31 December appropriate proportion of overheads. Other development expenditures is expensed in the 2019 the share awards amounted to 332,902. income statement as incurred. Capitalised development expenditures are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The capitalised expenditure relates mainly to software and software platforms. 95 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 12 cont. Goodwill Other intangible assets Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Other intangible assets, such as acquired customer relations, beneficial rights, broadcasting Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of an acquired business. licenses and trademarks, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment Goodwill is recognised as an asset and tested for impairment losses at least annually. Any losses. impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and cannot be reversed. Goodwill arising from acquisitions of associated companies is included in the reported value of shares in associated companies. Impairment tests are made on the total cash generating unit. Group Parent,company 2019 2018 Capital,expenditures Capitalised TradeCapitalised Trade(SEK,million) expenditure marks Other Goodwill Total expenditure marks Other Goodwill Total 2019 2018 Acquisition,values Opening balance 1 January 475 531 681 4,187 5,874 384 517 344 5,024 6,270 1 – Investments during the year 96 – – – 96 109 – 363 – 471 – 1 Acquisitions through business ­combinations – – – – – – – – 10 10 – – Sales and disposals during the year –28 – –4 – –32 –2 – –35 –877 –915 –1 – Change in Group structure, ­reclassifications etc 16 – 12 – 28 –16 – 1 0 –15 – – Translation differences – 14 6 37 57 0 14 8 30 53 – – Closing balance 31 December 560 545 695 4,224 6,023 475 531 681 4,187 5,874 – 1 Accumulated amortisation and ­impairment losses Opening balance 1 January –311 –18 –227 –1,914 –2,470 –225 –18 –207 –2,784 –3,234 – – Sales and disposals during the year 27 – 4 – 31 1 – 38 877 916 – – Amortisation during the year –103 – –71 – –175 –87 – –54 – –141 – – Impairment losses during the year –6 – – – –6 –1 – – –6 –7 – – Change in Group structure, ­reclassifications etc –6 – –11 – –16 1 – – – 1 – – Translation differences – – –4 – –4 – – –5 – –5 – – Closing balance 31 December –398 –18 –310 –1,913 –2,639 –311 –18 –227 –1,914 –2,470 – – As per 1 January 164 514 454 2,274 3,405 159 499 137 2,240 3,035 – – As per 31 December 161 527 385 2,311 3,385 164 513 454 2,274 3,405 – 1 96 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 12 cont. Amortisation by function Impairment testing nature more uncertain and may also be influenced by factors Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Impairment testing, of goodwill and other intangible assets not in control by the company. Such factors could be political with indefinite lives, are based on calculations of the recoverrisks and general market conditions, which might quickly deteCost of goods and services –166 –137 able amount (value in use), using a discounted cash flow model. riorate due to a financial crisis such as crisis due to instability in Administrative expenses –9 –4 The cash flows of each cash generating unit are ­d iscounted the financial sector. Other operating expenses – – at a pre-tax interest of 8.8% for Broadcasting & Streaming The test for the Studios segment indicates a low headroom Total –175 –141 (i.e. the difference between the recoverable value and the and 9.8% for Studios considering the cost of capital, territory, the economic environment and risk. The model involves key carrying value). The current calculation, using an individual Impairment losses by function assumptions such as sales, growth rates, sales prices and cost WACC of 8.8%, do not indicate impairment, but a change in Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 the recoverable amount, depending on changes in the market growth together with working capital requirements. These Cost of goods and services –2 –1 cash flow projections, calculated over a minimum of a fiveconditions or other parameters, could result in an impairment. Other operating expenses –4 – year period, are based on actual operating results, forecasts A change in the growth rate would give the following results Items affecting comparability – –6 and financial projections, using historical trends, general for Studios. Total –6 –7 market conditions, industry trends and other available information. After the five-year period, a growth rate of 2.5% Studios (SEK million) 2019 Cash generating units with significant (2.5) is normally applied. Recoverable amount 2,274 carrying amounts of goodwill Carrying amount 2,075 Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Impairment The impairment tests are carried out on a regular basis, The recoverable amount in relation to the Broadcasting & Streaming 1,301 1,286 ­carrying amount in case of a decrease in annually or when triggered by events. The tests did not Studios 1,010 988 growth rate ­t rigger an impairment for the Group during the period. Total 2,311 2,274 –0,5 percentage point 2,150 –1,0 percentage point 2,050 Cash generating units with trademarks with indefinite lives Sensitivity The Broadcasting & Streaming segment, which do not Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 ­indicate an impairment requirement, have such a margin Broadcasting and Streaming 251 244 that reasonably possible adverse changes in individual Studios 276 270 parameters would not cause the value in use to fall below Total 527 513 the book value. However, cash flow projections are to its 97 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 13 Tangible assets Accounting for tangible assets Depreciation by function Tangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated depreciation and any write-downs. Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Where parts of an item of machinery and equipment have different useful lives, they are Cost of goods and services –18 –33 accounted for as separate items of machinery and equipment. Depreciation are normally Selling expenses – –1 calculated using the straight-line method over the assets estimated useful life. Machinery Administrative expenses –36 –23 and equipment are depreciated over a period of 3 to 5 years. Other operating expenses – –4 Equipment, tools Total –54 –61 and installations Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Write-downs by function Cost Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Opening balance 1 January 710 666 Other operating expenses –1 – Investments during the year 80 79 Total –1 – Sales and scrapping during the year –115 –62 Change in group structure, ­reclassifications etc –28 15 Translation differences 8 11 Closing balance 31 December 655 710 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs Opening balance 1 January –559 –547 Sales and scrapping during the year 115 60 Depreciation during the year –54 –61 Write-downs –1 – Change in group structure, reclassifications etc 16 –1 Translation differences –7 –10 Closing balance 31 December –489 –559 Carrying amount As per 1 January 152 120 As per 31 December 165 152 98 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 14 Long-term financial assets Group companies The following table lists the major companies included in the Group. A detailed specification of group companies has been submitted to the Swedish Companies Registration Office and is available upon request from Nordic Entertainment Group Investor Relations. Shares and participations in Group companies Registered Share Voting Ownership in Group companies Co. Reg.no. office capital (%) rights (%) Nordic Entertainment Group Radio AB 556365-3335 Sweden 100 100 Nordic Entertainment Group Sweden AB 556304-7041 Sweden 100 100 Viaplay AB 556513-5547 Sweden 100 100 Splay One AB 556909-3882 Sweden 100 100 Strix Television AB 556345-5624 Sweden 100 100 Nordic Entertainment Group Denmark A/S Denmark 100 100 TV3 Sport1 A/S Denmark 100 100 Nordic Entertainment Group A/S Denmark 100 100 Nordic Entertainment Group ­Norway A/S Norway 100 100 Nordic Entertainment Group AS Norway 100 100 P4 Radio Hele Norge AS Norway 100 100 NICE Entertainment Group Oy Finland 100 100 Nordic Entertainment Group Finland OY Finland 100 100 Nordic Entertainment Group Ltd United Kingdom 100 100 Digital Rights Group Limited United Kingdom 95 95 Book value Book value Parent company (SEK million) Co. Reg.no. Registered office Number of shares Share ­capital (%) Voting rights (%) 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Nordic Entertainment Group Sweden Holding AB 556057-9558 Stockholm 5,000 100% 100% 110 – Total 110 – Share capital (%) and Voting rights (%) represent 31 Dec 2019 Shares and participations in Group companies Parent company (SEK million) 2019 2018 Opening balance 1 January – – Acquisition, internally 110 – Closing balance 31 December 110 – 99 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 15 Associated companies and joint venture 16 Accounts receivables Accounting principle Group (SEK million) 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Associated companies and joint ventures are reported based on the equity method. The share of earnings is equal to the Accounts receivables Group’s share of net income in each associated company or joint venture after conversion into Swedish krona. The following Gross accounts receivables 1,187 1,244 table lists the associated companies and joint ventures included in the Group. Less allowances for doubtful accounts –75 –20 Registered Share Voting Ownership in Group companies Co. Reg.no. office capital (%) rights (%) Total 1,112 1,224 Airtime Sales AB 559040-3399 Sweden 50 50 Allowance for doubtful NSR Scandinavia AB 556821-4356 Sweden 48 48 accounts Filmen Hundraåringen AB 556828-8509 Sweden 50 50 Opening balance 1 January 20 34 Angel Films Oy Finland 48 48 Provision for potential losses 70 9 Dagsljus Teknik AB 556218-3284 Sweden 48 48 Actual losses –10 –6 Nice Flx Pictures AB 556846-4613 Sweden 48 48 Reversed write-offs –5 –18 Mediamätning i Skandinavien AB 556353-3032 Sweden 25 25 Translation differences 1 1 GH Gigahertz HB 969616-7551 Sweden 40 40 Closing balance 31 December 75 20 Radiobranschen RAB AB 556623-1345 Sweden 40 40 Analysis of accounts Digitalradio Norge AS Norway 50 50 ­receivables FilmNation LLC United Kingdom 40 40 Not due 869 914 Overdue 30–90 days 204 231 Overdue > 90 days 114 99 Summarised financial information Share of earnings in assoicated companies and joint ventures Total 1,187 1,244 Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Net sales 225 195 The credit risk is diversified among a large group of customers. Net income 11 –12 Share of earnings 5 –3 The credit risk is assessed based on historical data. The recogOther comprehensive income – – nised values are judge to be reasonable approximation of Carrying amount Non-current assets 22 30 the fair values. Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Current assets 45 91 Equity share in associated Total assets 67 121 companies and joint ventures 34 17 Non-current liabilities 8 16 Shares in other companies 108 3 Current liabilities 70 85 Total 142 20 Total liabilities 78 101 100 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 17 Prepaid expense and accrued income 18 Shareholders’ equity Group (SEK million) 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 The holder of an NENT Class A share is entitled to 10 voting There were no C shares outstanding at the year end. Shares rights, the holder of an NENT Class B and NENT Class C share in 2018 refers to MTG’s shares. There were no treasury shares Prepaid expenses one voting right. Class C shareholders are not ­e ntitled to at year end. Personel 2 1 ­d ividend payments. The quota value is SEK 2 per share. Production 29 58 Capitalised subscriber Shares issued 2019 2018 1) ­acqusition cost 351 280 Number of Quota value Number of Quota value Other 117 110 Parent company shares paid (SEK million) shares paid (SEK million) Total 499 449 NENT Class A 545,662 1 545,662 25 Accrued income NENT Class B 66,796,582 134 66,441,462 309 Advertising 92 59 NENT Class C – – 660,000 4 Subscription 199 210 Total number of shares issued/total quota value as per 31 December 67,342,244 135 67,647,124 338 Production 254 153 1) Shares in 2018 refers to MTG’s shares. License and royalty 91 152 Other 115 54 Paid-in capital/Premium reserve Non-controlling interest Total 751 628 The paid-in capital arises when shares are issued at a In subsidiaries not wholly owned, the share of equity owned Total prepaid expense and premium, i.e. shares were paid at a higher price than by external shareholders is recorded as non-­controlling accrued income 1,250 1,076 the quota value. ­i nterest. Parent company (SEK million) 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Translation reserve in equity Translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differOther prepaid external ences arising from the translation of the financial statements expenses 14 1 of foreign operations to Swedish krona in the consolidated Other accrued revenue 1 – accounts. Total 15 1 Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Opening balance 1 January –77 –123 This year's translation ­differences, net of tax 52 46 Closing balance 31 December –25 –77 101 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 18 cont. 19 Proposed treatment of unappropriated earnings Hedging reserve The Board of Directors does not propose the previously indicated cash dividend of SEK 7.00 The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair per share for 2019 to the upcoming 2020 Annual General Meeting of shareholders. The value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet Bord of Directors proposes that the un-appropriated earnings be allocated as follows: occurred. Hedging positions are taken to protect the Group against the effects of transaction Read more about the Board’s statement on proposed treatment of unappropriated earnings exposures in the contracted outflow for the main part of programme acquisitions in foreign on page 117. currency. The following sum in the parent company is avaliable for disposal Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 by the Annual General Meeting: Opening balance 1 January 37 –31 Profit brough forward SEK 1,447,712,000 Recognised in other comprehensive income 13 68 Net profit for the year SEK 311,548,568 Closing balance 31 December 50 37 Total SEK 1,759,260,568 Retained earnings The board of directors proposes that the unappriprirated earnings be allocated as follows: Retained earnings comprise of previously earned income. Carried forward SEK 1,759,260,568 Total SEK 1,759,260,568 102 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 20 Provisions 21 Accrued expense and prepaid income Accounting principle Pension Provision There are mainly defined contribution pension plans within 31 Dec 31 Dec Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group the Group. The Group’s payments to defined contribution has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of plans are reported as costs in the period when the employee Accrued expenses a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic performed the services to which the fee relates. A defined Personnel 326 308 resources will be required to settle the obligation and the contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under Production 124 114 amount can be reliably estimated. If the effect of when in which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate Distribution 73 79 time the payment takes place is material, provisions are entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to Royalty 18 24 determined by discounting the expected future cash flows pay further amounts. Marketing 51 96 at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments Other 399 376 of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks Total 991 997 specific to the anticipated liability. Prepaid income Advertising 132 83 Restructuring Royalties and Group (SEK million) ­­p rovisions other provisions Total Subscription 592 492 Opening balance 1 January 2018 38 401 438 Production 108 78 Provisions during the year 38 106 144 License and royalty 208 1 Utilised during the year –43 –200 –243 Other 49 141 Reversed during the year – –14 –14 Total 1,089 796 Reclassifications – –22 –22 Total accrued expenses and Translation differences – 5 5 prepaid income 2,080 1,793 Closing balance 31 December 2018 33 276 309 31 Dec 31 Dec Opening balance 1 January 2019 33 276 309 Parent company (SEK million) 2019 2018 Provisions during the year 170 144 314 Accrued personnel expenses 39 40 Utilised during the year –49 –129 –178 Other accrued expenses 23 – Reversed during the year –3 –33 –36 Total accrued expenses and Translation differences – 5 5 prepaid income 62 40 Closing balance 31 December 2019 151 263 414 The Group has defined benefit pension plans in Norway defined benefit plan. The Group reports these pension costs and Sweden. The plans relate to a few employees and the in the same way as defined contribution plans. amount is immaterial. In Sweden there is a multi-­e mployer 103 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 22 Financial instruments and financial risk management Capital management ing the financial risks. The aim is to limit the Group’s financial a corporate bond for SEK 800 million maturing May 2022 The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is risks, and ensure that the Group has appropriate and secure and a corporate bond for SEK 500 million maturing October to ensure financial stability, manage financial risks and secure financing for its current needs. 2020, all with variable 3-month Stibor interest plus a margin. the Group’s short-term and long-term need of capital. The Liquidity in the Group is concentrated with the Group’s The bonds have been issued under the Group’s medium term Group defines its capital as equity including non-controlling treasury function and in local cash pools. Surplus liquidity note program (with a total frame of SEK 4,000 million). In the interest as stated in the balance sheet. may be invested during a period of maximum six months. short-term capital market, The Group has an uncommitted The Group manages its capital structure and makes The financial policy includes a special counterparty regulation commercial paper program with a frame of SEK 3,500 million adjustments when necessary due to economic conditions in by which a maximum credit exposure for various counter­ under which certificates for SEK 2,480 million was issued at its environment. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, parties to minimise the risk is stipulated. the balance sheet date. the Group may change the dividend payment to share­ The Group also has a five-year committed SEK 4,000 million holders, buy-back shares or issue new shares. Financing and refinancing risk syndicated bank facility arranged in August 2018. The facility The Group monitors capital efficiency using different Financing risk is the risk of not being able to meet the need was not utilised at the balance sheet date. The revolving ratios, such as net debt, return on capital employed and for future funding requirements. The Group’s sources of fundcredit facility is unsecured with no required amortisations equity to assets ratio. ing are primarily shareholders’ equity, cash flows from operand can be paid out in optional currencies. The interest varies ations and borrowing. In order to reduce the refinancing risk with IBOR (not lower than 0%) depending on the currency Financial risk management the Group strives to diversify the funding sources and matu­u tilised. Covenants for the facility are based on the ratios In addition to business operational risks, the Group is exposed rity tenors and normally initiate ­refinancing of all loans 12 total consolidated net debt in relation to consolidated EBITDA to various financial risks in its operations. The most important months prior to maturity. The Group shall at all times strive and consolidated EBITDA to net financial expenses. There are financial risks are refinancing-, currency-, credit-, and interest for relevant key ratios equal to investment grade rating. no regulatory external capital requirements to be met by rate risk. The risks during 2018–2019 were regulated by the External borrowing is managed centrally in accordance the parent company or any of the subsidiaries other than the financial policy adopted by NENT’s Board of Directors in 2018. with the Group’s financial policy. Loans are primarily taken covenants. The covenants have been fulfilled. The Group’s financial policy constitutes a framework of up by the parent company, and transferred to ­s ubsidiaries Overdraft facilities within the Group’s cash-pool banks guidelines and rules for financial risk management and finanas internal loans or capital injections. There are currently no consist of one overdraft facility of SEK 150 million, one of DKK cial activities in general. The policy is subject to a yearly subsidiaries with external loans and/or overdraft facilities 50 million, and one of NOK 55 million. In total SEK 278 million review. The Group’s financial risks are continuously compiled connected directly to these ­companies. of which nil was drawn at the balance sheet date. and followed up at corporate level by the Group’s treasury The Group has a SEK 300 million corporate bond with fixed As per 31 December 2019, total shortand long-term function to ensure compliance with the financial policy. The interest rate maturing July 2026. Additionally the Group has borrow­ings amounted to SEK 4,780 (4,372) million including parent company’s treasury function is responsible for managa corporate bond for SEK 700 million maturing May 2024, SEK 4,780 (0) million borrowed from the capital market. 104 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 22 cont. Net debt Terms and payback period, gross values Group (SEK million) 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Fixed Effective Maturity Interest interest interest 2019 Maturity Maturity 2022 or Short-term loans 2,980 – Group 2019 (SEK million) rate rate rate Total 2020 2021 later Liabilities related to MTG – 4,373 Bond loan (floating rates) 1.29% 3 months 1.33% 1,700 500 – 1,200 Short-term borrowings 2,980 4,373 Bond loan (fixed rate including Long-term borrowings 1,800 – interest rate swaps) 1.48% 3–7 years 1.45% 600 – – 600 Total long-term borrowings 1,800 – Commercial papers 0.32% 2–9 months 0.35% 2,480 2,480 – – Accounts payable – – – 2,199 2,199 – – Total financial borrowings 4,780 4,373 Total 6,979 5,179 – 1,800 Cash and cash equivalents 1,238 428 Financial net debt 3,542 3,944 Fixed Effective Maturity Interest interest interest 2018 Maturity Maturity 2021 or Lease liability 823 – Group 2018 (SEK million) rate rate rate Total 2019 2020 later Lease receivables 225 – Liabilities related to MTG 1.1% 3 months 1.1% 4,384 4,384 – – Lease liabilities net 598 – Accounts payable – – – 1,750 1,750 – – Total 6,134 6,134 – – Net debt 4,139 3,944 The interest have been calculated using the current interest rates on 31 December. Cash-pool overdraft facilities 278 375 The liabilities have been included in the period when repayment may be required at the earliest. where of utilised – – Revolving credit facilities 4,000 – Market risks corporate bond maturing 2022. Interest paid and received whereof utilised – – Interest rate risk in the swap is accounted for as interest in the profit and loss, Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in the market interest valuations of future cash flows are accounted for in equity. Parent company (SEK million) 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 rates will adversely affect cash flow, financial assets and Short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents Amount due for settlement ­ ­liabilities. The Group is exposed to interest rate risk through amounted to SEK 1,238 (428) million as per 31 December and within 12 months 2,980 4,373 loans, derivatives, other financial assets and utilised interest­the average interest rate period on these assets was approxAmount due for settlement bearing credit facilities. The Group’s financial policy aim to imately 0 month. An increase of 1% would increase the interwithin 13 to 59 months 1,500 – gain financial flexibility through a balanced mix between est cost by approximately SEK 37 million. A 1% de­c rease would Amount due for settlement variable and fixed interest rates and spreading maturities reduce the interest expense by approximately SEK 19 million. after 60 months 300 – to match funding needs. During 2018–2019, the weighted The difference is due to the terms of the loans and assuming Total 4,780 4,373 average interest rate period was less than 1 year. it would be more difficult to benefit fully from a decrease The Group has one interest rate swap with a nominal using committed facilities and potential new commercial amount of SEK 300 million fixing part of the interest of the papers. 105 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 22 cont. Credit risk Currency risk Transaction exposure Credit risk is defined as the risk that the counterparty in a Foreign exchange risk is the risk that fluctuations in exchange Transaction exposure arise when inflow and outflow in foreign transaction will not fulfil its contractual obligations and any rates will adversely affect the income statement, financial currencies are not matched. According to the Group’s financollateral will not cover the claim of the Group. The credit position and/or cash flows. The risk can be divided into transcial policy, the Group shall hedge the major contractual risk in the Group consists of financial credit risk and customer action exposure and translation exposure. future currency flows on the basis of maximum 36 months credit risk. forward. The corporate treasury department strives to Financial credit risk is the risk arising for the Group in its Derivative instruments match inflows and outflows in the same currency and also to relations with financial counterparties. The management of The Group uses forward contracts to hedge its exposure to take advantage of natural hedges. Hedging is performed to the financial credit risk is regulated in the Group’s financial foreign exchange arising from operational activities and protect the Group against the effects of transaction expopolicy. ­c urrency swaps to match the timing of foreign exchange sures in the contracted outflow for the main part of proFinancial counterparties must have a rating of the equivaflows. The major part of contracted programme acquisition gramme acquisitions in US dollars. Approximately 85–100% of lent of S&P’s single A rating or higher for larger deposits of outflows in US dollars is hedged. Derivatives that do not the contracted currency flows related to programme acquicash or surplus funds. Standardised ISDA agreements are ­q ualify for hedge accounting due to the rules in IFRS 9 are sitions for the next 12 months are hedged. The hedging signed with all counterparties involved in foreign exchange accounted for as financial instruments valued at fair value reserve at year-end amounted transactions and interest rate swaps. Transactions are made through profit and loss. to a total of SEK 57 (58) million. Hedges with a maturity later within fixed limits and exposures are continuously monitored. Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at than 12 months have a market value of SEK 9 (–1) million at The credit risk with respect to the Group’s accounts receivcost and remeasured to fair value thereafter. The effective year-end. ables is diversified among a large number of customers, both part of the gain or loss in the cash flow hedge is recognised The transaction exposures in the Group occurs when private individuals and companies. The Group’s assessment in other comprehensive income with the aggregated changes the subsidiaries have external and internal transactions in based on historical data is that there are no write-down in value in the hedge reserve in equity. When the forecasted curren­c ies other than the subsidiary’s functional currency. requirements for accounts receivables not due. The majority transaction results in the r­ ecognition of programme inventory, Below is the net of hedges and forecasted transaction of the current outstanding accounts receivables comprise the cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and in­ ­exposures for the next 12 months: previously known customers, who are judged to have good cluded in the initial cost of inventory. When a hedging instrucredit worthiness. See also note 16 Accounts receivables. ment expires, the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in the The Group’s exposure to credit risk amounts to SEK 2,641 income statement. (2,659) million as per 31 December. The exposure is based on the carrying amount for the financial assets, the major part comprising cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivables. Currency stated in SEK (SEK million) USD EUR DKK NOK GBP Insurable risks Transaction flows –3,152 –2,552 2,599 1,378 –366 The parent company ensures that the Group has sufficient Hedges due in 12 months 2,332 – – – 187 insurance coverage, including business interruption, director Net transaction flows –820 –2,552 2,599 1,378 –179 and officer liabilities and asset losses. This is done via corporate umbrella solutions to cover most territories. Effect if SEK falls 5% –41 –128 130 69 –9 106 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 22 cont. The nominal value of the major hedge contracts amounted to: Accounting for financial instruments Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Currency stated in SEK (SEK million) 2019 2018 Financial assets and liabilities include cash and cash equivaDerivatives lents, securities, derivative instruments, other financial receivDerivatives at fair value are recognised as financial liabilities EUR – –5 ables, accounts receivables, accounts payable, contingent and the realised changes in the value are recognised in USD 314 361 considerations and loan liabilities. profit and loss and unrealised value changes are recognised in equity as a result of hedge accounting. The effect of a change in the rate by 5% on all of the outFinancial assets at fair value through profit and loss standing positions as per 31 December would have been Shares Contingent considerations and options to acquire approximately SEK 126 (164) million, the impact on equity The Group’s shareholdings in other companies is non listed. remaining shares in subsidiaries would be after deduction of tax. Currency swaps amounted Changes in the fair values of these shares will impact the When a subsidiary is acquired and previous owners remain to EUR –67 million and USD 60 million per 31 December. Income statement. as non-controlling interest, the agreement often includes an option for the minority owners to sell their share of the Translation exposure Derivatives acquired company to the Group at a later stage. In such Translation exposure is the risk that arises when translating Derivates are recognised as a financial asset at fair value cases no non-controlling interest is reported but instead a equity in a foreign subsidiary, associated company or joint and realised changes in the value are recognised in profit financial liability is recognised. The liability is reported at the venture. There are no hedging positions for translation and loss and unrealised value changes are recognised in discounted present value of the redemption amount of the ­exposure. equity as a result of hedge accounting. shares. Foreign net assets including goodwill and other intangible assets arising from acquisitions are distributed as follows: Financial assets at amortised costs Financial assets and liabilities 2019 2018 Loans and receivables The financial liabilities at amortised costs are recognised SEK SEK Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable as liabilities to suppliers, short-term interest-bearing liabilCurrency ­m illion % ­m illion % payments that are not quoted in an active market are classiities and long-term interest-bearing liabilities. fied as current assets, with exception for receivables with NOK 554 57% 475 58% maturities later than 12 months after the balance-sheet date. EUR 147 15% 78 10% These receivables are classified as non-current assets. These DKK 242 25% 125 15% assets comprise accounts receivables and other receivables Other currencies 26 3% 140 17% and cash and cash equivalents. Receivables are stated at Total equivalent amortised cost less impairment losses. The receivables are re­­ SEK value 969 100% 817 100% viewed monthly to determine whether there is an indication of impairment. Such indications include receivables due for A 5% change in NOK/SEK would affect equity by approxia longer period than 90 days. Doubtful accounts receivables mately SEK 28 (24) million, in EUR/SEK the effect would be are reported with the amount at which, they are deemed approximately SEK 7 (4) million and in DKK/SEK approximately likely to be paid. SEK 12 (6) million. 107 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 22 cont. The table below shows the carrying amounts and fair values The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents, other accounts payables and other liabilities represent a reasonable of financial assets and financial liabilities, including the levels receivables, accounts receivables and receivables from approximation of fair value. in the fair value hierarchy. ­a ssociated companies and interest-­b earing liabilities, Fair value Financial Fair value through assets/ hedging profit and liabilitites at Total Group 2019 (SEK million) instruments loss amortised cost 31 Dec 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at fair value Shares and participations in other companies – 108 – 108 – – 108 108 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging 77 – – 77 – 77 – 77 Interest rate swaps 2 – – 2 – 2 – 2 Total 79 108 – 188 – 79 108 188 Financial assets measured at amortised cost Accounts recievables and other receivables – – 1,437 1,437 – – – – Cash and cash eqvivalents – – 1,238 1,238 – – – – Total – – 2,675 2,675 – – – – Financial liabilities measured at fair value Foreign exchange swaps 3 6 – 9 – 9 – 9 Contingent consideration and options to purchase additional shares – 17 – 17 – – 17 17 Total 3 23 – 26 – 9 17 26 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Long-term borrowings – – 1,800 1,800 – – – – Short-term borrowings – – 2,980 2,980 – – – – Accounts payable and other payables – – 2,593 2,593 – – – – Total – – 7,373 7,373 – – – – Book value equals fair value except for other financial liabilities where the fair value is SEK 16 million higher than the book value. 108 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 22 cont. Fair value Financial Fair value through assets/­ hedging profit and liabilities at Total Group 2018 (SEK million) instruments loss amortised cost 31 Dec 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at fair value Shares and participations in other companies – 3 – 3 – – 3 3 Total – 3 – 3 – – 3 3 Financial assets measured at amortised cost Accounts recieavables and other receivables – – 1,327 1,327 – – – – Cash and cash eqvivalents – – 428 428 – – – – Total – – 1,755 1,755 – – – – Financial liabilities measured at fair value Forward exchange contratcs used for heding 74 – – 74 – 74 – 74 Contingent consideration and options to purchase addtional shares – 20 – 20 – – 20 20 Total 74 20 – 94 – 74 20 94 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Liabilitites related to MTG – – 4,372 4,372 – – – – Accounts payable and other payables – – 7,999 7,999 – – – – Total – – 12,371 12,371 – – – – Book value equals fair value except for other financial liabilities where the fair value is SEK 6 million higher than the book value. 109 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 22 cont. Fair value Financial Fair value Financial Fair value through assets/ Fair value through assets/ hedging profit and liabilitites at Total hedging profit and liabilitites at Total Parent company (SEK million) instruments loss amortised cost 31 Dec 2019 instruments loss amortised cost 31 Dec 2018 Financial assets measured at fair value Forward exchange contracts used for hedging 77 – – 77 – – – – Interest rate swaps used for hedging 2 – – 2 – – – – Total 79 – – 79 – – – – Financial assets measured at amortised cost Receivables from group companies – – 10,831 10,831 – – 13,056 13,056 Accounts receivables and other receivables – – 73 73 – – 266 266 Cash and cash eqvivalents – – 974 974 – – – – Total – – 11,878 11,878 – – – – Financial liabilities measured at fair value Forward exchange contracts used for hedging 77 6 – 83 – – – – Total 77 6 – 83 – – – – Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Long-term borrowings – – 1,800 1,800 – – – – Short-term borrowings – – 2,980 2,980 – – 73 73 Liabilities to group companies – – 5,083 5,083 – – 11,201 11,201 Accounts payable and other liabilities – – 105 105 – – 4 4 Total – – 9,968 9,968 – – 11,278 11,278 Book value equals fair value except for other financial liabilities where the fair value is SEK 16 million higher than the book value. Valuation techniques level 1, 2 and 3 Forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps Financial liabilities, level 3 Shares and participations in other companies The fair value is determined using quoted forward Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or exchange rates at the reporting date and present value Opening balance 1 January 20 47 ­liabilities are used to determine the fair value. calculations based on high credit quality yielded curves in New acquisitions – 6 the respective currencies. Contingent consideration Exercise – –14 Discounted cash flows at the present value of expected Financial assets, level 3 Changes in fair value –3 –18 future payments. The discount rate is risk-adjusted. The Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Closing balance 31 December 17 20 most critical parameters are estimated future revenue Opening balance 1 January 3 3 growth and future operating margin. New acquisitions 105 – Closing balance 31 December 108 3 110 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 23 Leases Accounting principle Right of use assets IFRS 16 Leases, introduces a single accounting model for all leases (i.e. no classification between Group (SEK million) Real estate Other leases Total finance and operating leases). All leases are recognised on the balance sheet as a right-of-use Acquisition values asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset, and lease liability. The lease liability is Change in accounting principle 606 1 607 initially measured at the present value of the future lease payments discounted by the implicit New leasing contracts 53 9 61 interest on the lease. When the interest rate cannot be easily determined, funding base rates with a risk premium are to be used. The expense for operating leases is replaced by depreciation End of leasing contracts –14 – –14 on the right-of-use asset, and interest expense on the lease liability. Translation differences 10 – 10 Closing balance 31 December 2019 655 10 665 Lease commitments Accumulated depreciation The Group has identified the following categories of leases; offices, cars and car parks. The Depreciation during the year –98 –3 –101 recognition exemption for short-term leases and leases for low value items has been applied. End of leasing contracts 2 – 2 An interest rate of 0,8%–4,28% (local IBOR rate including riskpremium) has been applied. Translation differences 1 – 1 The Group has applied the modified retrospective approach, which implies no restatement Closing balance 31 December 2019 –96 –3 –99 of previous periods. For 2018 IAS 17 Leases has been applied, and the expenses for operating leases recognised on a straight-line basis over the period the asset is used. Carrying amount As per 31 December 2019 559 7 566 Commitmets for future payments on non-cancellable operational leases Group (SEK million) 2018 Change in lease liability 2019 164 Group (SEK million) Real estate Other leases Total 2020 150 Change in accounting principle 855 4 859 2021 132 New leasing contract 55 6 61 2022 131 End of leasing contract –13 – –13 2023 and thereafter 425 Interest on lease liability 26 – 26 Total lease commitments 31 December 2018 1,003 Payment lease –144 –3 –146 Paid minimum lease fee 2018 149 Translation difference 35 – 35 Closing balance 31 December 2019 816 7 823 Reconciliation lease commitments (IAS 17) and lease liability (IFRS 16) whereof long-term 691 Group (SEK million) 1 Jan 2019 whereof short-term 132 Operating leasing commitments as at December 31 2018 in accordance with IAS 17 1 003 Less short-term leases and leases for low value items –36 Discounted with funding base rates including risk premium –109 Lease liability as at 1 January 2019 in accordance with IFRS 16 859 111 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 23 cont. 24 Future payment commitments Age analysis lease liability Short term leases and leases of low value items The table below shows future payments for non-cancable Group (SEK million) 2019 The Group has applied the recognition exemption for short­p rogram rights commitments and transponder agreements term leases and leases for low value items. Lease fees for these at 31 December. Within 1 year 122 leases are reported as a cost on a straight-line basis over the 1–2 years 115 lease term. Studio equipment is normally leased on a shortProgram rights Transponders 2–5 years 314 term basis, and most ITand office equipment are of low value. Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 2019 2018 Over 5 years 271 Total 823 2019 – 5,143 – 168 Group (SEK million) 2019 2020 4,192 4,178 174 55 Cash flows during period Short term leases 2021 5,292 3,023 – – Group (SEK million) 2019 Studio equipment 21 2022 3,052 1,325 – – Leases for low value items 2023 1,863 1,679 – – Amortisation of lease receivables 33 IT and office equipment 22 2024 and later 4,216 – – – Amortisation of lease liabilities –121 Total expense for leases for which the Total 18,616 15,348 174 223 Total –88 ­recognition exemption is applied 43 Contractual cash flows Group (SEK million) 2019 25 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Within 1 year 140 Pledged assets 1–2 years 131 There are no pledged assets in the Group in 2019 and 2018. 2–5 years 355 Over 5 years 297 31 Dec 31 Dec Total 922 Parent company (SEK million) 2019 2018 Guarantees subsidiaries 358 – Subleases A substantial part of the London offices are subleased, as at The parent company issues guarantees to the benefit of the 31 December 2019 the sublease receivable amounted to SEK subsidiaries. These include mainly rental agreements and 225m and sublease income during 2019 amounted to SEK 33m. capital coverage. Contingent liabilities Various companies within the group are involved in disputes, with collecting societies, over payment of royalties for the past use of copyrights and similar rights. Further, NENT companies are parties in litigations. The Company does not believe that the outcome of these litigations are likely to have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Group. 112 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 26 Supplementary information to the statement of cash flows Adjustments to reconcile net income/loss to net cash provided by operations Cash paid for interest and corporate tax Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Depreciation and amortisation 327 201 Interest paid –24 –67 Write-downs and impariment losses 7 7 Interest received 5 7 Writedown of free-TV content and other assets 541 – Total –19 60 Total 875 208 Corporate income tax –310 –104 Provisions 101 –135 Revaluation of liabilities related to options to acquire shares – –3 Parent company (SEK million) 2019 2018 Other items –173 133 Interest paid –24 – Total –72 –5 Interest received 5 – Total –20 – Corporate income tax –2 – Reconciliation of debts arising from financing activities Parent company Opening Reclassi­ Other Closing All external borrowings are attributable to the parent comGroup 2019 (SEK million) ­b alance 2019 Cash flows fication changes ­b alance 2019 pany. In addition the parent company has interest-bearing Short-term borrowings – 2,480 500 – 2,980 receivables from and liabilities to other group companies. At year end interest-bearing receivables from group compaLong-term borrowings – 2,300 –500 – 1,800 nies amounted to SEK 10,831 (13,059) million. Interest-bearing Financing to/from MTG 4,372 –4,474 – 102 – liabilities to group companies at year-end amounted to Total 4,372 306 – 102 4,780 SEK 9,863 (11,201) million. The changes during the year are explained by a negative cash flow of SEK –890 million. Opening Reclassi­ Other Closing Group 2018 (SEK million) ­b alance 2018 Cash flows fication changes ­b alance 2018 Financing to/from MTG 1,110 3,267 – – 4,372 Total 1,110 3,267 – – 4,372 113 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 27 Average number of employees 2019 2018 Group Men Women Total Men Women Total Sweden 666 470 1,136 548 376 924 Norway 55 57 112 173 151 324 Denmark 178 132 310 132 88 220 Finland 48 65 113 29 40 69 United Kingdom 61 78 139 74 86 160 Other 10 24 34 7 20 27 Total 1,018 826 1,844 963 761 1,724 Parent company 2019 20181) Men 23 22 Women 35 24 Total 58 46 Gender distribution senior executives 2019 2018 Group Men Women Men Women Board of Directors 67% 33% 67% 33% CEO 100% – 100% – Other senior executives 57% 43% 73% 27% Total 62% 38% 71% 29% 2019 20181) Parent company Men Women Men Women Board of Directors 67% 33% 67% 33% CEO 100% – 100% – Other senior executives 40% 60% 67% 33% Total 58% 42% 70% 33% 1) Reflects the period 2018-07-01–2018-12-31 114 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 28 Audit fees Group Parent (SEK million) 2019 2018 2019 2018 KPMG, audit fees 12 11 2 2 KPMG, audit related fees – – – – KPMG, tax related fees – 1 – – KPMG, other services 3 7 3 5 Total 15 19 5 7 29 Related party transactions The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries, Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 associated companies and joint ventures (see notes 14 and 15). All related party transactions are based on market terms Net sales Accounts receivables and other receivables and negotiated on an arm’s length basis. Associated companies and joint ventures 78 107 Associated companies and joint ventures 17 25 Until the listing of Nordic Entertainment Group AB (publ) on MTG – 44 MTG – 145 Nasdaq Stockholm on March 28, 2019, related party relationTotal 78 151 Total 17 169 ship exsisted with the companies within the MTG Group and Other income Accounts payable and other liabilitites the parent company Modern Times Group MTG AB (MTG). MTG – 12 Associated companies and joint ventures 2 – In 2019, companies within the NENT Group paid management Total – 12 MTG – 198 fees to MTG. This was reported in the income statement as administrative expenses. Total 2 198 Costs Up until the listing, NENT was financed with group internal Associated companies and joint ventures –42 –37 Financial liabilities loans from MTG. At year-end 2018, these loans totaled SEK MTG – –30 MTG – 4,373 4,373m. In connection with the stock exchange listing, these Total –42 –67 Total – 4,373 loans were redeemed and refinanced externally. Other transactions Renumeraton of senior executives Shareholders' contribution, MTG 620 2,000 No other transactions than reported in note 7 have been made. Other transactions with shareholders, MTG – –5,400 Total 620 –3,401 115 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting 30 Significant events after the reporting period 29 January – NENT Group reorganising 13 & 17 March – NENT Group to temporarily reduce NENT Studios to futher focus on scripted drama Viaplay sports package prices due to changes in and international ambitions sports event timings NENT Group is reorganising NENT Studios – its content producNENT Group announced that it is temporarily reducing the tion and distribution business that comprises 32 companies in prices of its Sports packages on its Viaplay streaming service 17 countries – into a new organisation focused on scripted in all markets following the postponement of various Nordic drama production, bot series and movies, and distribution. and international sports events due to the global spread of As part of the reorganisation the non-scripted production, the Coronavirus. The spread of the virus is having an adverse branded entertainment and events businesses will be impact on the Group’s performance, which will put at risk divested. NENT Group also intends to bring a minority equity NENT Group’s previously stated ambition to deliver profitable partner into its scripted drama production business, in order growth for the full year 2020. NENT Group will not report to c­ ontribute to the further development of the output and media rights costs for postponed sports events in its income operations. statement until such time as the events take place. According to the terms of its contracts with sports rights owners, NENT 4 February – Henrik Clausen steps down as Group expects to receive compensation for any events that NENT Group Non-executive Board Director are cancelled due to the spread of the Coronavirus around Henrik Clausen steps down as Non-executive Board Director the world. NENT Group is not making any new payments for following his appointment as CEO of TDC Group. postponed events. 6 February – NENT Group acquires exclusive rights 20 March – NENT Group takes further actions to to Premier League in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and ­o ffset impact of Coronavirus Finland from 2022 to 2028 NENT Group announced that it is implementing a range of NENT Group. the Noric leading streaming company, has measures to reduce its ongoing costs (excluding sports rights secured the exclusive Swedish, Norwegian, Danish and Finnish costs) by approximately SEK 700 million, which will fully impact media rights to the English Premier League, the world’s leadon the Group’s reported results in 2020. In addition, NENT ing national football league, in a ground-breaking six year Group’s Board of Directors will not propose the previously deal that runs from 2022 to 2028. NENT Group currently holds indicated cash dividend of SEK 7 per share for 2019, nor any the Premier League rights in Sweden, Denmark and Finland executive long-term incentive plan for 2020, to the upcoming until 2022. 2020 Annual General Meeting of shareholders. 116 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Proposed appropriations of earnings The following funds are at the disposal of the share­h olders as at 31 December 2019 (SEK): Parent company (SEK) The Board of Directors proposes that income for the period and retained earnings be d ­ istributed as follows: To be carried forward 1,759,260,568 Total 1,759,260,568 The Board of Directors does not propose the previously accepted accounting principles in Sweden and give a true indicated cash dividend of SEK 7.00 per share for 2019 and fair view of the Parent Company’s financial p ­ osition to the upcoming Annual General Meeting of share­ and results of operations. holders. The statutory Administration Report of the Group The Board of Directors declare that the consolidated and the Parent Company provides a fair review of the financial statements have been prepared in accordance development of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s with IFRS as adopted by the EU and give a true and fair operations, financial position and results of operations view of the Group’s financial position and results of operand describes material risks and uncertainties facing ations. The financial statements of the Parent Company the ­Parent Company and the companies included in have been prepared in accordance with generally the Group. 117 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Signatures The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer The annual accounts and the consolidated accounts give The annual accounts and the consolidated statements confirm that the annual accounts have been prepared a true and fair view of the Group’s and Parent Company’s were approved by the Board of Directors and the Chief in accordance with accepted accounting standards in financial position and results of operations. Executive Officer on 2 April 2020. The consolidated Sweden, and that the consolidated accounts have been The Board of Directors’ Report for the Group and the income statement and balance sheet, and the income prepared in accordance with the international accountParent Company gives a true and fair view of the Group’s statement and balance sheet of the ­Parent Company, ing standards in Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 of the and the Parent Company’s operations, position and results, will be presented for adoption by the Annual General European Parliament and of the Council of July 19, 2002 and describes significant risks and uncertainty factors that Meeting on 19 May 2020. on the application of international accounting standards. the Parent Company and Group companies face. Stockholm 2 April 2020 David Chance Simon Duffy Natalie Tydeman Chairman of the Board Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Anders Borg Kristina Schauman Anders Jensen Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director President and CEO Our Audit report was submitted 2 April 2020 KPMG AB Joakim Thilstedt Authorised Public Accountant and Auditor in Charge Hök-Olov Forsberg Authorised Public Accountant 118 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Audit report To the general meeting of the shareholders of the additional report that has been submitted to the Recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets of Nordic Entertainment Group AB, parent company’s audit committee in accordance with See disclosures 2 and 12 in the annual account and consol­corporate id 559124-6847 the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. idated accounts for detailed information and description of the matter. Report on the annual accounts Basis for Opinions and consolidated accounts We conducted our audit in accordance with International Description of key audit matter Opinions Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under such as trademarks and capitalized expenditure as at accounts of Nordic Entertainment Group AB for the year those standards are further described in the Auditor’s 31 December 2019 amount to SEK 3.4 billion. 2019. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are of the company are included on pages 59–118 in this company and the group in accordance with professional required to be tested annually for impairment. Other ­d ocument. ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise intangible assets are tested where there is an impairment In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared ­f ulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with trigger. in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, and present these requirements.This includes that, based on the best The impairment tests are complex and include signififairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services cant judgements. The recoverable value of these assets parent company as of 31 December 2019 and its financial referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 is based on forecasting and discounting future cash flows performance and cash flow for the year then ended in have been provided to the audited company or, where using assumptions, such as discount rates, revenue foreaccordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consoliapplicable, its parent company or its controlled companies casts and long-term growth, which are inherently judgdated accounts have been prepared in accordance within the EU. mental, and which could be influenced by management with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained bias. material respects, the financial position of the group as is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our of 31 December 2019 and their financial performance opinions. Response in the audit and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance We obtained and considered the groups impairment tests with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Key Audit Matters to assure compliance with the methodology prescribed as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, by IFRS. We have further evaluated the future cash flow statutory administration report is consistent with the other in our professional judgment, were of most significance forecasts and their underlying assumptions including parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated long-time growth rates as well as the discount rates used. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of accounts of the current period. These matters were We have had reviews with management among others shareholders adopts the income statement and balance addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming including specific focus on the assumptions used in the sheet for the parent company and the group. our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated impairment test for Studios, where a reasonable change Our opinions in this report on the the annual accounts accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate in assumptions could result in an impairment. and consolidated accounts are consistent with the content opinion on these matters. 119 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting We considered management’s sensitivity analysis showIn addition, sample testing on contract were performed to Responsibilities of the Board of Directors ing the impact of a reasonable change in assumptions to evaluate acqusition cost and amortization periods. and the Managing Director determine whether impairment charged was required. We assessed whether the carrying value of the balThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are We have further evaluated the disclosures on goodwill ances are considered recoverable by analyzing the responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and other intangible assets that have been included in the assets on a portfolio basis and comparing the carrying and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. value at 31 December 2019 against current year revenue present­a tion in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and forecasts to determine if any indicators of impairand, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance Program rights amortisation ment exist. with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors See disclosures 2 and 5 in the annual account and consoliand the Managing Director are also responsible for such dated accounts for detailed information and description Other Information than the annual accounts internal control as they determine is necessary to enable of the matter. and consolidated accounts the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated This document also contains other information than the accounts that are free from material misstatement, Description of key audit matter annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is found whether due to fraud or error. Payments for program rights are reported either as on pages 1–44 and 123–153. The Board of Directors and In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated inventory or as prepaid expenses mainly depending on the Managing Director are responsible for this other accounts The Board of Directors and the Managing Directhe start of the license period. Program rights inventory, information. tor are responsible for the assessment of the company’s where the license period has started, amount to SEK 2.5 Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. billion as per 31 December 2019. Determining the timing accounts does not cover this other information and we They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going conand amount of program right expense recognized in the do not express any form of assurance conclusion regardcern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The period requires judgement in selection the appropriate ing this other information. going concern basis of accounting is however not applied recognition profile and ensuring that this profile achieves In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and if the Board of Directors and the Managing Director intend the objective of recognizing inventory expense in line with consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no the way that it is consumed by the group. information identified above and consider whether the realistic alternative but to do so. There is a risk that the recognition profile selected by information is materially inconsistent with the annual The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the management does not correctly recognize the expense accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we Board of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, in line with consumption. also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained among other things oversee the company’s financial in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise reporting process. Response in the audit appears to be materially misstated. We examined the method for expensing program rights If we, based on the work performed concerning this inventory, taking into account the differing genres of proinformation, conclude that there is a material misstategrams, any significant changes in viewing patterns during ment of this other information, we are required to report the year and other assessments made by the group. that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. 120 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Auditor’s responsibility • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies We must inform the Board of Directors of, among Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors We must also inform of significant audit findings during as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether and the Managing Director. our audit, including any significant deficiencies in internal due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of ­control that we identified. includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level ­D irectors’ and the Managing Director’s, use of the going We must also provide the Board of Directors with a stateof assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conconcern basis of accounting in preparing the annual ment that we have complied with relevant ethical requireducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted accounts and consolidated accounts. We also draw a ments regarding independence, and to communicate with auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a mateconclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as them all relationships and other matters that may reasonrial misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise to whether any material uncertainty exists related to ably be thought to bear on our independence, and where from fraud or error and are considered material if, indievents or conditions that may cast significant doubt on applicable, related safeguards. vidually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as From the matters communicated with the Board of expected to influence the economic decisions of users a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncerDirectors, we determine those matters that were of most taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolitainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our significance in the audit of the annual accounts and condated accounts. auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual solidated accounts, including the most important assessed As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures risks for material misstatement, and are therefore the key professional judgment and maintain professional sceptiare inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s cism throughout the audit. We also: accounts and consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of the matter. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procemay cause a company and a group to cease to continue Report on other legal and regulatory ­requirements dures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence as a going concern. Opinions that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolour opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misthe annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including idated accounts, we have also audited the administration statement resulting from fraud is higher than for one the disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and conof the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forsolidated accounts represent the underlying transactions Nordic Entertainment Group AB for the year 2019 and the gery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. override of internal control. • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal regarding the financial information of the entities or that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the ­control relevant to our audit in order to design audit business activities within the group to express an opinion proposal in the statutory administration report and that procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, on the consolidated accounts. We are responsible for the members of the Board of Directors and the Managbut not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the direction, supervision and performance of the group ing Director be discharged from liability for the financial the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. year. 121 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Basis for Opinions g ­ uidelines and instructions and among other matters throughout the audit. The examination of the administraWe conducted the audit in accordance with generally take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s tion and the proposed appropriations of the company’s accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities accounting in accordance with law and handle the profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s manage­m ent of assets in a reassuring manner. Additional audit procedures performed are based on Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent our professional judgment with starting point in risk and company and the group in accordance with professional Auditor’s responsibility materiality. This means that we focus the examination on ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulOur objective concerning the audit of the administration, such actions, areas and relationships that are material filled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, for the operations and where deviations and violations requirements. is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable would have particular importance for the company’s We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained degree of assurance whether any member of the Board ­s ituation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our of Directors or the Managing Director in any material ­s upport for decisions, actions taken and other circumopinions. respect: stances that are relevant to our opinion concerning • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission ­d ischarge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on Responsibilities of the Board of Directors which can give rise to liability to the company, or the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the and the Managing Director ­company’s profit or loss we examined whether the proThe Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal • in any other way has acted in contravention of the posal is in accordance with the Companies Act. for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles KPMG AB, Box 382, 101 27, Stockholm, was appointed the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of Association. auditor of Nordic Entertainment Group AB by the general of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed meeting of the shareholders on the 22 May 2019. KPMG requirements which the company’s and the group’s type appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby AB or auditors operating at KPMG AB have been the of operations, size and risks place on the size of the our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree company’s auditor since 2019. ­p arent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with requirements, liquidity and position in general. the Companies Act. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is organization and the administration of the company’s not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance Stockholm 2 April 2020 affairs. This includes among other things continuous with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will KPMG AB assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to ­s ituation and ensuring that the company’s organization ­liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriais designed so that the accounting, management of tions of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance Joakim Thilstedt assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise with the Companies Act. Authorised Public Accountant and Auditor in Charge are controlled in a reassuring manner. As part of an audit in accordance with generally The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing accepted auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise proHök Olov Forsberg administration according to the Board of Directors’ fessional judgment and maintain professional scepticism Authorised Public Accountant 122 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Historical overview (SEK million if not otherwise stated) 2019 2018 2017 2016 Income statement Net sales 15,671 14,568 13,688 12,897 Sales growth, % 7.6 6.5 6.1 5.0 of which organic growth, % 6.4 3.8 5.4 4.8 of which acquisitions/divestments, % – – – 0.6 of which changes in FX rates, % 1.1 2.7 0.7 –0.4 Operating income before IAC 1,545 1,544 1,495 1,363 Operating margin before IAC, % 9.9 10.6 10.9 10.6 Items affecting comparability –787 –40 75 –65 Operating income 758 1,504 1,570 1,298 Operating margin, % 4.8 10.3 11.5 10.1 Net income for the year 590 1,292 1,294 931 Cash flow Cash flow from operations 1,393 1,496 1,417 953 Change in working capital –791 –380 –695 –369 Net cash flow from operations 602 1,116 722 584 Capital expenditures in tangible and intangible assets –176 –550 –154 –180 Acquisitions and divestments of operations –15 –19 –62 –2 Net debt Total financial borrowings 4,780 4,373 1,110 892 Cash and cash equivalents 1,238 428 89 33 Financial net debt 3,542 3,944 1,021 860 Net debt 4,139 3,944 1,021 860 Key ratios ROCE, % 27.1 36.5 47.5 60.7 Net debt to EBITDA ratio 2.2 2.3 0.6 0.6 Per share data Shares outstanding at the end of the period 67,342,244 66,980,902 66,725,249 66,663,816 Basic average number of shares outstanding 67,279,875 66,854,133 66,706,398 66,655,996 Weighted average number of shares after dilution 67,484,565 67,362,405 67,142,319 66,826,825 Basic Earnings Per Share (SEK) 8.77 19.24 19.29 13.93 Proposed ordinary dividend/Cash dividend per share (SEK) – 6.50 – – Market price of Class B shares at close of last trading day (SEK) 302.80 – – – 123 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Alternative Performance Measures The purpose of Alternative Performance Measures (APMs) is to facilitate the analysis of Reconciliation of operating income before IAC business performance and industry trends that cannot be directly derived from financial Operating income before items affecting comparability refers to operating income statements. NENT Group is using the following Alternative Performance Measures: after the reversal of material items and events related to changes in the Group’s struc• Change in net sales from organic growth, acquisitions/divestments and changes in FX rates ture or lines of business, which are relevant for understanding the Group’s development • Operating income and margin before items affecting comparability (IAC) on a like-for-like basis. This measure is used by management to follow and analyse the • Net debt and net debt/EBITDA underlying profits and to offer more comparable figures between periods. • Capital employed and return on capital employed (ROCE) Operating income before and after IAC Reconciliation of sales growth Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Since the Group generates the majority of its sales in c­ urrencies other than in the reportOperating income 758 1,504 ing currency (i.e. SEK, Swedish Krona) and currency rates have proven to be rather volatile, Items affecting comparability –787 40 and due to the fact that the Group has ­h istorically made several acquisitions and divestOperating income before items ­affecting comparability 1,545 1,544 ments, the Group’s sales trends and performance are analysed as changes in organic sales growth. This presents the increase or decrease in the overall SEK net sales on a comItems affecting comparability parable basis, allowing separate discussions of the impact of acquisitions/divestments and Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 exchange rates. Costs related to the separation and l­isting of NENT Group –56 – Write down of free-TV content and other assets –540 –16 Group (SEK million) 2019 % 2018 % Restructuring NENT Group –190 –53 Broadcasting & Streaming Revaluation of liabilities related to options to acquire shares – 14 Organic growth 765 6.0 543 4.5 Impariment of goodwill related to closed company – –6 Acquisitions/divestments – – – – Deconsolidaton of the operations in Tanzania – 21 Changes in FX rates 132 1.0 295 2.5 Total –787 –40 Reported change 897 7.0 839 7.0 Items affecting comparability classified by function Studios Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Organic growth 338 17.7 –145 –7.3 Acquisitions/divestments – 3 0.1 Cost of goods sold –416 – Changes in FX rates 35 1.8 68 3.4 Administrative expenses –368 –53 Reported change 373 19.5 –75 –3.8 Other operating income – 35 Group Other operating expense –3 –22 Organic growth 938 6.4 518 3.8 Total –787 –40 Acquisitions/divestments – – 3 – Changes in FX rates 165 1.1 359 2.6 Reported change 1,103 7.6 880 6.4 124 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Reconciliation of net debt/EBITDA before IAC ratio Reconciliation of Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) Net debt refers to the net of interest-bearing liabilities less total cash and interest-­b earing Return on capital employed is a performance measure whereby operating income assets. As from 1 January 2019 the net debt also includes lease liabilities net of sublease before items affecting comparability is put in relation to the capital employed within the recevables and dividend payable. Net debt is used by Group management to track the operations. Operating income before items affecting comparability is the main profit debt evolvement of the Group and to analyse the leverage and refinancing needs of the level for which operations are responsible and comprise results before interest and tax. Group. The net debt to EBITDA ratio provides a KPI for net debt in relation to cash profits Capital employed is the sum of current and non-current assets less current and non-­ generated by the business, i.e. an indication of a business’ ability to pay off all its debts. current liabilities, provisions and liabilities at fair value. All items are non-interest-bearing. This measure is commonly used by financial institutions to rate credit worthiness. Capital employed thus equals the sum of equity and net debt. Net debt Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Inventory 2,551 2,428 Short-term borrowings 2,980 – Accounts receivables 1,112 1,224 Liabilities related to MTG – 4,373 Prepaid expense and accrued income 4,609 3,951 Short-term borrowings 2,980 4,373 Other current assets 532 468 Long-term borrowings 1,800 – Other current liabilities –6,923 –6,598 Total financial borrowings 4,780 4,373 Total working capital 1,882 1,471 Cash and cash equivalents 1,238 428 Intangible assets 3,384 3,404 Financial net debt 3,542 3,945 Machinery, equipment and i­nstallations 165 152 Lease liabilities 823 – Right-of-use assets 566 – Sublease receivables 225 – Shares and participations 142 20 Lease liabilities net 598 – Other long-term receivables 171 127 Net debt 4,139 3,944 Provisions –414 –309 Other non-current liabilities –316 –324 Net debt/EBITDA before IAC, ratio Other items included in the capital employed 3,699 3,071 Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 Capital employed 5,581 4,541 Operating income before IAC 1,545 1,544 Depreciation and amortisation 336 201 Average Capital Employed (5 quarters) 5,700 4,229 EBITDA 12 months trailing 1,881 1,745 Operating income before IAC 12 months trailing 1,545 1,544 Net debt 4,139 3,944 ROCE % 27.1% 36.5% Total net debt/EBITDA ratio 2.2 2.3 1) Average capital employed (5 quarters) and Operating income before IAC 12 months trailing has been adjusted for the estimated effect for IFRS 16 for increased comparability. 2018 periods included in Average capital employed has been adjusted for Right-to-use assets with SEK 631m, adjusting the average capital employed with SEK 126m from SEK 5,574m to SEK 5,700m. 125 Sustainability reporting Content Stakeholder engagement and ­ materiality determination 127 Value chain 130 Membership of associations 131 Our contribution to the SDGs 132 Goals and achievements 133 Data tables 135 GRI Index 144 Report scope & boundaries 150 Independent assurance statement 1 51 126 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Stakeholder engagement and materiality determination In order to provide a strong foundation for our sustainability strategy, we conducted an extensive materiality Materiality assessment assessment in 2018 to help us set our priorities and focus our efforts. Following a wide stakeholder dialogue, we considered our social, economic and environmental impacts in society, and reflected on associated topics High that are important to our stakeholders and substantively Respond and report Key focus, engage and report influence their decisions and views. • Safe, fair & inclusive work environment • Diversity & equality off & on-screen* • Talent attraction, development & retention • Promoting local content & creative industry Our materiality assessment process • Respecting human rights & freedom of • Raising awareness & engaging in societal issues To ensure we focus on the most important and impactful expression Importance to stakeholders topics, we regularly review our sustainability priorities with our stakeholders. In 2018, we conducted the first materiality assessment for NENT Group. To identify relevant topics for our business, we conducted a review of relevant documents and databases; looked at media industry trends, risks and opportunities for our business and sustainability Monitor and address Assess and communicate related requirements; and also benchmarked against • Anti-bribery & corruption • Data protection & privacy • Open dialogue & transparent decision making • Responsible advertising industry peers. This helped us create a long list of relevant • Responsible sourcing and content production • Protecting minors & vulnerable groups sustainability topics, which we then filtered through discus• Providing channels for raising concerns • Healthy digital viewing habits sions, followed by more than 50 interviews with internal • Content accessibility • Reducing waste, energy use & carbon emissions and external stakeholders on 28 relevant topics. In the • Empowering media understanding & critical interview process, we examined what governs our stakethinking holders’ decisions, and jointly assessed possible economic, social and environmental impacts of working with a cerLow Significant impact High tain topic. After gathering and assessing our stakeholders’ input from the interviews, we populated a final shortlist of 18 material topics. * Diversity & equality off & on-screen merges two material topics: on-screen representation of diversity, pluralism & equality, and diversity & equality in the workplace. GRI 102-46 GRI 102-47 GRI 103-1 GRI 103-2 GRI 103-3 127 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting After categorising these material topics into topics mostly Respond and report – Issues of higher interest about Identifying and engaging with our stakeholders relevant for our 1) people and culture, 2) business, and which we actively engage to make sure that we meet In the initial phase of our materiality assessment, we 3) society, we launched a sustainability survey targeting stakeholders’ reasonable expectations, interests and conduc­ted stakeholder mapping. We identified our stakeall our stakeholder groups internally and externally. We needs. Followed by continuous dialogue and reporting. holders as entities or individuals that can reasonably be engaged 3,225 people in total, and successfully prioritised expected to be affected by us and our activities, products, the material topics by importance to our stakeholders, as Key focus, engage and report – Most significant issues or services; and/or entities or individuals whose actions well as by the impact that they believe NENT Group can that are actively addressed and create substantial value can reasonably be expected to affect us. We decided on have in those areas. We then assessed the results from or risk for our business, our stakeholders and society at a scheme mapping our stakeholders into three categories: both the interviews and the sustainability survey together large. In focus for our sustainability efforts and followed primary internal, primary external, and secondary external with management at a vali­d ation workshop, after which by continuous engagement and reporting. stakeholders. We then mapped our stakeholder groups we finalised our materiality assessment. The materiality based on their impact and interest, ranging from low assessment findings formed the foundation of our sustainOur stakeholder engagement to high, and produced a stakeholder group matrix. This ability strategy and are used to define the key focus areas We take a proactive approach to stakeholder engageallowed us to target all stakeholder groups in our materias illustrated by the materiality matrix. Our materiality ment. Engaging with our stakeholders is a cornerstone of ality assessment and guided our assessment of the most matrix is composed of four elements: how we do business. It enables us to keep track of their material sustainability topics for NENT Group. expectations and insights on an ongoing basis. The input A list of our stakeholder groups, together with the Monitor and address – Issues we continuously observe, we receive guides our work and shapes our everyday engagement methods and key topics raised by each address and adjust if necessary, in order to ensure activities, goal setting and reporting. We engaged extenstakeholder group during the materiality assessment in ­compliance and that we meet stakeholders’ reasonable sively with our internal & external stakeholders as part of 2018 can be found on the next page. expectations. We engage when appropriate, and report our materiality assessment in 2018, and the outcome of accordingly. this engagement both informed our sustainability strategy and is consistent with the material topics presented Assess and communicate – Issues about which we in the report. We have continued to engage with a wide ­a dequately inform relevant stakeholders, engage in a range of stakeholders in 2019. wider dialogue when needed, and report accordingly. 128 GRI 102-42 GRI 102-43 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Stakeholder group Communication channels Key topics Customers Direct dialogue, focus groups and ad-hoc content surveys, social media, Data protection and privacy; respecting human rights and freedom of B2C: video streaming and linear TV viewing figures, audience appreciation index, customer support channels, expression; safe, fair and inclusive work environment; protecting children, ­v iewers, users of our digital video dialogue programs, newsletters, brochures, campaigns, viewing panels, minors and vulnerable groups; responsible sourcing and content production; networks, radio listeners. messag­ing activities, listener hotlines, competitions, website, audience diversity and equality in the workplace; responsible advertising. B2B: media agencies and corporations. measure­m ent, interviews, auditory tests, events and concerts. Shareholders Annual General Meeting, Annual Report, quarterly reports, press releases, Responsible sourcing and content production; respecting human rights general and Environmental Social Governance roadshows and conferences and freedom of expression; diversity and equality in the workplace; data and Capital Markets Day. protection and privacy; open dialogue and transparent decision making. NENT Group’s Board of Directors Board of Directors meetings and interviews. Talent attraction, development and retention; providing channels for raising concerns; open dialogue and transparent decision making; data protection and privacy; anti-corruption. Employees Annual Employee Survey, intranet, newsletters, policies and guidelines, Safe, fair and inclusive work environment; respecting human rights and free­m eetings, daily dialogues in person and through dialogue tools. dom of expression; protecting children, minors and vulnerable groups; open dialogue and transparent decision making; anti-corruption. Industry peers Continuous dialogue with colleagues and other professionals and quarterly Respecting human rights and freedom of expression; protecting children, peer meetings through the Responsible Media Forum. minors and vulnerable groups; anti-corruption; open dialogue and ­t ransparent decision making; safe, fair and inclusive work environment. Regulators Continuous dialogue via mail, telephone and working groups. Open dialogue and transparent decision making; respecting human rights OfCom and other authorities that Also information through bulletins. and freedom of expression; data protection and privacy; safe, fair and incluset the rules for what we do. sive work environment; protecting children, minors and vulnerable groups. NGOs and trade associations Continuous dialogue, face-to-face meetings, Task Force calls, association Respecting human rights and freedom of expression; protecting children, Associations we are members of, events with key stakeholders including political institutions and regulators, minors and vulnerable groups; empowering media understanding, critical and non-governmental organisations conferences, webinars, monthly board meetings, weekly email discussions, thinking and self-expression; raising awareness about societal issues; with which we work. long-term projects, joining advocacy efforts through conducting interviews. on-screen representation of plurality, diversity, pluralism and equality. Business partners Daily or weekly phone calls and face-to-face meetings, Supplier Code of Respecting human rights and freedom of expression; anti-corruption; Companies whose products and ­Conduct, site visits, communication regarding set-up routines on GDPR responsible sourcing and content production; diversity and equality in the ­services we buy and organisations and Supplier Code of Conduct compliance as well as consumer regulatory workplace; on-screen representation of plurality, diversity, pluralism and we partner with. standards. equality. GRI 102-40 GRI 102-44 129 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Value chain As the Nordic region’s leading entertainment provider, Buying and creating content – Creating our own content Packaging – To optimise the interests of our stakeholders, we offer a wide range of products and services in the is a major part of our strategy (promoting Nordic storywe decide on where to put, air, schedule or include differNordic and international markets. Our broadcasting and telling and the creative industry). When buying content, ent content, and at what price to make it available. streaming segment primarily provides TV and streaming our core suppliers include major Hollywood studios and services in the N­ ordic region, as well as radio networks sports rights providers (media rights acquisitions and conContent distribution – We make our content available and streaming services in Sweden and Norway. NENT tent licensing), as well as local studios and channel owners. to customers and consumers via multiple linear and on-­ ­S tudios creates, produces and sells scripted, non-scripted NENT Studios are producing content for internal and demand TV channels and streaming services, as well as and digital content for in-house and third-party media external use. radio stations. companies and content distributors. The main revenue streams are from advertisi ng, subscriptions, wholesale Consumer experience – Our audience is as diverse as distribution, and the sales of productions or format society as a whole. We aim to create experiences that licenses. engage, entertain and inform all of our audiences. This demands creativity from us but also carries a responsibility to make sure that the content is aligned with the core ­values of the company. Buying & Content Consumer creating Packaging distribution experience Customer insight & dialogue – We have an ongoing content ­d ialogue with all of our stakeholders, in order to improve our products and services. This dialogue includes focus groups, surveys and interviews, and ensures that we deliver our audiences the best possible quality, while also offering our business customers the opportunity to further build their brands. Consumer insight & dialogue 130 GRI 102-9 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Membership of associations We are a member of global partnerships, various media industry associations, national encourages investments in the media sector; advancing the use of digital and new and international organisations, advocacy groups and additional bodies. These technol­o gies that enable transformation; promoting ethical standards and professional member­s hips are focused on advancing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development; integrity; strengthening freedom of speech; responsible advertising; collaboration on engaging with EU institutions to achieve a balanced and appropriate framework that sustaina­b ility issues in the media sector; and promoting effective anti-piracy legislation. Organisation RMF AAPA NCP Responsible Media Forum The Audio-visual Nordic Content Protection Anti-Piracy Alliance Description Partnership between leading global media companies, ­collaborating on European organisation addressing Cross-industry Nordic body addressing piracy through intelligence both social and environmental challenges facing the sector. media piracy issues. ­s haring with enforcement agencies. Organisation ACT COBA EGTA EDRA WorldDAB The Asociation of Commercial The Commercial The European Group of The European Digital T­ elevision in Europe Broadcasters Association ­Television Advertising Radio ­Alliance Description Represents the interests of leading Industry body for UK based Aims to support television and Supported by the European BroadGlobal industry forum aiming to commercial broadcasters in Europe. ­m ultichannel broadcasters in radio sales houses in monetising casting Union and has the goal of facilitate the adoption and impleEngages with EU institutions to achieve the digital, cable and satellite audio and audiovisual content making digital radio the standard mentation of digital radio based appropriate regulatory framework ­television sector and their on-­ through advertising solutions, and preferred choice of listeners on DAB/ DAB+ standards. that encourages investment and demand services. regardless of device or platform. across Europe. growth in the media sector. Organisation Norsk Presseforbund FWCE Reklam-ombudsmannen MMS IAB The FreeWheel Council for ­ Mediamätning i Skandinavien Interactive Advertising Premium Video Europe Bureau Description Joint body for Norwegian mass Serves the collective interest A self-regulatory organisation, Owner together with other media Aiming to optimise online media that aims to promote ethical of those in the premium video handling complaints about adverhouses. MMS measures, but also ­m arketing in Sweden. Works standards and professional integrity industry through leadership positising and provides information, develops methods for measuring, through specialised task forces and to strengthen and protect tions, research, and advocacy guidance and training in the field consumption of moving images in that define various standards freedom of speech, media and promoting the premium video of ethical marketing. Sweden. and guidelines. information. economy. GRI 102-13 131 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Our contribution to the SDGs To address global challenges and create value for all our stakeholders, NENT Group is Development Goals Media Compact Initiative. Below we illustrate some examples of how committed to eight of the UN Sustainable Development Goals that are in line with our suswe have made a positive impact in society, and contributed towards the 2030 Agenda for tainability strategy. We are also members of the UN Global Compact and UN Sustainable Sustainable Development, and the achievement of the SDGs in 2019. Goal and target Impact and progress Goal and target Impact and progress 3. Good health Reduce mortality from We have organised a Diabetes Gala in Sweden every year 12. Responsible Adopt sustainable We continuously report on our sustainability work, both on and wellbeing non-communicable since 2017. In 2019, we raised over SEK 8 million to support consumption ­p ractices and inteour website and in our integrated Annual & Sustainability ­d iseases and promote research and raise awareness about the disease. grate sustainability Report. We promote sustainable lifestyles, both in our mental health (3.4). We have initiated the pan-Nordic BEAT Diabetes Founand production practices in reporting ­content and our business. dation, an independent entity in which we will invest SEK (12.6) and promote By being transparent with our sustainability work and 2.5 million every year for the next five years. The aim is to universal understandpromoting it both internally and externally, we are certain raise awareness and drive positive change in health tech, ing of ­sustainable that it will attract and retain both investors, employees healthy lifestyles, and inclusion and wellbeing. ­l ifestyles (12.8). and new audiences. 5. Gender End discrimination In 2019, we hosted industry-wide dialogues to highlight the 13. Climate action Build knowledge and We constantly raise awareness internally about climate ­e quality against women and importance of gender equality. We mapped the gender capacity to meet issues and take actions to reduce our climate footprint. girls (5.1). Ensure equality challenges and enablers in our organisation and ­climate change (13.3). In 2019, we initiated a Green Working Group with repre­p articipation in leadour content. We also created editorial guidelines. sentatives from all our markets to promote greener ership and decision In 2020, we will launch a recognition concept to probehaviour. In 2020, we will launch a Green Awareness ­m aking (5.5). mote new and diverse talents in our industry and help Week in all markets to raise employee awareness further. ensure our content better reflects the diversity of our ­a udiences. 8. Decent work Promoting policies to Our focus on Nordic storytelling leads to job creation oppor16. Peace, justice Substantially reduce We promote a fair and transparent market where everyand economic support job creation tunities in the region, especially in creative areas. and strong bribary and corrupbody can compete on equal terms. We conduct business (8.3). Economic growth Offering a safe and healthy working environment is one tion in all its forms responsibly and have established routines to ensure our growth and protecting labour of the key ideas behind our new values. In 2019, we mapped institutions (16.5). major suppliers support our ethical standards. rights and promoting our challenges and enablers in this area. In 2020, we will We are reviewing the implementation of the Supplier safe working environfocus on reinforcing our whistleblowing process and on CoC and reinforcing our responsible sourcing processes. ments (8.8). ­raising awareness about health and safety in the workplace. This work will increase employee satisfaction, enabling us to create better content and attract new talents. 10. Reduced Promote universal, We have focus groups for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion 17. Partnerships Enhance the global We seek partnerships to enhance our sustainability work. ­i nequalities ­e conomic and political who evaluate our work both on and off the screen. In 2019, partnership for sustain­ In 2019, we worked with several partners, e.g. Reach for for the goals inclusion (10.2). Ensure we identified and defined a gender balanced and diverse able development Change and Generation PEP to promote a better world equal ­o pportunity and top talent pool and succession planning process. We also (17.16). for children. end ­d iscrimination (10.3). recruited our first-ever Head of Diversity and Inclusion. We also have a number of industry anti-piracy partnerWe also engaged with our suppliers to ensure the requireships. In 2020, we will step up our fight against diabetes by ments of our Supplier CoC, including non-discriminatory starting the pan-Nordic BEAT Diabetes Foundation with actions, are met. partners. When we promote equal opportunities we nurture a ­culture that is inclusive both inside and outside of NENT Group. 132 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Goals & achievements Setting and following up on realistic and measurable goals that are aligned with our goal setting, especially in the context of a fast moving and changing industry. Below we strategy is a key success in making sure that we focus on the right things and review our present long term goals for 2021, together with the targets and progress so far. Goals 2019–2021 Targets and progress 2019 Targets 2020 SDGs DEVELOPING NORDIC STORYTELLING & THE CREATIVE INDUSTRY Invest in Nordic storytelling promoted globally Target: Increase numbers of Viaplay original Increase number of Viaplay ­o riginal 8.3 P romote policies to support job creation ­ remieres from 10 in 2018. p ­p remieres from 21 to 30. and ­g rowing enterprises Progress: Reached 21 in 2019. Promote Nordic storytelling by using our platforms and reach Target: Develop recognition concept to promote Launch recognition concept to promote talents in the creative value chain. talents in the creative industry. Progress: Due to the reorganisation this was only ­initiated but then postponed to 2020. PROMOTING AN EQUAL, DIVERSE & INCLUSIVE SOCIETY For our Nordic scripted productions, strive to reach and Target: Map gender balance in our content value For our Nordic scripted productions, 3.4 Reduce mortality from non-communicable ­m aintain 50/50 gender balance in the creative value chain. strive to reach at least 47% women ­d iseases and promote mental health chain by 2021 (baseline 44% women in 2019) Progress: Mapping done. in the creative value chain. 5.1 End discrimination against women and girls 5.5 Ensure full participation in leadership and Improve our EDI work and increase amount of employees Target: Identify EDI challenges, enablers and develop Establish two-way mentorship pilot ­d ecision-making answering “works well” or “works excellently” from 88% in 2019 improvement plan including metrics. ­p rogramme to empower talents, 10.2 Promote universal, social, economic and to 90% in 2021 in the engagement survey on the question: ‘‘Do Progress: Recruitment of Head of Diversity and Inclusion. ­d iversity & enhance knowledge sharing. ­p olitical inclusion you feel that all employees have the same opportunities and 10.3 Ensure equal opportunities and end duties regardless of gender, gender identity or expression, Include unconscious bias in the value ­d iscrimination ethnicity, ­religion or other belief, disability, sexual orientation, training. Engage all managers and 17.16 Enhance the global partnership for or age?’’ 80% of all employees in the training. ­sustainable development Raise awareness and form partnerships for increased Target: Create storytelling & engage for diabetes Establish Diabetes foundation as ­ quality, ­d iversity & inclusion e and healthy lifestyles. ­independent entity together with Progress: 3rd consecutive Diabetes gala and at least four partners. a ­D iabetes documentary. 133 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Goals 2019–2021 Targets and progress 2019 Targets 2020 SDGs NURTURING OUR CULTURE Improve value awareness and increase rating on questions Target: Develop Culture & Values training for all Continue values training with a minimum 5.5 E nsure full participation in leadership and regarding values in engagement survey (BEAT index) from ­m anagers and initiate further rollout to all ­e mployees. of 80% of employees. ­d ecision-­m aking 80% in 2019 to 82% in 2021 Progress: The training was developed and ­initiated. 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe working environments 10.3 Ensure equal opportunities and end ­d iscrimination Develop career opportunities and increase rating on the Target: Identify a gender balanced & diverse top Review the process for talent acquisition ­q uestion “Are you satisfied with the career opportunities within ­talent pool and succession planning. and succession planning from an EDI NENT” from 48% in 2019 to 60% in 2021 in engagement survey Progress: All done. perspec­t ive. Initiate activities. Increase the perception of wellbeing among employees Target: Review and revise policies & benefits for all Review and identify challenges and and increase rating on questions regarding wellbeing in the ­e mployees, at all stages of life. Also raising awareness ­e nablers for healthier and more safe engagement survey (PAI index) from 76% in 2019 to 78% in 2021 on travel and workplace security. workplaces, including safe travelling. Progress: E.g. reviewed parental policy and ­on­going ­information on travel security. Must be continued in 2020. COMMITTING TO OUR CONDUCT Ensure that awareness of our Code of Conduct, principles Target: Evaluate implemented CoC rollout programme Launch CoC training and reach 85% in 13.3 B uild knowledge and capacity to meet & ­values (including data privacy) are embedded in daily and improve as needed. Launch upgraded network of awareness about our CoC amongst the climate change ­a ctivities and business for all employees Data Protection Managers. employees and perform targeted training 16.5 S ubstainally reduce corruption and bribery Progress: Evaluation done and upgraded network for employees in high risk areas. Finalise ­i nitiated. recruitment of network. Address and engage with all identified high-risk suppliers, Target: Map existing supply chain to identify suppliers Continue mapping existing supply chain to ensure committment to our ethical standards by 2021 with critical sustainability risks, and initiate a process to identify suppliers with critical sustainafor engaging with all such high-risks entities. bility risks and data processors with GDPR Progress: Initiated in Q4 2019. risks, and initiate a process for engaging with all such high-risks entities. Reduce total CO2 emissions from business travel, facilities Target: Set launch plan for green awareness week Continue activities from 2019 and reduce and energy use by 10% by 2021 (base year 2019) and green initiatives in all markets. Initiate collaboratotal CO2 emissions from business travel, tion with landlords and smart green travel tips when facilities and energy use by 5% in 2020 booking tickets. (base year 2019). Progress: All done. WE PRODUCING QUALITY CONTENT Improve the family experience of our Viaplay platform Target: Develop and implement content Editorial Establish kids & parents focus groups for 10.2 P romote universal, social, economic and for safe & trusted digital experience Guidelines. Launch digital experience with multiple all our kids original productions to ensure political inclusion user-profiles for child-friendlier viewing & interaction. that our content & platform is responsible, 12.6 Encourage companies to adopt sustainable Progress: All done. educative and entertaining. ­p ractices and sustainability reporting 12.8. Promote universal understanding of ­sustainable Improve accessibility across all our platforms by exceeding Target: Broadcast content on our channels with audio Introduce audio descriptions and signed ­l ifestyles regulations and increasing on accessible content (subtitling, descriptions (10%) and subtitles (70%). language content onto our on demand audio description and sign language) Progress: All done. platforms. 134 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Data tables WORKFORCE DATA GRI 102-8 Information on employees & other workers 2019 2018 Regions Headcount Men Women Total Men Women Total ‘Nordics’ includes Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland. ‘CEE, US & UK’ includes Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Hungary, Permanent 944 798 1,742 963 761 1,724 ­Latvia, Lithuania, Netherlands, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Nordics 873 698 1,571 882 658 1,540 the United Kingdom and the United States. CEE, UK & US 71 100 171 81 103 184 Temporary 121 113 234 88 79 167 Workers’ contribution Nordics 119 109 228 85 73 158 In 2019, a significant part of NENT Group’s work in all regions CEE, UK & US 2 4 6 3 6 9 was performed by workers who are not employees. This Total 1,065 911 1,976 1,051 840 1,891 work included production and post-production, casting and talent services, photography, voice-overs, logistical assistance, Full-time 938 774 1,712 959 744 1,703 office coordination, production management and coordinaPart-time 6 24 30 4 17 21 tion, showrunning, project management, telemarketing, payTotal 944 798 1,742 963 761 1,724 roll support, sales, scriptwriting, editing, legal ­consultancy, technical assistance, market research, graphic design, finance, Employees and workers i)  O ne company reported an average FTE 2019 number business administration, sales and business development All workforce data in the sustainability reporting relates to instead of a full headcount number as of 31 December ­s ervices. In this context, a ‘significant part’ means that: employees only (an exception is the injury rate, which covers 2019, due to data availability limitations. i)  workers performed activities that are core for NENT both employees and workers). Employees are defined as ii)  Data relating to full-time and part-time employees is Group’s business people with a permanent or temporary contract at NENT based on permanent employees only. ii)  o r: the work performed was sufficiently crucial to the Group. Workers are people wo work for NENT Group without ­b usiness and NENT Group could not operate without it being employees, such as consultants, contractors, freelancers Data collection iii) or: more than 50% of the total workforce contained and self-employed people. The majority of data was extracted from internal HR systems, ­workers who are not employees. payroll systems, and manually populated files. The remaining Headcount data was derived from employee surveys, accounting proIn 2019, the first two criteria were met at NENT Group. It can The number of employees in all tables is expressed as headgrams, and employment contracts. Strix Bene­lux, which is therefore be concluded that a significant part of the work at count as of 31 December 2019 and include both permanent based in the Netherlands, was excluded from the 2019 data NENT Group in 2019 was carried out by workers who are not and temporary employees. There are two exceptions: due to an ongoing reorganisation process. employees. GRI 102-4 135 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting GRI 401-1 New employee hires & employee turnover 2019 2018 New hires is defined as all employees joining the company Nordics CEE, UK & US Total Nordics CEE, UK & US Total for the first time. This excludes transfers of existing employNumber % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % ees within NENT Group, as well as job promotions which are reported separately as internal recruitment. Total new hires 352 20% 24 14% 376 19% 340 20% 39 20% 379 20% The total new hires rate is calculated against the total Split by gender number of employees at NENT Group. The total new hires Men 175 50% 5 21% 180 48% 201 59% 17 44% 218 58% rates per region are calculated against the total number of Women 177 50% 19 79% 196 52% 139 41% 22 56% 161 42% employees for each region. The splits by gender and age Split by age group group are calculated against the total new hires number. Total turnover covers all employees who left their employ<30 132 37% 8 33% 140 37% 154 45% 19 49% 173 46% ment at NENT Group for any reason, including resignation, 30–50 211 60% 16 67% 227 60% 180 53% 20 51% 200 53% redundancy, leaving during probation period, end of tempo>50 9 3% – – 9 3% 6 2% – – 6 2% rary employment or retirement. Total turnover 299 17% 30 17% 329 17% 313 18% 42 22% 355 19% The total turnover rate is calculated against the total ­n umber of employees at NENT Group. The total turnover Split by gender rates per region are calculated against the total number of Men 163 16% 9 12% 172 16% 201 20% 18 21% 219 21% employees for each region. The splits by gender and age Women 136 17% 21 20% 157 17% 112 15% 24 22% 136 16% group are calculated against the total number of employees Split by age group in each category. <30 61 14% 6 20% 67 15% 120 33% 16 44% 136 34% 30–50 217 18% 20 15% 237 17% 176 15% 25 17% 201 15% >50 21 12% 4 36% 25 15% 17 13% 1 8% 18 13% Internal recruitment 2019 2018 The internal recruitment rates refer to the number of employees recruited to their current position from another Men Women Total Men Women Total position within NENT Group and are shown in relation to the Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % total number of employees in each category. The figures Internally recruited 48 4.5% 51 5.6% 99 5.0% 50 4.8% 39 4.6% 89 4.7% include job promotions, and internal transfers into a new role, regardless of whether the position has been externally advertised. 136 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting GRI 102-41 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 2019 2018 The total number of employees was used as a basis for Number % Number % ­calculating the percentage of employees covered by ­collective bargaining agreements. Proportion of employees covered 90 5% 74 4% GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 2019 The average minimum number of weeks was calculated by In some companies with collective bargaining agreements, taking an average of all minimum notice periods reported the minimum notice period and terms for consultation and Average minimum number of weeks 6 by all NENT Group companies. Data was not available for negotiation are specified in an agreement regarding opera2018 since this GRI indicator was introduced in 2019. tional changes. GRI 401-3 Parental leave (PL) 2019 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Number of employees entitled to PL 993 838 1,831 994 786 1,780 Number of employees who took PL 64 77 141 51 68 119 Proportion of employees who took PL 6.5% 9.1% 7.7% 5.1% 8.7% 6.7% Employees entitled to PL Employees who took PL At NENT Group, employees’ entitlement to PL is recognised This covers employees who have taken PL during the year and followed as prescribed by law. In some companies, all reported. The proportion of employees who took PL is employees (both permanent and temporary) are entitled ­calculated against the number of employees who are to PL. In other companies, only permanent employees are ­e ntitled to PL. entitled. GRI 103-1 GRI 103-2 GRI 103-3 137 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting GRI 403-2 Work-related injuries, diseases, fatalities, lost days and absence 2019 2018 internal HR, payroll or service desk systems; directly to an office, HR department, executive or event manager via Men Women Total Men Women Total email or word of mouth; externally by insurance funds and Work-related fatalities (number) – – – – – – companies; or manually in excel files, online documents or Work-related injuries (number) 1 5 6 2 3 5 physical files. Occupational diseases (number) 4 2 6 1 1 2 Lost days from work (number) 181 273 454 60 45 105 Occupational disease rate Days absent from work (number) 605 868 1,473 145 307 452 This relates to employees only and covers diseases arising from a work situation or activity, or from a work-related Work-related injury rate* 0.9 2.7 1.8 0.9 1.8 1.3 injury. Nordics – 2.4 1.1 1.0 2.0 1.5 CEE, UK & US 13.5 4.8 8.3 – – – Lost days rate Occupational disease rate* 1.9 1.1 1.5 0.5 0.6 0.5 This relates to employees only and is defined as working days Nordics 2.0 1.2 1.7 0.5 0.7 0.6 where an employee is unable to perform their usual duties CEE, UK & US – – – – – – because of an occupational disease or accident Lost days are reported as scheduled working days, beginning to count Lost days rate* 84.0 148.1 113.5 28.2 26.5 27.4 the day after the accident. Nordics 90.2 167.1 124.7 30.7 30.4 30.6 CEE, UK & US – – – – – – Absent days rate Absent days rate** N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A This relates to employees only and is defined as days of Nordics 1.9 3.9 2.7 N/A N/A N/A absenteeism in each category in relation to the total number of employees in that category and 253 working days per CEE, UK & US N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A year. N/A means that due to changes in data collection * per 1 million working hours methods in 2019 compared to 2018, data was available only ** per 100 working days for NENT Group in Denmark, Norway and Sweden in 2019, however excluding all NENT Studios companies, and Viasat Work-related injury rate gender of the injured employees. Due to the low number Sales AB in Sweden. All data from 2018 is excluded for the This covers both employees and workers and is defined as of injuries, this report does not give a regional breakdown same reason. a non-fatal injury arising from, or in the course of work duties. of the types of injuries. All rates are calculated by dividing the number in each It includes minor (first-aid) injuries. In 2018, there were five An injury can be reported by an employee, internal safety ­category by the total amount of working hours or days in the injuries at NENT Group in Sweden that are excluded from representative, manager or other. Reporting and recording same category. For all rates, the yearly working hours for one the 2018 year’s figures since it was not possible to report the of injuries is carried out in various ways, such as through employee are assumed to be eight hours per day for 253 days. 138 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting GRI 404-1 Average yearly employee training 2019 2018 Figures are calculated against the total number of employees Hours Men Women Total Men Women Total for each category. Training hours at NENT Group in Sweden are excluded as it is not possible to report gender or employee CEO, EVPs, CxOs, Sub.CEOs, SVPs 1.8 3.1 2.4 N/A N/A N/A category. At NENT Group in Sweden, there were on average VPs, Heads of 6.9 3.0 5.0 N/A N/A N/A 5.6 training hours in 2019. Managers 3.6 4.9 4.3 N/A N/A N/A N/A means that data was not available due to changes Non-managers 2.4 2.5 2.4 N/A N/A N/A in employee categories and method of collecting data. Total 2.9 2.9 2.9 N/A N/A N/A Managers are defined as employees with personnel responsibility. This employee category also includes team leaders. Non-managers are defined as employees without personnel responsibility. GRI 404-3 Performance and Development Appraisals (PDA) 2019 2018 The PDA rate is defined as the percentage of employees in Proportion of employees who received PDA Men Women Total Men Women Total each category who participated in a PDA. Gender and employee category data was not available in 2018 or 2019 for CEO, EVPs, CxOs, Sub. CEOs, SVPs 62% 72% 67% N/A N/A N/A NENT Group in Sweden, or in 2019 for NENT Group in Finland. VPs, Heads of 62% 81% 71% N/A N/A N/A • At NENT Group in Sweden, 76% of employees participated Managers 93% 100% 97% 73% 67% 70% in a PDA in 2019 and 84% in 2018. Non-managers 73% 72% 73% 53% 64% 58% • At NENT Group in Finland, 74% of employees participated Total 74% 77% 76% 59% 66% 62% in a PDA in 2019. N/A means that data was not available due to changes in employee categories. Managers are defined as employees with personnel responsibility. This employee category also includes team leaders. Non-managers are defined as employees without personnel responsibility. 139 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Part of total workforce 2019 2018 By age 2019 2018 CEO, EVPs, CxOs, Sub. CEOs, SVPs 3% N/A Board of directors VPs, Heads of 10% N/A <30 – – Managers 10% 10% 30–50 17% 50% Non-managers 77% 77% >50 83% 50% CEO, EVPs, CxOs, Sub. CEOs, SVPs By gender 2019 2018 <30 – N/A 30–50 76% N/A Board of directors >50 24% N/A Women 33% 33% VPs, Heads of Men 67% 67% <30 6% N/A CEO, EVPs, CxOs, Sub. CEOs, SVPs 30–50 85% N/A Women 45% N/A >50 9% N/A Men 55% N/A Managers VPs, Heads of <30 4% 4% Women 43% N/A 30–50 86% 88% Men 57% N/A >50 10% 8% Managers Non-managers Women 47% 48% <30 28% 26% Men 53% 52% 30–50 64% 67% Non-managers >50 8% 7% Women 46% 44% Total Men 54% 56% <30 23% 21% Total 30–50 69% 71% Women 46% 44% >50 8% 8% Men 54% 56% N/A means that data was not available due to changes in employee categories. Managers are defined as employees with personnel responsibility. This employee category also includes team leaders. Non-managers are defined as employees without personnel responsibility. 140 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Carbon footprint, tonnes CO2e 2019 2018 Energy consumption, GJ 2019 2018 Scope 1 – direct emissions 205 263 Direct energy consumption – – Scope 2 – indirect emissions 1,293 1,206 Indirect energy consumption 20,767 19,616 Total Scope 1 & 2 1,498 1,469 Cooling 5 – Electricity 15,298 12,098 Scope 3 – other indirect emissions 5,986 6,416 Heating 5,464 7,518 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 7,484 7,885 Total 20,767 19,616 Emissions per employee 3.77 4.42 Energy consumption per employee 10.47 10.99 The data covers the main emission sources in NENT Group’s operations: At NENT Group, no fuel is burnt that falls under the direct energy use category. The calculation i)  F acilities – energy use in NENT Group’s offices and other facilities, including broadcasting methodologies used are based on the GHG Protocol and are supplemented where necessary and TV production when performed directly by the company. by additional data and assumptions. At NENT Group, the following emissions fall within the ii) M aterials – consumption of office supplies, fruit and coffee. three scopes outlined in the GHG Protocol: iii) Travel – business travel (including air, rail and road travel) and hotel stays. Scope 1 direct emissions – Leased and owned cars, fuel. In 2019, NENT Group switched from a location-based to a market-based method of calculating Scope 2 indirect emissions – Cooling, electricity and heating. CO2e from energy use. This allows the purchase of renewable energy to be accounted for in Scope 3 other indirect emissions – Heating, use of materials and travel such as private and the total carbon footprint. The market-based method was applied retroactively, meaning that rental cars, hotel nights, taxi and air travel. the 2018 and 2019 figures are comparable. Emission figures are calculated via quarterly data gathering processes across the company’s facilities, as well as from external travel suppliers. The figures are based on all three GHG Proto­col scopes and the base year is 2018. In 2019, for the first time all NENT Group’s companies reported available carbon data. This data improvement may have led to increases for some indicators, such as electricity. For f­ urther information on NENT Group’s green actions, please refer to page 39 of this report. GRI 302-1 GRI 302-3 GRI 305-1 GRI 305-2 GRI 305-3 GRI 305-4 141 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting CORPORATE GIVING DATA KSEK 2019 2018 The value of donated media time is based on the estimated market value of the commercial Donated media time 45,301 30,958 media time that NENT Group has donated to charity organisations. Funds raised for charity include NENT Group’s own fundraising campaigns and funds raised together with NGOs. Products & services – 1,525 Products & services refers to any products or services that have been donated to charity free Cash donations 39 209 of charge, such as subscriptions. In 2018, the majority of volunteering hours related to NENT Total donations 45,340 32,692 Group’s Diabetes Gala. Funds raised for charity 8,080 8,239 Total corporate giving 53,420 40,931 Hours 2019 2018 Volunteering hours 58 422 142 GRI 203-1 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting COMPLIANCE DATA Content compliance breakdown – TV & Streaming Content compliance breakdown – Radio Number of complaints 2019 2018 Number of complaints 2019 2018 Advertising – 4 Advertising – – Not in breach – 4 Not in breach – – Out of which relating to minors – 1 Sponsorship – – Sponsorship – 1 Not in breach – – Not in breach – 1 Programmes, promos & other – – Out of which relating to minors – – Not in breach – – Programmes, promos & other 7 15 Total – – Not in breach 7 15 Still pending at the end of 2019 – – Out of which relating to minors – 1 Fines/penalties – – Total 7 20 Still pending at the end of 2019 2 – All of NENT Group’s radio stations hold local licenses and are therefore locally regulated. No Fines/penalties – – broadcast complaints relating to NENT Group’s radio channels were received in 2018 or 2019. The figures refer to the number of broadcast complaints, and are divided into various cateContent compliance training gories (advertising, sponsorship and programmes and promos). All NENT Group’s Ofcom Number of people trained 2019 2018 licensed TV channels and streaming services are included in these figures. ‘Not in breach’ means that the complaint was dismissed by Ofcom and that the content in question was Internally 74 131 determined to be in compliance with rules and regulations. ‘Still pending’ means that the Externally 14 – ­complaint has yet to be ruled upon. Total 88 131 Anti corruption Number of cases 2019 2018 Confimed incidents of corruption – – Whisteblower incidents 1 – NENT Group’s central Content Compliance Team provides continuous training for employees whose daily work involves NENT Group’s content compliance procedures, such as those working in acquisitions, programming, scheduling, sales, on-air planning and creative services. When necessary, the Content Compliance Team also trains external production teams who produce content for NENT Group’s services or channels. For more information on NENT Group’s whistleblowing process see page 38. GRI 205-3 GRI 417-2 GRI 417-3 143 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting GRI Index GRI 101 Foundation 2016 – General Disclosures Organisational Profile Reference Assurance Comment 102-1 Name of the organization Administration report (Page 60) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Business segment (Pages 67–68) 102-3 Location of headquarters Administration report (Page 60) 102-4 Location of operations At a glance (Inside cover page-page 1) Data tables (Page 135) 102-5 Ownership and legal form The NENT Group Share (Page 42) 102-6 Markets served Business segments (Pages 67–68) 102-7 Scale of the organization At a glance (Inside cover page-page 1) NENT Group portfolio covers five products Consolidated balance sheet (Page 71) and services (Viaplay, Viafree, Viasat, TV and Radio) 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Data tables (Page 135) 102-9 Supply chain Value Chain (Page 130) 102-10 S ignificant changes to the organization and its supply chain Significant events in 2019 by quarter (Page 61) 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Committing to our conduct (Page 39) 102-12 External initiatives CEO’s Statement (Page 6) 102-13 Membership of associations Membership of associations (Page 131) Strategy Reference Assurance Comment 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO’s Statement (Pages 4–6) 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities How we create impact (Pages 29–30) Risk and risk management (Page 57) Ethics and Intergrity Reference Assurance Comment 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Committing to our conduct (Pages 37–39) 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Committing to our conduct (Page 38) 144 GRI 102-55 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Governance Reference Assurance Comment 102-18 Governance structure Governance and responsibility (Page 49) 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, Governance and responsibility (Page 49) and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Governance and responsibility (Page 47) 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Board of Directors (Page 51) 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Governance and responsibility (Page 46) 102-25 Conflicts of interest Governance and responsibility (Page 47) Administration report (Page 66) 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values and strategy Governance and responsibility (Page 49) 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Governance and responsibility (Page 49) 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Risk and risk management (Page 57) 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Governance and responsibility (Page 49) Risk and risk management (Page 57) 102-32 Highest governance body's role in sustainability reporting Governance and responsibility (Page 49) 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Risk and risk management (Page 57) Committing to our conduct (Page 38) 102-35 Remuneration policies Governance and responsibility (Page 49) Administration report (Page 66) 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Governance and responsibility (Page 49) Administration report (Page 66) Stakeholder Engagement Reference Assurance Comment 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder engagement and materiality determination (Page 129) 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Data tables (Page 137) 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder engagement and materiality determination (Page 128) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement and materiality determination (Page 128) 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder engagement and materiality determination (Page 129) 145 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Reporting Practice Reference Assurance Comment 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Financial statements (Pages 69–77)­­ Report scope and boundaries (Page 150) 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Stakeholder engagement and materiality determination (Pages 127–128) Report scope and boundaries (Page 150) 102-47 List of material topics Stakeholder engagement and materiality determination (Page 127) 102-48 Restatements of information Report scope and boundaries (Page 150) 102-49 Changes in reporting Report scope and boundaries (Page 150) 102-50 Reporting period Report scope and boundaries (Page 150) 102-51 Date of most recent report Report scope and boundaries (Page 150) 102-52 Reporting cycle Report scope and boundaries (Page 150) 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Report scope and boundaries (Page 150) 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Report boundaries and scope (Page 150) 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index (Pages 144–149) 102-56 External assurance Independent assurance statement (Page 151) GRI 200 Economic Standard Series – Material Topics GRI 201 Economic Performance 2016 Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Administration report (Pages 59–68) ­M ateriality determination (Pages 127–128) 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Consolidated income statement (Page 70) Partially reported. Excludes payments to Consolidated balance sheet (Page 71) ­government, community investments; and direct economic value on separate levels since it is not considered material. GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Developing Nordic Storytelling and the creative industry (Page 31). Promoting an equal, diverse and inclusive society (Pages 32–34). Materiality determination (Pages 127–128) 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Developing Nordic Storytelling and the creative industry (Page 31). Promoting an equal, diverse and inclusive society (Page 34). Data tables (Page 142) 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Promoting an equal, diverse and inclusive ­society (Pages 33–34) GRI 205 Anti-corruption 2016 Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Committing to our conduct (Pages 37–38) Materiality determination (Pages 127–128) 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Committing to our conduct (Page 37) Partially reported. We only disclose the total % of policies and procedures employees at NENT Group that were trained. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Committing to our conduct (Pages 37–38) 146 Data tables (Page 143) Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series – Material Topics GRI 302 Energy 2016 Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Committing to our conduct (Pages 37–39) Materiality determination (Pages 127–128) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Data tables (Page 141) 302-3 Energy intensity Data tables (Page 141) GRI 305 Emissions 2016 Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Committing to our conduct (Pages 37–39) Materiality determination (Pages 127–128) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Data tables (Page 141) 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Data tables (Page 141) 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Data tables (Page 141) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Data tables (Page 141) GRI 400 Social Standards Series – Material Topics GRI 401 Employment 2016 Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Nurturing our culture (Pages 35–36) ­ ommitting to our conduct (Page 38) C ­M ateriality determination (Pages 127–128) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Data tables (Page 136) 401-3 Parental leave Data tables (Page 137) Partially reported. Method for data collection regarding return to work and retention will be reviewed and reported on next year. GRI 402 Labour/Management Relations 2016 Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Committing to our conduct (Page 38) ­M ateriality determination (Pages 127–128) Data tables (Page 137) 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Data tables (Page 137) GRI 403 Health and Safety 2016 Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Nurturing our culture (Pages 35–36) C ­ ommitting to our conduct (Page 38) ­M ateriality determination (Pages 127–128) 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Data tables (Page 138) Due to the small number of injuries, we do not and ­a bsenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities provide a regional breakdown of the types of injuries to protect the privacy of our employees. 147 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting GRI 404 Training and Education 2016 Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Nurturing our culture (Pages 35–36) ­Committing to our conduct (Page 38) ­M ateriality determination (Pages 127–128) 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Data tables (Page 139) 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Nurturing our culture (Page 36) career development reviews Data tables (Page 139) GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Promoting an equal, diverse and inclusive ­society (Pages 32–34). Nurturing our culture (Pages 35–36). Committing to our conduct (Page 38). Materiality determination (Pages 127–128) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Data tables (Page 140) GRI 406 Non-discrimination 2016 Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Promoting an equal, diverse and inclusive ­society (Pages 32–34). Nurturing our culture (Pages 35–36). Committing to our conduct (Page 38). Materiality determination (Pages 127–128) 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Promoting an equal, diverse and inclusive s­ ociety (Page 33) GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment 2016 Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Committing to our conduct (Pages 37–38) Materiality determination (Pages 127–128) 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Committing to our conduct (Page 37) Partially reported. Data for total training hours is not available. GRI 417 Marketing and Labelling 2016 Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Committing to our conduct (Page 38) ­Producing quality content (Pages 40–41) Materiality determination (Pages 127–128) 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product Producing quality content (Page 40) and service information and labeling Data tables (Page 143) 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications Producing quality content (Page 40) Data tables (Page 143) 148 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting G4 Media Sector Disclosures Content creation Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Developing Nordic Storytelling and creative industry (Page 31). Promoting an equal, diverse and inclusive society (Pages 32–34). Committing to our conduct (Page 38). Producing quality content (Pages 40–41). Materiality determi­n ation (Pages 127–128) M2 Methodology for assesing and monitoring Promoting an equal, diverse and inclusive adherence to content creation values ­society (Pages 32–33). Producing quality ­content (Pages 40–41) M3 Actions taken to improve adherence to content Developing Nordic Storytelling and creative creation values, and results obtained industry (Page 31). Promoting an equal, diverse and inclusive society (Pages 32–33) ­Committing to our conduct (Page 38) ­Producing quality content (Pages 40–41) Content dissemination Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Committing to our conduct (Page 38) ­Producing quality content (Pages 40–41) Materiality determination (Pages 127–128) M4 Actions taken to improve performance in relation to content dissemination Producing quality content (Page 41) issues (accesibility and protection of vulnerableaudiences and informed ­d ecision making) and results obtained M5 Number and nature of responses (feedback/complaints) related to ­content Producing quality content (Page 40) ­d issemination, including protection of vulnerable groups Audience interaction Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Committing to our conduct (Page 38) ­Producing quality content (Pages 40–41) ­M ateriality determination (Pages 127–128) M6 Methods to interact with audiences and results Producing quality content (Page 41) Partially reported. We do not disclose number of people engaged, broken down by engagement method due to such group aggregated data inavailability. Media Literacy Reference Assurance Comment 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach Producing quality content (Pages 40–41) ­M ateriality determination (Pages 127–128) M7 Actions taken to empower audiences through media Producing quality content (Page 41) literacy skills development and results obtained 149 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Report scope and boundaries This is NENT Group’s first Annual report with an integrated There were significant data improvements in 2019 Sustainability report since separating from previous allowing for better data monitoring & reporting, such as ­p arent company Modern Times Group (MTG) and listing the integration of all NENT Group’s companies into our Reporting period independently on Nasdaq Stockholm in 2019. The report Group HR system, and almost all Nordic NENT Studios 1 January 2019–31 December 2019 was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards companies into our Group Travel system, which was not Reporting framework: (Core Level), and it fulfills the requirements for sustainabilthe case before for our NENT Studios segment. For specifiGRI Standards (Level: Core) & G4 Media ity reporting as stipulated by the Annual Accounts Act cation on methods of workforce data collection please Supple­m ent (ÅRL). We have also applied the GRI G4 Media Sector refer to page 135. Changes in reporting: Supplement for indicators where possible. Strix Benelux based in the Netherlands was excluded First year reporting, hence no changes The report’s content has been defined by the topics from the workforce data due to an ongoing reorganisaDate of most recent report: which were deemed material in our materiality assesstion process. One small NENT Studios office in Romania First year reporting ment conducted in 2018, and served as a basis for our first was not included in the carbon data for energy use. NENT Group’s sustainability strategy. The report covers Because of the reorganisation at NENT Group in 2019, Restatements of information: NENT Group’s performance in a wider sense of sustainainformation about average minimum time of notice First year reporting, hence no restatements bility, assessing our impacts in the society through the period about reorganisation has been included. sustain­a ble development goals, and the areas where we We continue to work towards further integration, and believe we can add wider societal value. take steps to improve data accuracy. In 2019 we switched Contact details The report boundary has been defined by using the from a location-based to a market-based method of For questions regarding NENT Group’s operacompleteness principle to reflect NENT Group’s significant ­calculating CO2e from energy use, which allows for the tional sustainability work, please contact the economic, environmental and social impacts. The reportpurchase of renewable energy to be accounted for in Sustainability department (sustainability@ ing scope includes operations over which we have full the total carbon footprint. nentgroup.com). control (i.e. subsidiaries where NENT Group AB owns 51% Questions regarding NENT Group’s Annual or more). The data covers NENT Group’s companies which Report and Sustainability Report should be were active in 2019. directed to the Investor Relations department (investors@nentgroup.com). Both departments are located at NENT Group’s head office at Ringvägen 52 in Stockholm, Sweden. 150 GRI 102-45 GRI 102-46 GRI 102-48 GRI 102-49 GRI 102-50 GRI 102-51 GRI 102-52 GRI 102-53 GRI 102-54 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements reporting Independent assurance statement Introduction l­imited to the historical information that is presented and significant matters that might be identified in an audit. We have been engaged by the Board of Directors and does not cover future-oriented information. The conclusion based on a limited assurance engagement the Chief Executive Officer of Nordic Entertainment We conducted our limited assurance engagement in and an examination according to RevR 12 does not provide Group AB to undertake a limited assurance engagement accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance engagements the same level of assurance as a conclusion based on an of Nordic Entertainment Group AB Sustainability Report other than audits or reviews of historical financial inforaudit. for the financial year 2019. Nordic Entertainment Group mation. A limited assurance engagement consists of Our procedures are based on the criteria defined AB has defined the scope of the Sustainability Report that ­m aking inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the by the Board of Directors and Managing Director as also is the Statutory Sustainability Report on pages 28–41, preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying de­s cribed above. We consider these criteria suitable for 49, 57 and 126–150. analytical and other limited assurance procedures. the preparation of the Sustainability Report. Our examination regarding the Statutory Sustainability We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Report has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions below. Chief Executive Officer accounting standard RevR12 The auditor’s opinion regardThe Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer ing the Statutory Sustainability Report. A limited assurance Conclusions are responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability engagement and an examination according to RevR 12 Based on the limited assurance procedures performed, Report including the Statutory Sustainability Report in is different and substantially less in scope than an audit nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe accordance with applicable criteria and the Annual conducted in accordance with International Standards on that the Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all material Accounts Act respectively. The criteria are defined on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in respects, in accordance with the criteria defined by the page 150 in the Sustainability Report and are part of Sweden. Board of Directors and Executive Management. A Statutory the Sustainability Reporting Standards published by GRI The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Sustainability Report has been prepared. (The Global Reporting Initiative), that are applicable to the Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a compreSustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calcuhensive system of quality control including documented lation principles that the Company has developed. This policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical Stockholm 2 April 2020 responsibility also includes the internal control relevant to require­m ents, professional standards and applicable legal KPMG AB the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from and regulatory requirements. We are independent of material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. ­N ordic Entertainment Group AB in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherJoakim Thilstedt Torbjörn Westman Auditor’s responsibility wise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainthese requirements. ability Report based on the limited assurance procedures The limited assurance procedures performed and the we have performed and to express an opinion regarding examination according to RevR 12 do not enable us to the Statutory Sustainability Report. Our assignment is obtain assurance that we would become aware of all GRI 102-56 151 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements information Definitions & Glossary Financial key ratio definitions Financial calendar Capital employed Interest coverage ratio Operating margin % Capital employed is the sum of current and Interest coverage ratio is calculated as operatOperating profit as a percentage of net sales. Q1 Results Announcement non-current assets less current and non-current ing income less financial costs divided by finanThursday, 23 April 2020 liabilities, provisions and ­liabilities at fair value. cial costs. Organic growth Silent period 2–23 April All items are non-­interest-bearing. Change in net sales compared to the same Items affecting comparability (IAC) period of the previous year excluding Annual General Meeting 2020 Cash flow from operations Items affecting comparability refers to mate­a cquisitions and divestments and adjusted Tuesday, 19 May 2020 Cash flow from operations comprises operatrial items and events related to changes in the for currency effects. Stockholm ing cash flow before financial items and tax Group’s structure or lines of business, which are payments, taking into account other financial relevant for understanding the Group’s develReturn on capital employed (ROCE) % Documentation and further cash flow. opment on a like-for-like basis. Return on capital employed is calculated as details of when and how to give operating income as a percentage of average notice to attend will be published Earnings per share Net debt capital employed. in advance on Earnings per share is expressed as net income Net debt is the sum of shortand long-term www.nentgroup.com attributable to equity holders of the parent interest-bearing liabilities less total cash and Return on equity (ROE) % divided by the average number of shares. interest-bearing assets. As from 1 January 2019 Return on equity is expressed as net income as Q2 Results Announcement net debt also includes lease liabilities net of a percentage of average shareholders’ equity. Wednesday, 22 July 2020 EBITDA sublease receivables and dividend payable. Silent period 1–22 July EBITDA is read Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Working Capital Depreciation and Amortisation. Operating income Current assets, excluding cash and equivalents Q3 Results Announcement Operating income comprise results before interand current tax assets, reduced by interest-­ Thursday, 22 October 2020 Equity/assets ratio est and tax. A synonym for operating income is free current liabilities, excluding current tax Silent period 1–22 October The equity/assets ratio corresponds to shareEBIT (Earnings Before Interest and Tax). ­l iabilities. holders’ equity including non-­controlling interest, expressed as a ­p ercentage of total assets. 152 Administration Overview CEO’s Perfectly Investment Sustainability The share Governance report & Financial Sustainability statement ­p ositioned proposition report statements information Operational key ratio d ­ efinitions and glossary Addresses AVOD, Advertising video EST, Electronic sell-through Third-party customer on-demand A sub-category of TVOD whereby ­c ustomers A customer who has access to NENT Group’s Nordic Entertainment Group AB A video on demand service that is free for pay a one-time fee to download content for ­content through a third-party company. Telephone users and funded through advertising. permanent access. +46 (0)8 562 025 00 TV Everywhere www.nentgroup.com Branded content Non-scripted content A common feature of pay-TV services that Content such as reality entertainment shows or Postal address Editorial content (i.e. not advertising spots) that enables customers to access pay-TV content is funded by and produced for an advertiser. documentaries that do not ­f ollow a set script. over the internet. P.O. Box 2094 SE-103 13 Stockholm Carriage fee Original TVOD, Transaction video Sweden A fee paid by a TV distributor to NENT Group in Content created and owned by a media comon-demand Visitors’ address order to show NENT Group’s TV channels. pany (as opposed to content acquired from A video on demand service where c­ ustomers Ringvägen 52 another company) for direct distribution to its can purchase content on a pay-per-view basis. SE-118 67 Stockholm CSOL, Commercial share of listening own or partners’ customers. Sweden A company’s share of commercial radio listenVOD, Video on-demand ing in the age group 12+ years (­N orway) or Scripted content A general term for services that enable Investors 12–79 years (Sweden). Content such as drama series or films that follow ­c ustomers to stream or download video investors@nentgroup.com a set script. ­content whenever they want and on a range CSOV, Commercial share of viewing of devices. Sustainability A company’s share of commercial TV viewing Sublicensing sustainability@nentgroup.com in the age group 15–49 years. The licensing of content by one company from another company currently holding this license. Media Direct-to-consumer press@nentgroup.com The distribution of products and services by a SVOD, Subscription video on-demand Whistleblowing company directly to the customer. A video on demand service where a ­c ustomer sustainability@nentgroup.com pays a regular subscription fee to access the service. we are the beat of entertainment
