2018 Sustainability Report ABOUT THIS REPORT Hyosung published its first Sustainability Report in 2012 in order to actively communicate with stakeholders. The 2018 Hyosung Sustainability Report is the third sustainability report Hyosung has published. Through this report, we would like to share and transparently disclose the company’s sustainable management activities and achievements across the economic, social and environmental sectors. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION This report has been created in the form of an Reporting Principles interactive PDF which includes hyperlink features The 2018 Hyosung Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with the core options of the GRI Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). to direct readers to the relevant page both within In addition, external sustainability initiatives and indicators have been considered and further reflected so that we meet varied interests and criteria of different stakeholders. and outside the report. Reporting Period and Scope The reporting period for this report is from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018. When it comes to provision of trend data, time range has been set to include last three years from 2016. In case Contents of qualitative activities and achievement, the report may include data up until May 2019. All financial data is based on the criteria of K-IFRS (Korean International Financial Reporting Standards). Move to the page of Contents Hyosung was divided into the operating holding company, Hyosung Corporation, which is in charge of group-wide investment plans and management of subsidiaries’ stakes, and four companies – Hyosung TNC Corp., Hyosung Heavy Industries Corp., Hyosung Advanced Materials Corp. and Hyosung Chemical Corp., whose business area covers textile · trading, heavy industries · construction, Previous Page industrial materials and chemicals, respectively. Reporting period of financial information for each company ranges from the date of the division to December 31, 2018. Move to the previous page Accordingly, the scope of this report includes domestic and overseas business sites in Hyosung Corporation and its four operating companies. For matters required attention to the scope of the report, a separate explanation is provided to avoid confusing readers. For your convenience, we use the abbreviations of company names. In addition, 'Hyosung', which is not used as 'Hyosung Corporation', includes Hyosung Corporation, Hyosung TNC, Hyosung Heavy Industries, Hyosung Advanced Materials, and Hyosung Chemicals. Next Page Move to the next page Verification In order to ensure the credibility and fairness of this report, Networks-Y has verified this report in accordance with the AA1000(2008) principles (inclusiveness, importance, responsiveness) as well Related Link as with the verification procedures based on ISAE 3000 data and process reliability principles. The related results of the verification can be found on page 72 of the report. Move to the related link Glossary for Major Terms Inquires Hyosung CSR Team PG: Performance Group If you have any questions or requests to regard of this report, please contact us at the following numbers and email address. PU: Performance Unit 119 Mapodaero, Mapo-gu, 04144, Seoul, Republic of Korea Tel. 82-2-707-7065 Fax. 82-2-707-7776 Email. csr@hyosung.com SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT CONTENTS Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future 23 Human Resource Management 27 Green Management 33 Social Contribution 39 Shared Growth Management 47 GOVERNANCE Sustainability Management System 52 Governance and Board of Directors 53 Risk Management 55 OVERVIEW Ethical Management 57 CEO Message 04 Stakeholder Engagement 59 Company Overview 05 Materiality Assessment 60 Operating Companies Overview 07 Sustainability Management Overview 09 APPENDIX ESG Performance 62 FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES Third Party Verification Statement 72 Customer Relationship Management and Maximizing Customer Satisfaction 11 GRI Standards Index 73 Eco Products and Technology Development 15 Human Rights Policy 75 Overseas Expansion into New Markets 19 UN SDGs Impact Identification 75 HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 04 CEO Message ― Company Overview ― Operating Companies Overview ― Sustainability Management Overview CEO Message Throughout the strengthened sustainability management system, we will grow into a “100-year old company, growing together with customers.” Despite the difficult business condition inside and out, Hyosung spun-off operating companies. At the same time, we will maxihas managed to constantly bring change and growth thanks to mize our corporate value and shareholder value by acquiring continued support from the stakeholders and dedication of our market-leading global competence. employees. Especially, we have strived to ensure full satisfaction In addition to these external achievements and changes, the of customers not only by listening and responding to the needs 2018 Hyosung Sustainability Report contains overall perforand voice of customer (VOC) but also by establishing a process mance and goals related to sustainability, including green prodto acquire, analyze and respond to VOCC (Voice of Customer’s ucts, R&D, shared growth management with partner companies Customer) and VOCO (Voice of Competitor). In 2019, particuand sharing-based management for local communities. larly, Hyosung is focusing on establishing a robust relationship Hyosung will continue to strengthen our sustainable managewith customers as long-term growth partners and is operating ment system to communicate with the stakeholders, create social the business, giving priority to VOC and customer value, with an values and share the outcomes. We promise that we continue to aim of fulfilling ‘100-year Company Hyosung, Growing Together grow in harmony with stakeholders, as we move forward. We with Customers’. look forward to your continued interest and support. In June 2018, Hyosung officially launched a holding company structure with a split into Hyosung Corporation, the holding Thank you. company, and four operating companies, Hyosung TNC Corporation, Hyosung Heavy Industries Corporation, Hyosung Advanced Materials Corporation, and Hyosung Chemical Corporation. This transition to the holding company structure will help our new subsidiary companies to strengthen their competitiveness in the October, 2019 global market by accelerating future technology development in CEO & Chairman Hyun-Joon Cho their own domains as well as by proactively challenging to rising industries. Moreover, we will focus on transparent management based on the expertise of Hyosung Corporation and its newly HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 05 CEO Message ― Company Overview ― Operating Companies Overview ― Sustainability Management Overview Company Overview In June 2018, Hyosung has completed its conversion into a holding company structure after reorganizing its departments into the operating companies of Hyosung TNC, Hyosung Heavy Industries, Hyosung Advanced Materials and Hyosung Chemical, as well as the holding company, Hyosung Corporation. In this way, we aim to gain more expertise for sustainable growth A New Change Begins in each business sector by ensuring that each company focuses its capabilities on its own business area with independence and specialization. Through this new change of company structure, Hyosung also strives to maximize its management transparency and shareholders’ value. HYOSUNG WAY ‘Hyosung Way’ is a value system to turn dreams into reality by bringing together the will and capabilities of all Hyosung members throughout the world. Through the practice of ‘Hyosung Way’, Hyosung aims to become a leading global company and contribute to improving life quality of customers. • Maximize the competitiveness with ceaseless self-improvement efforts to win in any condition. 2019 HYOSUNG GROUP MANAGEMENT POLICY • Blaze new trails in markets around the world with a global outlook. “100-YEAR HYOSUNG, GROWING TOGETHER WITH CUSTOMERS” Principles • Challenge new possibilities with a positive mindset. • Eliminate all inefficiencies that do not add value. The Core Values Global Excellence Innovation Customer-oriented • Listen to VOC and customer needs and practice it Management that • Implement sales/production/R&D with the highest priority in customer value Listen to VOC • Establish relationship with customer as long-term growth partner • Respect and cooperate with each other to make a great workplace. • Uphold transparency and fairness based on facts and principles. HYOSUNG WAY Enhancing Global Business • Provide differentiated products and services with global top-level technology Capacity Based on the • Secure global top-level price competitiveness Leading the Better Life of • Strengthening foundation for growth through training global human resource development Leading Technology Mankind Based on the Best Technology and Management Capability Always Winning Company • Establish market-winning strategies after thorough market research Complying with • Fulfill business goal by implementing the strategies in self-completing manner Responsibility Management • Through risk management and transparent communication Integrity Accountabilities Strengthening • Practice ethical management Sustainability • Shared-growth with partner companies Management System • Reinforce social responsibility activities • Act like owners and take charge in actions at work. • Never give up until achieving the goal. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 06 CEO Message ― Company Overview ― Operating Companies Overview ― Sustainability Management Overview Global Network 16 business sites in 11 business sites in 9 countries 1 country • UK • Luxembourg • Russia • USA AFRICA • Germany • Poland • Spain ASIA • Italy • Romania • Turkey NORTH CENTRAL/SOUTH AMERICA AMERICA 2 business sites in 77 business site in 1 country EUROPE 15 countries 8 business sites in • South Africa • Korea • Indonesia • Thailand 3 countries • China • Malaysia • Taiwan • Mexico • Japan • Myanmar • U.A.E. • Panama • Vietnam • Philippines • Qatar • Brazil • India • Singapore • Saudi Arabia COMPANY PROFILE DOMESTIC BUSINESS SITES PROPORTION OF OVERSEAS SALES IN 2018 (Unit : %) Company Name Hyosung Corporation Date of establishment CEO 3.Nov.66 Hyun-Joon Cho, Kyoo-Young Kim 16 05 Overseas 60.0 Headquarters location 119 Mapodaero, Mapo-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Plants R&D Centers Textile, industrial materials, chemical, heavy industry, Main business areas Major business countries construction, trade, IT, etc. 29 countries incl. Korea, China and Vietnam OVERSEAS BUSINESS SITES Domestic 40.0 Total revenue KRW 11,414.8 billion Operating profit Employees KRW 447.7 billion 8,118 persons 35 28 29 * The information provided in ’Major business countries’, ‘Total revenue’, ‘Operating profit’ is based on the result including Manufacturing Hyosung Corporation and four operating companies as of end of December 2018. (Consolidated) Trading Entities Trading Offices * Proportion of overseas sales in 2018 has been calculated based on company-specific standards of sales revenue by Entities Hyosung TNC, Hyosung Heavy Industries, Hyosung Advanced Materials and Hyosung Chemical. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 07 CEO Message ― Company Overview ― Operating Companies Overview ― Sustainability Management Overview Operating Companies Overview Maximizing customer value with innovative textile Hyosung Heavy technology and Industries Corporation a global trade Hyosung Heavy Industries possesses the world’s best technology in heavy electric equipment, the core of industrial energy. In addition to electric network. equipment such as transformers and circuit breakers, rotating equipment such as motors and gears also receives high recognition in the industry, and the company is developing the core technologies necessary to establish power network in the future such as energy storage system (ESS), STATCOM and smart grids. Furthermore, the company is actively participating in various construction projects based on its rich business experience and high trust it has gained from the industry. Hyosung leads green growth by future power grid Hyosung TNC Corporation and eco-friendly The textile business of Hyosung TNC is leading chemical fiber industry in the world by supplying fiber, textiles and dyed products including spandex, nylon, and polyester with its excellent prodconstruction. uct quality, technology as well as customer service. Furthermore, the trading business, based on a network of more than 50 overseas branches around the world, is offering high-end marketing services in a variety of fields including distribution and logistics, mainly focusing on the business areas of steel and chemicals. Based on the rich business experience accumulated, Hyosung TNC is continuing to grow at the center of global trading by introducing new products and exploring new markets. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 08 CEO Message ― Company Overview ― Operating Companies Overview ― Sustainability Management Overview Hyosung’s Hyosung Advanced chemical material Materials Corporation technology always support Hyosung Advanced Materials produces high-performance industrial yarn, textiles and metallic materials used in a variety of industries such as auconvenient tomobile, civil engineering, construction, agriculture and military industries. Hyosung Advanced Materials has grown as a solution provider that improves daily lives. customer value through commercialization in the global market through constant product development and commercialization of new materials, maintaining the world’s largest market share in the products such as tire cords, seatbelt yarn and airbag fabrics. We assure customer safety Hyosung and satisfaction Chemical Corporation through optimized Hyosung Chemical produces a variety of chemical products including TPA, which are widely exported to Asia, Europe and cutting-edge the Middle East, polypropylenes (PP) products including R200P, materials. which have the world’s largest market share, as well as various other chemical products such as films and advanced industrial specialty gases. In particular, Polyketone, a high-molecular new material that Hyosung successfully commercialized for the first time in the world, is considered as the key material to lead the global components industry due to its outstanding physical properties and high competitiveness. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 09 CEO Message ― Company Overview ― Operating Companies Overview ― Sustainability Management Overview Sustainability Management Overview Following the demand and expectation from various stakeholders, Hyosung is trying to evolve into a sustainable company fulfilling economic, social and environmental responsibilities. Therefore, we have established sustainability management system and created new values based on various opinions of stakeholders and global sustainability initiatives. We also disclose our activities and achievements in our sustainability reports focusing on major issues related to economic, social and environmental aspects of sustainability. Through ‘Focus Issues & Business Cases’ in this report, we share our business performance and the relevant best practices. The ‘Sustainability Management’ and ‘Governance’ parts in this report include current status and achievements of our sustainability management in general. REPORTED ISSUES UN SDGs LINKAGE 1 • Customer Relationship Management and Maximizing Customer Satisfaction FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES • Eco Products and Technology Development • Overseas Expansion into New Markets Identification and Current Status 3 • Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future • Human Resource Management SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT • Green Management • Social Contribution • Shared Growth Management Analysis and Evaluation 2 • Sustainability Management System • Governance and Board of Directors • Risk Management GOVERNANCE • Ethical Management Materiality • Stakeholder Engagement • Materiality Assessment Assessment Focus Issues & Business Cases Customer Relationship Management and 11 Maximizing Customer Satisfaction Eco Products and Technology Development 15 Overseas Expansion into New Markets 19 HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 11 Customer Relationship Management and Maximizing Customer Satisfaction ― Eco Products and Technology Development ― Overseas Expansion into New Markets Customer-oriented Management Customer Relationship Management and Establishing C-cube(VOC) System Pursuing customer-oriented management, Hyosung is devoted to maximizing its G-VOC(Global Voice Of Customer) Management System Hyosung Heavy Industries is practicing customer-oriented quality management Maximizing Customer corporate value and customer satisfaction by identifying true customer needs from various channels such as VOC (Voice of Customer), VOCC (Voice of Customthrough establishing and operating G-VOC (Global Voice of Customer) and the portal system. G-VOC is a global-level customer management system aimed for Satisfaction er’s Customer) and even VOCO (Voice of Competitor). Aligned with this, we have effective integration and management of customers’ VOC data. It prevents reestablished a system to facilitate a process for C3 (VOC) activities which enables curring issues or problems by registering and sharing customers’ feedback (VOC us to gather, analyze and further respond to voice of customers across all the information) received at customer-handling departments to the corporate sysbusiness sectors such as sales, marketing, quality management and R&D. We are tem. This not only enables us to transparently monitor status of our customer cultivating the environment where all members of the company can listen to our response in real time, but also creates a data-driven environment where big data ISSUE BACKGROUND customers and try to work for their satisfaction. can be used to reflect customers’ needs more accurately. Customers purchase products and services again if their needs and expectation are satisfied, and this leads into in■ Major Benefits from C-cube System ■ Operating Purpose and System Structure of G-VOC creased customer trust and brand value of the company. Companies, in this sense, should make efforts to provide Strengthening Improving Business Integrated management of customer VOC information high-quality products and services to customers by idenVOC into Asset Organization Capacity Performance Integrated management and company-wide sharing of customers’ VOC tifying fast-changing customer needs in advance and reininformation received and collected at customer-handling departments forcing communication with them. Realization of customer-oriented quality management Real-time customer response management ■ C-cube Activity Process Establishment of global top-level business capacity Enhanced capacity of customer-tailored service using big data analysis • Diversifying channels for collecting VOC data and Collection building capacity for collecting and managing VOC data OUR APPROACH We strive to maximize customer satisfaction by producing outstanding products and managing quality control in • In-depth understanding of VOC and identifying the true Analysis Improving tasks/ customer needs products accordance with customers’ needs identified from VOC c Se st co on cu (Voice of Customer). Moreover, we focus even further on m str rin n ion pe u tit cti g sig zat ive on De rdi VOCC (Voice of Customer’s Customer) to deliver our valne da • Sharing information among all employees ss an ues through customer-centered products and technology Sharing • Acquiring data for establishing strategies and plans development. Acquiring G-VOC Zero regular/loyal Mgt System defects customers • Identifying the elements to respond and establishing Implementation customer satisfaction strategies g in g ov s in c ed R pr ion ist co ust uce Im lat ex rs m om d re he me t o pl e ai r ith st nt • Analyzing the results after implementing the strategies, w cu Zero service s Result Management defects revising and re-implementing the strategies HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 12 Customer Relationship Management and Maximizing Customer Satisfaction ― Eco Products and Technology Development ― Overseas Expansion into New Markets Providing Customer-tailored Services Tire & Industrial Reinforcements PU of Hyosung Advanced Materials is implementing specialized VOC (Voice of Customer) activities in order Customer Satisfaction by Quality Management to provide optimized service to customers. We collect customer needs through a variety of channels including written feedback using specialized VOC questionnaire as well as technology exchange meetings during regular customer visits which take place at least 1-2 times a year. We endeavor to gather varied opinions to improve our delivery, technology, quality, CSR, and many other customer value propositions. In Quality Management System particular, we aim to identify customer needs and provide optimal solutions through various interfaces such as R&D, production technologies Each operating company of Hyosung operates its own quality management system tailored to its busiand purchasing, and continue to keep up with activities to understand trends for products and market through internal seminars and market ness area, products and customers. We conduct strict management of product quality to secure prodresearches in cooperation with tire specialist. uct reliability and customer satisfaction by acquiring internal and external certifications for product quality assurance. • VOC listening at various business points (distribution, production, quality management, purchase) Identify customer ■ Quality Management System of Hyosung Advanced Materials Corporation • Implementation of locally optimized strategies through global sales offices in the US, Japan, EU and China needs through various • Identifying strategic direction in long-term as well as needs in short-term through regular visits to major clients channels at least twice a year Collect information Enhance Customer Satisfaction • Technology and equipment to keep up with up-to-date product trends in the tire market for product through Increased Competitiveness • Improve awareness in tire products and production process through tire experts development and • Joint R&D projects of high-performance tires with customers through high functional reinforcements development quality improvement Quality Definition to Meet Accurate Implementation of Establishing Production Customer Needs Design Quality Standards and Improving Quality Accommodate • Request product feedback to major overseas and domestic customers product • Establish development plans and quality system modifications based on improvements-to-be made derived feedback from various sectors : delivery, technology, quality, etc. • Identify required specifications for • Establish a production processes • Establish ‘Quality Standards’ so that realizing optimal quality by listening and plans to realize the defined the quality defined by mother plant to VOC regularly product quality through is implemented at all global plants • Understand the changes in the collaboration between production • Continuous monitoring to identify market, facility & production line and R&D improvements to be made followed technology advancements and R&D • Effective pre-control of factors by implementation activities trends including self-driving that can affect product quality BUSINESS CASE – • Product design assuring quality • Product performance tests and realization that improves customer improvements Customer-tailored Exhibition Hall, ‘Hyosung Square’ value The Hyosung Square, an exhibition hall launched in June 2018 at Changwon Plant of Hyosung Heavy Industries, was designed to provide customer-tailored informa• Train required competencies through job rotation among R&D, production and marketing Training tion with up-to-date technologies, contributing to building a corporate image as a • Enhance quality control capacity by Best Practice sharing, continuous technology exchange Quality and local technology training global company. In order to effectively deliver the information about the company Management • Cultivate local managers at overseas plants and products, high-resolution wide LED video, high-tech screens and sensors have Professionals • Cultivate competent Chief Production Officer(CPO) and Chief Technology Officer(CTO) been utilized. Moreover, touch screen display and LED screen technologies have been applied so that visitors can actively interact with the information by themselves. We also provide tailor-made introduction video based on five customer categories inEstablishing • Operate ‘Global Integrated Technology Team’ and ‘Quality Assurance Team’ under CPO and cluding ‘Combined Cycle Power Plant’ and ‘Crude Oil Supply Facilities’. We would like Dedicated Teams CTO who are in charge of product quality and production technology for all global plants to prepare more diverse contents to reach out to the global customers and promote for Quality • Establish a close collaboration system between R&D and ‘Technical Marketing Team’, which Hyosung Heavy Industries. Hyosung Square in Changwon plant at Hyosung Heavy Management collects VOC Industries Corporation under CTO/CPO HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 13 Customer Relationship Management and Maximizing Customer Satisfaction ― Eco Products and Technology Development ― Overseas Expansion into New Markets Improving Production Process and Optimizing Facility Operation Global Quality Standard System 7-Step Quality Control (QC) Inspection for Construction Project By introducing the quality management system to its production lines, Hyosung Hyosung Advanced Materials operates a global quality standard system to ensure The Construction PU of Hyosung Heavy Industries carries out quality inspection has been thoroughly reviewing and continuing to improve the manufacturing the same level of quality, required by customers, at all global production lines. We to a project in seven steps from drawing review to confirmation before tenant process. In this way, we can achieve product conformity and production effimanage quality standards of each process stage at each manufacturing site, estabreview. With the participation of all relevant departments, we check the plan and ciency, meeting the demands of customers and the market. Hyosung assures lish guidelines from raw material input to final product shipment and share them progress status of each step and derive improvements to reduce defects that successful implementation and maintenance of the quality management system, with overseas production entities through regular monthly meetings and technical may lead to customer dissatisfaction. In this way, we strive to reduce unnecesutilizing human and material resources effectively. We are also focusing on VOC exchange meetings. To ensure identical quality product production equally benesary costs and maximize customer satisfaction by preemptively responding to as the highest priority to ensure that our quality improves customer satisfaction. fiting from the best available technology across all global sites, regular monitoring customer complaints. Furthermore, Hyosung successfully prevents accidents and secures stable prodand continuous feedback take place under the supervision of CTO and CPO. uct quality in production process by optimizing its facility operation as well as inspecting and replacing outdated facilities on a regular basis. We reinforce com• Review construction drawings VOC, VOCC, Collaborating with Customers Drawing pany-wide quality management capacity by means of quality control data review ➊ reveiw • Review drawing errors in terms of constructability, safety, etc. and cross-departmental meetings to share quality-related issues. In addition, we immediately respond to clients’ needs related to quality issues through regular Establishing Informing Quality Complying with Monitoring contacts with them. Quality Standards Standards Quality Standards QC • All sites’ technical inspection • Inspect structural stability earth retaining wall • Establish detailed • Quality Standards • Production line staffs participate ➋ of civil • Review and share improvement plans guidelines, Training operating based on in Technical engineering Securing Product Safety in the Entire Product Lifecycle under CTO/ • Regular visits to set standards and Exchange Meeting work Hyosung ensures product safety in the entire lifecycle of a product ranging from CPO supervision global plant and countermeasure twice a year to including raw technical guidance implementations for enhance technical clients’ order to after-sales management. We assure customers’ safety and gain materials usage, by CTO issue handling skills through QC • Inspect compliance with the specifications of framing their trust through our own verification system. facility operation, • Technical training • Communication sharing BP inspection and technology of local production among technical • Monthly meeting ➌ of framing construction application to technicians teams, plant to improve quality • Review and share improvement plans construction OEKO-TEXⓇ STANDARD 100 ensure equal • Local manager manager , head of of manufacturing Hyosung TNC performs independent safety testing at all stages of processing from product quality training technology and site and improve at all global sites • Key quality control HQ to implement production process raw materials to the final products through the OEKO-TEXⓇ STANDARD 100 cerpersonnel training operation process index QC tification system. OEKO-TEXⓇ certification is issued by International Association inspection • Review differences compared to model house ➍ of Sample • Review and share improvement plans for Research and Testing in the Field of Textile and Leather Ecology, which assures House products safety with its testing method across 100 stages of simulation tests, considering all situations where harmful substances can contact the skin. Chief Technology Officer, Chief Production Officer, R&D, Technical Marketing, Global Technical Team, etc. QC • Inspect functionality of fire protection equipment and inspection ➎ of fire fire alarm • Review and share improvement plans protection Performing Quality Improvement Activities Constantly performing various quality improvement activities, Hyosung has been Simulation test of contact to skin QC improving production lines after reflecting customer needs and minimizing fun• Inspect final status of finish work before Harrington care according to OEKO-TEXⓇ inspection damental quality defects. Through this process, we fundamentally improve the ➏ of finish • Inspect construction failures and omissions as well as STANDARD 100 potential defects. quality gap and gather VOC to contribute to quality improvement. In addition, work we monitor the production environment as well as facility operation status of Raw materials Final products overseas and domestic business sites in order to integrate production technology across the entire business units so that the quality gap rising among different • Final check of finish work before tenant review Harrington business units can be minimized. Moreover, we continually improve production ➐ care • Inspect anticipated complaints to final result and establish countermeasures accordingly process through regular audit conducted to overseas business sites. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 14 Customer Relationship Management and Maximizing Customer Satisfaction ― Eco Products and Technology Development ― Overseas Expansion into New Markets Securing Quality Certifications and Quality Assurance Encouraging Customers Participation Securing Quality Certifications Hyosung Advanced Materials has defined and is operating a key process for quality based upon its own quality management system. In order to respond to customer needs for quality improvements and to Joint Participation at Global Trade Fairs with Client Companies earn reliability for our production lines, we continously update our quality manual, process standards Hyosung operates a joint exhibition booth with client companies every year in internaand each production unit standards. tional and domestic trade fairs, through which we help our customers expand their sales channels and identify their customers’ needs and trends. Moreover, we are consolidating ■ Quality Certifications at each PUs in Hyosung Advanced Materials our global leading position by promoting excellence of our products to potential customers. We also continue to support our clients’ business activities by participating trade Tire & Industrial Reinforcements PU • Automotive Quality Management Certification (IATF 16949) 효성첨단소재 PU별 fairs with Korean SMEs (small and medium enterprises), which usually have relatively • Quality & Environmental Management System Certification (ISO 9001/14001) 품질인증 현황 limited opportunities for international-scale exhibition. Hyosung TNC, in particular, parAttending Intertextile Shanghai Apparel Fabrics • VDA (Verband der Automobilindustrie) Process Audit (VDA 6.3) ticipated with its clients at the 2018 Preview in Daegu (PID), Vietnam Saigon Textile, Asia Nonwovens Exhibition and Conference (ANEX) in Japan. It attended Intertextile ShangTechnical Yarn PU • Automotive Quality Management Certification (IATF 16949) hai together with 21 international client companies and performed various activities to • Quality & Environmental Management System Certification (ISO 9001/14001) grow together with its clients and secure market leadership. Hyosung Advanced Materials participates in Techtextil, the biggest industrial textile Interior PU trade fair in the world which takes place bi-annually in Frankfurt, Germany, discovering • KS Certification • Automotive Quality Management Certification (IATF 16949) new customers and clients as well as understanding market competitors. During the • Quality & Environmental Management System Certification (ISO 9001/14001) exhibition period, we invite customers to promote our business and hold various events • Green Label Plus Certification by the Carpet & Rug Institute (US) such as ‘Hyosung Night’ to enhance our brand image through close communication with Hyosung Night at Techtextil customers. Aramid Business Division • NIJ(National Institute of Justice, US Department of Justice) Standards • Automotive Quality Management Certification (IATF 16949) • Quality & Environmental Management System Certification (ISO 9001/14001) Carbon Business Division • Automotive Quality Management Certification (IATF 16949) • Quality & Environmental Management System certification (ISO 9001/14001) BUSINESS CASE – Building Customer Intimacy for Global Clients Hyosung TNC has been running ‘creoraⓇ workshops’, a tailor-made consultaQuality Assurance Policy tion event, in which it directly visits clients in their office and provides them Based on its strict quality assurance policy which applies to all stages from product planning to sales, with client-tailored market trend information as well as proposes developing Hyosung Heavy Industries is reinforcing its product reliability and maximizing customer satisfaction. new fabrics made of its yarn materials such as spandex, nylon and polyester. We visit not only clients in the domestic market, but also international clients Writing Quality Complying with specifications, drawing and other standards and fulfilling overseas across Asia, Europe, and Americato provide face-to-face consultation Assurance Manual responsibility of quality assurance for products service, making them more competitive in their sector and further consolidating the partnership with them. By strengthening the global competitiveness of our Production Process customers, we are solidifying our position as a global leading company which (order, development, Pre-elimination of defect-causing factors in terms of quality assurance shipment, etc.) keeps growing together with customers. Furthermore, we will continue to facilicreoraⓇ Workshop tate shared-growth management by improving brand loyalty and strengthening Audit Activities for Checking conformity of quality activities to quality systems, specifications and the relationship with clients. Quality Assurance contract requirements followed by implementing preventive measures and correction. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 15 Customer Relationship Management and Maximizing Customer Satisfaction ― Eco Products and Technology Development ― Overseas Expansion into New Markets Hyosung’s Eco Products Eco Products and Technology Green Products Development Recycling Future Energy Green Process Low-carbon • Polyester Yarn, ‘regen’ • Hydrogen Filling Station • Lyocell Tire Cord • Carbon Fiber, TANSOMEⓇ • Nylon Yarn, ‘MIPAN regen’ • ESS (Energy Storage System) • RF-Free Recipe • CreoraⓇ eco-soft • Bio-PET (EG & TPA) • Smart Grid • Ultra Tensile Steel Cord • Recycled Automotive Carpet • Voltage-type HVDC ISSUE BACKGROUND • Recycled Polyester Environmental responsibility obligated to companies has gradually expanded to the extent that a firm has to not only consider the environmental impacts of its manufacturing process, but also the impacts from the use of its products. Accordingly, corporate activities to fulfill their environmental responsibility have emerged ever more important, such as developing green products and technologies, and minimizing environmental impacts, taking into account the entire product lifecycle from the planning Recycled Eco Products stage to production, use and end-of-life treatment. ‘Regen’ Recycled polyester yarn made of waste PET bottles Hyosung TNC’s ‘regen’ is Korea’s first eco-friendly polyester yarn which was made of substances extracted from waste PET bottles. Made of 100% recycled OUR APPROACH material, regen dramatically reduces landfill wastes and CO2 emissions. In recAs a global company operating in the industrial sectors ognition of its outstanding environmental performance, regen has acquired the where high environmental impacts are expected such as world’s first GRS (Global Recycle Standard) certification in the sector of polyester textiles, chemical, industrial materials and heavy industries, recycle textile from Control Union, a global certification organization based in the Hyosung is striving to minimize its environmental impact Netherlands. through various activities in the entire business process. In this sense, Hyosung focuses its efforts on eco products considering entire product lifecycle and R&D projects for ‘MIPAN Regen’ Recycled nylon yarn the next-generation energy sources such as ESS and hy‘MIPAN regen’ is a nylon yarn recycled from waste petrochemical materials. Hydrogen energy. We will continue to fulfill our social responosung TNC takes the lead in efficient use of resources as well as energy saving by sibility to preserve environment and support sustainability reducing the use of petrochemical materials through this product. Although befor the future. ing recycled from pre-consumer wastes, MIPAN regen maintains the same quality as normal nylons. Unlike conventional partially-recycled nylons, MIPAN regen is made of 100% process wastes, and is widely recognized for its excellence in environmental performance. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 16 Customer Relationship Management and Maximizing Customer Satisfaction ― Eco Products and Technology Development ― Overseas Expansion into New Markets ‘Recycled Floormat’ – Reducing process wastes Global automobile manufacturers are proactively developing and introducing automotive parts recycled Eco Products from Green Process from waste plastics. Hyosung Advanced Materials started to develop automotive carpet and mat usingBCF (Bulk Continuous Filament) based on the needs from development teams in the client companies. We are working on developing the product which meets the customers’ requirements by utilizing not ‘Eco-Friendly Dip Recipe’ – Improving fatigue resistance of tires only polyester recycled chips and waste nylon from waste fish nets and waste yarn, but also process ‘Chemical Dip’ is a chemical-compound fluid associated with the final manufacturing process of tire cords. The chemical dip also improves wastes from both our production lines and our supplier companies for recycled chips. adhesion of tire cords to rubber within the tire, thus allowing the tires to achieve best driving performance, while lasting longer through enhanced resistance. Hyosung Advanced Materials has developed to reduce waste tires by prolonging tire life with increased fatigue resistance as well as to reduce harmful substances without using resorcinol and formalin in manufacturing process. ‘Bio-PET’ – Made from plant-extracted materials Due to the rise of New Mobility, in which driving time and distance are expected to increase considerably due to enhanced driving convenience through self-driving and car-sharing, car parts manufacturLyocell Tire Cord Eco product made from wood-extracted materials ers are striving to develop new products to decrease their environmental impacts. On the top of lighter Conventional rayon tire cords, which are mainly used as tire reinforcement materials for high-speed driving tires, generate hazardous chemweight or improved fuel economy, which have long been pursued already as product development ical substances in their manufacturing process due to the use of sulfuric acid. ‘Lyocell Tire Cord’, developed by Hyosung Advanced Materials requirements, customer needs in “environmentally friendly” and “recycling” materials are rapidly growas an alternative to rayon tire cord, however, does not release toxic substances such as carbon disulfide or hydrogen sulfide, since it is ing especially in the European market. Therefore, Hyosung Advanced Materials is developing Industrial made of cellulose extracted from wood. In this way, we can prevent air and water pollution caused by release and treatment of hazardous Bio-PET, which is produced from Bio EG and Bio TPA extracted from plant-based raw materials in order chemicals. to tackle environment pollution and resource depletion caused by using conventional petrochemical-based PET. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 17 Customer Relationship Management and Maximizing Customer Satisfaction ― Eco Products and Technology Development ― Overseas Expansion into New Markets Eco Products for Low-carbon Future TANSOMEⓇ – Carbon fiber, the key to improve fuel economy of automobiles Having only one-fourth the density but 10 times the strength of steel, TANSOMEⓇ is the first high-performance carbon fiber developed in South Korea through independent technology of Hyosung Advanced Materials. Featuring its ultra-lightness and high-intensity, TANSOMEⓇ is used as a key material for improving fuel efficiency of automobiles through vehicle weight reduction, ultimately contributing to reducing carbon emissions. In addition, with its excellence in stability and functionality, TANSOMEⓇ is used in a variety of products, especially in high-pressure compressed natural gas containers, facilitating natural gas and its market, which is regarded as a green energy source. creoraⓇ eco-soft – Low-heat settable spandex Hyosung TNC’s creoraⓇ eco-soft, whose soft-touch fabric can be produced at approximately 15-20℃ lower temperature than conventional spandex, enables textile manufacturers to reduce emissions as well as to save costs through less energy consumption. For instance, from production of 10,000 T-shirts (which weighs 250g/yd) with the use of 4% creoraⓇ eco-soft textile, total 120kg of CO2 is expected to be reduced within the manufacturing process. High Intensity Steel Cord – Improving fuel economy of automobiles Steel cord is used as steel reinforcement material in tires for cars, buses and trucks, and can reduce the use of the steel cord by improving intensity of product. It helps to reduce tires’ weight and improve fuel economy by lowering rolling resistance of tires, thereby mitigating CO2 emissions. As a producer of the high-strength steel cord which accounts for 45% of global supply, Hyosung Advanced Materials is contributing to emission reduction through increased fuel economy of vehicles. Following the on-going environmental awareness and trends, we expect demands for ultra tensile (410 Kg/mm2 based on 0.20mm) steel cords to further to increase in the future. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 18 Customer Relationship Management and Maximizing Customer Satisfaction ― Eco Products and Technology Development ― Overseas Expansion into New Markets Eco Products for Future Energy ESS (Energy Storage System) can be linked with STATCOM technology with its similarity with STATCOM, which Smart Grid, STATCOM (STATic synchronous COMpensator) ESS is a device which enables excess energy to be stored when power demand will help facilitating renewable energy and cross-nation power linkage. Hyosung In 2010, Hyosung Heavy Industries supplied two units of STATCOM to KEPCO is low to use it afterwards. In this way, ESS increases reliability of power supply Heavy Industries succeeded in developing 20MW voltage-type HVDC in 2018 substation sites in Jeju Island for the first time in Korea. STATCOM is a device that and generates additional values through flexible power management system. Hyand has established a testbed in Jeju island and is currently developing 200MW prevents power loss during transmission and distribution thereby enabling more osung Heavy Industries, as a leading company of ESS in Korea, provides suitable scale voltage-type HVDC. stable power transport and compensating the variability of renewable energy. devices in a variety of purposes such as integrating renewable energy sources, Hyosung Heavy Industries is the first and only company in Korea to have comfrequency regulation, peak cut and installing independent microgrid. Our ESS Hydrogen Filling Station for Next-generation Hydrogen Vehicles mercialized STATCOM technology and the third company in the world to develop product consists of highly-efficient/-reliable ES PCS, PMS for various applications In 2008, Hyosung Heavy Industries succeeded to develop a hydrogen vehicle MMC (Modular Multi-level Convertor) STATCOM after Siemens and RXPE. Feaand high-performance batteries with optimal capacity. We offer a total package charging system for the first time in Korea. Since the first delivery to Hyundai turing its voltage stability and optimized transmission efficiency, STATCOM has of solutions for ESS system including customized consulting service, system esMotor’s Namyang Research Center, we have been building and operating hybeen ordered from domestic substations, the India Electric Power Authority, and tablishment and post-management. drogen stations in more than 20 places including Ulsan, Korea Highway CorpoPanama Transmission Agency, and we are working on expanding the market to ration and Hyundai Mobis. In aligned with the government’s roadmap in 2015 Asia and America. Hyosung Heavy Industries also operates an energy monitoring Voltage Type HVDC (Ultra High Voltage DC Transmission) to facilitate hydrogen vehicles and charging infrastructure, the company is conservice in Jeju Smart Grid Test-bed, the first pilot testing bed to implement smart HVDC is a transmission technology which converts high-voltage AC power from a stantly striving to secure global technology competence in fuel charging system grids in Korea. power plant into highly-efficient DC power. Due to its low power loss, it has adof hydrogen vehicles, the next generation pollution-free vehicles. From 2019, vantages in large capacity and far distance transmission, for which it is emerging empirical studies and R&D projects have been carried out to develop technolas the core technology of the next-generation power network. HVDC is expected ogies to make use of hydrogen produced from biogas for fusion type hydrogen to contribute largely to national technological competence since its technology filling station. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 19 Customer Relationship Management and Maximizing Customer Satisfaction ― Eco Products and Technology Development ― Overseas Expansion into New Markets Continuous Overseas Expansion Overseas Hyosung’s global competence lies in its outstanding technology and localized straVietnam Expansion into tegic global network, which allows timely and stable production of high-quality products in accordance with customer needs. Hyosung has been focusing on esHyosung is carrying out various business activities in northern and southern parts of Vietnam, with plans to further expand its business to chemical and heavy inNew Markets tablishing a global production base since earlier and reflecting customer tastes and lifestyles to its products. We have established a dominant presence in Vietnam, Industry sectors in addition to the current operations of the world’s best spandex and tire cords. Vietnam will continue to be our production base for the entire dia and China, where great potential for future growth is expected, through sophisglobal market. ticated localization strategy and proactive investment on facilities and infrastruc• From the beginning of its foundation, Hyosung Advanced Materials targeted Vietture. In 2018, particularly, Hyosung focused on establishing a strategic production nam as its main production base and has managed to optimize it with ceaseless base for core products targeting global markets by investing and setting up new effort. Fully equipped with state-of-the-art facilities from the continued investISSUE BACKGROUND manufacturing entities and factories in Vietnam and India. ments, Hyosung Vietnam and Hyosung Quang Nam will grow into strategic proDue to the global economic slowdown and rising trade tenduction complex hubs for the global market. sions, uncertainty risks are increasing surrounding business • Considering Vietnam’s domestic situation where infrastructure construction is environment of companies. Even in this situation, our main Asia 77 business sites in highly needed such as port and urban development, Hyosung Heavy Industries companies are strengthening their presence in overseas 15 countries is proactively expanding its infra business in Vietnam based on its long-accumarket, actively investing on facilities and securing stratemulated technology and knowledge in transmission and construction. gic locations in order to expand into emerging markets. As 16 business sites in a result, global business capacity and strategy for overseas Europe 9 countries Hyosung’s Business Status in Vietnam expansion to new markets are highly required to maintain a competitive edge in the global market. North 11 business sites in Quang Nam Province America 1 country Tire cord Central and 8 business sites in South America 3 countries OUR APPROACH As a global company exporting products to more than 70 Nhon Trach Industrial countries worldwide, Hyosung is expanding its business Africa 2 business sites in Complex near territories in global markets, focusing on strategic locations 1 country Ho Chi Minh City Ba Ria-Vung Tau Province Spandex, tire cord, such as Vietnam, India and China. We concentrate producConstruction of polypropylene steel cord, motors, and etc. tion of our core products such as spandex, tire cords in (PP) plants and LPG storage tank in progress Vietnam for the Asian and European markets, while targetProduction 16 Manufacturing Entities in Korea ing local market in India through constant facility installaNetwork 35 Overseas Manufacturing Entities tion and expansion. We plan to strengthen our position as a global leading company with an outstanding adaptability to overseas local environment based on world-class technology and product quality. R&D, 5 R&D Centers in Korea Marketing 28 Overseas Trading Entities, Network 29 Overseas Trading Offices HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 20 Customer Relationship Management and Maximizing Customer Satisfaction ― Eco Products and Technology Development ― Overseas Expansion into New Markets BUSINESS CASE – Strengthening Global Competitiveness through Innovational Technologies The Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy of Korea annually selects the world’s leading New Delhi products with global competitiveness among domestic products through ‘World Class Product of Korea’. The title of World Class Product is only given to the selected Korean products Operating a trade India entity since 2012 that are either among the top five in their industry worldwide or holding at least 5% of global market share with certain size of their overseas business (overseas business twice bigger than that of domestic business or generating at least USD 50 million of sales). In Maharashtra 2018, Hyosung earned ‘World Class Product of Korea’ titles for a total of nine products from Aurangabad four business companies (incl. Hyosung TNC, Hyosung Heavy Industries, Hyosung Advanced Completion of Materials and Hyosung Chemical). The 2018 selected products have been recognized as the Spandex Plant in 2019 world’s first-rate products for time period, from minimum 6 years and to maximum 17 years, 2018 World Class Product of Korea Certification Ceremony and have pioneered a solid global market leadership through differentiated technology competence, despite numerous latecomers. We will continue to make efforts to lead innovation Pune in the global market with our world-renowned technical capacity. Operating a production plant for ultra-high voltage circuit breakers since 2016 Leading India Global Market Hyosung 2018 World Class Products India is one of the world’s largest textile markets and its consumer market size is expected to keep growing. Hyosung TNC Corporation Since its business launch in New Delhi in 2007, Hyosung has been operating a trad• ‘aerocool’, polyester cool-touch wicking yarn ing entity from 2012, and generating more than USD 300 million of annual revenue Improving business competitiveness, • ‘m2’, polyester microfiber Post-management, Mutual Relationship and through constant business expansion such as establishing a manufacturing plant • ‘xanadu’, polyester latent crimped yarn for ultra-high voltage circuit breakers in Pune region in 2016. • ‘creoraⓇ’, spandex yarn In addition, we are founding a base to target India’s domestic market for the future, carrying out a construction project to build a 396,694㎡-sized spandex manufacturing plant in Maharashtra state, which is to be completed in 2019. Following 1 WORLD CLASS Hyosung Heavy Industries Corporation contributing to facilitating export the market demand and business prospects, we plan to continue our investment • 245㎸ gas insulated switchgear in India and hope to grow into a company beloved by Indians by contributing to PRODUCT • 420㎸ gas insulated switchgear Information Exchange boosting and developing their economy. OF KOREA Hyosung Advanced Materials Corporation • Yarn for tire reinforcement materials • Polyester yarn for seatbelts Hyosung Chemical Corporation Identifying Difficulties of Enterprise • TOPILENE R200P, PP-R for pipes and Policy Needs, and Execution HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 21 Customer Relationship Management and Maximizing Customer Satisfaction ― Eco Products and Technology Development ― Overseas Expansion into New Markets Major Outcomes of Overseas Expansion Hyosung TNC – Participating in ISPO, the World’s Biggest Trade Fair cally important area for expansion to Latin America, and discussed latest techthe exhibition. In addition to bulletproof materials, Hyosung Advanced Materials for Outdoor & Sports nology issues on four products ultra-high pressure transformer, circuit breaker, will continue to actively promote its product brands and share technology deHyosung TNC has participated in ISPO Munich, the world’s largest sports and STATCOM, and ESS – to the total of 35 agencies including governmental agencies, velopment trends with customers by continuously participating in major internaoutdoor trade fair and introduced ‘MIPAN regen aqua-x’ and ‘regen cotna’ power offices, EPC and engineering companies. Through this seminar, as a protional exhibitions of relevant industry, such as JEC World, Techtextil, Milipol, and which have been developed to keep up with the growing customer demands vider of total-package solution services, Hyosung Heavy Industries introduced TireTechnology Expo. of eco-friendly textiles in the global market. These two yarn materials which various product profiles including ESS and STATCOM and presented its excellent have been produced by collaboration of three PUs in Hyosung TNC from product technical skills to the participants. We will continue to hold regular seminars to development to exhibition planning, have attracted great interests during the reinforce our brand image of ‘Technology-leading Company, Hyosung’ and secure Hyosung Chemical – Attending Chinaplas 2019, One of World's Three fair trade. We aim to expand our market share through diverse global marketing more business opportunities. Biggest Plastics Exhibitions activities not only focusing on spandex but also on nylon polyester and develop Chinaplas is the largest plastics and rubber trade fair in Asia which attracts masdifferentiated products based on customer needs. sive attention of international buyers in the chemical industry sector. Hyosung Hyosung Advanced Materials – Continuous Participation in Major Chemical has attended the Chinaplas 2019, disclosing new PP (Polypropylene) Global Exhibitions for Industrial Materials products before market launch. It also promoted ‘Topilene R200P’, the largest Hyosung Heavy Industries – Hosting Technical Seminars in Peru and Chile Hyosung Advanced Materials attended Eurosatory, an international defense and market share in the world. We would like to pay attention to customer needs and Peru and Chile are members of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and are consecurity industry trade fair, which was held in France in June 2018. With growing increase market share of high-value products throughout actively participating in sidered as prospective export bases due to their geographical advantages close interest in bulletproof materials due to deteriorating security condition worldvarious international fairs. to the US market and their pro-business environment. In March 2019, Hyosung wide and increased level of terror threats, ALKEX , a high-tech Aramid product Ⓡ Heavy Industries held technical seminars in both countries, which are strategiwhich is supplied to US police and overseas troops, received a lot of attention in Sustainability Management Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum 23 for the Future Human Resource Management 27 Green Management 33 Social Contribution 39 Shared Growth Management 47 HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 23 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Securing Sustainable OBJECTIVES IN 2019 Growth Momentum for the Future ISSUE BACKGROUND In order to maintain an industry-leading position and generate stable profits in a rapidly changing competitive environment, it is essential to discover and secure new growth engines Maximizing Research Competitiveness Creation through continuous R&D activities. In addition, it is required as one of the mandates of a Outcomes through through Developing Core company to lead the market, not only to achieve short-term results, but also to prepare for Selection and Concentration Technology the future and secure new growth engines tailored to the needs of customers and markets. OUR APPROACH ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 Hyosung develops new products that meet customers’ needs and flexibly responds to rapid changes of market condition, based on its systematic research organization and market-leading technology competence. Furthermore, we are committed to proactively challenge and expand into new areas which is expected to rise as thriving industry to secure momentum for sustainable future growth. 5,004 UN SDGs LINKAGE Awarded the IR52 Number of Patent Jang Young-sil Award Applications (*accumulated number of domestic Developing CD PET applications until the end of 2018) Continuous Polymerization Technology HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 24 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management R&D Organization and Outcomes R&D Committee Hyosung R&D Organization BUSINESS CASE – The R&D Committee is held twice per year with the attendance of CEOs and COOs of operating companies as well as PG and PU executives and team leadHyosung Production Technology Center, ers. In the R&D Committee, R&D status of major products is discussed and VOC Hyosung Power & Steel Wire Technology aiming at technology convergence through opinions are immediately reflected . In this way, we make sure that the direction Industrial R&DB Systems R&D Technical R&D sharing and cooperation of R&D is fully aligned and diverse company-wide opinions from different departLabs Center Center Center ments are applied to R&D process accordingly. In July 2019, the Production Technology Center has been established to serve as a dedicated organization for advancing production technology at Hyosung. The Center aims at strengthening technical competence R&D Organization as well as fostering experts in core technologies by allowing Hyosung Number of Patent Applications (accumulated number) Hyosung’s R&D organization consists of 4 institutes including Hyosung R&DB R&DB Labs and main production plants to collaborate. By reviewing Labs (R&D for Hyosung TNC, Hyosung Advanced Materials, Hyosung Chemicals), 2,233 production-related facilities, implementing process simulation and pre2016 Hyosung Power and Industrial Systems R&D Center (R&D for Hyosung TNC, 4,690 paring for countermeasures for further changes, the center can enhance Heavy Industries), Steel Wire Technical Center (R&D for Hyosung Advanced Maefficiency and minimize errors which may occur from the direct-appliterials), and Technology R&D Center (R&D for Hyosung TNS). We are dedicated to 2,391 2017 cation method. We plan to increase our competitiveness by recruiting develop differentiated technologies which enable world-class products in various 4,883 more experts for further expansion in the future. fields such as spandex, tire cord, carbon fiber, STATCOM, and ESS. 2,509 2018 5,004  Patent registration  Patent application (Unit: cases) Hyosung R&DB Labs Founded as Korea’s first R&D Center affiliated with a corporation in 1971, Hyosung R&DB Labs has its main research scope covering textiles, industrial materials and Five Major Research Groups of Hyosung R&DB Labs chemical materials. Hyosung R&DB Labs has established the Vision 2025 to become a “Technology leader creating future with first-class technologies” and has Textile been providing a basis for future growth with five major new product groups. With Spinning, drawing and synthesis technology Research its organizational structure based on five research groups focusing on 10 core technologies, Hyosung aims to incubate fundamental technologies and accumulate Polymerization Polymerization/synthesis and catalyst/ the relevant skills through systematic organizational operation. Furthermore, we Research process technology constantly innovate our research paradigm through logical and theoretical mechanisms to maximize research efficiency, and we strive to recruit and train excellent Electronic Materials Electronic materials Research researchers through establishing VIU-generating R&D culture. Film Internal Technology Exchange Meetings Film manufacturing and coating technology Research In order to increase our R&D competence and efficiency, we are actively promoting technology exchange among relevant departments. We regularly operate Functional Materials Carbon fiber and composite materials, base technology task force teams to acquire core base technologies and interResearch Membranes with environmental materials nalize research capacity, and effectively tackle research challenges by facilitating technology convergence corporate culture through Brainstorming Breakthrough Meetings and Tech. Cross Meetings. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 25 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Hyosung R&DB Labs Vision 2025 Roadmap Major R&D Outcomes in Hyosung R&DB Labs NET Certification for Manufacturing, Dispersing and Coating Technology for Phosphors Used for Brightness Enhancement Film Highperformance Hyosung R&DB Labs was certified by the NET (New Excellent Technology) certificate in May 2018 with its new technology of ‘ManTextiles ufacturing, Dispersing and Coating Technology for Phosphors Used for Brightness Enhancement Film’. This brightness enhancement film was developed to overcome limitations of ultra-high resolution display such as full UHD TV. It ensures high brightness through Optical Films flexible control of phosphor concentration and improved light conversion efficiency by means of the sophisticated coating technology to disperse fluorescents densely in a form of a thin film. We will continue to make efforts in technology acquisition and commerSmart cialization in order to secure competitiveness in the global market. Textile yF ilm Environment Developing the World’s First High-functional Innovative Spandex pla ·Energy Dis Materials Spandex Research Team 2 of Hyosung R&DB Labs, won the Korea Engineers Award for developing the world's first high-funcible tional innovative spandex, in a recognition of his contribution to Korean industry and innovative technology. The center has gained Flex technical competitiveness by developing high performance spandex which maintains elasticity even after high-temperature dyeing ls process as well as eco-friendly spandex which allows heat setting at a lower temperature compared to conventional products. Hyica tile Polyke osung R&DB Labs will continue to maintain its competitive edge in technologies and product quality through more efficient research m em to Fil Bio Tex Textile ne Ch ryl oAc Tra Bi activities with clear market goals, smooth collaboration as well as customer needs identification. w Co nspa ENPLA nd uc rent Ne TA tiv ·Composite C IR52 Jang Young-sil Award for CD PET Continuous Polymerization Process eF ilm m er Materials Carbon The IR52 Jang Young-sil Award is given to Korean research organizations to reward unique and competitive products with advanced ce ly Fiber Textile Po es n obr orma Optical PET Bi an erf technology. Hyosung has received IR52 Jang Young-sil Award for developing ‘PRISMA’, a high-positive ion dyeing (CD) polyester Aramid em h-p M Hig RP (PET) fiber by applying ‘CD PET Continuous Polymerization Process’ which was developed by the researchers of Hyosung R&DB C F Spandex PlainTAC Labs for the first time in the world. The continuous process technology enables the company to effectively tackle the problems like oy PET Nylon/PET r All Recycle me limited production capacity, high production cost and time as well as quality variation which often rise from conventional process. Nylon Packaging ly Po Film Polyketone Carbon FiberPrepreg Electronic Steel Wire Technical Center PP Materials LED Phosphors Fluorine Nylon6 The Steel Wire Technical Center has been focusing its R&D competence on developing product and production technologies of tire Derivatives Nano Inorganic reinforcement materials since 1986. Currently, it is striving to develop green products to reduce toxic substances generated from CNT Materials NF3 tires. In order to reflect customer request immediately and support production process and customer approval, we have set up technical centers in major overseas production sites in China and Vietnam, actively responding to global customer needs and en2013 2015 2025 hancing our base technology and core competence. With high-end research facilities and human resource, we endeavor to acquire the world’s best technology and base technology for the promising future. Technology R&D Center As Korea’s largest R&D center for financial automation device which was established in 1983, the Hyosung Technology R&D Center boasts independent hardware and software technologies for creating automated devices, terminals, and core modules. The center has successfully developed a technology to identify different banknotes and acquired standard certifications required by EMV, EPP, CEN, and UL in the international market, thereby contributing to advancement of financial IT technology. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 26 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Power & Industrial Systems R&D Center researchers to gain global competitiveness by running our own education The Power and Industrial Systems R&D Center is developing innovative system such as Global Technology Expert (GTE). BUSINESS CASE – products such as new transmission, ESS and DC grid, and securing advanced technologies in the sectors of power electronics, system analDR (Design Review) Process Installing the World’s Largest Scale STATCOM ysis and control, materials, heat flow, vibration noise and reliability. We DR Process refers to a project-monitoring and decision-making system Hyosung Power and Industrial Systems R&D Center, as the only institution are conducting DR (Design Review) process to proceed the R&D projects which runs across the entire process of a research project from planning possessing STATCOM commercialization technology in Korea, facilitates successfully, and operating a working group to establish midand longto commercializing and helps evaluate and determine status (e.g. change, smart grid technologies in the domestic market. Hyosung Heavy Industries term R&D strategies for main products of heavy industries PG. Moreover, stop, continue) of each project stage. In this way, we can manage risks deinstalled the world-largest STATCOM with 400 Mvar-scale in October 2018 in order to enhance expertise of the researchers, the center provides its rived from research outcomes and prevent potential problems and issues. at substations located in Shinyeongju and Shinchungju. With their successown training programs based on GTE (Global Technology Expert) system Hyosung Power and Industrial Systems R&D Center is applying system ful achievements, the center and Hyosung Heavy Industries are expected to and actively carries out external technology collaboration. engineering to project process to enhance productivity of the R&D projlead the next-generation power technology. The STATCOM installed this time, ects and employing verification & validation process to increase customer particularly, has applied MMC (Modular Multi-level Converter) technology deHULab (Hyosung University Lab) satisfaction as well as product reliability. veloped by the center in order to realize high capacity and low power loss of Hyosung has established HULab (Hyosung University Lab) as a partnerSTATCOM. ship platform to cooperate with research institutes of the universities. Working Group Joint research projects and commissioned projects are carried out with Hyosung Heavy Industries analyzes trends related to market, product, 1. STATCOM (STATic synchronous COMpensator): Static reactive power compensation device 2. MMC (Modular Multi-level Converter): A device which converts power close to the waveform of normal AC voltage. a focus on core research areas, and governmental projects are jointly technology and competitors for each main product of PGs and then esplanned and proceeded under the cooperation. In addition, we run industablishes short-term and mid-term business strategies with a participatry-university support programs and secure outstanding human resource tion of related departments including planning, sales, product developby providing the talented participants fast-track job opportunities in Hyment and research. Based on these strategies, we derive management osung Heavy Industries right after their graduation. In this way, we have plans and R&D tasks for the upcoming year. established a solid partnership model between Hyosung and universities, from which both parties mutually benefit and grow with each other. Academic Training Major R&D Outcomes in Power & Industrial Program Joint research, commissioned Systems R&D Center research, cooperation Technical for governmental Cooperation projects DC/DC Converter for Regenerative Braking of Railway Vehicles Operating IndustryPower & Industrial Systems R&D Center developed an interleaved, high-efHULab Academia ficiency DC / DC converter that can be applied to ESS for railway vehicle Scholarship regenerative braking. Successfully passed the March demonstration test. Program Lithium-ion battery ESS has the advantage of low installation cost comForum, Technology conference, pared to the supercapacitor ESS that is currently applied to the railroad Exchange joint lectures field, but it was adopted and applied to Japan's Hitachi technology because domestic technology was not secured. The company has secured technology through product development and empirical testing to enable the Enhancing Expertise of R&D Personnel localization of ESS for railway vehicle regenerative braking using lithium-ion In order to strengthen expertise of our R&D personnel, technical exbatteries in Korea, and expects the related market to expand in the future. Ceremony of the completion of STATCOM change and joint research are implemented with domestic and overseas In addition, the newly developed DC / DC converter for railway vehicle reresearch institutes and leading universities. We also train and educate our generative braking will be applied to DC Coupled system in DC Microgrid. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 27 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Human Resource OBJECTIVES IN 2019 Management ISSUE BACKGROUND In a rapidly changing business environment, capacity development is considered essential to assure competitiveness and sustainability of the company. This calls for company-wide commitment and efforts to attract talented human resource and develop effective training programs. In addition, the leading corporate culture for employees’ welfare and human rights is Education System Innovate Corporate also becoming ever more important as demands for corporate social responsibility increase. Establishment for Each Culture by Reforming Operating Company Position System OUR APPROACH Based on the belief that the accumulation of individual competence equals Hyosung's competitiveness, Hyosung is improving our training system to improve employees’ competence ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 and skills and is implementing it according to five main principles (sharing management philosophy; fostering leaders; strengthening expertise and global capacity; improving corporate culture). In addition, we actively operate flexible work systems and family-friendly management in line with employees’ life quality improvement and changes in labor environment. 582,487 6,091 KRW million UN SDGs LINKAGE Total Training Total Training Hours Expense HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 28 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Recruiting Excellent Employees and Building Capacity of Employees Recruiting Excellent Employees Number of Training Participants (aggregated per year) Hyosung’s Qualified Employees 2016 168,167 Hyosung employees are global leaders equipped with our core values of excellence, innovation, accountability and integrity to realize our mission of “leading a better life for mankind based on best technology and management capabilities”. 2017 183,506 Employees Recruitment 2018 121,750 11,943 17,782 10,136 7,324 In order to attract ‘global leaders’ who can realize Hyosung’s values, we are running (Total) 168,935 various recruiting channels including regular recruitment, occasional recruitment  Hyosung Corporation  Hyosung TNC  Hyosung Heavy Industries  Hyosung Advanced Materials  Hyosung Chemical (Unit: persons) and campus recruitment. In addition, we are transparently sharing the information *In the case of 2018 data, the number of employees who participated in training before the division of the company was counted as Hyosung Corporation. The data of the four operating companies is the result of collecting and calculating the data from June 1, 2018 until December 2018. related to working contract and recruiting process through a separate recruitment website in the company. All applicants have equal opportunities in the recruitment process and are not subject to discrimination by their gender, religion or Hyosung’s Four Core Values academic background. As part of our efforts to enhance transparency and diversity in the process, we got rid of sections for applicants’ photos and family status, and • Maximize the competitiveness with ceaseless self-improvement • Act like owners and take charge of actions at work. dropped application restrictions based on age, academic and language proficiency Excellence efforts to win in any condition. Accountability • Never give up until achieving the goal. • Blaze new trails in markets around the world with a global outlook. scores. All the details regarding working condition and contracts are specified in our employment policy, which assures employees’ rights in the company. • Eliminate all inefficiencies that do not add value. • Uphold transparency and fairness based on facts and principles. Innovation Integrity Onboarding Program for New Employees • Challenge new possibilities with a positive mindset. • Respect and cooperate with each other to make a great workplace. We manage an onboarding program for our new employees so that they may easily adapt to the company. The program mainly consists of two parts including group introductory training to learn corporate management policies and job placement trainCategory Spreading Management Fostering Strengthening Professional Building Global Improving Corporate ing to enhance their job understanding. After the training, a year-long mentoring Philosophy Leaders Expertise Capacity Culture program is carried out, followed by 1:1 feedback sessions with team leaders to gather Goal Integrating the company Fostering leaders who Fostering global-level Building Facilitating opinions of onboarding employees. For experienced employees who are newly reand employees based on can effectively train and specialists market-leading capacity communication and cruited, we provide introductory education to inform our corporate management management philosophy evaluate the subordinates in their field in the world collaboration policies as well as mentoring and HR consultation to guide their smooth adaptation. Training • Responsible management • Newly appointed • Fostering specialists (sales/production/R&D) • Multi-culture training / • Team-building (HOT) Programs training executives • Professional vocational training regional training • Employee opinion • Newly recruited • Onboarding sales (sales/production/R&D/management) • Expats training survey Capacity Building of Employees (new/experienced) executives • Common vocational training • Academic training system • GWP Agents • Newly promoted • Executive candidates (planning/ problem-solving/communication) Training System and Directions • Reading management • Existing/new team • Service training Hyosung is implementing an institutionalized training system for employees for leaders • Online training their capacity building, focusing on five education objectives such as spreading • Team leader candidates • PU education / assignments / • e-MBA hands-on practice management philosophy, fostering leaders, strengthening professional expertise, • Insight forum building global capacity and improving corporate culture. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 29 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Training Programs by Each Training Objective Onboarding Training for New Employees Fostering Leaders New employees receive 3-week onboarding education starting in January every Our leadership training aims to foster management members in the company. Training for Practice of Responsible Management year. New employees learn the importance of corporate vision aligned with each Based on its own leadership pipeline, Hyosung provides a systematic roadmap In order to practice and achieve the responsible management, which is a method individual employee’s vision, and the company supports them to achieve their starting from the position of Deputy General Manager/ Department Manager to of working in Hyosung, we are guiding detailed actions along with best practices goals and plans within the next one year. Management Executives. to all employees so that they can fully understand and apply them to practice in their working environment. 1 2 3 4 Category Description Introductory Mentor-mentee Finding my Commencement Newly • Making newly appointed executives aware of their responsibilities and Training Training own vision Ceremony appointed roles to set a foundation of a global leading company Leading the better life of mankind based on the executives • Providing monthly study session to learn roles of executives, Mission best technology and management capability business perspective and philosophy in order to support their capacity development as a goal-achieving leader Management Philosophy Training Responsibility We are implementing various training programs such as responsible manageOnboarding • Educating onboarding sales executives to understand business 1. Maximizing profits sales objectives, core values, business status and general policy of the Management ment, training for the newly recruited and newly promoted as well as reading 2. Complying with Responsibility Assigned in Company executives company to help their onboarding and increase their satisfaction in Action management so that all employees are clearly aware of corporate management the company. philosophy and policy and further apply lessons learned to their tasks. Executive • Training capacity required to executive candidates such as business candidates strategy, accounting, marketing, production management Plan & Act & Category Description Reflect Existing/new • Informing responsibilities and roles of team leaders and training them Align Achieve Responsible Facilitating employees to be informed and practice responsible team leaders to apply performance and organizational management to their job management training management, Hyosung’s operating method. properly to make performance Newly recruited Sharing corporate philosophy and values to the newly recruited Team leader • Fostering qualified leaders by training deputy general managers and (new/experienced) in order to help them quickly adapt to the company. candidates • general managers as team leader candidates with strategic thinking, Core Values Excellence Innovation Accountability Integrity project management, and people management skills Newly Encouraging the newly promoted employees to change in acpromoted cordance with the newly assigned position by educating them e-MBA • Providing online education to deputy general managers and general with new roles and responsible management practices. managers to enhance their basic management capabilities Reading Recommending the books which contain the business practices Insight forum • Special lessons for management executives and team leaders to management emphasized by the management executives introduce up-to-date business information and insights Total Training Hours (aggregated per year)* Total Training Expense* 2016 2016 519,298 3,584 2017 2017 522,712 4,139 2018 343,818 50,180 99,575 44,512 44,403 2018 4,260 347 745 318 421 (Total) 582,487 (Total) 6,091  Hyosung Corporation  Hyosung TNC  Hyosung Heavy Industries  Hyosung Advanced Materials  Hyosung Chemical (Unit: hours)  Hyosung Corporation  Hyosung TNC  Hyosung Heavy Industries  Hyosung Advanced Materials  Hyosung Chemical (Unit: KRW 1 million) * Data of four operating companies are hours and amount expense between June 1 to December 31 2018. * Data between Jan. 1 ~ May 31, 2018 have been accumulated as Hyosung Corporation. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 30 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Global Capacity Training Corporate Culture Special Lectures about Foreign Cultures/Regions In an effort to enhance our expertise and global business capacity in overseas regions, we offer region-specific special lectures to the employees and prospective employees who are working in these areas to help them understand the culture and characteristics Corporate Culture Improvement Activities of host countries . The training contains various subjects such as historical and cultural backgrounds, current economic trends and issues, business and communication characteristics and business manners for five regions including Europe, Southeast Asia, North HOT (Hyosung One Team) Team Building Program America, China and the Middle East. HOT (Hyosung One Team) is our corporate culture program which was designed to build synergy-making teams based on active communication and cooperation. The training takes place by voluntary application of Expatriate Training a team leader, and is comprised of three stages, such as ‘open-mindedness’, ‘communication and reflection’, For those who are to be dispatched to our overseas offices, we are educating them on their roles and responsibilities and providing and ‘re-take’. Not only is there a positive change in communication within a team, but also in commitment and adaptation guidance so that they are prepared with essential capacities as an expatriate working abroad. ‘Strategic foreign language dedication from each team to put new resolutions into practice. education’ is provided by external language schools prior to their dispatch to host countries in order to improve their communication skills. And after returning to Korea, we update them with any changes in corporate system and culture so that they can quickly adapt GWP (Great Workplace) Agents to domestic working environment. Assigned to personnel in the position of general manager or deputy general manager, a GWP agent is in charge of facilitating corporate culture in workplaces through various GWP activities such as supporting social clubs, Academic Training Program hosting company culture workshops and proceeding smiling campaigns. In the beginning of a year, the Agent In order to strengthen expertise of our employees, we annually select successful candidates for traineeship and financially support Meeting is held in which they discuss objectives and improvements related to their activities and establish their academic education in external professional institutes including domestic and international universities. They are mostly sent to annual action plans for corporate culture for each business unit. The action plans are designed in an aim to R&D or MBA programs, and we support them through regular checkups and continuous encouragement so that they can complete overcome limitations and maximize strengths addressed from employee opinion survey. And the performance their studies within expected time while working in parallel. We also manage and support the employees who return to work after of the GWP activities is evaluated every year by implementing employee opinion survey at the end of the year. the training in order to help them effectively perform their expertise learned at work . Employee Opinion Survey Throughout the employee opinion survey, the level of trust among different PUs, business units and teams is Vocational Training diagnosed by collecting employees’ opinions. Subject items of the diagnosis include five areas trust, respect, We provide vocational training to our employees so that they can perform global-level expertise in their field. We enhance their fairness, pride and fellowship with colleagues-, and the survey is conducted to understand current status of professional skills which are required to complete actual tasks at work, by expert training, PU-specific training as well as self-directed GWP per each PU and business site as well as any improvement for the future. All executives and employees learning. of Hyosung Group in domestic sites participate in the survey, and the result is delivered by each unit. In order to ensure reliability of the results, the survey is carried out by an external agency, and the results are disclosed under the decision of GWP agents of each business unit. Category Description Fostering specialists (sales, production, R&D) Providing systematic vocational training to the selected specialists in sales, production and R&D sectors Five Major Subjects of Employee Opinion Survey Professional vocational training Sector-specific vocational training tailored to the level of each trainee in sales, production, R&D, and (sales, production, R&D, admin) administration Common vocational training Training company-wide job competencies required in common to all employees including communi(planning, problem-solving, communication) cation, problem-solving and planning skills Trust Fairness Fellowship PU-specific training (sales) Strengthening sales capacity to better deal with current business issues of each PU Service training Training for customer satisfaction management to B2C departments (Wellington CC, SevitSome) Online training Supporting self-directed learning of all employees in job-related and language skills Respect Pride PU education / assignments Supporting self-directed learning for knowledge and skills required for implementing on-site tasks. Hands-on practice Sharing business practices and know-hows of specialists (trade, legal, patent) in the company HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 31 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Family-friendly Management nant employees so that fellow employees can be more aware and considerate. Family-friendly Management Certification Ministry of Gender Hyosung endeavors to build family-friendly culture in the company where emWe are also providing maternity leave for spouses and family care leave in case Equality and Family ployees and their families also participate and communicate with us, thereby of sickness of their children or family members. Overwork of pregnant women is aspiring to be a happiness-pursuing company. To that end, we carry out various not permitted at night or during holidays. programs for employees and their families including maternity protection policy. In recognition of these activities, Hyosung received Family-friendly Management Hyosung Daycare Centers Certification in 2015, and Hyosung Advanced Materials and Heavy Industries both In order to relieve childcare burden of working moms and dads and to further supobtained it after the group division in 2018. port work-life balance, we are running in-house daycare centers in Mapo, Changwon and Ulsan offices. We ensure best childcare environment in the centers by ‘Family Day and ‘Family Care Day’ regularly conducting inspection on toxic substances as well as providing reliable Hyosung operates family-friendly management in the hope that happiness of childcare and education by professional teachers from external companies. employees’ family directly contributes to competitiveness of the company. The ‘Family Day’ is one of the representative programs for family-friendly management in Hyosung, which directly engages family members of our employees and Work-life Balance makes them happy moments through various activities including company visits and trips. We also run the event called ‘Family Care Day’ in which we arrange a Flexible Working Arrangements surprise visit to family members and deliver snacks and foods along with a video Hyosung complies with legal working hours (52 hours per week) and supports message of our employees. flexible working arrangements to increase employees’ productivity. There are opHyosung Advanced Materials Hyosung Heavy Industries tional working hours system and flexible working hours system, and overtime pay Maternity Protection Policy is given for extra working hours. In this way, employees can manage their time Hyosung manages a variety of maternity protection policies for pregnant emflexibly and efficiently depending on their workloads. ployees. In addition to the 90 to 120 days of maternity leave that can be used before and after childbirth, the company also provides reduced working hours by 2 Refresh Day Policy and Designated Holiday System hours per day within 12 weeks after pregnancy or after 36 weeks of pregnancy. In Through the 'Refresh Day Policy', Hyosung encourages employees who may find addition, the company guarantees maternity leave and supports medical expensit difficult to use up their paid holidays due to the factory operation schedule es in case of miscarriage or accident. After giving birth, either maternity leave to use a total of five annual paid holidays in a row. In addition, we operate the can be used within one year or reduced working hour system can be applied for designated holiday system, through which employees are given days-off , usually working only 15 to 30 hours per week. In addition, employees can use nursing in connection to one-day-national holiday or traditional holiday increasing the room in the company and breastfeeding time is guaranteed for 30 minutes or number of days off, so that they can get fully recharged and return with fresh more, twice a day in the office. In addition, a special ID card is provided to pregenergy to concentrate to work. Family Day Family Care Day Hyosung Daycare Center Briefing Session on the Change of Working Hours System HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 32 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Corporate Communication Communicator In order to facilitate cross-departmental communication in PGs and PUs, we are Proud Hyosung-er Award appointing ‘Communicators’ within each business site. At least one employee The Proud Hyosung-er Award is awarded every quarter or year to the execushould be selected as a communicator in each site. Once appointed as a comtives or employees who have achieved outstanding performance contributing to municator, he or she is responsible for communicating and informing issues of company’s growth and development. Winners are selected in the sectors of martheir business site to others after getting proper training related to organizational keting, technology, research and management support, and monetary incentives communication. and promotion-related advantages are given as a reward. Employee Relations Conversation with Top Management Besides Hyosung Labor Union, we operate Hyosung Polyester Labor Union, HyoThe CEO of Hyosung holds a monthly meeting to directly explain and share min Labor Union, TNC Gumi Labor Union, Hyosung Chemical Labor Union, and the company’s major achievements, issues and policies to executives and team Hyosung Changwon Branch of Metal Worker’s Union. According to collective leaders. During the meeting, a Q&A session is prepared where top management agreement, it is mandated to notify any significant management-related issues to members and employees can communicate candidly, thereby strengthening the labor unions as soon as possible. At the same time, each business unit trans2018 Proud Hyosung-er Award company-wide communication and management transparency. parently discloses management status of the company to its employees through regular briefing sessions or round-table meetings for each management-level. Internal Bulletin Boards, Blogs and Other External Communication Channels Meanwhile, we operate the Labor-Management Committee at the headquarter Hyosung is operating communication boards such as ‘Tong Tong Bulletin Board’ as well as at each business site and hold a quarterly meeting to discuss welfare, and ‘Wa-gle Wa-gle’ in its company intranet so that all employees widely share grievances, health and safety of employees. The received complaints are handled business information and news and exchange their opinions. In particular, Tong throughout the entire company, and improvement status is constantly moniTong Bulletin Board serves as a communication platform across entire business tored. units, with communicators from each unit putting posts along with photos to promote business activities. In addition, by operating Hyosung blog, 'MY FRIEND HR Counseling Center HYOSUNG', we deliver various news within and outside the company. The conThe HR counseling center, operated by HR executives, is a communication chantents of the blog include major corporate news, social responsibility activities nel to collect and directly deliver employees’ work-related grievances to the exand stories of employees. In addition, we also created YouTube and NAVER TV ecutives including various issues such as sexual harassment, embezzlement, bulchannels for internal and external communication. In recognition of our active lying in the workplace and personnel corruption. HR executives directly interview company-wide communication, we received the 'Best Organizational Communiwith employees and give them feedback under strict confidentiality. As a result, cation Blog Award’ from Korea Business Communications Association. we manage to lower the turnover rate of our employees by providing them with consulting solutions as well as job change options. Awarded ‘Best Organizational Communication Blog Award’ in 2018 Korea Business Communications Awards Mentoring Program Hyosung provides a mentoring program to new employees after they complete External Communication Channel group introductory training, PG and PU intro-training in order to match them with a senior employee in 1:1 manner. This 6 months-long program aims to develop new members of our Hyosung family into the company's core human resource by improving their understanding of corporate management philosophy, business areas and job responsibilities, while helping them quickly adapt to the organization. After the mentoring program, outcomes of the participants are evaluated by external experts and heads of planning and management team of each PG and PU. We select the best mentees based on the evaluation, and they are awarded during training completion ceremony. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 33 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Green OBJECTIVES IN 2019 Management ISSUE BACKGROUND A company’s environmental responsibility and role are highly emphasized today as the social interest continues to grow along with stricter environmental regulations around the world. Moreover, it is getting more important to work on accident prevention and safety management, which largely affect the lives of employees as well as business continuity. In response, Establish Green Facilitate Safety Culture leading companies establish environmental management strategies in a long-term perspecManagement System by Building Common tive and continuously invest and improve facilities as well as implement countermeasures to at Each Operating Understanding of Safety maintain safe working condition. Company through Workshops OUR APPROACH Hyosung implements group-wide green management based on Green Management Vison ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 2030. To this end, we carry out detailed missions which include leading the response to climate change; creating a foundation for green management; promoting green company image; focusing on environmental projects; facilitating green purchases and eco-friendly growth engine. In addition, we are trying to improve safety awareness and culture so that all staffs including suppliers work in a safe environment. UN SDGs LINKAGE Reducing On-site Safety Inspection GHG Emission to Overseas Business Sites in China and Vietnam HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 34 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Green Management Strategies Hyosung Green Management VISION 2030 Goal Emissions reduction by 20.5% compared to BAU-level in 2030 Establishing a foundation for Mission Promoting green projects Facilitating green purchasing Leading climate change response Building green corporate image Creating a green growth engine green management • Establishing a dedicated organization • Hazardous substances and wastes • Supporting green management of • Facilitating emission reduction • Green technology and green company • Supporting hydrogen economy in each operating company management suppliers activities certifications • Implementing projects related to • Securing professional personnel • Ecosystem protection • Implementing green purchasing • Management of GHG emissions and • Facilitating environmental information recycled low-carbon materials • Introducing energy management system • Participating in environment clean-up agreements reduction disclosure • Leading renewable energy projects Action Plans • Defining R&Rs for relevant personnel activities • Resource saving • Government policy response and • Adopting LCA (life-cycle assessment) • Strengthening market presence in in each operating company and training • Air and water pollutants management • Supporting green management compliance • Participating in Carbon Disclosure carbon fiber • Introducing carbon asset management • Waste management and waste (e.g. Energy Companion Project) • Emission Trading Scheme response Project • Proactive investment to recycled system (HSCAMS) reduction activities • Water saving activities • Clean Development Mechanism projects • Implementing Environmental materials • One company one river/park/mountain • Waste reduction of products • Introducing energy-saving facilities Information Disclosure System activity at each plant Green Management Vision 2030 Based on the Green Management Vision 2030, Hyosung has set a goal of reducing emissions by 20.5% by 2030 relative to BAU based on its annual emissions trend from 2013 to 2018. To that end, we have established missions and detailed action plans such as setting a foundation for green management, focusing on environmental projects, facilitating green purchases, and leading climate change response. In addition, we disclose our green management activities and performance through publishing business reports and sustainability reports as well as environmental information disclosure system. Our performance and activities related to climate change response have been evaluated externally by taking part in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2012. Green Management Operating System In order to realize Green Management Vision 2030, Hyosung organized Green Management Team to effectively manage related tasks and performance. In addition, green management personnel are assigned to each business area to oversee green management tasks in general including GHG emissions, carbon credit projects, compliance with chemical substance regulations and external communications. In addition, all our business sites have designated a team dedicated to environment and safety. It carries out various activities concerning workplace energy use management, environmental impact reduction and occupational health and safety. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 35 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Response to Climate Change Emission Reduction Performance Monitoring on a trial basis and plan to gradually expand the application to entire business Fuel Conversion and Fuel Efficiency Hyosung has increased its profits and competence by saving energy costs while sites including major overseas operations. Hyosung managed to reduce its GHG emissions as well as fuel costs by convertreducing GHG emissions. Hyosung effectively manages emission target and pering high-oxidant fuels such as bunker C oil for boilers into LNG and byproduct gas formance of each business site after restructuring and upgrading emissions manIntroducing High-efficiency Inverters from manufacturing process which generate less amount of emissions. The proagement program in all Hyosung group companies in 2019. We aim to proactively In order to reduce power usage and improve working environment with lower duction plants in Ulsan and Gumi use methane gas generated from wastewater respond to carbon market by identifying emission trends based on monthly data. noise and vibration, Hyosung has introduced high-efficiency inverters and aptreatment process to supply thermal oil heater (LNG) thus saving up LNG used plied manual inverter operation. We reduce emissions by introducing inverters in the heater. The Jeonju plant uses idle compressed air from nitrogen generaGHGs Emission Intensity which are customized according to characteristics of each business site, considtor as low-pressure air for the process, reducing usage time of low-pressure air ering facilities such as pumps, precipitators, and air compressors. compressors and operating power. In particular, Ulsan plant and Yongyeon plant have installed photovoltaic panels in their business sites and parking lots for hot 2016 0.185 water and internal heating. Improving Process and Operation Efficiency 2017 Hyosung reduces the amount of energy used in the manufacturing process by 0.184 energy efficient process operation and reusing waste heat and steam generated from the process. In addition, we are making efforts to effectively manage un2018 0.136 necessary processes and find alternative fuels to reduce GHG emissions.  GHGs Emission Intensity (Unit: tCO2eq/KRWmillion) Improving facility operation efficiency Hyosung Ulsan Plant minimizes steam heat-discharge losses by improving operation efficiency of major production lines and reduces power costs by replacing Emission Reduction Performance aging facilities with high-efficiency ones. Also, Daejeon Plant 3 flexibly operates Each business unit in Hyosung has established goals and action plans to reduce temperature and humidity system inside the plant to save power, while reducing GHG emissions every year. Based on these plans, we invest in high-efficiency operating time of dryer by shortening manufacturing time of products. Anyang facilities, improve manufacturing process, replace fuels and encourage energy Plant has attached an outlet timer to heating and cooling devices such as fan coil Photovoltaic Panels in Yongyeon Plant saving of the employees. In 2019, Hyosung is specifically making efforts to reduce unit (FCU) and AC, which automatically turns off the power when getting off of energy use by sharing best practices of each business unit. work, minimizing unnecessary energy consumption. Recycling waste heat and steam Enhanced Efficiency in Energy Use Hyosung reuses waste heat generated from its own manufacturing process as Hyosung is actively engaged in energy saving and maximizing energy efficienwell as from external companies and sells steam from our business sites, achievcy through investments in highly efficient facility installation and effective data ing energy saving and economic benefits at the same time. The production plants management system. in Yongyeon, Changwon, Gumi, Daegu and Oksan utilize waste heat recovery in their process through steam pipelines. In particular, Yongyeon Plant supplies and Introducing Productivity Improvement (Energy-saving) System sells high-pressure waste heat steam which is generated by household waste We have established a HIS (Hyosung Information System) solutions-incorporated incineration to other plants and external stakeholders. Besides, we strive to resystem to identify the best operating method by compiling and analyzing all data duce energy consumption by recovering waste heat generated from our manuat our business sites in real time, so that we can improve our productivity and refacturing processes and reuse it within the process and/or for boilers across all Steam pipelines for recycling external waste heat duce energy consumption. In 2016, we introduced the system in our Ulsan plant business units. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 36 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Minimizing Environmental Impact Waste Amount of wastes discharged Waste Management 2016 55,434 In order to reduce the amount of waste generated from manufacturing process and minimize environmental impact, Hyosung continues to facilitate recycling and improve the 30,736 2017 process by taking into account characteristics and substances of wastes. Hyosung Ad61,821 vanced Materials reused 90% of its waste in 2018. We have defined and revised waste treatment methods at each business site according to the waste type, aligned with sys862 16,132 0 3,376 8,001 (Total) 28,371 tematic waste management. We also carry out a series of recycling training programs and 2018 914 21,714 5,663 3,744 36,356 (Total) 68,391 regular inspections to our employees and business partners in order to properly manage  Hyosung Corporation  Hyosung TNC  Hyosung Heavy Industries  Hyosung Advanced Materials  Hyosung Chemical (Unit: tons) wastes complying with relevant laws. Recycled (  Hyosung Corporation  Hyosung TNC  Hyosung Advanced Materials  Hyosung Chemical) Water Resource Amount of water consumption and wastewater discharged 7,164,161 Water and Wastewater Management 2016 26,159,757 All Hyosung plants systematically control amount of water pollutants discharged by conducting water quality tests in regular basis and establishing company-wide standards 6,363,409 stricter than legal criteria. Through renovating, replacing and optimizing water pollution 2017 19,045,688 prevention facilities, we treat our wastewater and remove high-concentrated pollutants, leaving only low-concentration wastewater to be discharged. In addition, we monitor 5,714,920 the wastewater discharge and in the event of high-concentration wastewater inflow, an 2018 749,729 6,901,677 511,203 3,710,435 7,514,149 (Total) 19,387,193 emergency response system in conjunction with production teams takes action. More Hyosung Corporation  Hyosung TNC  Hyosung Heavy Industries  Hyosung Advanced Materials  Hyosung Chemical  Recycled (Unit: tons) over, we monitor and manage the amount of water usage per business sites, and encourage usage of recycled water for various applications such as washing and fire hydrants. Amount of air pollutants emitted Air Pollutants Dust Sulfur oxides Nitrogen oxides Air Pollution and Odor Management Our standards for of air pollutants emission are stricter than the legal criteria stipulated 2016 2016 2016 590.4 176.2 52.6 by the Ministry of Environment. Hyosung strives to minimize the emission from production process by installing air pollution prevention facilities in each process line as well 2017 2017 2017 as operating emission system to reduce air pollutants and odor-inducing substances. 494.3 132.9 454.4 In addition, on-site training programs are regularly provided to the relevant employees so that they can effectively manage air pollutants with enhanced knowledge and skills. 2018 2018 2018 464.7 51.6 467.6 By making voluntary agreements with local governments to improve air quality in the (Unit: tons) (Unit: tons) (Unit: tons) communities, we strive reduce toxic air pollutants such as particle matter and benzene. * The amount of air pollutants emitted by each operating company can be found on the Appendix. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 37 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Workplace Safety Implementing and Improving Workplace Health and Safety Manuals Identifying risk factors Risk Analysis and Planning Safety Accident Internalizing safety by process Sites Zero-accident Site Occupational Prevention Operation and Improvement of Safety and Health Identifying risk factors by Technical facility Review Team Health and Safety Facilities Committee Activity Employees Health Health and Safety Education Promotion Grievances Employees Risk Evaluation management system Analyzing work type by task Department and Training Operation Team Activity Minimization Health Promotion Program of Human and Identifying risk factors by Healthcare Center Operation and Counselling and Counselling Material Loss treated substance Center Health Safety Officer PPDH Firefighting Technology Competition Healthy Workplace Navi Certification Ceremony in Each Business Site Safety and Health Management System safety and health issues in the company, including problems and countermeaHealthy Workplace Navi Certification We aim to build a safe and pleasant working environment for all employees, not sures. In addition, Hyosung has been investing in instituting various facilities for In recognition of its efforts to operate healthy and safe business sites for emonly limited to our own but also of our partners, by establishing a safety and workplace safety and implementing safety awareness program through regular ployees, Hyosung TNC has been certified as Healthy Workplace Navi by Gumi City health management system to prevent serious disasters and work place accilabor-management joint inspections, not only to our own employees but also to since 2012 and obtained re-certification in December 2018 through continuous dents in advance. In case of the business sites of high risk for safety accidents, our business partners. activities for safety and health in our workplace. The Navi certification system is we establish a health and safety management system based on the health safety a safety certification project for manufacturing business sites operating in Gumi, manuals and operate various programs to improve employees’ health conditions. which was initiated in 2011. Hyosung's business sites have obtained and maintained various certifications Occupational Safety and Accident Prevention Activities such as KOSHA 18001 and OHSAS 18001, to manage health and safety in workHyosung creates safe workplaces through safety awareness building activities Executives-led Company-wide Safety and Health Inspection places in a systematic manner. and safety and health campaigns. Numerous efforts such as training programs, Hyosung conducts company-wide workplace safety and health inspections under promotion of safety culture and regular inspections are in place to raise awarethe supervision of PU Presidents and Plant Managers, in order to preemptively Safety Inspection Consultative Body ness and encourage voluntary participation in improving workplace safety, in orcope with workplace accidents that may occur in the production lines. Plant ManIn order to prevent workplace accidents and improve capabilities for workplace der to prevent serious accidents and disasters. agers and Team Leaders also carry out safety inspections for key assets within safety management, Hyosung establishes a regular safety inspection system by plants, and assess potential health risks of employees in extreme weather conforming a company-wide consultative body for safety inspection which consists Our Efforts to Cultivate Safety Culture ditions such as heat waves. We also encourage employees to practice environof the team leaders of environmental safety teams at each business site. The Hyosung gathers and analyzes accident cases from other companies and shares mental safety, build awareness for fire protection, and participate in health care company conducts regular safety inspections in 17 domestic and 22 overseas the result with all employees. We also strive to build robust safety awareness of activities in order to prevent workplace accidents, major and minor. business sites, three times per year to derive further improvements. Main safety employees by publishing safety guidelines after analyzing risk factors for each subjects are classified and managed according to their importance and urgency. business site and by implementing joint safety and health campaigns with the Hands-on Safety Simulation Program In addition, we aim to improve our workplace safety management capabilities by relevant supervisors and organizations. We also continue to strengthen EHS Every quarter, Hyosung Heavy Industries Corporation conducts various handssharing the best practices and conducting case studies across our business sites. awareness by regularly sharing health and safety issues through corporate newson safety simulation programs, which are involved with falling accidents, safety letters and executive meetings, as well as creating and providing visitors with helmets and confined space, in Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency (KOIndustrial Safety and Health Committee pamphlets containing safety and health compliance and evacuation tips in case SHA). All employees of Hyosung, including the newly recruited, are required to Through the Industrial Safety and Health Committee and the Labor-Management of an emergency. Hyosung also conducts emergency evacuation drills with the complete hands-on training programs. Experiencing possible real-world incidents Council, which represent all employees in corresponding business site in accorrelevant organizations, including fire emergency evacuation, first aid, lifesaving, during the training, the participants can be more alert and careful about safety dance with the Industrial Safety and Health Act, each business site in Hyosung and firefighting drills. risk factors, therefore, preemptively capturing and mitigating safety risks, as well continues to improve working environment through regularly discussing overall as improve their ability for emergency response. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 38 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Health Promotion Programs Hazardous Chemical Substances Management Improving Health Care Facilities For better health management and easier access to medical services for our employees, we operate various health care facilities such as health care center, exerEnhancing Hazardous Chemicals Management System are installed in the final travel route. We also manage daily usage and inventory cise therapy room, and medical treatment facilities in the workplace at all times. of hazardous chemical substances and conduct weekly on-site inspections by The facilities are newly established and expanded in each business site to provide Hazardous Chemical Substances Management System creating a checklist of risk factors related to hazardous chemicals. Our suppliers better environment for employees. In addition, Ulsan plant was selected as an Hyosung manages all chemical substances used in the workplace through an handling chemicals are required to report their contracts to environmental agenexcellent workplace for health promotion by the Ministry of Labor and Safety ERP-based computer system. All purchased materials are investigated to confirm cies in accordance with legal procedures. and Health Corporation. whether they contain chemical substances through the system, and purchases are blocked if they contain chemicals without approval by the chemical manager Impact assessment and minimization of External impact at each business site. Purchase of materials is only approved when the materials The business sites treating specific hazardous chemicals over certain amount completely comply with the regulations after confirming that they are subject to manage their use of chemicals in accordance with risk management plans as chemical regulations by using material information provided from suppliers and well as off-site risk assessment. We assess the impact not only on-site but also our own SERC DB (SAP EHS Regulatory Content Database). Through this process, off-site including businesses, residents and ecosystems nearby in the event of a we prevent regulatory risks derived from the relevant laws. spill, and the assessment is conducted whenever there is a change in the amount of chemicals treated and treating facilities. In addition, we have established a Chemical Substances Management System risk management plan and are making efforts to minimize the damage to local Selected as an excellent workplace for worker health promotion In order to prepare for emergencies such as leakage and explosion of chemicommunities by notifying residents nearby and the relevant organizations of the cal substances, we have established an accident response system by setting up hazards of substances as well as evacuation drills in case of an accident. networks with related departments and organizations and conducting regular emergency response training for employees. In addition, we have established Emergency Scenario Response Training Comprehensive Measures for Chemical Substance Management based on which Hyosung establishes emergency scenarios for leakage of harmful chemicals such dedicated teams are organized along with their responsibilities and roles defined. as ammonia and methanol and trains all employees every year based on that. The business sites treating chemical substances are prepared with the thorough With an immediate response scenario lasting about 10 minutes, we save the lives chemical spill response system in which potential travel path of the spill is tracked of our employees in the event of an accident and raise awareness of safety acExercise therapy training at Ulsan factory in advance, a step-by-step prevention plan is established and blocking facilities cidents. Managing smoking habits, obesity and stress of employees We provide medical checkups and arrange health and stress counselling for all employees by regularly inviting medical specialists to the company. For those who are diagnosed with disease, we provide them with special medical care. Moreover, we encourage our employees to voluntarily participate in various health programs for quitting smoking and obesity prevention, making continuous efforts to ensure a healthy life of our employees. Musculoskeletal Disorders Prevention Program We are carrying out activities to prevent musculoskeletal disorders of field workers by identifying both subject workers and tasks prone to the disorders after implementing Investigation of Musculoskeletal Disorders Risk Factors. In cooperation with external organization, we provide physical therapies to the subject employees who are selected through survey results and in-depth counseling with an occupational health specialist. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 39 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Social OBJECTIVES IN 2019 Contribution 44 3.05 ISSUE BACKGROUND Cases KRW billion The concept of corporate social responsibility is evolving into a form of corporate business activities combining their business areas and capabilities from a concept of only providing economic assistance to areas in need. At the same time, corporate social responsibility and Social Contribution Social Contribution companies’ commitment have become key factors for sustainable development. Programs Investments OUR APPROACH In order to help and benefit more people in need, we plan to gradually widen the range of ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 beneficiaries from our social contribution activities and focus on those who are excluded from welfare services. In addition, we will strengthen long-term and practical support rather than temporary support and continue to discover more social programs linked to business strategies so that we fulfill our social responsibility by sharing our growth with the society. 46 2.88 Cases KRW billion UN SDGS LINKAGE Social Contribution Social Contribution Programs Investments HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 40 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Social Responsibility Management System Focus Areas of Social Responsibility Hyosung conducts its social contribution activities under three main CSR objectives of 'Supporting Vulnerable Groups', 'Culture and Art Sponsorship' and 'Supporting Patriots and Veterans'. Each business site is conducting various social responsibility activities tailored to its local region based on our focus areas of corporate social responsibility. SLOGAN 5,704 “We will stand by with you by ‘Sharing’.” Number of employee participants Our CSR Focus Areas in 2018 Vulnerable Group Support Culture and Art Sponsorship Patriots and Veterans Support • Hyosung Sharing Volunteer Group • Restoration project of national palace • ‘One Company One Cemetery’ support for national • Rehabilitation support and family support program for • Sponsoring artists with disabilities in Seoul Art Space cemetery children with disabilities Jamsil • Housing support project for veterans • Smile Expedition–medical volunteer group to Vietnam • Supporting Yeonwoo theater stage • Sponsoring history filed trips for senior veterans • Overseas child sponsorship project through employee donation • Sponsorship for Barrier Free Filmmaking 22,816 Total participating hours of employees in 2018 Social Responsibility Performance Measurement Hyosung focuses on the social contribution activities which meet needs of the society such as sharing philosophy and UN SDGs and measures its performance in the activities, maximizing the effectiveness. We are measuring the performance of social responsibility programs which have been selected through a consultation with a specialist. And we are working on elaborating our CSR activities and strengthening their positive impacts by sharing the result of performance measurement with stakeholders to address further improvements in the future. Social Responsibility Performance Measurement Process 4 Average participating hours per employee in 2018 INPUT OUTPUT RESULT IMPACT HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 41 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Supporting Vulnerable Groups Medical Rehabilitation Support Programs for Youth with Disabilities and their Family Since 2013, we have been supporting the rehabilitation of disabled children in a collaboration with the Purme FounBUSINESS CASE – Global Medical Volunteer Group, ‘Smile Expedition’ dation, a non-profit organization that helps independence and rehabilitation of people with disabilities. In addition to financing rehabilitation expenses for disabled children who are not timely treated with adequate medical care due to In 2011, we created the ‘Smile Expedition’ with the intent to Let's find a smile for the sick Vietnamese. by provideconomic reasons, we also support family trips to build robust family relationship. In particular, we focus on challenges ing free medical services to people with disabilities and the poor in Dong Nai province, Vietnam. In Vietnam, there faced to their siblings and support their psychological therapy and education expenses. From 2019, we are running are number of citizens who are isolated from medical benefits due to poverty and lack of medical facilities. Hythe project with the enlarged scope. osung, therefore, organized the 'Smile Expedition', a medical volunteer group and collaborate with the ‘Food for the Hungry International’, an international relief organization, to provide diverse medical services free of charge including dentistry, gynecology, internal disease treatment, orthopedic surgery and acupuncture. Overseas Child Sponsorship In case of a severe disease considered incurable by the local medical system, we invite those patients to Korea Hyosung’s employees support children living in underprivileged areas by providing monthly sponsorship as well as for follow-up treatments. At the same time, we also deliver medical health education programs for the residents, supporting development projects in the areas. In addition, Hyosung Vietnam also provides a clean and safe education covering pregnancy, childbirth, and toothbrushing. In addition, regular health checkups are provided for elemenenvironment for the children and help children from minority ethnic group learn Vietnamese language by building a tary school kids to monitor their health condition and ensure them better health condition. library. The fund raised through voluntary donation from our employees is used for the health and education of VietBy 2018, about 12,000 people have recovered their health and smiles through Hyosung Smile Expedition. In namese children, and the company's grant amount is used for development projects for the areas where children live, 2019, we will expand health education and disease prevention for teachers and parents in order to build health for classroom expansion, drinking water quality, and awareness activities for parents and teachers. awareness of the residents effectively. Our Medical Service Supports and Achievements Medical 1. Providing health checkups and medical diagnosis to residents Checkups in Dong Nai province 1 Provided to 2. Health education for pregnancy, childbirth and proper toothbrushing 12,000 3. Conducting health checkups every year in Tien Phuoc elementary school 2 4. Providing follow-up medical treatment in Korea if necessary Residents Signing Ceremony of Sponsorship for Children in Vulnerable Regions Family Trip for Children with Disabilities HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 42 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Culture and Art Sponsorship Support for Palace Restoration Project Major Achievements Cooperating with the Arumjigi Foundation, we implemented a project to restore lights and interior space of pavilions (Heejeongdang and Daejojeon) in Changdeokgung Palace. Through the first and second projects, we restored the interior lighting and chandeliers Certification of Exemplary Institution Supporting Culture and Arts of the pavilion, enabling visitors to enjoy sightseeing inside. The pavilions are currently Since 2015, Hyosung has been selected as an excellent institution supporting culture open to the public through special openings, and we plan to complete the restoration of and arts by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism of Korea. This certification systhe pavilions through the third project. tem has been designed to certify organizations and companies which have set a good example for sponsorship activities in the related fields under the Act on Revitalization of Support for Culture and Arts. Hyosung continues to support for culture and arts by Cultural Heritage Conservation Activities in Changdeokgung Palace funding Yeonwoo theater company, sponsoring musical education for children with Since 2006, employees of Hyosung have regularly participated in the cultural heritage disabilities and funding the musical show which is aimed to prevent youth violence. protection activities of Changdeokgung Palace. In 2018, we organized an event in ChangSponsorship for Seoul Artspace Jamsil deokgung Palace with employees and their family members in which we all cleaned a Appointment of Cultural Heritage Guardian Company pavilion, Juhabru, in the palace together while strengthening the employee bond as well as contributing to cultural heritage conservation. In October 2018, Hyosung was appointed as a Cultural Heritage Guardian Company through activities such as preservation and maintenance work of national palaces and sponsorship for restoration of traditional interior space. Cultural Heritage Guardian Sponsorship for Artists with Disabilities in Seoul Art Space Jamsil Company is a company that is committed to protecting our national cultural heritage We have supported the visual artists of Seoul Art Space Jamsil, the only art residency by voluntarily working on their preservation and restoration. Since 2017, we have been studio for disabled artists in Korea which is run by Seoul Foundation for Arts and Culture, working with the Cultural Heritage Administration to help preserve and restore Korea's by funding their artwork and exhibition costs. In addition, we have provided educacultural heritage. We have been carrying out a project to restore lights in several paviltion program for culture and arts to employees to strengthen bond and communication ions (Daejojeon and Heejeongdang) at Changdeokgung Palace, and visiting the palace among colleagues. In 2018, Hyosung hosted an art exhibition called ‘Flowing Flow’ with four times every year since 2006 to participate in volunteer works with employees. the resident artists of the studio, attracting total 488 visitors. Sponsorship for Theater Company and Producers Sponsorship for Theater Company and Producers Since 2015, we have been donating to Yeonwoo theater company, contributing to the revitalizing creative theater plays in Korea. The funds are used for activities to produce creative plays such as finding and casting new actors and playwriting. Certification of Exemplary Institution Supporting Culture and Arts Sponsorship for the Orchestra of Youth with Disabilities We continue to support the Onnuri Love Chamber, a youth orchestra group with physical and intellectual disabilities. The donation is used for purchasing musical instruments and granting scholarships, as well as for preparing a stage for them to perform in public, such as the Sevitseom outdoor stage in Han River Park. We also arranged a special music class Yo-Yo Ma Teaching Class where they could get direct lesson from orchestra members of the 'Silk Road Ensemble' Nomination of Cultural Heritage Guardian Company led by world-renowned cellist Yo-Yo Ma. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 43 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Supporting Patriots and Veterans Creating Job Opportunities Housing Support Project for Veterans Support for Employment Promotion Program for Women from Vulnerable Group We are trying to improve living environment of veterans of the Korean War and the Vietnam War who are experiencing In lined with the government's initiative of ‘job creation’, we are supporting job programs which are highly effective for financial difficulties, by providing repair work for their outdated houses. We have been continuing the support for 7 employment of middle-aged women. In 2018, a total of 41 women participated in vocational training including training years since we first raised a funding in 2012. of school cooks and children nursing jobs, and 30 of them were employed afterwards. Since 2013, we have had a total of 286 graduates through this project, 217 of whom have actually been employed until now. Donation of Book Cafe in the Army As part of our social contribution activities for supporting patriots and veterans, we have established a book cafe Support for the Social Enterprise, ‘Goodwill Store’* within the ROK I Corps of Korean Army, supporting their project, 'Facilitating reading military culture'. A total of seven We established Hyosung Goodwill Store which is operating under consignment. Goodwill Store is a social enterprise container-type cafes have been sponsored until 2018. Located at the front-line base in the army, the book cafes can that sells items donated by businesses and individuals at low prices and contributes the subsequent profits to job accommodate 1,000 books and 14 guests inside the container. creation and vocational training for people with disabilities. It also contributes to economic independence of disadvantaged and vulnerable people in the society by hiring them to operate the store. After first branch of Goodwill Store opened in Eunpyeong-gu, Seoul, in November 2013, the second branch was opened in Sevitseom. We will continue History Field Trips for Senior Veterans item donation and volunteer work with our employees. In cooperation with the Southern Seoul Office of Patriots and Veterans Affairs, we supported the elderly veterans to *Goodwill Store: It was started in the US as a social enterprise business model and currently operates more than 2,400 stores in 13 countries, including Canada, providing over 100,000 jobs. Hyosung established 'Hyosung Goodwill Store' in collaboration with the Together Foundation. explore historical sites, providing them with opportunities to go out with their family which is usually difficult otherwise. In 2017, we invited total 100 participants throughout four times of event, and the number of the participants increased to 190 in 2018. Sponsorship for Eden Welfare Foundation Since 2014, as part of commitment to job creating for people with disabilities, we have supported the Eden Social Welfare Foundation, a social company working on employment for the disabled. We donated unused or malfunctioning computers for their up-cycling project and financed the cost of replacing the machine producing bin bags, for their facility improvement. We have provided a total of 6,972 units of computer equipment until 2018 and are planning to fund and donate the computers in 2019. ‘One Company One Cemetery’ Cleanup Volunteer Work Completion Ceremony of Housings for Veterans Support for Employment Promotion Program Supporting the Social Enterprise, ‘Goodwill Store’ HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 44 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Employee Volunteer Programs The employees of Hyosung are carrying out volunteer activities, sharing warmth Incentives for Participants of Sharing Volunteer Group New Employees Volunteer Program with their neighbors. We would like to deliver our sincerity through long-lasting We have selected outstanding volunteers based on their performance in the As a part of onboarding training for the newly recruited employees, new employrelationship with the neighbors rather than temporary approach. Sharing Volunteer Group and dispatched them abroad to conduct volunteer ees participate in CSR activities with major executive members and managers. works. Four of them have volunteered to a project to build a kindergarten in They learn corporate social responsibility and practice accountability, one of HyDong Nai province where Hyosung’s overseas business site is located. In addition, osung’s core values, and as soon as they join the company. Hyosung Sharing Volunteer Group we are also supporting the employees to participate in volunteer activities using We organize the Hyosung Sharing Volunteer Group to proceed regular CSR activtheir working hours through volunteer time off system. Promoted Employees Volunteer Program ities. The Sharing Volunteer Group, operated in the company-wide level, consists Hyosung provides the promoted employees with SVP (Shared Value Program) of a group leader and different teams. Any employee can join the group at any Main Activities in 2018 education programs in which the employees participate in social responsibility time. We are motivating the employees to voluntarily engage with CSR by supWe have established a long-term and close relationship with Janggun-bong dayactivities for the local communities with various events such as ‘Wall Painting of porting paid time-off for volunteer work and rewarding outstanding volunteers. care center which takes care of both disabled and non-disabled children. We Love’. In this way, we support their new start in a different position by allowing arrange various experience activities with them visiting a waterpark, aquarium, them to remind their commitment as a member of Hyosung and to practice CSR mud field and cherry blossom park. In addition, we also volunteer to make them by themselves. joyful memories on a special day like Christmas. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 45 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Sharing Activities in Our Business Sites 1. Anyang 2. Oksan, Sejong, Daejeon (Chungcheong Province) Hyosung brings economic development and social values to the local communities where its business is operating by actively carrying out localized social responsibility activities.  Azalea Festival in the Anyang Plant  Volunteer Activities in Local Orphanages The 39th Azalea Festival was held in 2018. Every spring, Anyang Plant We regularly visit orphanages located in the regions our business sites Sharing Activities in Our Business Sites opens its flower garden to the public so that they can enjoy the beautiare based in order to improve living condition of the children and ful view of blooming azalea. During this festival, medical check-ups and support their education. In particular, the Oksan Plant continues to charity flea markets are organized in order to facilitate shared growth proceed its volunteer activities in Chungbuk Hyneung orphanage for 1 with the local community. the convenience of children.  ‘One Company, One River’ Environmental Cleanup  National Cemetery Cleanup We regularly clean up neighboring rivers in the region by picking up trash The employees working in Chungcheong region visit the National Cemand dirt around the river, contributing to clean environment of local etery in Daejeon on Memorial Day every year and remind their sacrifice community. and effort to protect the country through cleanup volunteer works in the cemetery. 3. Gumi, Daegu 4. Ulsan, Yongyeon, Gyeongju 2  ‘One Company, One Cemetery’ Cleanup Activities The employees in Gumi Plant of Hyosung TNC visited Yeongcheon Na Industry-Academia Collaboration Scholarship Ceremony 4 tional Cemetery to honor the veterans at Memorial Tower and clean and We are providing scholarship to the selected students from Ulsan Uni3 repair 800 graves of veterans. versity who have excellent academic performance even under economic 6 difficulties so that they can concentrate on studying with the stable fi Gumi Senior Trip nancial support. Happy Senior Trip is a CSR activity proceeded jointly by Hyosung Gumi 5 Plant and Gumi Welfare Center for low-income seniors in the region in or ‘One Company, One Village’ Farming Volunteer der to relieve their stress and reduce social isolation. In 2018, we organized We visited Ulsan Joong-go-san village to help their farming work during a trip to Gyeongju and visited cultural and historical attractions, accomthe farming season, the busiest time of the year for many farmers. Ulsan panying 62 Gumi-based senior citizens aged 65 or older with low income. Plant is supporting their rice planting and harvesting as well as throwing a party for the elderly residents in Joong-go-san village, a sister village of Ulsan Plant since 2005. 5. Changwon Major Achievements  ‘Junior Engineering Class’ in Dogye · Daesan Elementary School 6. Jeonju In recognition of its leading role in social contribution to rural communities through rural-urban As part of our social contribution, we are providing science class to elementary school students. A professional research staff at Changwon  Volunteer Activities in ‘Hosung Orphanage’ exchange programs, the Changwon Plant of Hyosung has obtained recertification of ‘Rural Social Plant, as a teacher, explained the principles of Hyosung’s flagship prodJeonju Plant organizes regular visits to Hosung orphanage in the region to Contribution Certification’ in the third certification ceremony hosted by the Ministry of Agriculture, ucts and guided a modelling exercise in the class. Since its launch in 2004, proceed ‘Sharing Volunteer Activities’. In 2018, employees have donated Food and Rural Affairs. The certification program was designed to support companies and organi‘Junior Engineering Class’ has attracted about 3,000 students so far. to host a ski camp for the children from the organization so that they can zations which have proceeded urban-rural exchange activities (volunteer activities, rural tourism, develop sense of community and belonging as well as social skills. direct purchasing of farm-grown products) for more than three years and to promote ‘One Compa Hyosung Mini Library in Gagopa · Gamgye Elementary School ny One Village Movement’ into nation-wide social responsibility activity. The Changwon Plant has Since 2010, we have donated books to small-sized elementary schools ● Heating facility installation using TANSOMEⓇ made partnership agreement with Shinchang Village in Gunbuk in September 2007, and is mainin Changwon region which lack books and bookshelves. Since 2014, we We make annual donations to the Jeonbuk Social Welfare Community taining close relationship with the village by helping farming and harvesting works in the village, have selected two schools in collaboration with the Changwon Office of Fund, which in 2018 was used to support the construction of heating Education and donated books and bookshelves worth of KRW 20 million. facilities for a nursery in the region. In particular, this project added more supporting field trips for the elderly residents, village facilities maintenance work as well as donating In 2019, the same amount will be donated to cultivate a reading culture meaning by the donation of TANSOMEⓇ by Hyosung Advanced Materials necessary resources. in Changwon. and heat cables by our customer. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 46 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Changwon Ulsan, Yongyeon, Gyeongju Gumi, Daegu Anyang Jeonju Oksan, Sejong, Daejeon HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 47 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Shared Growth OBJECTIVES IN 2019 Management ISSUE BACKGROUND 100 % We are now living in an era where the value of ‘together’ is ever more emphasized in the relationship between companies and their business partners. As value chain of a company becomes increasingly complex, suppliers are recognized as the co-growing companions rather than a mere stakeholder. In this regard, we need to support sustainable development of Enhanced Support for Cash Payment Rate to the suppliers and enhance their competitiveness so that we can secure stable supply chain Suppliers’ Productivity Suppliers and strengthen our business competitiveness. Improvement OUR APPROACH Hyosung strives to build close relationship with its suppliers based on the perception that enACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 hancing their competitiveness is our future. The Shared Growth Promotion Team, an internal organization dedicated to promoting shared growth, is providing relevant training programs, operating various support systems and working with SMEs to find new business opportunities. We also continue to collect diverse opinions from the suppliers through interactive communi99.3 % cation, consolidating the trust relationship with the suppliers. Excellent 10 Days UN SDGs LINKAGE Shared Growth Cash Payment Index Rate Rate Due Date HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 48 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Shared Growth Implementation System Shared Growth Programs Based on co-destiny relationship, Hyosung and its suppliers and partners are sharing the common goal of “sustainable Hyosung is operating various programs and policies to facilitate shared growth. Not only does Hyosung lead the partner global leaders” and cooperating to realize it for the future. Hyosung has established a shared growth system based companies’ growth through paying in cash and supporting their participation in international exhibition and overseas on belief that the competitiveness of suppliers directly contributes to our growth. In this way, we will continue to training,, but it also focuses on compensating their performance by introducing an award system for outstanding supfacilitate mutual communication as well as build close partnership with the suppliers. pliers. In addition to support programs for the business partners such as benefit sharing system and financial support, Hyosung awards ‘Special Prize for Proud Hyosung-er Award’ to outstanding suppliers every year since 2013. The award is given to the suppliers who have contributed to manufacturing technology, innovation and cost reduction of our products Our Directions of Shared Growth Implementation through technology enhancement and innovation. Moreover, we try to enhance our business partners’ competitiveness and solidify the partnership with them by giving overseas training opportunities to the qualified partners so that they can enhance their competitiveness by experiencing business sites of the renowned companies in the world. • Payment in cash to suppliers under shared growth agreement Partnerships Global Competitiveness Sustainable • Financial support for joint overseas expansion Established Leader Fostered Growth Financial Support • Network loan • Shared growth funding • ‘Business Doctor’ • Support for overseas training Management Support • Support for training of suppliers Organizational System of Supplier Management • Support for training venues Hyosung operates Shared Growth Promotion Team, which is a dedicated to shared growth, and has established relevant departments reflecting business and purchasing characteristics in each operating company in order to manage • Consulting for productivity improvement suppliers and procurement. We cooperate with suppliers to manage our purchases and operate Purchase Team in • On-site plant visit program Productivity Improvement • Support for ICT-QC (smart plant) each business site. In this way, we facilitate shared growth with the suppliers by active response and communication. • Energy Companion Project In addition, we have been strengthening technological competence of cooperating companies through technology exchange and joint research projects in collaboration with Hyosung R&DB Labs and Power & Industrial Systems R&D Center. • Support for international trade fair Business Expansion • Joint participation in overseas projects • Support for overseas expansion channel Share Growth Team Operation of shared growth programs and supplier support programs • Joint R&D and patent application Technology Support · • Tech-ESCROW Performance Exchange • Contribution of Hyosung’s R&D capacity for joint research Purchasing Department for Each Management of purchasing and supplier contracts Operating Company • Shared growth agreement between first and secondary suppliers • Shared growth payment system Secondary Suppliers Technological Cooperation and • Industry innovation movement Technological cooperation and joint research with suppliers Research Department • Cash payment monitoring HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 49 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Risk Management and Enhancing Sustainability of Suppliers Fair Supplier Selection Process Supplier Monitoring and Production Support On-site Review for New Suppliers Hyosung has introduced fair and transparent criteria for selecting suppliers. We Hyosung conducts on-site review and real-time monitoring to outstanding supWhen new suppliers are found, they undergo on-site review to confirm whethclearly announce the application criteria and recommendation requirements in pliers selected by Hyosung in order to review their compliance to Hyosung's CSR er the site is suitable for supply. During the review, Hyosung Chemical uses a our shared growth website. Any interested company can freely apply for regisstandards. When proceeding contracts, Hyosung requires suppliers to consent rating system to evaluate the overall condition and suitability as a supplier after tration as a supplier through Hyosung e-Procurement System. with our monitoring activities in areas of safety and labor, and those failing to checking quality along with safety environment including on-site workers, facility meet the criteria are excluded from the list of outstanding suppliers. Any case of management and sourcing of raw materials. When a supplier is rated as non-conSuppliers Selection of Selection and workplace accident during the length of contract is reflected to evaluation of the forming, the contract with the supplier is suspended accordingly. Start of Selection potential evaluation of Selection of corresponding supplier, and the suppliers' labor relations with their subcontractransaction Process supplier target supplier target suppliers (ordering – warehousing) tors, such as payments and cash payment rates are closely monitored by Hyosung. (Hyosung) candidates candidates In addition, Hyosung Heavy Industries monitors wage payment status of the supSupplier Evaluation System Suppliers pliers. Hyosung Advanced Materials is managing ‘procurement, environment, Construction PG of Hyosung Heavy Industries conducts evaluation every year for Signing contract Selection Selection of bid Bidding and supplier safety quality’ of all processing suppliers. Hyosung support the suppliers, selected companies which participated in the field construction for longer than a month and commencement Process participants selection of construction through a fair process, to continuously improve and tackle the problems raised in the corresponding year. Main evaluation subjects include safety and quality as (Construction PG) through regular monitoring in accordance with IATF 16949, ISO 14001 standards. well as construction and general management status. As a mutually beneficial partner, we cooperate with the processing suppliers and Hyosung Advanced Materials has established a plan for reevaluation of all proSupplier Registration Evaluation support their sustainable production, by managing the risks together as well as cessing suppliers once a year and evaluates their labor strikes, wage balances, In order to manage supply chain risks, Hyosung conducts registration screening increasing their competitiveness in price and quality. and environment in addition to quality and delivery dates. Incentives are given to for all new suppliers before they get approval to participate in bidding process. the suppliers based on the result. Hyosung Heavy Industries Corporation evaluates the companies for supplier regSuppliers Risk Management Areas (Hyosung Advanced Materials) istration based on three aspects such as management, production and quality with the detailed evaluation items including business management, human rights, PROCUREMENT MANAGEMENT • Procurement process monitoring environment, safety and health, risk (financial, CSR). We rigorously stick to the PRODUCT REALIZATION • Raw materials track system supply chain risk assessment and those that do not meet the required criteria are • Product design review • Suppliers monitoring • Manufacturing process review excluded from the company list. • Preventive maintenance SOURCING Main Evaluation Subjects of Supplier Registration QUALITY MONITORING & IMPROVEMENT IMPROVEMENTS TO COME • Production monitoring and stock management Category Evaluation Items • Human rights/labor compliance GENERAL QUALITY • Equipment quality control programs • Ethical management compliance Business management Employees’ average years of service, turnover rate and CSR fulfilment • Non-conforming product management and response • Fair business trade • Implementation of internal audit and countermeasures Human Cases of unfair treatment such as gender discrimination and child Rights abuse, and working hours of employees SAFETY & ENVIRON. Prevention facilities for environmental pollution, waste management CUSTOMER-ORIENTED MANAGEMENT Environment and treatment methods • Customer needs and satisfaction monitoring SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT Safety & Health Frequency of safety accidents and status of safety training • Quality/performance evaluation by management executives • Waste · toxic substances management • Dedicated organization for quality and R&R definition • Safe working environment Training & Regular employees training, operation of research institute and design • Emergency contingency plan Organization organization EMPLOYEE EDUCATION Working Tidiness in plants, notification of safety rules, working garments and Environment safety gears • Training for employees’ skills • Employee motivational program for high-quality production HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 50 Securing Sustainable Growth Momentum for the Future ― Human Resource Management ― Green Management ― Social Contribution ― Shared Growth Management Strengthening Supplier Communication Since 2011, Hyosung has signed agreements with its business partners and made BUSINESS CASE 1 – Shared Growth Meeting with Suppliers various efforts to achieve shared growth based on 'relationship' and 'commuIn order establish win-win partnership through shared growth, Hyosung Heavy Industries has been nication'. Through regular communication channels, such as Business Partners hosting Shared Growth Meeting with Suppliers twice every year since 2008. By arranging a comMeeting, we interactively communicate and share information with the supplimunication platform for suppliers and employees of Hyosung to freely and comfortably exchange ers. Hyosung’s suppliers can make suggestions to us through online and offline opinions with each other, we effectively share our business aims to the suppliers as well as facilitate channels and also voice their grievances through hot-line and a feedback channel shared growth together by reflecting their opinions and suggestions. Furthermore, we also provide on the website (Sinmungo) in the event of unfair demands or violation of regunetworking opportunities among our suppliers so that they build constructive relationship to create lations. Hyosung will continue to make various efforts to achieve shared growth synergy through cooperation. by establishing trusted relationship with suppliers and providing them with opportunities for continued engagement. BUSINESS CASE 2 – Energy Companion Project for the Suppliers Supplier Communication Channels Hyosung actively participates in Energy Companion Project, a shared growth energy project run by the Korea Energy Corporation to promote shared growth with its business partners and to Category Description strengthen the capabilities of SMEs. This project supports the suppliers’ energy efficiency improvement and emission reduction through implementing energy consumption diagnosis to the Shared Hyosung hosts Shared Growth Meeting with Suppliers every Growth year by inviting the representatives of the suppliers. During the suppliers with high energy use and deriving improvement measures for their energy efficiency. Meeting with meeting, we share the annual performance and discuss business In September 2018, Hyosung invited the suppliers participating in the Energy Companion Project Suppliers forecast and expected market conditions for the next year. to join field trips to Changwon Plant and shared the knowledge and technologies utilized in the plant such as energy management technology and facility efficiency improvement measures. In addition, based on the results derived from the project, we have supported to replace outdated Hot-line We receive opinions and reports of supplier-related violations through our dedicated counselling hot-line and email channel. facilities such as lighting equipment and motors into high-efficiency facilities, in conjunction with It is also used as an interactive communication channel to handle industry innovation movement in the company. inquiries and suggestions related to Hyosung’s shared growth programs. Energy Companion Project Performance Review Meeting for Industry Innovation Movement • Energy consulting: Diagnosis on energy consumption and consulting on energy efficiency Sinmungo We collect reports on employee’ malpractice and misconduct Support improvement against suppliers with strict confidentiality on the information by description • Support for facilities: Support for replacement and installment of equipment in means of a reporting channel, Sinmungo, within Hyosung e-Proconjunction with industry innovation movement curement portal site. Operation • Subject companies are selected through on-site review process Dispute In the event of a dispute, the Dispute Mediation Committee is Mediation held to promptly prepare and implement the mediation plans. Deriving energy Supporting Preliminary Identifying energy Analyzing energy Committee The results of the review are reported directly to the management saving measures implementation diagnosis use status use patterns level to prevent recurrence in advance. and improvements of improvements Before & After Installing High-efficiency Lighting Devices for Suppliers *Industry Innovation Movement: A project supporting suppliers with replacement of old equipment, installing new facilities, and establishing smart factories as well as providing relevant consulting in order to improve their productivity. Governance Sustainability Management System 52 Governance and Board of Directors 53 Risk Management 55 Ethical Management 57 Stakeholder Engagement 59 Materiality Assessment 60 HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 52 Sustainability Management System ― Governance and Board of Directors ― Risk Management ― Ethical Management ― Stakeholder Engagement ― Materiality Assessment Sustainability Management System Improving Sustainability Management System Hyosung has recognized the importance of economic, environmental and social risks which can arise from its business operation, and plans to undergo a project to improve its sustainability management system which is planned for 3 years from 2019 to 2022. Five companies including Hyosung Corporation and its four operating companies will participate in this project with approximately 50 departments, 70 task force teams and external sustainability specialists. In 2019, about 100 assignments have been derived after analyzing all elements affecting Hyosung including media, mega-trends, legal and regulatory changes, global sustainability initiatives, clients’ needs for sustainability activities and performance. These selected tasks have been categorized into short-, mid-, and long-term after considering their urgency, importance and feasibility, and are implemented by all companies. Identifying sustainability and Sustainability analysis Identify the scope and priority Establish sustainability Integrated management Lead sustainability current status analysis and evaluation of sustainability management system of sustainability initiative Sustainability materiality Set SDGs Establish strategies and tasks Task Monitor and assessment targets for sustainability implementation feedback Sustainability Management Areas • Establish reporting and governing system for CSR in holding com• Enhance occupational safety and health management system • Operate customer feedback system Innovation and Governance pany/operating companies Safety and Health • CEO-driven safety management • Strengthen information protection • Transparent disclosure of governance info. Customer Value • Advance ethics·anti-corruption policies • Company-wide sustainability training and developing training contents • Establish CSR evaluation and management system for supply chain Ethics and Supply Chain • Improve ethics·anti-corruption reporting and monitoring system HR Management • Facilitate corporate culture • Expand support for our suppliers' CSR Anti-corruption Management • Integrated management of environmental information in global • Analyze and monitoring impacts of human rights • Reform social contribution strategies and objectives Labor and Environment business sites • Enhance employee diversity Community • Assess social performance of CSR activities • Establish climate change risk management system Human Rights • Promote work-life balance Phase 1: Short-term (2019) Phase 2: Mid-term (2020~2021) Phase 3: Long-term (2022~) Sustainability Management Establish Midand Long-term CSR Goals Enhance CSR Management System and Stabilize CSR Performance Management Roadmap Introduce CSR in Overseas Business Entities Integrate Global Management System Establish a CSR management system for suppliers HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 53 Sustainability Management System ― Governance and Board of Directors ― Risk Management ― Ethical Management ― Stakeholder Engagement ― Materiality Assessment Corporate Governance and Board of Directors Hyosung Corporation makes sure the Board to have transparent and independent decision-making authority and operates the governance system which enables efficient business management based on checks and balances. As the highest decision-making body in Hyosung Corporation, the Board of Directors reviews and decides on matters prescribed by law or corporate articles of association, delegated matters by the general meeting of shareholders, or high-priority matters related to basic company policy and business operation. It is also aimed to improve interests of the stakeholders including shareholders. (For other operating companies, 54 page) Board of Directors (BOD)  Shareholders Status As of the end of December 2018, the Board of Directors consists of total 10 directors including three standing directors and seven outside directors. It is comprised of nine male members and one female member, and any limitation on gender, religion and academic background is banned. In addition, candidates of board directors, who are to be appointed in the general meeting of shareholders, are selected through a fair process in the BOD (for standing 54.7 directors) and the Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee (for outside directors). Title Name Gender Role Appointed Date Expiry Date Specialty Standing Hyun-Joon Cho Male CEO, 1998.3.17 2020.3.22 Corporate Director Member of the Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee, management Member of the Management Committee Kyoo-Young Kim Male CEO, 2017.3.17 2021.3.14 Corporate Member of the Transparent Management Committee, management Member of the Management Committee H.S.(Hyun-Sang) Cho Male Member of the Management Committee 2014.3.21 2020.3.22 Corporate management Outside Byung-Doo Sohn Male 2013.3.22 2021.3.21 Economy, education 10.0 Director Myung-Ja Kim Female Member of the Audit Committee, 2017.9.22 2021.3.14 Environment, Young-Lae Son Male Chairman of the Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee, 2017.9.22 2021.3.14 technology Accounting, 7.1 Member of the Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee finance Sang-Myeung Chung Male Chairman of the Transparent Management Committee 2017.9.22 2021.3.14 Law (lawyer) Tae-Ho Park Male Chairman of the Board of Directors 2003.2.28 2021.3.21 Commerce, trade 28.2 O-Gon Kwon Male Member of the Audit Committee, 2017.9.22 2021.3.14 Law Member of the Transparent Management Committee (lawyer) Joong-Kyung Choi Male Member of the Transparent Management Committee 2014.3.21 2020.3.22 Accounting, audit Largest shareholders and related parties * In the general meeting of shareholders held in March 15, 2019, Byung-Doo Sohn, Myung-Ja Kim, Young-Lae Son, Sang-Myeung Chung, Tae-Ho Park, O-Gon Kwon have been consecutively appointed as outside directors, as well as Kyoo-Young Kim as standing director (CEO). This has been applied to the expiry date above. Foreigners Board Specialty Korea National Pension Fund In the fast-changing business environment where strategic decision-making of the Board is constantly required, the specialty and expertise is considered as a prerequisite for a board member. The standing directors are in charge of general management of business in Hyosung Corporation and participate Others in the Board as managing directors to fulfill responsible management in the company. Outside directors, as specialists in finance, legal and public sector, As of the end of December 2018 (Unit : %) participate in the Board with different perspectives, thereby monitor the business and give advice in more objective point of view. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 54 Sustainability Management System ― Governance and Board of Directors ― Risk Management ― Ethical Management ― Stakeholder Engagement ― Materiality Assessment Board Independence and Transparency Board Subcommittees In order to secure fully-functioning checks of the Board to the executive management, Hyosung Corporation comprises the There are Management Committee, Transparent Management Committee, Outside Director Candidate Nominating Commitmajority of the BOD with outside directors, separates roles of CEO and Chairman of the BOD and appoints an outside director tee and Audit Committee under the Board of Directors. Each committee is independent with its specialty and monitors the as Chairman. The agenda are reviewed and decisions are made in accordance with the articles of association and the Board management of the BOD based on checks and balances. regulations, and the voting rights of any director who has a special interest or conflict of interests regarding a certain agenda is limited pursuant to the BOD regulations. Meanwhile, in order to avoid conflict of interests among directors, the Transparent Board Evaluation and Compensation Management Committee is operated to review and put limitations on the matters related to ’Transactions between Directors Each year, directors are evaluated based on their specialty in corporate business and technology as well as performance of and Company’ as specified in the Commercial Act (Article 398). the Board activities, and the following result is discussed in the BOD. Compensation for the Board is paid fairly and transparently based on the evaluation result with an approval of the general shareholders’ meeting. The remuneration of the Board is Board Operation provided within the remuneration limit approved at the general meeting of shareholders. Total amount of remuneration apRegular meetings and temporary meetings are held according to the Article 6 of the Board regulations. Regular meeting is proved by the general meeting in 2018 was KRW 15 billion. The retirement allowance of the BOD shall be paid in accordance held once in each quarter by principle, while temporary meetings are convened occasionally when necessary. In 2018, a total with the provisions on retirement allowance for executives which was approved by the general meeting of shareholders. of 10 meetings were held, and 34 agenda were covered for report and decision-making including compliance support activities, transactions between directors and company as well as major business status.  Board Subcommittees Status Subcommittee Name Members Function Operating Status in 2018 Management Standing Director, Hyun-Joon Cho (Chairman) 1. Matters concerning the decision and change of the basic policy of corporate management 83 times Committee Standing Director, Kyoo-Young Kim 2. Items on new projects and investment of less than KRW 100 billion (Total 3 members) Standing Director, H.S.(Hyun-Sang) Cho 3. Matters concerning issuing bonds 4. Matters concerning the acquisition and disposal of important assets 5. Matters concerning the enactment, revision and abolition of important company regulations 6. Matters concerning the installation or closure of branches, plants, sales offices, business establishments local entities, and etc. Transparent Standing Director, Kyoo-Young Kim 1. Matters concerning policy of internal transactions 11 times Management Outside Director, Sang-Myeung Chung (Chairman) 2. Matters concerning the standards and operation procedures of internal transactions management Committee Outside Director, O-Gon Kwon 3. Matters concerning approval and preliminary review of internal transactions (Total 4 members) Outside Director, Joong-Kyung Choi 4. Preliminary review of key decisions Outside Director Candidate Standing Director, Hyun-Joon Cho 1. Establishing, inspecting and supplementing the principles of appointing outside directors Once Nominating Committee Outside Director, Myung-ja Kim (Chairman) 2. Recommendation of candidates for directors to be appointed by the shareholders' meeting (Total 3 members) Outside Director, Young-Lae Son 3. Managing and validating the candidates for directors on a regular basis Audit Committee Outside Director, Young-Lae Son (Chairman) 1. Audit on the work of directors and management executives 6 times (Total 3 members) Outside Director, Myung-ja Kim 2. Appointing external auditors Outside Director, O-Gon Kwon* 3. Other matters concerning audit tasks specified in the articles of association or internal regulations * Mr. Sang-Myeung Chung has been newly appointed in regular general meeting of shareholders held on March after resignation of Mr. O-Gon Kwon.  BOD Operation Status in 2018  Status of Compensation Amount for Directors and Auditors in 2018 The governance of the four operating companies and the current status (Unit: KRW million) of the board of directors can be found in each company's annual reports. Title Persons Total compensation amount Average compensation per director 10 Number of BOD 98% Average attendance Standing directors Outside directors 3 4 6,589 217 2,196 54 meetings held rate of directors Directors from the Audit Committee 3 163 54 HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 55 Sustainability Management System ― Governance and Board of Directors ― Risk Management ― Ethical Management ― Stakeholder Engagement ― Materiality Assessment Risk Management Integrated Risk Management System Hyosung defines and manages potential uncertainties in the market as well as internal and external risks and opportunities within its risk management system. Depending on the nature of the risks, they are classified mainly as financial or non-financial risks. Risks are predicted and reviewed on a regular basis through a company-wide risk management system which has been established based on cooperation between head offices and entire business sites in the world. In addition, we make sure all employees to be clearly aware of the relevant matters so that they can apply them to their business decisions. Risk Management Process Risk Management Areas Financial Risk Management Risk We derive key risks based on their impact and likelihood after analyzing • Identifying and classifying main risks Hyosung aims to minimize market risks and credit risks associated with financial factors such as liquidity, stock prices and Identification internal and external corporate environment so that we can respond to • Operating risk prevention system and Prevention them in preemptive manner and prevent them systematically. exchange rate fluctuation. Finance Team and Trade Finance Team are in charge of measuring financial risks as well as implementing performance analysis and hedging. In addition, financial risks are managed in accordance with the policies approved • Risk monitoring by the relevant department We have established a unified system in which a risk manager in each by the Management Committee of the Board. The Management Committee reviews and approves documented policies relatRisk • Analyzing risk status and preparing department monitors and reports the matters related to risks, enabling ed to overall risk management and specific areas of financial risk such as foreign exchange, interest and credit risks. Response quick decision-making and immediate response in the event of a risk. response plans Non-financial Risk Management Diagnosis and • Diagnosing risk impacts We minimize the impact of risks already occurring by responding to them Non-financial risks derived through the risk identification process are managed and addressed by each relevant department. according to response scenarios by risk type along with risk management Recurrence • Establishing improvement plans and Each department conducts assessment, monitoring and evaluation of risks and operates a feedback system to prevent recurpolicies and establish plans to prevent recurrence of similar cases by Prevention preventive measures analyzing causes of the related risks. rence. At the same time, we continuously provide training related to potential risks in sales and production processes to the relevant departments to prevent the risks.  Major Risk Management Status – Business Continuity Risk Risk Type Definition Risk Management Status • Hyosung conducts regular evaluation and quality inspection of raw materials suppliers based on international quality and environmental standards. Producing industrial yarns and textiles which are directly connected to user Risk of delays in product delivery due safety. Hyosung Advanced Materials(HAM) regularly visits all raw materials suppliers for the entire manufacturing process evaluating them based on international standards such as IATF 16949 and ISO 14001. Supply Chain to raw materials supply chain failure HAM also manages raw materials supply risk by establishing an emergency response system including emergency organization and response guidelines by the scenario of supply chain failure. and interrupted production continuity • With the purpose to prevent risk of delays in product delivery due to interrupted production continuity, we strengthen partnership with our customers and secure enough stocks. Hyosung Advanced Materials defines various emergency situations (i.e. labor strikes, machine failure, etc.) to which individual countermeasures have been set-up in preparation to quickly respond to such events. • Through the plants’ Environment & Safety(E&S) Team, Hyosung conducts regular joint training with public organizations and covers accident scenarios involving fires, explosion and gas leaks, so that we can quickly respond to potential disasters. Disaster Risk of disasters (e.g. earthquake, fire) • In addition, the E&S team of each plant conducts regular safety patrol checks to remove risk factors and improves work methods for safety. and Safety and safety accidents at the workplace • Hyosung Advanced Materials established an emergency response organization for disasters and safety accidents. Through manuals including response and recovery measures for each accident scenario, we are able to timely respond to the various risk. We also provide annual training to all workers including our suppliers sharing accident case studies and the handling of hazardous substances to prevent safety accidents. Risk of legal sanctions or penalties • Hyosung is managing risks professionally by operating a dedicated organization for risk management. due to inappropriate response to • The amount of GHGs emitted from all domestic plants is monitored and analyzed in real-time basis through GHGs Emission System from which improvements are derived and delivered to the plants for emission inspection. Environment environmental regulations such as • We reduce environmental risk through official reporting. Hazardous wastes are safely disposed and reported to the National Waste Disposal System. GHG and hazardous substances • We keep track of hazardous chemicals consumption and report to the Ministry of Environment in accordance to Environmental Information Disclosure System. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 56 Sustainability Management System ― Governance and Board of Directors ― Risk Management ― Ethical Management ― Stakeholder Engagement ― Materiality Assessment  Major Risk Management Status– Management Risk Risk Type Definition Risk Management Status • Hyosung has established a security policy and operating standards for each operating company with a security inspection organization to check its compliance. The security inspection organization is comprised of specialists including information protection management, IT system, and technical support including the CISO(Chief Information & Security Officer) who inspect information security and provide related guidance. Risk of cyber terrorism or information Security • Hyosung has recently established a centralized document system where documents can be created, corrected, stored and retrieved in an integrated way, and is gradually introducing it to all business sites in 2019. loss from internal data leakage Through review of security logs and introducing security solutions, we are devoted to prevent leakage of sensitive corporate data and protect information, minimizing information security risks. • In order to build employees awareness on IT security, ‘The 10 Principles of Information Security’ and ‘Corporate Security Guidelines’are educated once a month through training letters and occasional off-line training sessions. • We establish regulations for contract review, train employees on compliance issues and encourage them to use standard contract forms. Risk of lawsuits or contracts which • We minimize potential risks in processing contracts by providing practical training of acceptances and guarantees in foreign currency, foreign exchange practices, trade contract condition, domestic and international contract adversely affect the business Legal management and patents. Ethical risks which may arise in and Ethical • Contract processing status and lawsuit cases are regularly monitored and shared within the company to raise awareness of legal risks. business such as unfair trade practices • We provide training related to the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act, Subcontracting Act, and Fair Trade Act, and practical cases of ethical management to prevent risks associated with unfair trade practices and corruptions. Hyosung or corruption cases Advanced Materials is in the course of expanding the trainee pool, and will provided training to all employees from 2020. Risk of damaged corporate image • We continue to carry out training to prevent corporate image damage which is caused by media response, misinformation and negative communication to the newly employed and promoted employees. Reputation from misinformation or negative • We try to avoid the situations with high reputational risk in advance by setting up behavioral principles and processes for PR personnel in each operating company. The relevant business practices are addressed to the PR communication personnel through training as well in order to enhance their understanding of reputational risks. • By using ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) system, entire business processes including production, logistics, finance, accounting, sales, purchases, and inventory are integrated and managed efficiently. Management Operational risk caused by personnel • We thoroughly keep track of our customer requests through DB system in sales department. Hyosung Advanced Materials, in particular, has employed categorization and rating system for VOCs and established a distinct General or system errors system to automatically deliver VOCs to the personnel at the relevant departments such as sales, R&D, procurement, and production. In this way, we manage to successfully resolve customers’ complaints and dissatisfaction by delivering the problems to the relevant departments, thereby solving them in the most timely and accurate way.  Fire Drill for Emergency Response  Security Risk Management Areas  Legal and Ethical Risk Management Activities • Security policy management Management • Personal information protection activities Security • Security training • Information asset management • Equipment carry-out control Physical • Entrance and exit monitoring Security • Installing and operating video information processing equipment • Unauthorized software installation control Technological • Security system application and operation procedures Security • Network control Public-private joint fire drills in preparation for a fire accident Education of subcontract law and fair-trade act. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 57 Sustainability Management System ― Governance and Board of Directors ― Risk Management ― Ethical Management ― Stakeholder Engagement ― Materiality Assessment Ethical Management Code of Ethics Guidelines to the Code of Ethics Compliance with laws Shareholder-oriented Respect for fellow Employees Compliance Suppliers Shared Growth Social responsibility Respect for customers and regulations management employees Management Management management Ethical Management Training Ethical Management System e-Procurement website and encourages supplier with ethical management through the suppliers code of conduct. We require Hyosung has adopted the ‘Code of Ethics’ to suggest principles of practicing ethical management to employees as well as to suppliers to submit a written pledge to practice ethical management so that we can facilitate ethical management further to operate the company transparently. We also provide ‘Guidelines to the Code of Ethics’ which introduces specific ways and suppliers by sharing our practices with them. guidelines to fulfill ethical management. At the same time, we try to prevent corruption cases and raise ethical awareness of all employees by Compliance Standards and providing adequate training. Stakeholder Whistleblowing Channel Ethical Management Training Internal Whistleblowing Channel A company-wide ethics training is implemented in order to help employees better aware of ethics management and internalThe HR counselling center in Hyosung serves as a reporting channel of unethical activities of employees at work and provides ize the acquired knowledge. The departments or relevant personnel with high ethical and legal compliance risk are required consultation for ethics standards and related grievances. It is directly operated by HR executives and receives varied grievto undertake ethics training as mandatory education. All employees in Hyosung receive training to enhance understanding of ances at work as well as reports of unethical cases such as sexual harassment, embezzlement, and personnel corruption. The ethical management and learn responsible management and related current issues such as the Improper Solicitation and Graft information received in the HR counselling center is kept confidential and the audit team hands over the information when a Act and Trade Secret Protection Act. We have incorporated ethics training in training program for each job level of employees follow-up investigation for the unethical behavior is needed. Furthermore, a mailbox in a post office in Mapo, Seoul, has been for entry-level employees, promoted employees and executives. A separate set of ethics training which is rather job-oriented arranged to receive anonymous reports for those who are concerned about identity exposure. is provided to the teams including purchasing, contracting and planning management as well as shared growth. In particular, Hyosung Advanced Materials is gradually expanding the scope of ethical management and is scheduled to expand to all emExternal Whistleblowing Channel ployees starting from 2020. We are operating a Hot-Line system to handle various reports and inquiries from the suppliers. Our suppliers can report cases of unethical behaviors from business trades such as bribery and soliciting, cases of unfair subcontracting trades as well as grievances and suggestions for improvement. The Hot-Line is accessible through ‘Hyosung Shared Growth’ site, and Ethical Management Awareness Building other external stakeholders can also report through this channel. In addition, Hyosung Advanced Materials has established an All employees and executives in Hyosung write ‘Pledge to Practice Ethical Management’ and ‘Pledge to Comply with Improper ‘Reporting Center’ that allows anyone including suppliers, customers and other business partners, to report problems to the Solicitation and Graft Act’. In addition, we are making efforts to spread promotional materials for ethics awareness to employees audit team through an anonymous ‘reporting’ function on the corporate website. to help them internalize ethical management. We also disclose our code of ethics in our official website as well as in Supplier HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 58 Sustainability Management System ― Governance and Board of Directors ― Risk Management ― Ethical Management ― Stakeholder Engagement ― Materiality Assessment Internal Audit Retaliation Prevention Policy Hyosung conducts an audit on all aspects of management, from on-site management to job diagnosis for production manHyosung Heavy Industries implements a retaliation prevention policy which prohibits the company to reject or stop the trade agement. We have established and operated internal audit regulations since 1984. We also conduct audits in the technology or significantly limit the quantity or content of products or services of the suppliers in trade due to the reasons stipulated and quality sectors to build customer trust in our products and achieve their satisfaction. In addition, we guarantee the in the policy. The employees perceived with the relevant misconduct are summoned to disciplinary procedure accordingly. independence of audit activities so that audit activities will not be subject to outside interference during audit, and we perform proper protection activities such as ensuring anonymity so that auditors and informants will not be subjected to unfair  Remedies for Violation of Non-Retaliation Guidelines treatment and disadvantages. •Report to related agencies that the company has violated fair trade regulations Internal Audit Operating System •Request for coordination with the company in the Dispute Mediation Committee We conduct regular audits according to internal audit regulations and special audits if certain issues arise. The material cases •Raise questions related to contents in the contract detected from the audit results are dealt with different measures such as caution, punishment and reimbursement depending •Raise questions and issues related to fair trade through hot-line operated by the company on seriousness of the cases. Follow-up Monitoring after Audit The audit results are reported to the CEO, and those who are notified of the results are required to make immediate improveFair business compliance program ments to the indicated matters. At the same time, the audit team regularly reviews the issues to prevent recurrence. Hyosung introduced Compliance Program (CP) to establish a fair business trade culture with transparent and legitimate procedures. In addition, the Transparent Management Committee under the BOD reviews and determines on the issues related to unfair internal transactions and status of CP implementation. Promoting Fair Business Practices In order to establish a fair business trade culture together with suppliers, we have incorporated four fair trade guidelines, Training for Fair Business Trade which are recommended by the Korea Fair Trade Commission, in our corporate regulations. In addition, we have released We regularly provide case study training of the Subcontracting Act and breach of contract to the departments considered to guidelines for preventing retaliatory behaviors to suppliers, thus establishing a firm foundation for fair partnership and buildhave high risk related to unfair business trade with suppliers such as purchasing team, outsourcing management team and ing transparent business relationship. shared growth team. We also implement training about fair trade to the sales departments, covering the Fair Trade Act and the Supplier-Dealer Trade Act, and provided information on legitimate process and standards in the sales environment. Four Fair Trade Guidelines Follow-up Review after Business Trade Since 2016, Hyosung has been conducting a follow-up review on suppliers after ending the contract to monitor any cases of illegal activities or unfair trade practices during the business trade. In the event of an illegal act, we correct it immediately and further reflect it on business trades in the future. Accordingly, we continue to facilitate fair trade culture through ceaseless Selection and Internal monitoring and management. Written Proof of Making contracts Operation of Deliberation Subcontracting Partners Committee Details of Four Fair Guidelines to Purchasing Trade Guidelines Code of Ethics HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 59 Sustainability Management System ― Governance and Board of Directors ― Risk Management ― Ethical Management ― Stakeholder Engagement ― Materiality Assessment Stakeholder Engagement Main Stakeholder Groups and Communication Hyosung defines stakeholders as those who have a major influence on business activities, and has identified its five stakeholder groups as customers, employees, partners, shareholders/investors, and local communities. We listen to our stakeholders' opinions and operate various communication channels to reflect them in our management activities. In this way, we build a close relationship with the stakeholders based on trust and satisfaction and create an environment for sustainable at the same time. Stakeholder Group Stakeholder Response Communication Channels Main Issues • Company website • Customer relationship management and maximizing We understand customers’ needs and requirements through various channels • Global exhibition customer satisfaction and maximize their satisfaction by conducting customer satisfaction surveys • Customer satisfaction survey • Enhancing competitiveness of products through R&D on a regular basis. Customers • Public disclosure of management • Improving reputation and brand power of the company • Wa-gle Wa-gle, Tong Tong Bulletin Board • Recruiting outstanding employees and providing equal opWe endeavor to create a flexible corporate culture and a great workplace. We • Junior board portunities enhance the competence of our employees through various training programs. • Corporate intranet • Increasing employee satisfaction • Communicator system • Creating great environment to work Employees • Meeting with suppliers • Active support for shared growth We operate shared growth programs for our suppliers’ sustainability and • Business plan & Achievement sharing • Strengthening supplier sustainability business growth, provide fair opportunities with transparency. • Hot-line • Promoting fair business practices with suppliers • Supplier portal Suppliers • Corporate IR activities • Securing new growth engine for sustainable future To enhance the value of shareholder and company, we promote transparent • BOD and shareholders’ meeting • Securing financial soundness and profitability and efficient management activities while striving to attain sustainable growth. • Business report Shareholders/ • Ensuring sound governance • Sustainability Report Investors • Engaging in co-prosperity and development of local We fulfill corporate social responsibility by constantly developing social • Environment cleanup volunteer communities contribution programs linked to our business strategies through steady • Public opening event in manufacturing plant • Strategic CSR activities Local communication with the local communities. • CSR activities • Promoting employees’ participation in CSR activities Communities HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 60 Sustainability Management System ― Governance and Board of Directors ― Risk Management ― Ethical Management ― Stakeholder Engagement ― Materiality Assessment Materiality Assessment Throughout a process of conducting materiality assessment which comprehensively considers business impact and stakeholder interest, we are identifying key issues with the highest relevance to Hyosung among various issues. In accordance with the guidelines to select reporting topics by GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) standards, key issues have been determined after widely considering economic, social and environmental issues from media and global initiatives as well as business-related issues. Materiality Assessment Process Material Issues from Materiality Assessment Degree of Stakeholder Interest MATERIAL ISSUE 1. Identifying sustainability issues We have created a pool of 42 different issues based on economic, social and environmental impact of our business as well as  ➎ degree of stakeholder interest. We have analyzed international standards including GRI Standards, UN SDGs, ISO 26000, ➏ EcoVadis reviewed internal data and conducted media research during this issue selection process.  ➍ ➓ ➐ ➊ 2. Prioritizing issues through materiality assessment  ➋ ➑ For the process of prioritizing material issues, major CSR topics required by global standards and other peer companies’  ➌ reporting subjects have been considered, and materiality of each issue item has been measured in the aspects of business ➒ impact and stakeholder interest. Materiality Assessment  Economic  Social  Environmental  Potential issue Business Impact International Standards Reporting Boundaries Peer Group Issues Internal Data Review Media Research Topic Issues GRI Aspect Analysis Internal External Analyzing the issues of Internal stakeholders Covering total 5,561 Economic Customer relationship management and maximizing customer satisfaction Other Business Issue ● Customers GRI Standards total 12 companies from interview and main articles to analyze Environmental Green Products and Technology Development Energy ● Customers EcoVadis the same or relevant business strategy review economic, social and Customers, ISO 26000 Economic Overseas expansion into new market Market Presence ● industries and analysis environmental issues Suppliers UN SDGs Local Social Engaging local communities for shared growth and development Local Communities ● Communities Environmental Climate change response Energy, Emissions ● 3. Determining material issues to report Economic Ethical management and anti-corruption activities Ethics and Integrity ● After selecting 10 priority issues from materiality assessment, main topics to report have been determined accordingly. Social Recruiting outstanding employees and ensuring fair opportunities Employment ● Based on this, the report has been planned and organized with the relevant details. Economic Securing product responsibility and safety Customer Health and Safety ● Customers Economic Improving reputation and brand power Market Presence ● Local Social Implementing strategic CSR activities Local Communities ● Communities Internal circle including key business Social Enhancing occupational health and safety Occupational Health and Safety ● Key Report External circle including international strategy and status of the company Social Respecting human rights and non-discrimination Human Rights Assessment ● Issues standards and media sources and industry issues Social Strengthening supplier sustainability Procurement Practices ● Suppliers CSR activities reflecting characteristics of companies and Local Social Local communities ● local business sites Communities Appendix ESG Performance 62 Third Party Verification Statement 72 GRI Standards Index 73 Human Rights Policy 75 UN SDGs Impact Identification 75 HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 62 ESG Performance ― Third Party Verification Statement ― GRI Standards Index ― Human Rights Policy ― UN SDGs Impact Identification ESG PERFORMANCE – Economic Performance Unit: KRW 1 million Financial Statements Category Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Heavy Hyosung Advanced Hyosung Corporation TNC Industries Materials Chemical (Consolidated) 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 ⅰ. Current assets 4,048,447 4,630,981 1,379,400 1,428,058 1,492,635 1,030,998 438,323 Cash and cash equivalents 431,707 501,133 341,208 84,735 40,977 84,773 79,258 Trade and other current receivables 1,736,072 2,013,676 464,296 772,215 772,662 442,526 184,669 Inventories 1,524,770 1,679,932 498,426 517,314 332,744 466,559 125,295 Other current assets 355,898 436,241 75,471 53,795 346,251 37,140 49,101 ⅱ. Non-current assets 10,072,355 9,903,997 5,028,505 1,710,786 1,939,877 1,503,700 1,214,926 Long-term trade and other non-current receivables 305,046 313,040 54,216 8,975 484,725 3,956 4,710 Tangible assets 5,845,022 5,663,176 947,976 1,439,547 1,077,627 1,196,736 1,117,555 Investments in properties 628,823 550,217 145,644 125,520 143,815 151,964 Intangible assets 420,070 318,130 162,328 75,915 12,727 107,704 74,145 Investments for affiliates and related companies 115,373 117,238 1,242,027 6,692 Other non-current assets 2,758,021 2,942,197 2,476,315 60,829 220,983 43,340 11,825 Total assets 14,120,801 14,534,979 6,407,905 3,138,844 3,432,512 2,534,698 1,653,249 ⅰ. Current liabilities 6,883,077 7,601,179 2,247,871 1,994,630 1,999,317 1,474,716 685,979 Trade and other current payables 1,786,516 2,073,792 471,129 643,245 814,935 369,241 275,675 Borrowings 4,380,424 4,916,997 1,571,441 1,324,975 746,739 1,088,357 399,746 Other current liabilities 716,136 610,391 205,301 26,410 437,644 17,117 10,558 ⅱ. Non-current liabilities 3,396,508 3,070,518 1,457,887 657,313 528,483 593,966 600,022 Long-term trade and other non-current payables 376,166 400,492 220,786 26,439 125,457 7,716 12,055 Long-term borrowings 2,662,171 2,345,089 942,926 573,687 314,057 553,076 582,940 Other non-current liabilities 358,171 324,936 294,174 57,188 88,969 33,174 5,027 Total liabilities 10,279,585 10,671,697 3,705,758 2,651,943 2,527,800 2,068,682 1,286,001 [Capital stock] 175,587 175,587 105,355 21,638 955,355 22,400 15,951 [Retained earnings] 2,971,857 3,143,153 6,353,427 18,973 -3,639 -26,584 18,284 [Other components of equity] 471,765 334,776 -4,016,139 363,056 -47,200 389,990 333,013 [Non-controlling interest] 222,007 209,765 259,504 83,234 194 80,210 Total capital 3,841,216 3,863,282 2,702,147 486,901 904,711 466,016 367,248 For four business companies including Hyosung Advanced Materials, Hyosung Chemical, Hyosung Heavy Industries, and Hyosung TNC, financial information from June 2018 when the business spin-off took place, up until December 2018. HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 63 ESG Performance ― Third Party Verification Statement ― GRI Standards Index ― Human Rights Policy ― UN SDGs Impact Identification Unit: KRW 1 million Consolidated Statements of Category Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Heavy Hyosung Advanced Hyosung Corporation TNC Industries Materials Chemical Comprehensive Income 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 Sales 7,974,341 8,509,950 2,991,006 3,359,086 2,180,485 1,767,487 1,116,772 Cost of sales 6,614,455 7,362,130 2,552,511 3,103,320 1,941,278 1,584,713 1,002,169 Gross profit 1,359,887 1,147,820 438,496 255,766 239,206 182,774 114,603 SG&A 635,359 636,745 277,358 123,368 160,102 101,363 36,042 R&D expenses 91,335 95,650 17,654 7,345 29,109 17,269 13,566 Operating income 633,193 415,425 143,483 125,052 49,996 64,143 64,995 Other gains 247,523 235,239 23,835 16,903 31,563 13,902 2,963 Other loss 106,101 299,792 25,704 14,947 35,430 24,843 4,469 Finance income 292,162 306,454 50,250 54,538 37,239 21,419 20,904 Finance expenses 412,324 307,613 83,193 133,078 79,654 80,063 50,024 Profit before tax 625,240 285,263 567,234 48,468 3,714 -5,442 27,418 Income tax expense 86,868 -30,804 103,167 16,969 1,805 18,303 7,023 Net profit 538,372 316,067 3,425,977 31,498 1,909 -23,745 20,395 Other comprehensive gain (loss) 4,837 -13,429 -83,591 -18,851 -16,946 2,478 2,891 Total comprehensive profit 543,209 302,638 3,342,385 12,648 -15,037 -21,267 23,286 HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 64 ESG Performance ― Third Party Verification Statement ― GRI Standards Index ― Human Rights Policy ― UN SDGs Impact Identification ESG PERFORMANCE – Social Performance Unit: persons, % Employees Status Category Subcategory Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Heavy Hyosung Advanced Hyosung HYOSUNG HYOSUNG Corporation TNC Industries Materials Chemical VIETNAM DONG NAI 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 Total employees 7,971 8,144 634 1,657 3,487 1,142 1,198 5,447 1,829 Gender Male 7,208 7,313 525 1,389 3,241 1,044 1,090 4,294 1,344 Female 763 831 109 268 246 98 108 1,153 485 Employment type Permanent (male) 7,011 7,120 502 1,281 3,188 1,042 1,069 4,272 1,339 Permanent (female) 700 768 103 226 242 91 107 1,107 471 Subtotal 7,711 7,888 605 1,507 3,430 1,133 1,176 5,379 1,810 Temporary (male) 197 193 23 108 53 2 21 22 5 Temporary (female) 63 63 6 42 4 7 1 46 14 Subtotal 260 256 29 150 57 9 22 68 19 Region Domestic 7,657 7,789 586 1,518 3,461 1,012 1,158 5,447 1,829 Overseas 314 355 48 139 26 130 40 Job category Office work 5,048 5,085 560 877 2,525 560 564 707 255 (based on permanent employment) Manufacturing 2,923 2,803 74 630 905 573 634 4,672 1,555 Fostering female human resource Female employees ratio 9.60% 10.20% 17.20% 16.20% 7.05% 8.60% 9.00% 21.2% 26.5% Number of female at manager-level of higher 119 143 50 26 61 13 13 38 7 Female managers ratio 4.70% 5.20% 13.00% 6.30% 4.28% 4.20% 5.20% 27.5% 29.2% (Number of female managers divided by number of total managers) Diversity Disabled 126 126 6 16 59 22 15 Veterans 128 37 2 18 77 22 20 Foreigners 24 28 6 4 13 1 1 72 27 Subtotal 278 191 14 38 149 45 36 72 27 Creating job opportunities Male 292 483 311 85 30 42 27 1,955 822 (the newly employed) Female 54 121 76 27 13 4 10 362 245 Subtotal 346 604 387 112 43 46 37 2,317 1,067 HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 65 ESG Performance ― Third Party Verification Statement ― GRI Standards Index ― Human Rights Policy ― UN SDGs Impact Identification Unit: persons, % Employees Status in Category HYOSUNG VIETNAM HYOSUNG DONG NAI Vietnam Business Site 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Local employees 5,295 5,238 5,447 1,091 1,495 1,829 Total managers (head of department, supervisor or higher) 56 70 65 24 26 21 Local managers (head of department, supervisor or higher) 41 35 39 8 7 5 Rate of local managers 73.20% 50.00% 60.00% 33.30% 26.90% 23.80% Unit: persons, % Category Subcategory Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Heavy Hyosung Advanced Hyosung Status of turnover Corporation TNC Industries Materials Chemical 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 Employees who left Male 315 327 187 52 53 42 35 (only counting the permanent Female 72 72 44 38 8 7 10 employees who voluntarily quit) Subtotal 387 399 231 90 61 49 45 Turnover rate 5.02% 5.06% 38.18% 5.97% 1.78% 4.32% 3.83% Unit: persons, % Parental and Category Subcategory Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung HYOSUNG VIETNAM HYOSUNG DONG NAI Corporation TNC Heavy Advanced Chemical Childcare Leave Industries Materials 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Male Employees under parental leave 112 92 66 0 0 0 0 314 381 376 33 84 96 (parental leave) Returning rate from parental leave 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 99.50% 99.20% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Female Employees under parental leave 72 75 23 5 15 2 10 178 138 142 19 42 35 (parental leave) Returning rate from parental leave 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 93.00% 100.00% 100.00% 91.00% 84.80% 81.00% 78.90% 90.50% 82.90% Male Employees under childcare leave 17 17 24 0 51 2 3 78 122 159 6 12 40 (childcare leave) Returning rate from childcare leave 77.78% 94.10% 100.00% 98.70% 98.40% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Rate of working more than 12 months after return 85.71% 81.30% 82.40% 71.80% 69.70% 82.40% 83.30% 75.00% 77.50% Female Employees under childcare leave 64 54 24 6 29 2 8 92 104 192 10 18 62 (childcare leave) Returning rate from childcare leave 98.41% 98.40% 98.10% 98.90% 98.10% 97.90% 100.00% 100.00% 98.40% Rate of working more than 12 months after returning 67.74% 76.20% 79.20% 73.90% 68.30% 77.10% 70.00% 83.30% 61.30% * Due to the calculation limitation caused by the company spin-off in June 2018, ‘Returning rate’ and ‘Rate of working more than 12 months after return’ from four operating companies will be calculated and added in the 2019 Sustainability Report onward. Unit: persons, % Category Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung HYOSUNG VIETNAM HYOSUNG DONG NAI Regular Corporation TNC Heavy Advanced Chemical Performance Industries Materials Evaluation 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Status Number of employees subject to 7,694 7,804 600 1,505 3,430 1,129 1,114 5,075 4,980 5,167 1,166 1,397 1,659 performance evaluation Performance evaluation rate 96.40% 95.68% 93.17% 90.80% 98.40% 98.86% 96.20% 93.60% 92.70% 94.50% 90.70% 88.80% 90.00% HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 66 ESG Performance ― Third Party Verification Statement ― GRI Standards Index ― Human Rights Policy ― UN SDGs Impact Identification Unit: persons, % Labor Union Category Hyosung Corporation Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung HYOSUNG VIETNAM HYOSUNG DONG NAI TNC Heavy Advanced Chemical Membership Industries Materials Status 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Employees covered by collective 2,778 2,878 74 629 847 567 341 5,295 5,238 5,447 1,091 1,495 1,829 agreements Number of union workers 1,739 1,705 48 269 787 494 337 4,981 4,905 5,151 949 1,348 1,641 Rate of union workers 62.60% 59.20% 64.90% 42.80% 92.92% 87.10% 98.80% 94.07% 93.64% 94.57% 86.98% 90.17% 89.72% Unit: KRW, persons, Vietnamese currency: VND Retirement Category Hyosung Corporation Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung HYOSUNG VIETNAM HYOSUNG DONG NAI TNC Heavy Advanced Chemical Pension Industries Materials 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Total operating fund for 326,987,650,448 361,384,240,392 74,164,638,815 65,338,014,734 193,957,288,746 50,630,841,320 43,741,386,306 6,717,953,350 7,040,535,227 7,765,118,315 1,401,340,340 1,895,941,026 2,425,077,865 retirement pension (DB+DC) Operating fund of DB pension 323,845,481,309 357,677,695,810 73,745,871,028 64,415,473,019 171,785,575,200 49,978,653,307 43,199,871,634 6,717,953,350 7,029,868,077 7,731,512,065 1,401,340,340 1,895,941,026 2,414,350,615 Operating fund of DC pension 3,142,169,139 3,706,544,582 418,767,787 922,541,715 22,171,713,546 652,188,013 541,514,672 10,667,150 33,606,250 10,727,250 Total number Total 7,981 8,029 670 1,653 3,297 1,155 1,198 5,053 4,954 5,245 1,033 1,375 1,705 of members Number of DB pension 7,300 7,247 602 1,365 2,894 947 1,033 5,053 4,952 5,229 1,033 1,375 1,698 members (Persons) Number of DC pension 681 782 68 288 403 208 165 2 16 7 members (Persons) Unit: KRW, %, Vietnamese currency: VND Basic Salary and Category Subcategory Hyosung Corporation Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung HYOSUNG VIETNAM HYOSUNG DONG NAI TNC Heavy Advanced Chemical Compensation Industries Materials 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Basic salary for entry-level 3,086,000 3,117,000 3,117,780 3,117,780 3,117,780 3,117,780 3,117,780 4,480,000 4,780,000 5,080,000 4,480,000 4,780,000 5,080,000 Rate of entry-level salary to Male 228 215 184.6 185 185 185 185 128 137 145 128 137 145 local minimum wage by law (%) Female 228 215 184.6 185 185 185 185 128 137 145 128 137 145 Average basic salary 4,404,060 4,481,499 4,644,980 4,776,982 4,529,576 4,389,305 4,322,679 4,663,750 4,963,750 5,415,250 4,663,750 4,963,750 5,415,250 HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 67 ESG Performance ― Third Party Verification Statement ― GRI Standards Index ― Human Rights Policy ― UN SDGs Impact Identification Unit: persons, KRW 1 thousand, hours, Vietnamese currency: VND Employees Category Subcategory Hyosung Corporation Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung HYOSUNG VIETNAM HYOSUNG DONG NAI TNC Heavy Advanced Chemical Training & Industries Materials Education 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Number of training Accumulated number of training 168,167 183,506 121,750 11,943 17,782 10,136 7,324 7,903 7,424 16,898 1,043 2,166 6,943 participants participants during the year Total training expenses including costs Total training paid to external institutions and other 3,583,521 4,139,236 4,259,986 346,577 745,407 318,076 421,497 3,249,916,806 3,079,647,318 5,571,236,888 7,993,696,000 695,104,682 703,410,112 expenses administrative costs Total training Required training by law and training 519,298 522,712 343,818 50,180 99,575 44,512 44,403 112,524 114,748 230,808 40,618 43,488 98,296 hours registered in Hyosung Training System Average training hours per person 65.15 64.18 43.31 30.28 28.62 38.98 37.06 14.24 15.46 42.37 38.94 20.08 53.74 (Total training hours/ total number of employees) Average training expenses per person 450 508 537 359 367 477 603 411,226 414,823 403,947 7,664,138 320,916 130,117 (Total training expenses / total number of employees) * Regarding four operating companies, data has been collected and calculated based on the time period from June 1, 2018 (start of company spin-off) to December 2018. For training between Jan. and May, data is accumulated as Hyosung In case of average training expenses per person, it is converted into 12-months basis. * Hyosung Vietnam, Dong Nai corporate education system has changed, and the gap is largely different from the previous year, because statutory compulsory education time is included in the education completion time in 2018. Vietnamese currency: VND CSR Investment Category Unit Hyosung* HYOSUNG VIETNAM HYOSUNG DONG NAI 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 CSR Investment KRW million 3,332 2,364 2,887 1,096,057,000 1,957,412,872 1,378,674,000 50,350,000 CSR Programs Programs 44 37 46 11 7 9 11 7 9 Employees participating in CSR programs Persons 7,412 5,773 5,704 4,704 4,585 4,843 789 1,143 1,471 Total CSR participating hours of employees Hours 29,648 23,092 22,816 15,400 10,584 14,840 1,232 784 1,008 CSR participating hours per employee Hours/person 4 4 4 3 2 3 2 1 1 * Hyosung Corporation and its four operating companies Category Unit Hyosung Corporation Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung HYOSUNG VIETNAM HYOSUNG DONG NAI Occupational TNC Heavy Advanced Chemical Accident Rate Industries Materials 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Total number of occupational accidents : Persons 17 29 0 1 18 18 6 13 26 28 9 8 4 Accidental disaster + Occupational disease Occupational accident rate : % 0.21 0.36 0.06 0.52 1.58 0.50 0.26 0.50 0.52 0.81 0.53 0.22 Total number of occupational accidents / Total number of employees x 100 Number of work-related fatalities Persons 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Work-related fatality rate per ten thousand employees : Number of work-related fatalities / Total number of employees x 10,000 Vietnamese currency: VND 1 thousand Suppliers Category Unit Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung HYOSUNG VIETNAM HYOSUNG DONG NAI TNC Heavy Advanced Chemical Industries Materials 2018 2018 2018 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Number of suppliers Companies 2,679 4,070 24 140 654 643 672 424 493 551 Purchasing price to suppliers KRW million 1,244,608 1,739,349 900,515 757,172 11,944,773 14,962,309 18,177,658 2,433,347 8,727,832 15,389,793 HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 68 ESG Performance ― Third Party Verification Statement ― GRI Standards Index ― Human Rights Policy ― UN SDGs Impact Identification ESG PERFORMANCE – Environmental Performance Unit: TJ Energy Consumption Category Subcategory Hyosung Corporation Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung HYOSUNG VIETNAM HYOSUNG DONG NAI TNC Heavy Advanced Chemical Industries Materials 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Direct energy Diesel 37 37.87 1.18 15.06 13.21 1.59 7.53 consumption Kerosene 0.1 0.64 0.37 0.03 0.03 0.03 LNG 2,519.30 2,095.49 206.17 920.75 131.76 313.2 357.46 1,507.77 1,467.17 1,553.33 360.86 336.08 541.22 Gasoline 14.4 12.66 2.74 3.47 4.09 2.72 2.93 Propane 4.7 813.68 0.84 749.98 7.43 289.77 38.75 B-C oil 769.1 337.08 151.92 7.27 58,000.00 132,000.00 Off-gas 4,380.40 4,816.94 5,136.44 LPG 2.7 4.77 0.89 1.43 0.9 0.89 0.89 13.14 16.31 19.11 2.01 5.07 6.17 Biogas 18.5 21.52 Subtotal 7,746.2 8,140.65 211.81 6,979.34 157.42 608.19 414.84 1,520.91 59,483.48 133,572.44 362.87 341.15 547.39 Indirect energy Electricity 21,512.30 22,903.97 491.66 6,097.48 986.54 3,829.88 11,245.25 3,354.74 3,406.35 3,548.69 266.03 794.69 1,181.14 consumption Steam 893.6 1,140.15 10.96 1,093.91 418.21 507.22 618.79 337.61 1,023.07 1,019.42 Process waste heat 227.4 Waste incinerated heat 1,176.90 1,043.23 506.66 67.94 527.46 Subtotal 23,810.20 25,087.35 502.62 7,698.06 1,054.49 3,829.88 11,772.72 3,772.95 3,913.57 4,167.48 603.65 1,817.76 2,200.57 Total energy consumption Total 31,556.40 33,228.00 714.43 14,677.49 1,211.90 4,438.07 12,187.56 5,293.86 63,397.05 137,739.92 966.52 2,158.91 2,747.96 Basic unit Energy intensity 0.55 0.39 0.024 0.437 0.056 0.251 1.091 (TJ / KRW 100 million) Unit: tCO₂eq GHG Category Subcategory Hyosung Corporation Hyosung TNC Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Chemical Heavy Industries Advanced Materials (Greenhouse Gas) 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 Emissions Direct GHG emissions Fixed combustion 184,606.40 408,187.00 10,454.29 251,777.08 32,723.42 98,335.67 7,323.19 (Scope 1) Mobile combustion 3,525.10 3,911.00 166.03 605.00 858.18 718.99 1,314.67 Process emissions 219,572.50 27,330.00 25,770.20 1,246.89 Waste disposal 3,201.10 1,498.00 356.00 2,253.99 18.89 Subtotal 410,905.10 440,926.00 10,620.32 278,508.28 38,390.72 101,308.65 9,903.64 Indirect GHG emissions Electricity 1,043,515.20 1,112,394.32 23,716.77 546,546.30 185,953.91 295,474.43 48,124.33 (Scope 2) Steam 8,439.80 15,860.76 393.18 2,687.75 9,516.61 Subtotal 1,051,955.00 1,128,255.08 25,109.94 546,546.30 188,641.66 304,991.04 48,124.33 GHG emissions intensity Basic unit (tCO₂eq / KRW million) 0.256 0.184 0.012 0.246 0.104 0.230 0.052 HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 69 ESG Performance ― Third Party Verification Statement ― GRI Standards Index ― Human Rights Policy ― UN SDGs Impact Identification Unit: tons Water Consumption and Category Subcategory Hyosung Corporation Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung HYOSUNG VIETNAM HYOSUNG DONG NAI TNC Heavy Advanced Chemical Wastewater Discharge Industries Materials 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Water Waterworks 710,898 218,924 99,009 78,696 11,375 86,758 3,217,933.00 3,143,970.83 3,808,158.40 320,864.00 1,068,473.00 1,270,204.65 consumption by source of water Groundwater 79,248 101,409 8,165 103,624 Industrial water 25,241,861 18,725,355 650,720 6,822,981 503,038 3,699,060 7,323,767 River water 127,750 Total water consumption 26,159,757.00 19,045,687.50 749,729.00 6,901,677.44 511,202.50 3,710,435.00 7,514,149.06 3,217,933.00 3,143,970.83 3,808,158.40 320,864.00 1,068,473.00 1,270,204.65 Amount of recycled water 7,164,161 6,363,409 143,158 3,941,960 1,287,800 342,002 Water recycling rate (%) 27.40% 33.40% 19.10% 57.10% 0.00% 34.70% 4.60% Total wastewater discharge 4,531,289.45 160,113.00 2,056,629.00 10,868.40 140,255.33 2,105,665.98 1,189,954.00 1,223,247.00 1,797,867.00 238,457.00 409,944.00 481,625.00 Unit: tons Waste Category Subcategory Hyosung Corporation Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung HYOSUNG VIETNAM HYOSUNG DONG NAI TNC Heavy Advanced Chemical Industries Materials 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Industrial waste Recycled 27,287.00 742.6 14,120.70 2,890.50 7,687.20 15,943.90 18,199.60 22,054.30 1,178.70 2,944.00 2,860.40 (general) Incineration 3,096.00 3,117.10 2,232.10 318.6 334.8 192.8 1,156.10 1,341.90 46.7 45.3 502.9 Landfill 4,106.10 4,064.00 52.5 2,385.00 27.1 3,171.60 708.8 700.8 734.3 129.1 129.9 254.4 Cargo discharge Waste consignment 41,861.40 17,654.10 4,896.00 8.3 14,452.70 Subtotal 49,063.50 52,122.20 795.2 18,737.80 4,896.00 3,244.40 25,646.30 16,845.50 20,056.50 24,130.50 1,354.50 3,119.20 3,617.70 Industrial waste Recycled 3,449.40 119.3 2,011.50 485.7 313.3 15,218.00 15,234.00 16,377.00 35 78 73 (designated) Incineration 1,073.00 1,228.70 956.1 11 179.2 10,756.00 10,557.00 11,444.00 251 1,659.00 1,925.00 Landfill 2.9 20.6 8.2 14.4 Cargo discharge 5,294.10 5,000.40 767.2 2.5 10,203.10 Subtotal 6,370.00 9,699.10 119.3 2,975.80 767.2 499.2 10,709.90 25,974.00 25,791.00 27,821.00 286 1,737.00 1,998.00 Total waste Total 55,433.50 61,821.20 914.4 21,713.60 5,663.20 3,743.60 36,356.30 42,819.50 45,847.50 51,951.50 1,640.50 4,856.20 5,615.70 Amount of recycled waste Total 0 30,736.40 861.9 16,132.20 0 3,376.30 8,000.50 31,161.90 33,433.60 38,431.30 1,213.70 3,022.00 2,933.40 Waste recycling rate (%) 0.00% 49.70% 94.30% 74.30% 0.00% 90.20% 22.00% 72.78% 72.92% 73.98% 73.98% 62.23% 52.24% HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 70 ESG Performance ― Third Party Verification Statement ― GRI Standards Index ― Human Rights Policy ― UN SDGs Impact Identification Unit: tons Air Pollutant Emissions Category Hyosung Corporation Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung HYOSUNG VIETNAM HYOSUNG DONG NAI TNC Heavy Advanced Chemical Industries Materials 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 590.4 494.3 8.2 71.2 65.2 320.1 147.43 87.65 71 7.31 34 Sulfur oxides (SOx) 176.2 132.9 5.4 2.1 44.1 77.93 54.14 50 1 19 Particulate matter (PM) 52.6 454.4 8.2 11.6 20.4 427.4 109.39 97.91 64 2.56 34 Unit: KRW 1 million, VND 1 million Environmental Category Hyosung Corporation Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung Hyosung HYOSUNG VIETNAM HYOSUNG DONG NAI TNC Heavy Advanced Chemical Protection Investments Industries Materials 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Waste and emission treatment costs, 5,687 4,843 181 1,980 477 294 3,143 3,765 4,384 4,072 74 463 425 Environmental restoration costs Prevention and environmental 6,774 4,608 105 340 2,321 250 2,664 43 51 97 44 56 49 management costs Total 12,461 9,451 287 2,320 2,798 544 5,807 3,808 4,435 4,169 118 519 474 HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 71 ESG Performance ― Third Party Verification Statement ― GRI Standards Index ― Human Rights Policy ― UN SDGs Impact Identification ESG PERFORMANCE – Certification Status and Association Memberships Certification Status Association Memberships Certification Category Association Memberships Category Association Memberships Site PU Environmental Management Quality Health & Safety Hyosung* Seoul Chamber of Commerce and Industry Hyosung Construction Association of Korea NPY ISO 14001 ISO 9001 Heavy Seoul Bar Association Korea Mech. Const. Contractors Association Industries Tire cord ISO 14001 ISO 9001 The Federation of Korean Industries H2KOREA Tech. Yarn ISO 14001 IATF 16949 American Chamber of Commerce in Korea Korea Electrical Contractors Association Ulsan Korea Exchange Korea Specialty Contractors Association ISO 9001 KOSHA 18001 Aramid ISO 14001 Korea Enterprises Federation Korea Information and Communications Contractors IATF 16949 Association Korea Economic Research Institute Interior Korea Federation of Construction Contractors Korea Management Association PP/DH ISO 14001 Korea Construction Engineers Association Yongyeon1 ISO 9001 KOSHA 18001 Korea Mecenat Association Neochem ISO 14001 Korea Association of Machinery Industry Korea International Trade Association TPA Korea Remodeling Association ISO 14001 ISO 9001 Korean-American Association Yongyeon2 KOSHA 18001 Korea Fire Facility Association POK Certified Green Company IATF 16949 Korea-Japan Economic Association Korea Hydro Association Film ISO 14001 Korea Listed Companies Association Korea Smart Grid Association ARUMJIGI Yongyeon3 ISO 14001 ISO 9001 Korea Electrical Manufactures Association Asia Society Neochem ISO 14001 ISO45001 Korea Electrical Manufactures Association Electric Hyosung World Economic Forum Motor Council KOSHA 18001 Corporation Spandex ISO 14001 ISO/TS 29001 BLOOM COMPANY NAVI Korea Housing Association Federation of Korea Human Resource Development Korea Association for Natural Gas Vehicles Gumi ISO 14001 Representatives NPY International Contractors Association of Korea Global Recycled Standard(GRS) ISO 9001 Institute of Internal Auditors Korea Hydrogen Industry Association Film ISO 14001 KOSHA 18001 Korea Personnel Improvement Association Hyosung ISO 9001 Korean Standards Association Gyeongju S/C ISO 14001 Advanced Korea Chemical Fivers Association IATF 16949 Korea-U.S. Economic Councill. Inc Materials Anyang Interior IATF 16949 OHSAS 18001 Korea Association for Chief Financial Officers Hyosung Korea Semiconductor Industry Association Korea Investor Relations Service Chemical Korea Industrial Special Gas Association KOSHA 18001 Changwon P&I ISO 14001 ISO 9001 HRD Forum Korea Petrochemical Industry Association ISO 45001 WEF YGL(Young Global Leader) Korea Packaging Engineers Association Sejong P&I ISO 14001 ISO 9001 YPO Korean Institute of Chemical Engineers CEO Club Daegu1 Dyeing Oeko-TexⓇ Hyosung Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry Korea Display Industry Association Daejeon1 Interior ISO 14001 ISO 9001 TNC Korea Listed Companies Association CFO Forum Korean Packaging Association Daejeon3 Film ISO 9001 Korea Textile Trade Association LG Twins Club ISO 9001 Korea Outdoor & Sport Industry Association * Hyosung Corporation and its four operating companies are all members of these Jeonju Carbon Fiber ISO 14001 IATF 16949 Korea Chemical Fivers Association associations. Oksan Opt. Film ISO 14001 ISO 9001 ICMC Signatory HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 72 ESG Performance ― Third Party Verification Statement ― GRI Standards Index ― Human Rights Policy ― UN SDGs Impact Identification THIRD PARTY VERIFICATION STATEMENT Foreword Conclusion Hyosung Corporation and its four operating companies Hyosung TNC Corp., Hyosung Heavy Industries Corp., Hyosung Advanced Materials Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with Hyosung on the revision of Corp., and Hyosung Chemical Corp., (“Hyosung”) commissioned networks-Y to undertake independent assurance of the Sustainability Report the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have 2018(the “Report”). The directors of Hyosung have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of us in performing been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, we could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance the assurance work is to the management of Hyosung in accordance with the terms of reference. Our assurance engagements are based on with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the verification the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. scope are not presented appropriately. • Inclusivity : Participation of Stakeholders Scope and Standard Hyosung is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment Hyosung describes its efforts and achievements of the corporate social responsibility activities in the Report. We conducted our to be responsible for the stakeholders. we could not find any critical stakeholder Hyosung left out during this procedure. engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000¹⁾ and AA1000AS(2008)²⁾. The term “moderate assurance” used in AA1000AS(2008) is • Materiality : Determining and Reporting of Material Issues designed to be consistent with “limited assurance” as articulated in ISAE 3000. Our assurance is a Type II assurance engagement as Hyosung is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality defined in the AA1000AS(2008). We evaluated the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the evaluation process, and we could not find any critical issues left out in this process. reliability of the selected GRI Standards indices as below, where professional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. • Responsiveness : Organization’s Response to Material Issues We could not find any evidence that Hyosung’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the We checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI Standards which covers the followings. Report. We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI standards. • GRI Standards Reporting Principles • Universal Standards • Topic Specific Standards Recommendation for Improvement Management approach of Topic Specific Standards We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the following for continuous improvements. Indirect Economic Impacts : 203-1, 203-2 • Hyosung uses various communication channels in the process of identifying its issues while actively undertaking its response activities. It Energy : 302-1, 302-3, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5 is essential to manage its stakeholders' interests and expectations more efficiently by further developing these systems. Emissions : 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7 • To make sure that stakeholders truly understand Hyosung's internal activities for sustainable management, it is necessary to disclose Employment : 401-1, 401-3 more information about its future plans and goals. To do this, Hyosung needs to build an official process for collecting and managing Occupational Health and Safety : 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-6, 403-9, 403-10 data as part of its on-going performance management system. If performance is reviewed continuously under this process, Hyosung will Training and Education : 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 be able to present its future plans and goals in its next reports. Local Communities : 413-1, 413-2 Supplier Social Assessment : 414-2 Independence With the exception of providing third party assurance services, we are not involved in any other Hyosung’s business operations that are Limitations aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. This Report excludes data sand information of joint corporate, contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. Hyosung, among report boundaries. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for environmental and social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at October, 2019 the corporate level are used for the verification. We expressly disclaim any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an networks Y entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. CEO Lee, Sungsang Approach In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, we have carried out an assurance engagement as follows: • Reviewed overall report • Reviewed materiality test process and methodology • Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities * 1) International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000, “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” issued by International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board • Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report * 2) AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008), issued by AccountAbility • Reviewed strategies and internal systems for sustainability management performance and activities HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 73 ESG Performance ― Third Party Verification Statement ― GRI Standards Index ― Human Rights Policy ― UN SDGs Impact Identification GRI STANDARDS INDEX General Standards Topic-specific Standards Topic Index Contents Page Additional Information Topic Index Contents Page Additional Information Organizational 102-1 Name of the organization 6 Economic performance (GRI 200) profile Indirect 103-1,2,3 Management approach 39, 47 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 6-8 economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 40-46 102-3 Location of headquarters 6 impacts 102-4 Location of operations 6 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 40 102-5 Ownership and legal form 53-54 Environmental performance (GRI 300) 102-6 Markets served 6-8 Energy 103-1,2,3 Management approach 33 102-7 Scale of the organization 62-65 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 68 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 27-32, 64-67 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 68 102-9 Supply chain 47-50, 67 302-3 Energy intensity 35, 68 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No significant changes 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 35 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 55-56 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 15-18 102-12 External initiatives 75 Emissions 103-1,2,3 Management approach 33 102-13 Membership of associations 71 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 68 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 68 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 68 Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 5, 57, 75 integrity 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 34-35 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 57-58 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX) and other significant air emissions 70 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 53-54 Social performance (GRI 400) Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 59 engagement Employment 103-1,2,3 Management approach 27 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 66 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 64 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 59 401-3 Parental leave 65 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 59 Occupational 103-1,2,3 Management approach 33 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 60 health and 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees Reporting 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual Report safety* 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 67 practice 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 60 and number of work-related fatalities 102-47 List of material topics 60 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 38 102-48 Restatements of information 2 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 37 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 37-38 102-50 Reporting period 2 403-6 Promotion of worker health 37-38 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 403-9 Work-related injuries 67 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 403-10 Work-related ill health 67 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 Training 103-1,2,3 Management approach 27 and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 67 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 education 102-55 GRI content index 73-74 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes 29-30 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 65 102-56 External assurance 72 MA reporting for each Local 103-1,2,3 Management approach 39 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary communities approach important issue 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs 40 MA reporting for each 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities No corresponding case 103-2 The management approach and its components important issue Supply chain 103-1,2,3 Management approach 47 MA reporting for each 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach important issue management 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 49 * The updated GRI standards (2018) have been applied HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 74 ESG Performance ― Third Party Verification Statement ― GRI Standards Index ― Human Rights Policy ― UN SDGs Impact Identification Other Standards Other Standards Topic Index Contents Page Additional Information Topic Index Contents Page Additional Information Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 52, 55-56, 60 Supplier environmental 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken assessment Governance 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 50, 59 Diversity and equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 53-54 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 53-54 opportunity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 66 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 53-54 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 57-58 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 53-54 Freedom of association 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 102-25 Conflicts of interest 53-54 and collective bargaining collective bargaining may be at risk 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 53-54 Child labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor No corresponding case 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 53-54 Forced labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or No corresponding case 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 53-54 compulsory labor 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 55-56 Rights of indigenous 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples No corresponding case peoples 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 60 Human rights 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 75 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 60 assessment assessments 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 60 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 75 102-35 Remuneration policies 54 Customer health and 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts No significant case safety of products and services 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 54 Marketing and 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications No significant case Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 62-63, 66, 67 labeling performance 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information No significant case 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate and labelling change Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and No significant case 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 66 losses of customer data Market 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 66 Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area No significant case presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 64-65 * The updated GRI standards (2018) have been applied Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 67 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 57-58 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 57-58 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 57-58 Anti-competitive 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 58 Behavior practice Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 301-2 Rate of recycled input materials used 69 Water* 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 69 303-3 Water recycled and reused 69 Effluents and waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 69 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 69 306-3 Significant spills No significant spill case Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations compliance HYOSUNG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OVERVIEW FOCUS ISSUES & BUSINESS CASES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 75 ESG Performance ― Third Party Verification Statement ― GRI Standards Index ― Human Rights Policy ― UN SDGs Impact Identification HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY UN SDGs IMPACT IDENTIFICATION Hyosung’s Human Rights Policy UN SDGs (UN Sustainable Development Goals) All stakeholders including Hyosung employees, customers, and local communities have the right to dignity and happiUN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) are the follow-up goals after ness that cannot be transferred as human beings. We promise to grow together with all stakeholders through Hyosung the MDGs (Millenium Development Goals) that the UN and the internaWay, a value system of Hyosung that leads the better life of mankind based on the best technology and management tional society as a whole are committed to achieving from 2016 to 2030. capability. The SDGs include 17 goals and 169 targets for sustainable development in Hyosung supports the UNGC principles, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and the labor standards laid all countries around the world, including poverty and inequality, climate down by the ILO, as well as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted at the UN General Assembly. In addichange response, economic growth, and decent jobs. tion, we promise to comply with the standards of labor rights and working conditions of all the countries in which we operate, as well as in Korea where our head office is located. This commitment is equally applicable to all stakeholders, ■ UN SDGs 17 Goals including employees of Hyosung, customers, local communities, and employees of partner companies. 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 4. Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning Human Rights Principles 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 6. Ensure access to water and sanitation for all One is entitled to have the right and freedom in all fields of political, economic, social and cultural life without 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Non-discrimination unfair discrimination based on race, nationality, gender, language, religion, ethnicity, disability, political opinion, social 8. Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all background, academic background and age. 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries Equal Opportunities Fair compensation is given according to individual ability and performance under fair working condition, and Compensation and opportunities for self-development are provided. 11. Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Freedom of Assembly 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Employees have the right to enjoy freedom of association for assembly without threat of retaliation or intimidation. and Association 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources 15. Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss Safe Working Employees have the right to work in a healthy and safe manner in a pleasant working environment. 16. Promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies Environment 17. Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development Personal Privacy No one else can interfere with an employee’s personal information and privacy related to his/her family, Protection housing and communication. Hyosung’s SDGs Impact Assessment Compliance with We guarantee working hours determined by the country where our business is operating and comply Hyosung is assessing SDGs-related impact of its business activities for sustainable development of the international commuWorking Conditions with the regulations of regular paid leave. nity. Based on the impact identified, we will set priorities and detailed goals for achieving UN SDGs and internalize sustainForced or Child Labor We observe the minimum age for employment set by the country where our business is operating, and employees are ability in our business management so that we can strengthening sustainability value of the company. Banned not arrested mentally or physically or forced to work against their free will, such as slavery or human trafficking. Increasing positive impact by fulfilling CSR Operating maternity protection programs and Increasing through supporting domestic/overseas employment promotion programs for women Fair Business Recognizing a supplier company as a partner in an equal position, Hyosung does not abuse its superior position and vulnerable groups from vulnerable group Practices further contributes to improving human rights of supplier companies. Providing free medical services to the Commitment to reduce GHGs emission and Positive Impact vulnerable region in Vietnam through Smile development of green products for customers’ Commitment for Expedition volunteer activities energy saving and emission reduction Hyosung recognizes its responsibility for the development of the local community and actively invests in the community Local Community Increasing positive impact by overseas child Engagement in global sustainability initiatives Developing and installing green energy development. facilities for the future such as ESS, STACOM, Development sponsorship project by establishing and improving sustainability management system and hydrogen filling station Information We provide the required information to shareholders and investors in a timely manner and maintain accuracy of Limited Impact Business Impact Direct Impact Transparency accounting data to ensure transparency Reduced negative effects on hunger and Reducing negative impact by reducing Reducing negative impact by low-carbon and Reducing malnutrition through support and education wastewater and increasing recycled water usage recycled products which improve recycling rate Customer The customer’s information is recognized as valuable asset, which is required only to a minimal extent. We take technical and programs for meals and nutrition Information physical measures to protect the customer information. Reducing negative impact by providing all Negative Impact employees decent working condition and wage Document History Hyosung Human Rights Policy: Announced on August 30, 2016 : Amended on August 30, 2019
