COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP): GLOBAL PARTNERS GOVERNANCE Period covered by Communication on Progress (COP) From: May 2019 To: May 2020 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) 7 May 2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm Global Partners Governance reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dr Susan Griffiths Executive Director 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights GPG continues to place the highest priority on welfare of our staff and personnel. In 2019-20, GPG relocated its head office in London and took steps to equip the new office appropriately for safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. Arrangements are made for personnel working overseas to have access to secure accommodation and working facilities, underpinned by insurance and contingency arrangements to ensure continuity of provision. Workplace harassment is clearly unacceptable at GPG and we have put in place robust policies to which all personnel must adhere. Our safeguarding policy was reviewed and revised in line with DFID guidance this year and is overseen via a reporting mechanism which includes oversight at Board level. GPG expanded its project work to include additional projects addressing human rights in countries around the world. This included work on anti-trafficking in Sudan and support for gender equality in Lebanon, contributing to SDGs 5, 10 and 16. Labour GPG has a clear focus on incorporating ethical principles in all our employment practices, both in our London office and overseas. GPG believes in fair pay and is an accredited Living Wage employer – we pay at or above the London Living Wage for all positions, including internships. The rights of our employees to a safe and non-discriminatory workplace are protected through our Equality and Diversity and Health and Safety policies. GPG’s recruitment policies also cover equality and diversity issues. This year, GPG introduced new training for all line managers on performance assessment to ensure consistency of implementation across the organisation. Environment GPG is committed to limiting the environmental impact of our work. Our staff at every level play their part in reducing the resources we consume to help mitigate climate change and reduce waste. This year, we introduced a new environmental policy which sets out the rationale for implementing a clear Environmental/Sustainability Policy and sets objectives and targets in order to improve our environmental performance. We are committed to managing these aspects in order to: • Reduce our carbon footprint • Meet our social responsibilities • Meet legislation • Prevent pollution • Use resources effectively • Influence those we work with • Continuously improve environmental and sustainability performance In our project work, GPG supported the Health and Environment Committee in the Parliament of Iraq to conduct oversight of water pollution issues with the aim of recommending improved policy and legislation, contributing to SDGs 3, 6, 14 and 16. Anti-Corruption It is the policy of GPG to conduct business in an honest and ethical manner. A zero-tolerance approach is applied to bribery and corruption at every level in the business. GPG’s Ethical & Anti-bribery policy applies to all individuals working at all levels and grades, including senior managers, Directors, employees (whether permanent, fixed-term or temporary), consultants, contractors, trainees, seconded staff, interns or any other person associated with GPG, whether located in the UK or overseas. GPG’s conflict of interests policy sets out the responsibility of all personnel to recognise situations in which a conflict of interest might arise, or there might reasonably be seen by others to be a conflict, to disclose that conflict to the appropriate person and to take further steps under the procedure described. It also includes guidance on recognising potential conflicts. GPG’s recruitment policy reflects these provisions, gives illustrative examples of conflicts which may or may not be manageable, and highlights steps that should be taken. We have zero tolerance for tax evasion, corruption, bribery and fraud in partnership agreements. In our project work, GPG began a new project to support the work of the Kuwaiti Anti-Corruption authority in developing codes of ethics for public servants, contributing to SDG 16. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Internally, GPG assesses outcomes by means of internal surveys, which are anonymous and encourage honest feedback. Following initial pilot surveys in 2018-19, GPG adjusted and implemented our internal staff engagement survey and knowledge management survey for the second time, enabling us to track progress against last year’s baseline. We also implemented the second iteration of our partner survey which seeks feedback from donors and partner organisations on our strengths and weaknesses and areas for improvement. GPG has also completed work on the creation of an organisation-wide Balanced Score Card mechanism to track organisational performance, which began in 2018-19. The BSC approach will be implemented from the 20-21 financial year and will include monitoring of key data sources relevant to internal and external performance, including learning and development. Indicators include measures of staff engagement and participation, learning and growth. GPG’s project work is measured regularly (at least quarterly) by means of reports to funders.
