MESSAGE FROM THE + PRESIDENT 2019 was an important year of change for Agriteam. Having acquired the UK-based company North South Consultants’ Exchange (NSCE), which provides development expertise around the globe, Agriteam vastly expanded the scope and impact of its core values, delivered through over 20 large-scale projects on five continents. Now qualified on multiple framework agreements with the Department for International Development (DFID) and the Conflict, Stabilization and Security Fund (CSSF), Agriteam/NSCE’s international work impacts even more lives and employs more people, furthering its leveraging ability of human rights practices enshrined in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and UNGC’s10 Principles. With the SDGs contributing to high level results targets on all of its projects, Agriteam/NSCE actively practice integration and reporting on compliance through project outcomes. Internally, our Code of Conduct – and the corporate culture having inspired it – promote best practices and reward innovation in advancing the Goals. For the company this has meant further investing in dedicated technical specialists in gender equality (SDGs #5 and #10), climate action (SDGs #6-15), governance (SDG #16 and buttressing all others) as well as monitoring and evaluation. In such a manner, Agriteam/NSCE are able to continue contributing thought leadership both through evidencebased practices and innovative approaches to improving lives, with the support of our 15 international offices and 400+ staff. Agriteam/NSCE remain proud partners of the UNGC and throughout 2020, will continue to expand partnerships with like-minded organizations to collectively progress on the SDGs and the UNGC Principles. Robert B. Francis President and CEO Agriteam Annual Report 2019 i United Nations Global Compact Measuring Outcomes Corporate Actions to Measure Progress For over 30 years, Agriteam has been supporting the policy, design and implementation of projects to support democratic development throughout the world. Staff and contractors associated with our firm are selected based on their commitment to the underpinnings of sustainable development, including the promotion of human rights and equality; commitment to environmental responsibility, and their proven ability to contribute to the creation and provision of opportunities for our partners to engage in sustainable development. . Corporate-level SDG Adherence: As a member of the UNGC, Agriteam has pledged to operate our business responsibly in alignment with the Ten Global Compact Principles, and to report on our ongoing efforts and activities that contribute to SDG progress. SDG Indicator Application: Throughout our projects, Agriteam implements concrete measures on a case-by-case basis to ensure both empirical and interpretive measurement of SDG outcomes. Through the rigorous application of Results Based Management (RBM) programming practices, SDG indicators are embedded in all of our Performance Measurement Frameworks (PMFs), and aligned with national statistics bureau indicators in our countries of engagement. Accountability Frameworks: Where project scope allows, Agriteam works with State partners to promote reporting systems that facilitate execution of the social contract through, accountability frameworks facilitating reporting. Such systems underpin protected rights and result in improved compliance with SDGs. Agriteam Annual Report 2019 1 United Nations Global Compact The Ten Principles Practical Actions to Implement the Sustainable Development Goals Agriteam’s project portfolio is constantly evolving with expanding country programs and new programming built through trusted relationships with government partners. With ongoing projects based in Europe, Asia, Africa, and South America, Agriteam covers significant geographic reach, in addition to projects of global scope. Our commitment to advancing SDGs manifests through design approaches and integration of SDG indicators across the board. Below are Agriteam’s active project engagements in 2020, from the scope of funding contributors with whom we work. GLOBAL Funded by the UK’s Foreign & Commonwealth Office, the Counter Terrorism Programme Fund (CTPF) supports the delivery of the overseas element of the UK Government’s CounterTerrorism strategy (CONTEST) which aims to Principle 1: Support and respect reduce the risk to the UK and its citizens and the protection of internationally interests overseas from terrorism – protecting proclaimed human rights human rights under Principles #1 and #2 – so that people can go about their lives freely and with Principle 2: Ensure not complicit in human rights abuses confidence. The provision of Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning (MEL) by Agriteam/NSCE intends to strengthen mechanisms and capabilities to manage CTPF results, enhance evidence-based programming decisions, bolster the ability to learn from experience, and facilitate strong communication of CTPF impact globally. Agriteam/NSCE is working in partnership with UKbased firms Agulhas Applied Knowledge and AKTEK Ltd. to implement this 18-month project strengthening RBM systems, tools and processes, improving capacity of CTPF staff, facilitating learning and knowledge sharing. Agriteam Annual Report 2019 2 United Nations Global Compact EGYPT The Promoting Opportunities for Women in Agribusiness Project (POWAP) is enhancing the economic well-being of women in the agribusiness sector in three governorates of Upper Egypt, directly aligning with the Government of Egypt’s objective of developing women’s capacities to enhance their employment options, expand their participation in the workforce, support entrepreneurship and realize equal opportunities for women’s employment in all sectors. POWAP is focused on three intermediate outcomes: (i) increased job opportunities and innovation through women-owned and managed environmentally sustainable Principle 4: Eliminate all forms of agribusinesses; expanded adoption of forced and compulsory labour workplace policies and practices that enhance Principle 6: Eliminate women’s well-being at established discrimination in respect of agribusinesses; and improved gender employment and occupation responsiveness of key Government of Egypt Principle 7: Support a policies, regulations and strategies that aim to precautionary approach to promote women’s economic participation environmental challenges through entrepreneurship and small & medium Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to enterprise (SME) development. promote greater environmental responsibility BURKINA FASO In partnership with Le Centre d'études et de coopération internationale (CECI) Agriteam is working to implement the Equity Support through Institutional and Technical Reforms Project (PARITÉ) funded by Global Affairs Canada (GAC). The project will improve the accessibility and quality of education – a human right and compliant with Principle 1 – for all young people of Burkina Faso aged 6 to 16 years of age, by Principle 1: Support and respect supporting the Ministry of National Education the protection of internationally and Literacy in the implementation of the proclaimed human rights second Strategic Development Basic Education Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to Plan (PDSEB). The approach adopted seeks in promote greater environmental particular to support the education of women responsibility and girls, in line with the Convention on the Agriteam Annual Report 2019 3 United Nations Global Compact Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. PARITÉ is working to reduce geographic and gender inequalities; support access to education for out-of-school youth; improve learning through better initial and ongoing teacher training and pedagogical oversight; increase participation of parents and the community in school management; and train to render financial processes, procurement and environmental stewardship more effective – Principle 8. HONDURAS Agriteam’s engagement in Honduras focuses on building the education management and pedagogical leadership skills of the Ministry of Education’s district and department education offices. This GAC funded project entitled Strengthening Education Management at the District Level (FORTA) contributes to quality education by strengthening the knowledge, skills and attitudes of female and male education Principle 1: Support and respect leaders to deliver professional education the protection of internationally services, while providing direction for school proclaimed human rights directors, teachers, students and local Principle 6: Eliminate community stakeholders. It provides technical discrimination in respect of assistance, training and coaching through the employment and occupation development of local professional learning communities, inter/intra departmental peer Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to learning opportunities, action research and promote greater environmental responsibility through increasing the mobility and technology required to improve the quality, relevancy and efficiency of basic education in Honduras. FORTA is active in seven department education offices working directly with local management and technical personnel in 126 district education offices as well as the Ministry’s Department of Human Resources to institutionalize and nationalize FORTA, with a focus on realizing both Principle 6 and Principle 8 by designing training processes in pedagogical leadership, education Agriteam Annual Report 2019 4 United Nations Global Compact management, community participation and education governance in a transparent, gender equal and environmentally conscious way. VIETNAM In Vietnam, Agriteam is working with partners in supporting sustainable economic growth through the implementation of the Vietnam Skills for Employment Project (VSEP) funded by GAC. The project is designed to improve the enabling environment for investment, support rural small and medium-size enterprise development and enhance access to skills for employment. Principle 6 is reinforced through the approach undertaken to further skills for employment and reduce inequality of access to dignified employment. The quality of the national Principle 1: Support and respect education system is being improved through the protection of internationally enhancement of Technical and Vocational proclaimed human rights Education Training (TVET) leadership and Principle 4: Eliminate all forms of management, enabling knowledge-building forced and compulsory labour and sharing of best practices in TVET institutions Principle 6: Eliminate by developing two Training Centers of discrimination in respect of Advanced Management in both Ho Chi Minh employment and occupation and Hanoi. The project is also strengthening Principle 3: Uphold the freedom management of the TVET system at the of association and the effective provincial level in Hau Giang, Vinh Long and Binh recognition of the right to collective bargaining Thuan; improving the performance of one leading TVET institution in each of the target Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of provinces; and improving the performance of environmentally friendly select community colleges throughout the technologies country and supporting application of Principle 1 through raising awareness of internationally enshrined human rights. In November 2019, Agriteam in partnership with the University of Guelph was awarded the Safe Food for Growth (SAFEGRO) Project by GAC. The project seeks to improve food safety in Vietnam by working with the national and regional governments to enforce food safety regulations. Engagement with private sector suppliers increases the competitiveness of Vietnamese Agriteam Annual Report 2019 5 United Nations Global Compact food products domestically and internationally, and engagement with consumers improves demand for safe food in Vietnam. The goal of this project is to improve the Vietnamese population’s access to safe, affordable and competitive agri-food products, with an aim to improve the wellbeing of consumers as well as other agri-food sector actors. The project engages with civil society and the media to empower consumers, particularly women. The three project pillars include: enabling environment (policy and regulations), supply (private sector and small-holder farmers), and demand (consumers); and is based on the premise that taking a value chain approach will allow for systemic and sustainable change within the country and towards trade facilitation. ETHIOPIA Agriteam is currently implementing and providing technical assistance to six projects in Ethiopia that contribute to all 10 of the UNGC principles. At the national level, Agriteam is working to strengthen government systems and processes for the implementation of the Productive Safety Net Program (PSNP4). Within this flagship program financed by the World Bank and other donors, such as the European Union, Agriteam also deploys technical assistance to mainstream climate-smart planning and implementation approaches, in support of the Government of Ethiopia’s commitment to addressing climate change and environmental degradation through policies, strategies, and Principle 1: Support and respect guidelines designed to ensure integrated rural the protection of internationally development. proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Ensure not complicit in We are also supporting the second phase of the human rights abuses Agricultural Growth Program (AGP-2) by Principle 3: Uphold the freedom strengthening the capacity of government staff of association and the effective and agencies to improve service delivery, recognition of the right to increase agricultural productivity and optimize collective bargaining commercialization of small-holder farmer Agriteam Annual Report 2019 6 United Nations Global Compact production. This Global Affairs Canada program Principle 4: Eliminate all forms of works at the federal and the regional levels and forced and compulsory labour contributes to dietary diversity and consumption, Principle 5: Abolish child labour poverty reduction and fostering adaptation to Principle 6: Eliminate climate change. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Funded by the World Bank, we are also Principle 7: Support a strengthening the understanding of AGP-2 precautionary approach to government and aid agency staff regarding environmental challenges nutrition-sensitive agriculture. The project Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to provides training and knowledge transfer tools to promote greater environmental 370 regional and district agricultural specialists responsibility on how to protect the rights of women using a Principle 9: Encourage the series of simple assessment tools. In support of development and diffusion of Principle 1, the work has resulted in 1400 women environmentally friendly technologies and men and their communities overcoming significant gender inequitable cultural and social Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including norms; specialized extension in agricultural extortion and bribery technical knowledge, and improvement of women farmers’ access to agricultural inputs (seeds, fertilizers) and resources; the training of 55 AGP coordinators and specialists on transparent and fair voluntary land donation processes, and development/ distribution of micro-learning tools in 165 districts to support development agents. Equal rights have been promoted throughout project design, particularly regarding women’s involvement in community infrastructure projects through the training of 1400+ government development agents on inclusion of women in the decision making process. Principle 7 is supported through the development of tools for grievance redress for affected parties to understand their rights when their livelihood is impacted by agriculture development projects. Training manuals have been developed in line with Principle 8 so as to strengthen accountability for environmental and social assessment of agricultural infrastructure projects including irrigation dams and canals. Finally, in support of Principle 9, development of environmentally friendly technologies has been fostered through integrated pest management plans having Agriteam Annual Report 2019 7 United Nations Global Compact integrated sustainable environment, health and safety decision-making processes for infrastructure projects, and extension training developed and delivered to disseminate knowledge to women and men farmers. An FAO digital tool has been deployed to teach farmers environmentally-sensitive ways of managing plant health. A third project in Ethiopia is jointly funded by the Kingdom of the Netherlands and Global Affairs Canada. Agriteam has been entrusted to engage with government agencies to support the implementation of the Small-Scale Irrigation Capacity Building Strategy which aims to promote household micro-irrigation among local farmer groups and small-scale entrepreneurs and develop the capacity of agricultural technical vocational education and training colleges. Agriteam’s fifth project is the Strengthening Education for Mining (STEM) project, designed to augment the skills and qualifications of women and men in geology and mining engineering undergraduate programs. Technical/vocational education and training (TVET) is also targeted within priority occupational areas to meet sector demands and improve equal employability opportunities for women and men such that they maintain sustainable livelihoods. All undertakings in Ethiopia are designed and implemented with the ten principles at their core, offering significant opportunities to promote individual and collective rights and opportunities for environmental responsibility. TANZANIA The Regional Maternal Newborn Child Health (RMNCH) strengthening initiative in Tanzania aims to improve maternal, newborn and child health (MNCH) in the Lake Zone area by working with regional and council health management Agriteam Annual Report 2019 8 United Nations Global Compact teams to strengthen health systems. Agriteam is working with the University of Calgary to provide technical assistance for health management teams on planning and management of health services; to provide training for facility and Principle 1: support and respect community-based health providers and the protection of internationally promoters on delivering quality MNCH services; proclaimed human rights to procure equipment and supplies in support of Principle 6: eliminate health facilities to improve their capacity to discrimination in respect of deliver MNCH services; and to work with key employment & occupation community figures and local committees to improve MNCH, including the promotion of gender equality. Other key partners include the Canadian Paediatric Society, Save the Mothers, Mbarara University of Science and Technology, and Catholic University of Health and Allied Science. In the education sector, Agriteam is providing technical assistance to a GAC-funded project that aims to assure quality, long term training of teachers. Working through the national teacher training college system, the Teacher Education Support Project (TESP) focuses on improving the core two-year residential training that teachers receive at the 35 government teacher colleges, in order for teachers to be conferred with certificate and diploma qualifications for primary and secondary teaching, under the auspices of Tanzania’s Ministry of Education. MALI Agriteam is working in Mali on the implementation of a GAC project supporting public administration reform. This reform is being catalyzed through capacity development of the Office of the Commissioner of Institutional Development (CDI), the steering mechanism of the Institutional Development Program (IDP). The IDP was established by the Government of Canada to underpin economic growth and Agriteam Annual Report 2019 9 United Nations Global Compact reduce poverty through technical and financial Principle 1: Support and respect assistance provided to the Government of Mali. the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Agriteam’s provision of technical assistance Principle 6: Eliminate focuses on results-based management including discrimination in respect of employment and occupation new approaches to evaluation, managing human resources and supporting staff in Principle 7: Support a embracing change. Throughout all aspects, precautionary approach to environmental challenges equality between women and men is of key focus, as is the manner in which new strategies Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental regarding climate awareness and sustainable responsibility development will ensure higher performance targets within the public service and ultimately Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of better service provision to the Malian population. environmentally friendly technologies Agriteam’s DÉFI project in Mali is working to reduce harmful social norms and other obstacles affecting girls’ education by promoting wider community dialogue and inclusivity, promoting state compliance with the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Convention on the Rights of the Child – Principle 1. Funded by GAC, this project aims to increase and improve access to safe, quality educational courses for girls and boys who are out of school. In collaboration with stakeholders in the public education sector and Ministry of National Education, DÉFI is working to improve the management of educational services in Mali to better address the needs of communities affected by conflict. Working with Farm Radio International and Catholic Relief Services, DÉFI is using strategies such as interactive radio programming, digital innovation, vocational training and remedial classes for girls with learning difficulties in order to reduce barriers to girls’ education and provide training to girls who do not have access to primary and/or basic education. Agriteam Annual Report 2019 10 United Nations Global Compact UKRAINE The Expert Deployment for Governance and Economic Growth (EDGE) project is helping Ukraine move towards a democratic and prosperous society by advancing citizencentered democracy and promoting sustainable economic growth. Working sideby-side with government at the highest levels, EDGE responds to critical reform needs, particularly planning, actioning and communicating with the public. Working across a broad range of governance sectors (anti-corruption, decentralization, deregulation, probation) and strategic economic growth areas (export promotion, foreign direct investment, information technology, agriculture, ports reform, etc.). Agriteam embeds technical experts directly within the project’s partner Ministries to facilitate hand-in-hand cooperation with Principle 1: Support and respect the both the leadership and the bureaucracy as protection of internationally they manage their respective priority proclaimed human rights reforms. Principle 2: Ensure not complicit in human rights abuses As the EDGE project finished in 2019, the Government of Canada expressed its Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association & effective recognition of resounding support for the project by the right to collective bargaining approving a project successor, Support for Ukraine’s Reforms for Governance (SURGe) Principle 4: Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour This project works to support reforms at all levels of government that focus on Principle 5: Abolish child labour improving the quality of life for all Ukrainian Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in citizens, with a strictly-applied lens of social respect of employment and inclusion and gender responsiveness. In occupation adherence with Principles 1, 2 and 10, Principle 7: Support a precautionary SURGe bases interventions on the breadth of approach to environmental challenges human rights instruments to which Ukraine is Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to signatory, ensuring harmonization of human promote greater environmental rights principles through support to responsibility legislative drafting and policy elaboration. Principle 9: Encourage the development Adding to the work completed under EDGE, and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies SURGe engages with the Government of Ukraine in a number of priority areas, Agriteam Annual Report 2019 11 United Nations Global Compact including economic growth, public Principle 10: Work against corruption in administration reform, human capital all its forms, including extortion and bribery (including education and health care) and deterring corruption. The project is entirely responsive to Ukrainian priorities, and promotes and supports deployment of Ukrainian expertise throughout the various reform initiatives. Importantly, all initiatives are shaped based on an assessment of human rights, environment and labour compliance, hence in conformity with all UN Global Compact 10 Principles. A second project of Agriteam in Ukraine is within the security sector. In 2019, the Police Training Assistance Project (PTAP) funded by the Peace and Stabilization Operations Program (PSOPS) of GAC wound down. The project provided advisory services and training to help strengthen the National Police of Ukraine (NPU) program and foster a national police academy system enabling merit-based professional development of a gender-sensitive, community-oriented national police service based on local resourcing and international standards and best practices. In such a manner, several principles of the UN Global Compact are worked into the approaches, training, curriculum and mentoring processes. Key outputs include an organizational governance and policy framework for the NPU to advance professional development; a legal framework for a police academy system, capacity support for security leadership, operational management and specialized policing functions; curriculum development and certification processes for police training. PTAP made way for a third iteration of police project for Agriteam in Ukraine: the Canada Ukraine Police Development Project (CUPDP). This project initiated at the closure of PTAP in 2019 and expands on results of the Agriteam Annual Report 2019 12 United Nations Global Compact latter by working towards the sustainability of police reform while promoting gender equality as an essential element of effective policing. The project supports preliminary expansion plans to create two new regional branches of the Patrol Police Academy (PPA) to offer quality recruit training, including scenario based approaches and cost-effective distance learning. CUPDP also supports the establishment of a more systemic in-service training system that will build both the human and physical capacity of current training institutions and be linked to a competency-based job classification system. CUPDP is particularly conscious of the traction possible in promoting application of both CEDAW and UNSC 1325 Women, Peace and Security through a number of targeted activities including (1) professional development programs for the police on preventing and addressing domestic violence; (2) on-going technical assistance to the Ukrainian Association for Women in Law Enforcement (established under predecessor project); promoting the advancement of women in the security sector and (3) integration of gender equality principles into all professional development programs for police officers, including the development and implementation of a gender equality strategy for the National Patrol Police Academy of Ukraine. CUPDP works towards Principle 10 in supporting the government of Ukraine to develop a transparent community oriented police service. One important element of this support is the Community Policing Initiative Fund which supports community consultative groups to undertake initiatives that increase community security and build trust. Agriteam Annual Report 2019 13 United Nations Global Compact COLOMBIA Agriteam’s Building Extractive Sector Governance (BESG)-Comunica project in Colombia is designed to improve public sector governance of the extractive sector by building capacity of the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MinMinas), mining agencies and mining authorities. Agriteam/NSCE is developing a tailored capacity building program based on challenges including decentralization, management information systems, conflict management, environmental protection, occupational health, economic development, protecting human rights and transparency of miningrelated information. Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Gender equality is a central tenet of the project, with a comprehensive gender Principle 2: Ensure not complicit in strategy designed to ensure that the human rights abuses benefits of the extractive sector be Principle 4: Eliminate all forms of forced equitably distributed between women and and compulsory labour men, and that public authorities have the Principle 5: Abolish child labour policy instruments at their disposal to reduce Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in existing gender inequalities. Also under respect of employment and Principles 1, 2, 7, 8 and 9, the project ensures occupation broad protection of human rights and Principle 7: Support a precautionary environmental protection through (i) approach to environmental challenges increasing the capacities of the Colombian Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to state to regulate activities, in compliance promote greater environmental with international human rights law; (ii) responsibility further the capacity of the State to Principle 9: Encourage the guarantee the right of people to a healthy development and diffusion of environment; (iii) accompany communities environmentally friendly technologies in strengthening their capacities to demand Principle 10: Work against corruption in their right to a healthy environment, all its forms, including extortion and particularly with regard to accessing water bribery as a vital resource and the elimination of the use of mercury; and (iv) strengthening the capacities of organized communities to access their economic, social, and cultural rights in compliance with ICESCR through Agriteam Annual Report 2019 14 United Nations Global Compact local economic development alternatives. Specifically under Principle 2, the project promotes actions to improve the living conditions of vulnerable beneficiary communities by promoting protection of their rights, especially artisanal mining women. It ensures that workers do not have to expose themselves to unsafe conditions while doing artisanal mining, given the levels of mercury that they are exposed to in their day to day activities. Comunica contributes to the elimination of discrimination in employment as well as training and education through increasing transparency in information, making it easier for civil society to identify gaps and hold duty bearers accountable. The project fosters the capacity of the government to identify and implement measures to include the private sector in ensuring nondiscrimination in hiring and retention practices. Finally, it works with local governments to ensure that they are capable of attending to the specific needs of their vulnerable local subsistence miners – particularly women – who are not part of the formal lines of the Colombian mining economy. The project demonstrates a breadth of environmental benefits under Principles 7, 8, and 9 including project outputs that strengthen tools and processes for making decisions when Colombia’s natural heritage is impacted. Another important output is that of proper elimination of the use of mercury as well as measures to be able to assess variability of climatic phenomena and future periods of water scarcity that may arise. Principle 8 is fully embraced in the project in community water monitoring components through a highly participative Agriteam Annual Report 2019 15 United Nations Global Compact methodology, localizing control measures. Environmental valuation is also practiced, with the goal of achieving the consolidation of a development model that guarantees the preservation of the environment and that appropriate measures are taken when mining activities impact the environment. Finally, Principle 10 constitutes an important component with the project working towards optimizing transparency and the dissemination of information as fundamental axes of governance. MONGOLIA Through the Strengthening Extractive Sector Management (SESMIM) project, funded by GAC, Agriteam works with the Mongolian government for transparent and effective policy and regulatory application supporting sustainable growth in the extractive sector. Support provided is designed to improve coordination of policy and regulatory implementation amongst ministries and key industry stakeholders, providing for better evidence-based Principle 1: Support and respect the decision making in extractive sector protection of internationally proclaimed human rights management. The engagement is planned and executed in accordance with rigorous Principle 2: Ensure not complicit in human rights abuses gender equality standards, including a broader focus on social equality and Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition environmental sustainability. Additionally, of the right to collective bargaining public awareness and education programs Principle 4: Eliminate of all forms of involving hundreds of industry and civil forced and compulsory labour society organizations will deepen Principle 5: Abolish child labour understanding and afford social license for Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in the sector, while evidence-based pilot respect of employment and programs in monitoring and reporting will be occupation carried out in rural mining communities. Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges To achieve this capacity building program, Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to Agriteam works with the Mongolian Ministry promote greater environmental of Mining, Ministry of Environment, Green responsibility Agriteam Annual Report 2019 16 United Nations Global Compact Development and Tourism the and the Principle 9: Encourage the Ministry of Finance, with additional input development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies from the Government of Alberta, the Principle 10: Work against corruption in University of Alberta, the University of all its forms, including extortion and Calgary and other service providers. The bribery project has been instrumental in the passage of the country’s first mine closure regulation to ensure benefits invested in minimizing environmental impact, in accordance with Principle 7. A new audit regulation and refined environmental impact assessment process were forwarded in support of Principle 8, and the first climate adaptation and mitigation knowledge product was developed for the Mongolian extractive sector identifying available technologies and implementation strategies, supporting the intent of Principle 9. SRI LANKA Agriteam is working with a range of government and statutory institutions as well as civil society on a GAC project supporting the implementation of Sri Lanka’s Official Languages Policy. The project seeks to leverage human rights principles to promote language rights as a means of furthering reconciliation and social cohesion. The Principle 1: Support and respect the National Languages Equality Advancement protection of internationally Project (NLEAP) will last for five years and proclaimed human rights contribute to reducing poverty, assuring Principle 2: Ensure not complicit in decent work and economic growth and human rights abuses improving public sector service provision. Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and NLEAP will work with an array of partners to occupation improve institutional capacity for egalitarian service provision to both the Tamil and Sinhala-speaking citizens of Sri Lanka, considering full gender equality as one of its key features. On a higher level, the project will advise on application of a national Accountability Framework amongst the Agriteam Annual Report 2019 17 United Nations Global Compact government, civil society and the Parliament, holding institutions to their constitutional obligation and that of duty bearers for the provision of language rights. NLEAP aspires to contribute to reconciliation and peacebuilding by fostering societal acceptance of the culturally diverse and bilingual nature of the country. INDIA AND NEPAL Agriteam recently initiated a new project in India and Nepal known as Enhancement of the Education and Resilience of Tibetan Youth (EERTY). Funded by GAC, the project will contribute to building the capacity of the Tibetan education system in India and Nepal which includes 70 schools and a current enrolment of approximately 22,000 Principle 1: Support and respect the students. Implemented in cooperation with protection of internationally the Central Tibetan Administration, the proclaimed human rights project will build on achievements of the Principle 2: Ensure not complicit in Improving Education Quality and Learning human rights abuses for Tibetan Children Project which took Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in place in India and Nepal from 2015 to 2017. respect of employment and In line with Canada’s new Feminist occupation International Assistance Policy, EERTY will address the need to improve academic achievement through enhanced genderresponsive teaching practices that promote cultural and linguistic rights and better prepare Tibetan youth for post-secondary education and the transition to work. Agriteam Annual Report 2019 18 United Nations Global Compact Planning Ahead SDGs and Agriteam: 2020 and Beyond Agriteam is committed to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact and to the Sustainable Development Goals. Over the course of 2019, the review of systems and processes internally was continued in line with international best practices and conforming to the Ten Principles of the UNGC. In addition, a number of initiatives were developed corporately to build progressively on the manner in which we do business and ensure that we are aware, engaged and expansive in our individual and corporate attitudes towards growing best practices, whether internally or within communities of practice. We will continue throughout 2019 and beyond to build on achievements, as well as expand the number and scope of initiatives reflecting the letter and spirit of the Principles. Measures initiated in 2019 and plans for moving forward: 2019 2020+ Policy Review Annual review of internal policies Continued rollout and to ensure conformity regarding training of staff and child protection, social impact, contractors. harassment, discrimination, environmental stewardship, fraud, corporate governance. Code of Conduct Annual review of Code of Continued rollout and Conduct in accordance with training of staff and international standards. contractors. Human Rights, Dedicated internal expertise Continued engagement. Governance & continues to mainstream Gender Equality principles through corporate Expertise policies and projects. Advisory Groups & Internal advisory groups on M&E, Continued and Committees Gender Equality, Women Peace accelerated engagement. and Security, Environment and Climate Change fully active and contributing in a substantive manner to project interventions. Agriteam Annual Report 2019 19 United Nations Global Compact External Either lead or participate in Continued and Communities of arenas of Women Peace and accelerated engagement. Practice Security, Evaluation and Sexual/Reproductive Human Rights and report back internally through Webinars. Charitable Donations Internal voluntary group Increase in the scope and Committee dedicated to the granting of number of activities and financial and volunteer support events sponsored by the based on evaluation of initiatives company and engaging in the context of the ten staff and community. principles. Group expanded from 3 individuals to 5 over the course of 2019. Strategic Partnership initiatives with a focus Effort continues to identify Partnerships on the Global South (academia, and foster partnering think tanks, civil society and arrangements that others) at every stage of project enhance capacity to design, bid submission and realize project goals in implementation. Bids submitted accordance with the in 2018 met with overwhelming Principles. These efforts success and have largely been now include project funded in 2019. consortia under DFID frameworks with whom Agriteam/NSCE have achieved prequalification. Agriteam Annual Report 2019 20 United Nations Global Compact Agriteam Gives Back 2019 Events In the spirit of encouraging individual engagement and supporting SDGs locally in our communities, the Agriteam Charitable Donations Committee has rallied staff and other supporters around the following initiatives in 2019: January Calgary Icebreaker Polar Dip Challenge to raise funds for victims of human trafficking March International Women’s Day support for organizations serving women fleeing domestic violence April Earth Day Stair Climb in support of wilderness conservation May Food Sort Challenge in support of the Ottawa Food Bank June World Environment Day shoreline and river clean-ups July MudGirl Run to raise funds for breast cancer research October World Food Day sandwich and meal support for homeless shelters November Remembrance Day support honouring veterans and military personnel December Holiday Giving in support of organizations serving children and youth Agriteam Annual Report 2019 21 United Nations Global Compact
