Sustainability • ESG Report GN Store Nord A/S –2019 2 Sustainability ESG Report ⋅ Contents Contents Contents GN Sustainability – ESG Report 2019 Content – GN Sustainability ESG Report 2019 2 Management’s commitment 3 ESG overview 4 Our sustainability framework 5 Where GN has lasting impact 6 Business model 7 Sustainability governance 8 Making Life Sound Better 9 Safe, sustainable and responsible products 12 Reducing business flights 15 Sustainable operations 16 People excellence 19 Giving back 20 About this report 23 Membership of UN Global Compact Member since January 14, 2010 Number of employees: 6,275 Sector: Health care equipment and electronics Reporting date: February 5, 2020 The report covers the period: January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019 This report forms part of the management’s report in the Annual Report 2019 for GN Store Nord A/S and constitutes GN’s corporate responsibility report according to Section 99a in the Danish Financial Statements Act. The report is not covered by the audit. Visit www.gn.com/About/Corporate-responsibility to read our responsibility guidelines and policies. GN Store Nord A/S –2019 Management’s commitment 3 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Doing the right thing with impact Contents Doing the right thing with impact GN’s sustainability strategy is first and foremost driven by a desire to make real and lasting impact. Therefore, sustainability is integrated into how we run our company, as a consideration in every decision we make At GN, we transform people’s lives through the power of (ESG) more proactively, taking inspiration from the United sound. Our intelligent hearing, audio and collaboration soNation’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals. lutions let people Hear More, whether that is at work, at home or during leisure activities. This enables people to Do Our approach to sustainability is driven by our desire to More, for example improving productivity at work or comhave real and lasting impact. Real and lasting impact can municating with their loved ones. Ultimately, these benebe saving thousands of trees through our new focus on fits allow people to Be More, whether that is improving sustainable packaging. But it can also be the joy their health and fitness, becoming more productive, reexperienced by Josephine in Zimbabwe, who can finally gaining a desired role in society or at work, or understandhear properly due to the donation project of the GN ing colleagues. In short, we enable people to live better Foundation. and more fulfilling lives. Our sustainability journey is not a sideshow. It is integrated That is why our purpose is Making Life Sound Better, and into how we run our company, as a consideration in every as our business grows so does our positive impact on peodecision we make. Accordingly, we have not set up a ple’s lives and society as a whole. At the same time, we separate sustainability governance structure but use our want to continue to grow in a sustainable way. existing business processes to drive this agenda. To do this right, we are in continuous close dialogue with our This report describes what we have done in 2019 to rise to stakeholders and anyone with an interest in GN’s this challenge. sustainability journey, including you as the reader of this report. Becoming a sustainable company is a journey of continuous improvement. Building on a strong track This report forms part of the management’s report in the record and a rich 150-year history, this year marks several Annual Report 2019 for GN Store Nord A/S and important milestones in our journey. constitutes GN’s corporate responsibility report according to Section 99a in the Danish Financial Statements Act. We have developed a sustainability framework that allows us to address environmental, social and governance topics We welcome any feedback you have on this report or GN’s sustainability approach more generally. Executive Management (from left): René Svendsen-Tune, CEO, GN Store Nord & GN Audio – Gitte Aabo, CEO, GN Hearing – Marcus Desimoni, CFO, GN Store Nord & GN Hearing. GN Store Nord A/S –2019 4 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ ESG overview Contents ESG overview Environmental 9,657 Mwh 155 tons Energy use in manufacturing sites Waste in manufacturing sites 50,109 m3 Safe products Water use in manufacturing sites Reach/ RoHS etc. compliant Social 98 % 49 Suppliers audited – human CMRTs received and labor rights 1,278 6,275 Products donated Employees globally (FTE) Governance 20 % 40 % Women in senior management Women on the Board of Directors Our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals ENSURE HEALTHY LIVES ACHIEVE GENDER PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE AND PROMOTE WELLEQUALITY AND EMPOWER ECONOMIC GROWTH AND BEING FOR ALL ALL WOMEN AND GIRLS DECENT WORK FOR ALL PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE ENSURE SUSTAINABLE TAKE URGENT ACTION TO INDUSTRIALIZATION AND CONSUMPTION AND COMBAT CLIMATE FOSTER INNOVATION PRODUCTION PATTERNS CHANGE AND ITS IMPACTS GN Store Nord A/S –2019 5 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Our sustainability framework Contents Our sustainability framework Our point of departure Our approach to sustainability Throughout GN’s long and rich history, we have strongly anOur approach to sustainability is first and foremost driven by chored responsible business practices. We are continuously our desire to have real and lasting impact. We have defined assessed by our stakeholders on our performance, and our rethree ‘need to haves’ when considering sustainability-related sults show that we have a strong foundation: changes to our products or processes: Next year marks our 10th year as a 1. We need to ‘do the right thing’, meaning any sustainability committed signatory to the U.N. initiative has to contribute to achieving U.N.’s Sustainable Global Compact. This year, we Development Goals (SDGs) have intensified our engagement 2. Sustainability initiatives need to meet specific stakeholder with our local network in Dendemands, for example from our shareholders, customers, mark, where we are headquarusers or employees tered, among other by participat3. Sustainability initiatives must fit into operational and ing in the Young SDG Innovator budgetary limits Programme, the results of which we will see during 2020. To focus our efforts on what has most real and lasting In 2019, we received a new rating impact, we have looked to the Sustainable Development from EcoVadis, which focuses on Goals for inspiration. Mapping the SDGs against our performance in environment, laoperations shows that there are six SDGs where we can bor and human rights, ethics and contribute the most. sustainable procurement. We were awarded a silver medal, scorWe have scored potential themes that would contribute to ing in the top 23% of companies achieving these SDGs against two criteria: the relevance to overall and in the top half in all GN and our stakeholders (similar to a traditional materiality categories. assessment), as well as our current maturity. We added the maturity dimension to bring further focus to ensure that as a MSCI – which primarily serves inbaseline we do not perform worse than average on any ESG vestors and focuses on access to dimension. healthcare, carbon emissions, corruption and instability, human Through this process, we identified three focus themes: capital development, corporate governance and product safety 1. Making Life Sound Better – our company purpose and quality – rated GN with an AA 2. Safe, sustainable and responsible products in 2019, placing us in the top 21% 3. Cleaner operations of companies in our industry. Beyond the three focus themes, we drive continuous improvement in the following areas: • Human rights across our supply chain • Chemical and hazardous materials • Diversity and inclusion • Conflict minerals • Data privacy • Anti-corruption • Talent and leadership development • Philanthropy/giving back This report covers our 2019 actions for both our focus themes and our drive themes. GN Store Nord A/S –2019 6 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Where GN has lasting impact Contents Where GN has lasting impact Our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals ENSURE HEALTHY LIVES AND Our products make life sound better, and allow you to hear More, Do PROMOTE WELL-BEING FOR ALL More and Be More so that you can lead a healthier and happier life. In our operations we avoid negative impact on health by complying with chemical, hazardous substance regulations. ACHIEVE GENDER EQUALITY AND By driving a culture of diversity and inclusion in our recruitment, EMPOWER ALL WOMEN AND GIRLS employee development and internal networks, we strive to empower underrepresented groups in leadership positions. PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE Driven by our commitment to UN Global Compact, we set high internal ECONOMIC GROWTH AND DECENT standards and strictly audit suppliers to ensure human and labor rights WORK FOR ALL are protected at all times. PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE The dynamic industries in which we operate drive us to operate on the INDUSTRIALIZATION AND FOSTER leading edge of innovation, to develop products and services that meet INNOVATION society’s future needs. ENSURE SUSTAINABLE We do business the right way. Through our policies and due diligence CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION processes in among other conflict minerals, responsible sourcing and PATTERNS anti-corruption, we set high standards across our value chain. TAKE URGENT ACTION TO Using our video conferencing is up to 92% more climate friendly than COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE AND flying*. In our operations, we strive to limit our carbon footprint too, ITS IMPACTS through efficiency in manufacturing and distribution. *) See page 15 for details. Sustainable development goals across our value chain Maximize our positive impact Raw Company ManufacDistriProduct Product Suppliers materials operations turing bution use end life Minimize our negative impact GN Store Nord A/S –2019 7 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Business model Contents Business model GN’s lean and agile business model positions the group strongly to seize multiple business opportunities driven by global megatrends whilst creating true and sustainable value for our stakeholders and society as a whole The positive impact GN creates for society lies first and Further, we create economic benefits in the form of taxes foremost in the improved hearing health, well-being and and shareholder value. We drive innovation in our productivity experienced by the users of our products. We industries and our audio products can also help customers strive to maximize this impact by developing and reduce their carbon footprint by reducing travel. We strive producing superior products and services. Beyond that, we to be a responsible business in terms of mitigating the create decent employment for our own 6,275 employees environmental, social and governance risks we could and many more across our global supply chain. contribute to through our products and operations. Attractive megatrends Innovation leadership Strong partnerships A growing and aging world populaGN’s sound technologies and experiStrong track record of strategic parttion as well as personal communicaence are directed at consistently denerships with leading channels, custion trends offer opportunities for inveloping unmatched user benefits. tomers and adjacent industry leadtelligent audio solutions in industries Our strict innovation focus has eners. with currently low penetration rates. sured multiple industry firsts. Synergistic M&A Agile and asset light Execution excellence Merger and acquisition activities to A lean business model, with no Flawless end-to-end execution from support channel access, commercial owned retail, ensures a strong posicustomer insights via research and excellence and technology leadership tion in relation to future distribution development, quality manufacturing, as well as to streamline activities. trends and an asset light business efficient logistics, marketing, channel model. and sales. Sustainable business Customer experience Retain and attract talent Throughout GN’s long and rich hisUtilizing synergies derived from GN’s Driving an organization with highly tory, we have strongly anchored reaudio and hearing technologies and skilled and engaged people, ensuring sponsible business practices. Our susexpertise, GN is able to significantly a level playing field with equal opportainability framework allows us to improve and personalize customers’ tunity for all, ensuring people and address environmental, social and hearing and listening experiences in talent development at all levels, and governance topics proactively to enaudio and hearing products. ensuring leadership the GN Way sure real and lasting positive impact. where we actively listen, challenge and transform. GN Store Nord A/S –2019 8 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Sustainability governance Contents Sustainability governance Sustainability for GN is not a sideshow. It is integrated into We use our policies in different ways. The Anti-Corruption how we run our company, as a consideration in every deciPolicy, Gifts, travel and entertain Policy and Ethics Guide sion we make. Accordingly, we have not set up a separate (GN’s code of conduct) are internal guidelines that all relesustainability governance structure but use our existing vant employees have to sign. For the Ethics Guide, relebusiness processes to drive this agenda. vant employees are required to do an online compliance training and pass a test. All managers are required to sign As such, sustainability is discussed regularly with the Board the Non-retaliation Policy, as part of an internal Manager of Directors and Executive Management, as well as at compliance guideline. The Codes of Conduct, Conflict Minsenior management meetings, product boards and erals Policy, Modern Slavery and Supply Chain Disclosure business reviews. We are convinced that this is the most Policies and Responsible Sourcing Policy are requirements efficient way to drive this agenda. for relevant suppliers. The CSR Policy, Diversity Policy, Privacy Policy, Quality Policies and Remuneration Policy deOur policies scribe internal guidelines and processes that help drive our GN has implemented policies covering all key ESG areas. CSR performance. We continuously add and update policies in line with legislative or strategic changes. All policies are available on our website gn.com (https://www.gn.com/About/Document-download-center#!#all). Policy What it covers E S G Anti-corruption Policy How GN employees, suppliers, customers and third-party representatives are ex• • pected to conduct business the right way, in compliance with all applicable antibribery and anti-corruption laws, including (but not limited to) the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010. Codes of Conduct GN How GN employees and suppliers are expected to conduct business with respect • • • Audio and GN HearHuman Rights, environmental standards and ethical business practices across the ing value chain. Conflict Minerals PolGN’s requirements and supporting due diligence process to ensure our suppliers do • • icy not source conflict minerals to be used in our products. CSR Policy GN’s general approach to CSR across all ESG areas. • • • Diversity Policy GN’s initiatives and tools to drive greater diversity and inclusion across GN. • • Ethics Guide The responsibilities and guidelines that describe the ethical standard expected of all • • GN employees, as well as a decision-making process supporting the resolution of ethical issues. Gifts, travel and enGuidelines for gifts, travel and entertainment in GN, within the wider anti-corrup• tertainment Policy tion policy. Modern Slavery and GN’s policies and procedures to comply with the UK Modern Slavery Act (2015) and • • Supply Chain Disclothe California Transparency in Supply Chains Act (2012). sure Non-retaliation Policy GN’s commitment to ensure that any employee who reports detected or suspected • • misconduct to a senior manager will not suffer any kind of retaliation or repercussion as a result thereof. Privacy Policy How GN protects personal data belonging to customers, users and employees. • • Quality Policies GN GN Audio and GN Hearing’s values and processes that ensure we foster a quality • • • Audio and GN Hearculture with the objective to develop, manufacture and market products and sering vices with superior quality as perceived by customers. Remuneration Policy The guidelines for payment of remuneration, including incentive pay, to members • of GN’s registered management and such members’ remuneration in GN’s whollyowned subsidiaries, as well as remuneration to GN’s board of directors, in accordance with Section 4 of the Recommendations on Corporate Governance and Section 139 of the Danish Companies Act. Responsible Sourcing GN Audio’s application of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in sourcing. • • • Policy GN Audio GN Store Nord A/S –2019 9 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Making Life Sound Better Contents Making Life Sound Better GN’s purpose is Making Life Sound Better. We believe in the power of sound to transform people’s lives, and through our intelligent audio solutions we enable people to Hear More, Do More and Be More than they ever thought possible As a company with unique hearing and audio capabilities, GN is uniquely positioned to improve people’s quality of life and enable them to control their own soundscape in an increasingly busy and noisy world. Since its inauguration 150 years ago, GN has utilized technological innovation to facilitate and enhance communication between people. Today, our focus is on helping people with hearing loss live life as unimpededly as possible, and on assisting professionals and consumers with state-of-the-art headset and collaboration solutions. GN’s legacy of producing world-first sound solutions and pioneering advancements in hearing technology include: 6th generation 2.4 GHz technology in hearing aids for direct connectivity; Binaural Directionality for leading natural sound; the world’s first Made for Apple hearing aid with direct stereo sound streaming and now also for Android devices; the world’s first cloud-based remote fine-tuning solution; and award-winning apps providing optimal user experience and satisfaction. “I have had other hearing aids before the ReSound hearing aids and never had a music experience. Suddenly I was fitted with these hearGN’s professional headset, speakerphone and video collaboing aids and found that I was hearing music again,” says Andrew Huration solutions are engineered to help businesses be even gill, ReSound LiNX Quattro™ user. more productive by enabling users to better concentrate, communicate and collaborate, and to make conversation easReSound hearing aids had life-changing results: Andrew could ier. We do this by helping users block out noise and by delivhear music again. ering crystal-clear sound. GN’s consumer headsets and earbuds are engineered to deliver supreme sound and great batA new musical odyssey tery life to users for whom calls, music and media consumpThe ability to hear compositions properly by wearing hearing tion are important in their daily lives. aids motivated Andrew to compose again and pay his inspiration forward to other musicians and music lovers. His fascinaOur unique portfolio of medical, professional and consumer tion with the aural diversity of people – everyone hears differaudio solutions – and the deep research and development exently and composes music uniquely – resulted in the birth of pertise behind this range of products gives our brands una collaborative, innovative music community. precedented advantages in the med-tech, hearables and intelligent audio field. Celebrating Aural Diversity Andrew invited a group of professional musicians with diverse Andrew’s Story hearing profiles to work together and create music that indiLiving with Ménière's Disease puts an enormous strain on muvidually reflected them, their style and their unique way of sic professor and composer Andrew Hugill’s life and musical hearing. They performed at the world’s first Aural Diversity career. This chronic disorder of the inner ear can cause hearmusic concert in Bath, UK, which struck a positive chord with ing loss, vertigo, tinnitus, and aural fullness. Andrew kept his the public and inspired academic conferences. Hearing better condition a secret for 10 years due to the stigma and workis blissfully infectious and, combined with music, it changes ing and socializing became increasingly difficult. Using attitudes. GN Store Nord A/S –2019 10 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Making Life Sound Better Contents Focused and stress-free with superior active Collaborating for breakthroughs in hearing noise cancellation rehabilitation The office environment can be noisy and distracting. To be To help improve hearing rehabilitation in Danmark and befocused and get your work done, you need to be able to conyond through evidence-based innovation of clinical guidelines centrate. and policies, GN contributes to the Better Hearing Rehabilitation project (BEAR). Within hearing rehabilitation, BEAR In many of our products, you can switch on active noise canfunds studies of current practice, considerations for new cellation to virtually eliminate low-frequency sounds, like the methods, experimental application and refinement. Combinhum of air conditioning. Active noise cancellation uses ading these studies in one project allows for evaluation and imvanced microphones to monitor and counter ambient noise plementation of the most promising renewals. For more inup to 3 times more effectively than competitors. The Jabra formation, see bear-hearing.dk. Evolve 80 and Evolve 75 are professional headsets developed to eliminate distractions created by noise and interruptions. High quality noise cancellation (Active Noise Cancellation and Passive Noise Cancellation) combined with an integrated busy light functionality helps create a personal concentration zone for the user. The red busy light on Jabra’s headsets for open offices are developed to eliminate distractions created by noise and interruptions. GN Store Nord A/S –2019 11 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Making Life Sound Better Contents Mo’s story Overcoming childhood challenges A profound hearing loss since childhood caused Mo O’Brien many hurdles in life: being mistaken for not listening, hiding parts of her character, and avoiding social situations. Discovering her hearing with ReSound hearing aids inspired Mo to “do something incredible” and let her personality shine. Strengthening the mother-daughter bond Mo and her daughter, Bird Watts, value their precious bond. Mo being able to hear better and communicate clearly with Bird has further strengthened their special connection. Mo stepped out of her comfort zone with confidence and Bird saw a new side to her mother. The fact that Mo initiated a nautical adventure of a lifetime – something “incredibly special to do with my daughter” – is something that Mo would not have contemplated before using ReSound hearing aids. Rowing across the Atlantic Ocean Mo’s experience of hearing loss and overcoming it by “living life to the full while you can” inspired her to take on the Talisker Whisky Atlantic Challenge. In the winter 2019-20, Mo became the first deaf person to row across the Atlantic Ocean, rowing with her daughter and teammates in the Oarsome Foursome, sponsored by ReSound every stroke of the way. “I want to prove to myself and to others that anything is achievable if you believe in yourself,” says Mo O’Brien, ReSound superpower hearing aid (second from right on in the left photo) GN Store Nord A/S –2019 12 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Safe, sustainable and responsible products Contents Safe, sustainable and responsible products Our products are uniquely deThrough our products we want to maximize our positive sosigned to improve the quality of cial impact on society, whilst minimizing our environmental life. By Making Life Sound Betfootprint. ter and improving hearing and health, our products allow you Safe products to Hear More, Do More and Be We make no compromises when it comes to the safety of our More. In other words, our produsers. To ensure our products do not contain hazardous and ucts have a positive (social) imharmful materials, we comply with the EU RoHS and REACH pact on society. regulations, as well as various regional regulations. At the same time, there are potential social and We continuously monitor regulatory changes and adjust inenvironmental risks throughout the lifecycle of our products, ternal processes accordingly. GN’s hearing products are defrom the extraction of raw materials, manufacturing, veloped under a highly regulated quality system complying distribution, the use phase and to the end of life. To address with ISO 13485 and FDA 21CFR 820 CGMP, as well as other these risks, we strive for our products to be designed, national standards. manufactured and distributed in a safe, sustainable and responsible way. GN Store Nord A/S –2019 13 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Safe, sustainable and responsible products Contents Sustainable products 3. Energy efficiency The amount of energy our products use Through our products we want to contribute to an economy is a significant part of their total environmental footprint. based on circular and sustainable use of materials. IntegratWe strive to make our products as energy efficient as posing sustainability more deeply into our product development sible. processes is a priority for GN for the coming years. 4. Packaging To make our packaging more sustainable, we consider filling degree, reducing plastic, responsibly Our approach is data-driven. We are in the process of sourced material and water-based ink whenever we design executing life cycle assessments (LCAs) on our existing audio a new packaging. product portfolio that will help us prioritize changes to our 5. End-of-life In countries with electronic waste collection indesign, manufacturing or product management processes frastructure, we ensure products are collected separately. with the most positive environmental impact. In other cases, we use responsible scrapping suppliers. Going forward, we will assess how we can close the loop Although differences may apply between hearing and audio more tightly, for example by giving products or product product lines, we strive to make our products more parts a second life. sustainable across six dimensions: 6. Production and Distribution This dimension is covered by our efforts to drive sustainability in our operations (see 1. Materials Our products, among other materials, contain “Sustainable operations”). plastic and aluminum, which have a significant environmental footprint if produced from virgin materials. In the Starting in 2020, we will actively consider these dimensions in coming years we will investigate if and how we can use product development and management, focusing on changes sustainable alternatives. that have the largest environmental impact and that meet 2. Repairability and durability Our products are of high qualspecific customer requirements. ity and designed to last. Where possible, we design for disassembly, so that components can get a second life. Contribution of constituent materials to the climate footprint of the Jabra PanaCast manufacturing process* 1% 1% 1% Aluminum alloy, casted Lexan® Resin 241R 17% Polycarbonate Polyurethane liquid casting 2% rubber 0% 3% Stainless steel screws 4% 53% Cycoloy Resin C1200HF black 18% Carbon Loaded Silicone Rubber USB cable *) “Climate footprint of a video meeting using Jabra PanaCast and comparison to face-to-face meeting” – 2.0 LCA Consultants for GN (2019) GN Store Nord A/S –2019 14 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Safe, sustainable and responsible products Contents New sustainable packaging for audio products 1. GN requires its suppliers to exclude conflict minerals from When developing new packaging for our audio enterprise GN products products, sustainability was a key consideration. As a result, 2. GN requires suppliers to comply with our Code of Conduct the new packaging will contain no plastic bags or foam, only 3. GN is using the five-step due diligence guidance laid out use water-based inks and eco-friendly soy oil-based inks. To by OECD for establishing our due diligence process. save on paper, we have moved the user manual online. Consequently, GN has put in place an audit program where proof of compliance will be required from suppliers To ensure the new packaging is 100% sustainable from a that conflict minerals are procured only from smelters sourcing perspective as well, we will use paper that is and refiners that have been found to be compliant with certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). In practice, the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP) of this means that the paper used in our packaging comes from the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI). forests where trees are replanted, biodiversity is maintained or enhanced, forest workers are paid a fair wage and By the end of 2019, GN has received the requested inforindigenous populations are protected. mation from 98% of its relevant suppliers regarding smelters and refiners used in their supply chains. In 2020, we will consider how we can continue to make our packaging more sustainable across GN. Supported by a third-party provider of smelter validation services, ongoing work has been carried out during 2019 toResponsible Products wards validating and ensuring that the identified smelters Our products contain tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold. These used by our suppliers are conflict-free. To strengthen our efare also known as conflict minerals if they originate from forts in the area, GN is a member of the Responsible Minerals mines controlled by military groups in the Democratic RepubInitiative. lic of Congo and nine adjacent countries. As stipulated in our Conflict Minerals Policy, GN does not want to use conflict minerals. In practice this means: When developing new packaging for our audio enterprise products, sustainability was a key consideration. As a result, the new packaging will contain no plastic bags or foam, only use water-based inks and eco-friendly soy oil-based inks. GN Store Nord A/S –2019 15 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Reducing business flights Contents Reducing business flights Using Jabra PanaCast for business meetings and collaboration is up to 92% more climate friendly than flying In 2019, an external consultancy* conducted an environmentrain and air travel. For any other use and/or region scenario, tal life cycle assessment (LCA) on Jabra PanaCast, which prothe break-even distances would be even lower.” vides companies with the world’s first AI-enabled Panoramic4K Plug-and-Play video solution to facilitate effective remote “We conclude that the Jabra PanaCast will always perform collaboration. The LCA showed us how materials used, manubetter than a face-to-face meeting where the participants facturing, distribution and energy use contribute to the clitravel by air. On average, using Jabra PanaCast leads to a mate footprint of the product. lower climate footprint of up to 92%, assuming an equal share of train and air travel.” From 2020, we will use these insights, as well as results from similar LCAs for other products, to drive sustainability imClimate footprint comparison provements in future products with the highest positive environmental impact. 2600 Up to 92% more climate friendly than flying 1 Return flight hours of using What this study also told us is that PanaCast is a truly susbetween = Jabra NYC and tainable alternative to flying: London PanaCast “Jabra PanaCast performs better than face-to-face meetings, except when the meeting parties are situated very close to each other. Even when it is a one-on-one meeting in a region where internet has the largest climate footprint (India), the ‘break-even distance’ is 30 and 16 kilometers respectively for *) “Climate footprint of a video meeting using Jabra PanaCast and comparison to face-toface meeting” – 2.0 LCA Consultants for GN (2019) GN Store Nord A/S –2019 16 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Sustainable operations Contents Sustainable operations High business ethics and standards are critical to ensuring GN’s license to operate and our continued growth and success. This includes high ethical standards from employees and business partners, and for us to strive for minimal environmental impact from the design, manufacturing and distribution of our products Aside from designing our products to have a (e.g. boxes and plastic) via recycling operations managed by minimal environmental impact, we strive to external companies. Other waste, such as electronics, is promanufacture and distribute our products cessed to allow other companies to reclaim and re-use matewith a minimal environmental footprint. The rials, where possible. main risks of causing negative environmental impact stem from material sourcing and use Water consumption of energy and water in production and global Water consumption at GN’s manufacturing facilities is very distribution. Consequently, optimal use of relimited and primarily used for sanitation purposes. Initiatives sources at the manufacturing facilities, as to reduce water consumption include daily monitoring of wawell as clean and efficient shipping are focal ter use, using auto-stop water taps and monitoring supplier areas to make our operations more sustainawater usage. ble. In 2020, we will set operational sustainability KPIs to drive further progress. Carbon emissions In 2019, we commenced an analysis to establish our comEnergy pany-wide carbon footprint. In 2020, we will complete this In 2019, we have continued our focus on reducing energy analysis and use these insights to set climate change related consumption at our manufacturing facilities. We have contingoals. ued to implement energy efficient solutions, such as converting to LED lights, reusing excess heat, installing motion senBusiness ethics sors and solar panels, and conducting training for relevant GN’s commitment to business ethics and compliance with employees in energy efficient processes. international regulations and internal policies is anchored in our updated code of conduct, the GN Ethics Guide, our antiWaste corruption policies, our Supplier Codes of Conduct and other Most of our waste is very small in quantity and our manufacpolicies and guidelines. turing facilities use licensed disposal contractors that remove any waste and properly dispose of it. Waste may include plastic, chemicals, paint, scrap parts, etc. Some waste is reused Consumption and waste The data in these graphs cover our own manufacturing sites and not manufacturing performed by suppliers. The increase in energy, water and waste consumption is largely related to increased production volumes. In 2020, we will set operational sustainability KPIs to drive further progress. Energy (MWh) in Waste (tons) in Water Use (m3) in Manufacturing Sites Manufacturing Sites Manufacturing Sites 10000 200 60000 9000 50000 150 40000 8000 100 30000 7000 20000 50 6000 10000 5000 0 0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 GN Store Nord A/S –2019 17 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Sustainable operations Contents These outline the fundamental requirements for how GN compliance with applicable legislation and GN policies. The operates and describe the responsibilities and ethical selection of subsidiaries or business units for compliance restandards expected of all employees and relevant business views is based on an annual country risk assessment consistpartners. GN is committed to doing business the right way ing of several defined risk indicators. and has a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery and In 2019, five anti-corruption compliance reviews were concorruption of any kind. ducted resulting in 23 findings and observations with various risk severity ratings. Furthermore, appropriate corrective and The GN Group employs 6,500 people and sells products in preventive actions are documented for each risk finding and 100 markets across the world. Its size and global presence monitored on a regular basis. poses an inherent risk that our internal regulations and policies are not adhered to in all business dealings, which could Whistleblower system have both financial and reputational consequences. GN’s whistleblower hotline, the GN Alertline, is independently managed by a third party and reporting can be done by phone Compliance training or online. Phone reporting is available in 27 countries and 26 To ensure and document that employees are always familiar languages, and online reporting is available globally in multiwith the GN Ethics Guide and other key policies, on a regular ple languages. The hotline can be used by employees as well basis relevant employees must electronically sign off on their as external parties to report a concern or perceived misconcompliance within specific areas and complete GN’s e-learnduct. ing courses within anti-corruption and competition compliance. The system is an important tool for ensuring that alleged illegal or unethical conduct is reported and immediately adThe allocation of courses is streamlined, and all employees redressed. All complaints are treated with confidentiality, and ceived a minimum of five mandatory compliance campaigns GN is committed to dealing with any employee who takes acincluding business ethics, anti-corruption, information secution and/or participates in an investigation in good faith, in a rity and personal data. Role and seniority define whether fair and respectful manner. This is emphasized in the GN nonmore campaigns are assigned. retaliation policy signed by Executive Management. In addition, 18 face-to-face training sessions were conducted In 2019, 15 concerns were reported through the GN whistlein selected business units, resulting in more than 550 blower system. The allegations were primarily related to employees receiving live training. As part of live training, inappropriate behavior, harassment/retaliation, people managers are guided on how to handle their misrepresentation of confidential information, and internal responsibilities regarding ensuring compliance with the GN controls. All relevant cases were diligently investigated and Ethics Guide and other relevant policies in their areas of appropriate remediating as well as disciplinary actions were responsibility. taken where relevant. Third party due diligence Human rights in our supply chain Ethical business behavior is a core value for GN, and our Through our commitment to UN Global Compact, we are aspiration is that all our business partners acknowledge our committed to eradicating human rights issues across our opvalues and share our commitment to conducting business in erations and supply chain. Potential risks lie mostly in labor an ethical manner. conditions in our supply chain. We actively audit for violations through our CSR supplier questionnaires to all our tier 1 and In 2019, GN took further steps to enhance the process for askey tier 2 suppliers. The audits are based on the UN Global sessing and managing corruption risk associated with thirdCompact principles of responsible business as well as the party business partners in selected high-risk countries. The SA8000 standard. evaluation of third parties involves self-assessment questionnaires and due diligence screenings focusing on the potential In 2019, we conducted 17 CSR audits in GN Audio and 32 CSR reputational and legal risks associated with the business relaaudits in GN Hearing. Through these audits, we found issues tionship. related to among other working conditions and occupational health and safety. In all cases, we have addressed these issues Anti-corruption compliance reviews with our suppliers and requested proof that they were reAs a regular part of our global anti-corruption compliance solved in the shortest possible timeframe. program, we conduct a number of compliance reviews of selected GN subsidiaries or business units around the world In 2020, we will continue to set the highest standard of each year. responsibility to our suppliers. The main objective is to identify and assess relevant risk areas and ensure that adequate controls are in place to ensure GN Store Nord A/S –2019 18 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Sustainable operations Contents Occupational health and safety Data privacy The main risks in terms of occupational health and safety ocAs stipulated in our Privacy Policy, we are committed to procur in our manufacturing sites. To create a culture of health tecting personal data belonging to customers, users and emand safety, all locations have an occupational health and ployees. safety management setup which strives to prevent accidents through tools like training, Gemba walks and committees that In 2019, we have continued refining our implementation of evaluate minor accidents and implement necessary changes. EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The principles of GDPR are continuously implemented in our digital sysOur occupational health and safety efforts at our hearing tems and processes and our ongoing development. By commanufacturing site in Malaysia were rewarded with the SOmitting specialist data protection resources we continuously HELP Excellence Award. work to ensure that our processes are GDPR compliant. On top of this, we create awareness internally through compulsive e-learning on data protection for relevant employees. In 2020, we will continue to strengthen data protection to provide the best consumer experience in a trustworthy and secure way. All GN locations – like this manufacturing site in Praestoe, Denmark – have an occupational health and safety management setup which strives to prevent accidents. GN Store Nord A/S –2019 19 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ People excellence Contents People excellence In 2019, we have continued to strengthen Board of Directors leadership development and strategic execuThe Board of Directors firmly believes that diversity strengthtion power with a focused leadership proens any governing body and acknowledges the importance of gram “Leading Strategy”. diversity in general, including diversity of gender, nationality and competencies. We want career development in GN to be connected to performance, irrespective of One of GN’s diversity goals is, by the end of 2020, that three gender, age and nationality, as we firmly beof the six members of the Board of Directors elected by the lieve that diverse teams and leadership have Annual General Meeting be women. We have reached this tara substantial positive impact on business reget in 2018, when Gitte Pugholm Aabo joined the GN Board sults and organizational performance. of Directors. As Gitte Pugholm Aabo stepped down from GN’s Board in September 2019 to become CEO of GN Hearing, the To ensure performance-based career development, all emBoard currently consists of five members of which two are feployees engage in dialogues with their leader for performance male. reviews and development planning, where performance on objectives and values is discussed as well as career ambitions Senior management and opportunities. Another focus has been to ensure stronger international representation in our senior management, the Global The individual performance review and development planning Management Teams (GMT) in GN Audio and GN Hearing. By dialogue is supplemented by a talent review and succession the end of 2019, GN Hearing’s GMT comprised 30% female planning process involving the upper levels of the organizaleaders and 40% non-Danes. GN Audio’s GMT comprised tion where leaders assess their employees’ performance and 12.5% female leaders and 68.7% non-Danes. potential. This provides input for GN’s succession planning for key positions and individual development plans. When GN’s diversity policy was established in 2014, women filled 14% of the company’s senior management positions. As Graduate program a result of dedicated efforts women by the end of 2019 filled We wish to develop a young talent pool for manager, 20% of senior management positions across the GN Group. specialist and project manager positions. The GN Graduate GN had aimed for 25% during the 2017 2019 strategy periProgram is a key contributor. od and will continue to strengthen efforts to build a pipeline of future female candidates for senior positions. We have a In GN we run a two-year Graduate Program with three tracks: constant focus to ensure that we attract female candidates finance, marketing and engineering. In total we have 19 for both internal job rotations and for new positions. By the graduates. The graduates get hands-on experience by end of 2019, 30% of the newly appointed members of senior working in three different jobs and spend eight months management were women. outside of Denmark working abroad. Furthermore, to achieve our goals, we ensure that diversity – Out of the 19 graduates, 37% are women, and 67% are nonencompassing gender, nationality, competencies, etc. – is an Danes, supporting our goal of diversity in this year’s intake of integral part of GN’s yearly talent review and succession graduates. planning process, of talent development practices, recruitment procedures and leadership development In 2020, GN will continue the success of the Graduate Proprograms. gram and welcome new graduates to the program adding a new IT track. Finally, the wording and visual identity in recruitment activities on social media and other channels are ongoing Gender diversity in senior management positions (§99b) designed to best attract female candidates and encourage Diversity in gender, nationality, age and any other relevant didiversity. When external recruiters or headhunters are used, mension is an integral part of GN’s yearly talent review and GN requires that viable female candidates are presented for succession planning process, talent development practices, any position. recruitment procedures and leadership development pro. grams. In 2019, GN adopted a new Diversity Policy that sets our direction and actions in this area. GN Store Nord A/S –2019 20 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Giving back Contents Giving back GN gives back to society in multiple ways. There is a direct positive impact on society from our fundamental business activities. But we also want to reach out and help local communities in many other ways At GN, we focus on finding new ways to Charity work in communities Make Life Sound Better for people in areas A charitable organization, the Beltone Hearing Care Foundawhere hearing care and access to audiolotion donates hearing aids to people in need of hearing help gists are scarce. We work closely with local who may otherwise be unable to access it due to social or communities to create long-lasting infraeconomic limitations. Individuals and organizations are eligistructures, represented by hearing care proble to receive assistance from the Foundation through direct fessionals and built on quality and trust. nominations by Beltone staff or network members. Beltone Hearing Care Foundation “I want to thank you for my hearing aids. I have a lot of The foundation of hearing care appreciation for my sister and Beltone, because without For 80 years, Beltone, a GN hearing aid brand and network of them I would still be walking around not being able to stores, has helped enrich the quality of life for countless peohear.” ple with hearing loss in the United States and around the world. In 2019, the foundation continued this history of helpGrace Dickinson was born 25% deaf in both ears, but ing those in need of hearing care and donated a record 828 only found out in her twenties. At age 47, her deafness hearing aids globally. was about 60% and it was expected that she would be deaf within three years. That is until Beltone reached out a helping hand. “I have recently been blessed by your company with a pair of hearing aids that you have provided for me. I am writAfrica ing this letter of thanks for your generosity.” Hear More Academy educates more dispensers – Heather Bryant, recipient of Beltone Hearing Care Foundation In 2019, GN embarked on a new journey in Africa to help essupport tablish hearing awareness and care in a sustainable model that local hearing care professionals and communities can develop and nurture. GN’s team covering the Middle East & Africa region partnered up with former GN Audiologist Dr. Jenny Nesgaard Pedersen, who is now based in Zimbabwe, to create the Hear More Academy in Zimbabwe. The academy offers a 20-week program to nominated individuals from Zimbabwe and neighboring African countries, where they can train to become fully equipped hearing care dispensers. There is a great shortage of audiologists in Africa, which makes it difficult to provide effective audiological services to those in need of hearing aids. Zimbabwe, for instance, has only 10 certified audiologists covering a population of approxThis year, the Beltone Foundation donated 100 hearing aids, fitting imately 17 million people, 760,000 of whom are estimated to software and accessories to the Colombian Institute of Audiology and be living with disabling hearing loss. Linguistics, helping to transform the lives of the students in the school for deaf children. GN Store Nord A/S –2019 21 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Giving back Contents How the Hear More Academy works Josephine’s story At first sight of Josephine, it was clear to the GN Foundation • An Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) doctor nominates skilled audiologists that she had difficulty following conversations, employees for training to become fully-equipped to disfrom the way people spoke loudly to her or directly in her ear. pense hearing aids Testing concluded that Josephine has a permanent sensori• Following graduation from the academy, the newly qualineural hearing loss, probably since birth, which had gone unfied dispensers can provide hearing care in the region of noticed until her school years. the country they reside in • Through the academy, a partnership is established beJosephine’s father confirmed that she was top of her class in tween the new dispenser and GN to ensure continuous studies, but her schoolwork began to suffer at around age six. product and service support She couldn’t hear her teacher and had to drop out of school. There have been noticeable improvements since Josephine To date, the Hear More Academy has trained four students started wearing ReSound hearing aids, and she can now comfrom Zimbabwe, with plans to train future dispensers in the municate with her family and friends and immerse herself in African countries where GN has established hearing aid diswhat she enjoys doing. tributors present: Nigeria, Kenya, Namibia, and Botswana. GN Foundation: Hear to aid “It was worthwhile to come just for three kids and we Chilo is a remote, landlocked village on the outskirts of the were hoping that word would spread from there.” Gonarezla Game Reserve in Zimbabwe. When the GN Foundation heard that there were potentially three children there – Dr. Jenny Nesgaard Pedersen, former GN audiologist who that had to drop out of school due to debilitating hearing loss, works with the GN Foundation and is now based in Zimbabwe. the team set to work. It had probably been a long time since hearing specialists were in the area, so they hoped there would be a need and people would show up for these services. Asia Early on a Saturday morning, the doors to the clinic opened 150 km for 150 years of making life sound better and soon the atrium was filled with people of all age groups. To mark the 150-year anniversary of GN, the Global DistribuOne person was Josephine, a teenager. tor Sales team for GN Hearing in the Asia region created an innovative and collaborative virtual running initiative to support a local cause: To run so others can hear more. Over the course of 50 days, from July to August 2019, 137 runners came together from 9 countries in the #150kmfor150years challenge. They ran a total distance of 7,789 km, and 65 GN hearing aids were donated as a result. A medal ceremony was held in Kuala Lumpur. “I love running on charity races for a cause… My mother was awarded a pair of Beltone Trust hearing aids as my selected beneficiary.” – Albert A. Leocadio, race participant at the GN “150 km for 150 years” running initiative. Under the GN Foundation’s “Hear to aid” program children in Zimbabwe are fitted with ReSound hearing aids allowing them again to communicate with family and friends. GN Store Nord A/S –2019 22 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ Giving back Contents East Timor U.S.A. This year, GN Audio in North America – under the banner of Hearing aid donations continue following 150 km run the Jabra brand took part in the second Annual Day of To continue the momentum of the GN “150 km for 150 Giving, a day in which employees were able to get out of the years” running initiative, GN Audiologist Naresh Durisala office and spend the day giving back to the less fortunate in teamed up with medical doctors and an audiologist from Sintheir communities for the second consecutive year. gapore Hospital to Make Life Sound Better for people with hearing loss in Maliana, East Timor. Throughout North America, Jabra had approximately 100 volunteers participate in the event, as well as over 465 Maliana is a small city with a population of around 22,000 volunteer hours pledged to a variety of charities ranging from people, located two flights and a four-hour-long drive away ani-mal rescue shelters, homeless shelters, and food banks. from Singapore, in treacherous mountain terrain. In one week, Several thousand meals were prepared, and packed, and Naresh and the team saw over 100 patients and donated 40 countless gifts were wrapped and ready to be delivered to GN hearing aids. families in need. “I was privileged to be part of a group of passionate medical doctors whose mission was to make a difference in the lives of East Timorese through medical care and education. There is little doubt that I like my profession but the fact that I could help a bunch of people through GN's mission of Making Life Sound Better brings greater joy and excitement in the work I do.” – Naresh Durisala, GN audiologist, helping people with hearing loss in remote Maliana, East Timor. Spain “Save Your Ears” social concern campaign Highlighting hearing loss through music and culture is an inThroughout North America, GN Audio in North America – under the spiring mix. The GN team in Spain, created and sponsored the banner of the Jabra brand – had approximately 100 volunteers partic“Save Your Ears” (#Salva tus oídos) social concern campaign, ipate in the second Annual Day of Giving. joining forces with the popular Spanish musician Antonio Orozco and other renowned celebrities. The campaign highlighted the importance of protecting one’s hearing and spread awareness via concerts, university lectures, social media, and a talent contest to find the next big musical artists with hearing loss. The celebrities involved in the campaign also helped hearing care professionals fit ReSound hearing aids on children and adults with low incomes at local clinics. GN Store Nord A/S –2019 23 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ About this report Contents About this report This report is produced in compliance with articles 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act Article 99a Sustainability Definition See “Sustainability, CSR or ESG?” on p. 23 Business Model See “Business model” on p. 7 Governance See “Sustainability governance” on p.8 Due Diligence Processes This is covered across different chapters on p. 12-14, 16-19 Risks This is covered across different chapters on p. 12-14, 16-19, 23 KPIs See ESG overview on p. 4 Results This is covered across different chapters on p. 4, 9-22 Article 99b Gender Diversity Target for Board of Directors See “People excellence” on p. 19 Gender Diversity Policy and Actions in Senior Management See “People excellence” on p. 19 Our Materiality Process As described in this report, in 2019 we mapped our value chain against the SDGs, using the main risks and opportunities to either negatively or positively impact the achievement of the goals. The table below sketches the main identified risks and opportunities and to which SDGs they relate. Our engagement with the SDGs is a continuous process. Going forward, we will undertake a deeper sustainability-related risk assessment to further understand how we can best help achieve this agenda. Value Chain Main risks Main opportunities Relevant SDGs Raw Material Sourcing Virgin and fossil material Sustainable product design 8 and 12 use Conflict minerals Suppliers Labor rights and conditions 8 and 12 Company Operations Business ethics Innovative products 5, 9 and 12 (R&D, sales and marketing, Diversity and inclusion in corporate functions) the workforce Manufacturing Carbon emissions 8, 12 and 13 Waste Labor rights and conditions Distribution Carbon emissions 13 Product Use Carbon emissions Health and well-being 3 and 13 Carbon reduction through (video) conferencing Product end-of-life Waste Recycling, circular business 12 models Sustainability, Responsibility, CSR or ESG? The terminology to describe non-financial performance differs widely depending on who you ask and where they are based. As this report is written for all interested stakeholders across the world, we use the terms sustainability, responsibility, corporate social responsibility (CSR) and environmental, social and governance (ESG) interchangeably, depending on the context. But they all refer to the same: how GN addresses environmental, social or governance related risks and opportunities, both in relation to our business and to society as a whole, in order to maximize our positive impact on the world. GN Store Nord A/S –2019 24 Sustainability – ESG Report ⋅ About this report Contents GN Store Nord A/S Lautrupbjerg 7 DK-2750 Ballerup Denmark Co. reg. no 24257843 +45 45 75 00 00 info@gn.com gn.com © 2020 GN Store Nord A/S. All rights reserved. Jabra and BlueParrott are trademarks of GN Audio A/S. ReSound, Interton and FalCom are trademarks of GN Hearing A/S. Beltone is a trademark of GN Hearing Care Corporation. All other trademarks and logos included herein are the property of their respective owners. GN Store Nord A/S –2019
