Sustainability Report 2018/19 Table of contents 1 5 7 Schur at a glance 2018/19 4 Environmental Sustainability 14 Economic Sustainability 24 Environmental sustainability in Anti-corruption and bribery 24 product development 14 Conflict of interest 24 2 Environmental sustainability in own operations 15 Energy efficiency & carbon emissions 16 CEO statement 6 Minimising waste Water consumption 18 18 8 Chemicals 19 Sustainability key figures 26 3 6 Schur’s business model 8 Social Sustainability Social sustainability related to 20 9 external stakeholders 20 20 Appendix 1: 4 Consumer health Respecting intellectual property rights 20 Results of impact analysis 28 Social sustainability related to our employees 21 Schur’s approach to Sustainability Sustainability governance for compliance 9 9 Health and safety Employees’ working conditions 21 21 10 Schur’s commitment to the Sustainable Diversity 22 Development Goals 12 Appendix 2: Responsible business partnerships 13 The “Sustainable Schur” Policy 30 1 Schur at a glance 2018/19 Organisation Schur International a/s CARTON FLEXIBLE MACHINERY FINANCE Mission We help our customers Pack Protect Preserve Schur Pack Schur Star Schur Technology a/s Schur Finance a/s Denmark a/s Systems GmbH and Sell their products Schur Star Schur Conference Schur Labels a/s Systems Inc. Center a/s Values Schur Pack Schur Star Systems Sweden AB Australia Pty. Ltd. AXRU Invest a/s “Familializing” our customers Constant care Schur Pack Schur Packaging We think before we act Norway as Systems AB We walk the talk Schur Pack Dit Pulterkammer Germany GmbH Holding a/s SP Group a/s Schur at a glance 2018/19 4 Locations Schur’s locations 13 percent Tons packaging sold Increase in volume sold 1.6 Bn DKK 1846 76,597.8 Cardboard 936 compared to last year Revenue Established 10,914.8 Flexibles Employees Schur at a glance 2018/19 5 2 CEO statement At Schur, our mission is to help our customthe lower the amount of food waste, the lower ers Pack, Protect, Preserve and Sell their prothe environmental footprint. ducts. We do this by designing customised packaging solutions to meet the needs of our Packaging is essential to secure safety and customers. Solutions that contribute to propreserve good qualities of a variety of products. duct protection, functionality, consumer health By focusing on the quality of our packaging and extended shelf life. solutions, we extend shelf life and enable food waste reduction. Our focus is to always deliver Today and throughout our history, being a rehigh quality packaging solutions that are innosponsible company has always been a quesvative and sustainable without compromising tion of close cooperation and partnerships. By the customers’ needs and requirements. We conducting our business in a responsible manstrive to balance the considerations of food ner that respects people, the environment and preservation and climate impact generated business ethics we have been able to sustain from the packaging and to ensure overall for almost 175 years. sustainability when designing our packaging solutions together with our customers. Most of Schur’s customers are food producing companies. According to the United NaWe have initiated our sustainability tions (UN) , one third of the world’s produced work by properly mapping our own food is not consumed. A lot of food is wasted potential sustainability impacts. The due to insufficient cooling systems and lack current sustainability KPIs have of proper protective packaging. The UN estibeen measured since 2011/12, mates that packaging accounts for approxiwhich is the baseline year for our mately five percent of the total climate impact current efforts. In the past three related to food, while the food itself accounts years we have done our best to for approximately 95 percent. Hence, as a conduct systematic due diligence packaging producer our biggest positive, poassessments on the environmentential environmental impact is contributing to tal, social and anti-corruption asreduce food waste. The better the packaging, pects of our business activities CEO statement 6 in all our companies within scope. This has been done As we have gained a thorough understandconstitutes our annual communication on in compliance with internationally agreed and respected ing of our own potential impacts through our progress to the UN Global Compact and as frameworks; the UN Guiding Principles for Business and compliance work and thus laid a solid ground the statutory statement on corporate social Human Rights (UNGP) and the OECD Guidelines for Mulfor our sustainability efforts, we are now ready responsibility in accordance with section 99a tinational Enterprises. We are happy to say that we will be to elevate our attention towards implementand b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. finalising our assessments related to our own companies ing strategic initiatives with an external focus. in the beginning of 2020, which entails that Schur will be Hence, we have embraced the UN’s SustainThis report follows the triple bottom line methoamong the few companies in Denmark to fully implement able Development Goals (the SDGs). We have dology covering environmental, social and ecothese principles. In the coming years, we will expand our conducted several projects with customers nomic topics related to our business for the efforts to include our value chain. to develop sustainable packaging solutions, financial year 2018/19, which ended on 31 Ocwhich is part of our journey to proactively intober 2019. It provides our stakeholders with an A milestone for the reporting year was reaching our target tegrate circularity into our designs. This we will overview of our material sustainability issues, to reduce energy use by 40 percent in our Danish compado by focusing on recyclability in packaging performance and initiatives. I invite you to get fanies from 2010-20. In the coming years, we will continue the by adjusting design solutions to local markets miliar with our report to learn how we work with journey by systematically reducing energy consumption in and systems for handling waste. In the comsustainability at Schur. We call it ‘Sustainable all our companies, increase the use of sustainable materiing years we will continue to investigate new Schur’. als and strengthen our management and documentation solutions to further enhance the sustainability of our respect for human rights. We have set an ambitious of our flexible and carton packaging solutions. goal to strive for CO2 neutrality by 2030. This will be one of the most important headlines for our sustainability efforts Schur became a signatory to the UN’s Global Hans Schur in the coming years. Compact in 2015. This sustainability report CEO CEO statement 7 3 Schur’s business model Schur operates globally with business activities including development, production and sales of packaging within carton and flexible materials including complete packaging systems. In addition, we deliver innovative consumer products including the winepourer DropStop®. Apart from the parent company and a few of the subsidiary companies, each company has their own development, production and sales activities. The products of the Carton companies are primarily sold in Northern Europe and the US, while the flexible, machinery and consumer companies sell their products worldwide. This report covers Schur’s activities as described in Schur’s annual report. Schur has committed to contributing to social, environmental and economic sustainable development. In the next chapter we present our approach to sustainability. Schur´s business model 8 Schur’s approach to Sustainability 4 At Schur, we believe that sustainable deveSocial Triple bottom line lopment starts inside our own companies. We Respect for human and labour rights. Taking have started our sustainability efforts with care of the well-being of our employees and managing our own potential negative impacts the societies we operate in. to “do no harm”. After ensuring compliance with the globally agreed minimum standard Economic People for responsible business conduct, the next step is a more strategic approach to sustainHealthy earnings and responsible business practices. able development with an aim of doing good where we can. To us, both are a vital part of Sustainability governance for compliance sustainable business conduct. As a responAt Schur, responsible business conduct is ansible company, we find it important to unchored at the top of the company. Our board of derstand and handle our own impacts directors at corporate level and executive manSustainable before we start asking our suppliers to do agement approve and provide guidance to our Schur the same. sustainability policy and initiatives. The CEO of Planet Profit On the following pages we explain how we every company is responsible for ensuring that sustainability activities become an integral part work with sustainability, show the results of of our business operations. our work and outline future focus areas. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact from We evaluate our performance based on the 2015, we use the framework to guide the way triple bottom line approach. All three bottom we work with sustainability. To manage our lines are equally important for Schur’s sustainimpacts and performance we follow the gloability as a business: bally agreed minimum standard for responsible business conduct defined by the UN GuidEnvironmental ing Principles for Business and Human Rights Preventing negative impacts on the climate (UNGP) and the OECD Guidelines for Multinaand the environment and contributing to tional Enterprises. Our due diligence process sustainable solutions. and sustainability management system, which Schur´s approach to Sustainability 9 Schur’s sustainability framework and management system is our tool for continuous progress, is based on bels a/s (now Schur Labels a/s) became part UN Global Compact these guidelines and has been developed in of Schur. These companies will be included in The UN Global Compacts is a voluntary commitment to implement cooperation with external expertise. In this the due diligence process in 2020. universal sustainability principles on environment, human rights, labour conditions and anti-corruption for businesses worldwide chapter we share our advancement on the due diligence process. To facilitate integration and competence development, employees and managers at all The UN Global Compact serves as a general framework for how As recommended by the OECD and UNGP, the assessed companies were deeply inSchur works with sustainability we launched our Sustainable Schur Policy volved in the process. For each company, poin 2017. The policy states our commitment tential impacts were identified and assessed. UN Guiding Principles for The OECD Guidelines for to sustainable development. It covers all our Further, adequate preventive and mitigating Businesses and Human Rights Multinational Enterprises business areas, companies and stakeholders. actions were developed and approved. Cur(UNGP) outline a set of Over time, it will be reflected in all relevant porently, we are in the process of implementing provide businesses with recommendations for concrete guidelines responsible business licies, procedures and guidelines at Schur. The these actions at each company. We will conon how to respect conduct across different norms and responsibilities expected from our tinue to systematically conduct due diligence human rights topics such as the environment employees and business partners are stated in our own companies to follow our progress and anti-corruption clearly in the policy. Sustainability is a comand identify further possible impact areas and mon responsibility. This has led to the formunecessary improvements. As a next step, we The UNGP and the OECD Guidelines outline the process for how Schur lation of 2 sets of Codes of Conduct, one for will introduce the due diligence process to our manages possible adverse impacts in the areas of the environment, employees and one for suppliers. These are first-tier suppliers. human rights, labour rights and anti-corruption. Based on these, Schur being implemented during 2020. has developed a management system for continuous progress All the due diligence analyses were assured by As part of our due diligence process we have the CEO of each of our companies. The due dilSchur’s mangement system covers conducted systematic impact assessments of igence reports are available for our employees • A CSR policy, ‘Sustainable Schur’, that was agreed on and signed the eight companies within Schur’s core busion the intranet and they are shared with exterby top management, 2017 • Implementation of the policy is the responsibility of the local ness during 2017-2019. Assessments cover nal stakeholders when relevant. Employees CEOs in cooperation with Corporate Management potential impacts on human rights, incl labour can voice any queries, requests or complaints • A due diligence process for managing risks in own operations rights, the environment and anti-corruption. In regarding Schur’s approach to human rights and the value chain • Regular follow up and corrections in the Management system, November 2019, Emballagegruppen a/s (now (incl. labour rights), the environment and anincl. integration in other policies and governance aspects Schur Pack Denmark a/s, Vejle) and Dan Lati-corruption via a channel on the intranet. Schur´s approach to Sustainability 10 Schur’s sustainability due diligence process 1. Identify potential External stakeholders can do the gence process are presented in the following or actual adverse same via a channel on www. chapters under the Environmental, Social and impacts schur.com. These are a supEconomic headings. To view all our identified 6. Remediation for plement to all our other potential impacts, please find the matrix in apaffected channels for dialogue and pendix 1. stakeholders and support the general 2. Define and transparency in Schur. As a next step we are ready to strive towards implement All requests are handa more strategic approach to sustainability inactions to led in confidentiality cluding our upstream and downstream busiprevent and mitigate adby an independent ness partners. This is demonstrated through 5. Tracking of verse impacts third party. our commitment to the SDG’s and our proprogress via gress related to sustainable supply chain qualitative and Any business, includmanagement, which will be described in the quantitative ing Schur, will always following two chapters. indicators have potential impacts on the people involved 3. Explain impacts and the environment. In this report, we have cho4. Communicate impacts sen to go into detail with the externally areas we find most material to our business conduct. The identified impacts, implemented activities and subsequent results of the due diliSchur´s approach to Sustainability 11 Sustainable Development GOALS Schur’s commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals: Strategy for positive impacts In 2015, the world was introduced to the Paris agreement and UN´s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (the SDGs) and their 169 sub-targets. This provided our nations, businesses and the public with a new international ambition and mutual goals. As a responsible company, we feel encouraged to support these goals for a better world. In 2019, we assessed and identified the most material SDGs and sub-targets related to our business. As a manufacturer we consume a considerable amount of raw materials and energy in the production process while we as a packaging provider contribute positively to consumer health and the reduction of food waste. Schur is committed to increasing our efforts to contribute to Goal 7 ‘Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all’ and Goal 12 ‘Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns’. Schur´s approach to Sustainability 12 SDG Goal Targets SDG Commitment Schur’s SDG focus 7.3 By 2030, double the global We are committed to rate of improvement in improving energy efficiency energy efficiency. in all our locations and investing in renewable energy for all our companies. Our goal is to be CO² neutral in 2030. 12.3 By 2030, halve per capita The table below shows the identified goals OECD). We believe that major improvements global food waste at the retail We are committed to and sub-targets that are most related to our of the sector’s social, ethical and environmenand consumer levels and innovating and developing reduce food losses along propackaging solutions activities and outlines our commitment to tal sustainability can only be achieved through duction and supply chains that will extend the shelf each of the targets. cooperation across the value chain. including postharvest losses. life of food and reduce the amount of food waste. In 2020, we will proceed to define concrete The Code of Conduct will be available on our 12.4 actions, appropriate measurements and amwebsite for all stakeholders. By 2020, achieve the environWe are committed to minimentally sound management mising our consumption bitious KPIs to evaluate our contributions to of chemicals and all wastes of chemicals and to rethe SDGs. We will also continue to assess our throughout their life cycle, in sponsibly storing and handbusiness’ impacts on the SDGs and discuss accordance with agreed interling chemicals in our national frameworks, and sigproduction. if we should focus on additional goals and nificantly reduce their release sub-targets. to air, water and soil to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the We are committed to contriResponsible business partnerships environment. buting to the circular ecoWe recognise that potential risks related to sonomy throughout our business conduct and increasing cial, environmental and anti-corruption issues 12.5 our focus on reducing and in our supply chain are plausible. At Schur, we Activities 2018/2019 By 2030, substantially reduce re-cycling waste in our prodo not believe in a top-down structure when waste generation through preduction. In collaboration • The Board approved a new Code of Conduct vention, reduction, recycling with our customers, we seek working with suppliers. We believe in trust, for responsible business partnerships, with and reuse. to develop packaging soluself-management and cooperation. expectations regarding respect for the envitions that are designed for reuse and recycling. ronment, human rights labour rights and an12.6 In 2019, we developed our Code of Conduct ti-corruption. Encourage companies, espefor responsible business partnerships to• We established a grievance channel for third cially large and transnational parties. companies, to adopt sustainWe are committed to engether with our responsible business relacouraging all our business able practices and to intepartners to engage in parttion program to manage our cooperation and grate sustainability informaPlanned activities 2019/2020 tion into their reporting nerships and sustainable dialogue on sustainability with suppliers. It will business practices. cycle. be introduced to our first-tier suppliers during • Schur’s system for responsible business 2020 to meet the global minimum standard partnerships will be implemented. for responsible business conduct (UNGP and Schur´s approach to Sustainability 13 5 Environmental Sustainability At Schur, we recognise that environmental reto mitigate the environmental impact. We are sponsibility is an integral part of our own operacommitted to the circular economy that goes tions. Yet, the largest opportunity to generate beyond the current take-make-waste linear phipositive environmental impact comes from losophy and provides us with an alternative of collaboration with customers and the developgrowth without sacrificing natural resources. ment of smart and sustainable packaging solutions. The following two chapters address how The materials used in packaging have a major we work with our responsibility for the environeffect on their functionality and recyclability. ment and the climate. For our solutions, we use Environmental sustainability in product different types of carddevelopment board and plastic The UN estimates that approximately 95 permaterials includcent of the climate impact from food is relating recycled maed to food itself while the packaging accounts terials. We always for approximately five percent of the total promote the material impact. As a packaging provider Schur has the responsibility to offer the right solution to ensure that each product is properly protect“THE SCHUR®SPOON” ed and preserved in the given context. This Schur Pack Denmark a/s has developed a folreduces food waste and this is our biggest dable spoon made 100 percent of carton and contribution to reducing environmental and Schur Technology a/s is developing a machine climate impact. that can fold the spoon and make it ready for consumers. Now, Schur can offer our customWe recognise that packaging which is not ers a solution when the EU-directive banning properly recycled poses an environmental disposable plastic spoons takes effect in 2021. risk when ending up in the oceans, nature or The Schur®Spoon is made from wood fibers, a clogging landfills. Circular economy is wide100 percent renewable source. ly discussed when identifying opportunities Environmental Sustainability 14 most suitable for the given context. Variables In the future, we will continue to strengthen our “Carton trays” such as type of product packaged, functionalicompetencies to be able to provide our customWith the takeover of Emballagegruppen a/s (now Schur Pack ty, disposal requirements and quality standards ers timely and proactive dialogue on sustainable Denmark a/s, Vejle) in 2019, Schur expanded its selection of are always considered. and circular solutions. Therefore, in the beginsustainable solutions with trays of carton. These trays have ning of 2020 we joined the 4evergreen Industry the same properties as trays of plastic and aluminum and We develop our solutions in close cooperation Alliance. The purpose of the alliance, across the they can enter into the process of packing food or other prodwith our customers. Yet, the final decision on fiber-based packaging value chain, is to develop ucts on the same terms. The carton trays have a smaller clidesign and material is always in the hands of sustainable packaging solutions, to support posmate impact and their CO² emissions are lower during their life cycle. They consist of 90 percent wood fibers that come our customer. As the packaging specialist, it is itive changes in circular recycling economy and from sustainable Scandinavian forests and are renewable. our responsibility to advise on the circular econminimise environmental impact of packaging. omy and the most sustainable choice for the specific context. Environmental sustainability in own operations We acknowledge the environmental and climate related risks of our own operations, which mainly relate to consumption of energy, materials and water as well as “Schur Pack Egg Sleeve® Concept and Schur Avant” generation of waste (appenA solution with 100 percent renewable fibers dix 1 provides a full over Schur Pack Sweden AB was contacted by Thuressons who view). To reduce our enwanted a more sustainable packaging for eggs. Traditionalvironmental footprint, we ly, eggs in Sweden are standing in a carton tray covered by focus on these areas on a plastic film. Thuressons wanted a solution totally free from daily basis. disposable plastic. Schur Pack Sweden AB developed the Egg Sleeve Concept made from carton only and able to hold 20 30 eggs a soluWhere relevant, our comtion that is made from a renewable source and that is recyclapanies are ISO 14001 and ble. Schur Technology a/s in Denmark developed the Schur 50001 certified and work Avant machine that can manage the packaging of fresh eggs systematcally with environmental in the carton packaging. management. Our commitment to environmental and climate reponsibility is Environmental Sustainability 15 addressed in our Sustainable Schur Policy. laboration as an official climate partner with We address our environmental impact at the leading energy provider Ørsted. Efforts have Schur companies through our due diligence focused on re-insulation, more energy-efficiprocesses. ent heating and ventilation systems as well as more energy-efficient production facilities and employee behaviour. ISO Certifications ISO 14001 specifies the requirements for an During 2018/19 we have bought 5,000 MWH environmental management system that an REC Certified electricity from windmills, which organisation can use to enhance its environis equivalent to 2/3 of the overall consumption mental performance. ISO 50001 is a model in our Danish companies. for an energy management system, which helps organisations use energy more efficiently and leads the way for continual imEnergy consumption CO² emissions provement. Danish companies  Emissions from travels T CO²  Average kilo CO²  Indirect Emissions T CO² per sold Ton Target Reduce the total energy spending packaging across all Danish companies by 40 percent by 14000 250 Energy efficiency & carbon emissions 2021 compared to the level from 2011/2012. During the past years we have continued our Target reached. 12000 200 energy optimisation efforts to reduce the 10000 amount of energy used in our companies. EnAll companies ergy efficiency is regarded in conjunction with Change in absolute energy consumption 8000 150 renovations, installations and constructions since 2011/12: Heating -7 percent. Electricity 6000 of buildings and production equipment. Our + 21 percent due to increased production and 100 efforts have resulted in a decrease in relative new companies. 4000 energy consumption. 50 All companies 2000 At our Danish companies we have achieved Change in relative energy consumption since 0 0 energy savings by 40 percent compared to the 2011/12: Heating per sold ton -46 percent. 2011/12 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 benchmark year 2011 through our long colElectricity per sold ton -27 percent. Environmental Sustainability 16 Electricity consumption Heating consumption  Total electricity (Mwh)  Electricity (Mwh) per sold Ton Total  Heating (Mwh) packaging  oil (Mwh) per sold  other heating (Mwh) Ton packaging 28000 0.4  gas (Mwh) 27000 12000 0,3 0.3 26000 10000 25000 0.2 8000 0,2 24000 6000 23000 0.1 4000 0,1 22000 2000 21000 0 0 0 2011/12 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2011/12 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 We have set an ambitious target to continue resuring today. This includes emissions from “Factory in Germany built to be energy-efficient” ducing our CO² emissions and aim for carbon company cars and business flights and indiAt Schur Pack Germany GmbH more than half of the enerneutrality by 2030. We start with scope 1 (own rect emissions from purchased electricity and gy consumption comes from sustainable sources: 10-15 activities) and 2 (indirect impacts from own heating. To decrease our climate impact, we percent from solar cells on the roof of the factory buildings. consumption and purchased energy) plus part purchase Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) 100 percent of the heating in the production area come from of scope 3 (indirect impacts from business from windmills. burning wooden pallets that have been used for materials travels) as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Proand products. tocol. Over time we will work further towards CO² EMISSIONS more indirect impacts, for example from our Target Carbon neutrality in 2030. supply chain (scope 3). However, these indirect Change in emissions. In 2019 our total misimpacts are not included in our climate target sions were -6.857 Tons CO². That shows alfor 2030. most a halving compared to the baseline year 2011/12. Our level of average CO² per sold We already measure some of our CO² emisTons has decreased by 30 percent since 2011 sions related to our business activities (scope 2012. The reductions are due to vast energy 1, 2 and 3). The graph on the previous page efficiency measures. shows the CO²-emissions that we are meaEnvironmental Sustainability 17 30 % Share of waste from 25 % production processes 20 % 15 % Minimising waste 10 % Our goal is to store, handle and dispose of waste Activities 2018/2019 in an environmentally responsible way. All our 5% companies have comprehensive waste han• All Danish companies converted to district heating dling systems in place. We ensure that the ma• A strategic decision on a focused and targeted effort to 0% reduce CO2 emissions globally was taken terials we cannot reuse ourselves are sorted and 2011/12 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 • The Board approved a new Code of Conduct for responsisent for relevant reuse or recycling to the largest  Carton and paper ble business partnerships, including expectations regardpossible extent. Due to the nature of the proing environmental responsibility duction process we experience approximately  Film / plast • We established grievance channels for employees and 15-20 percent waste solely from our production third parties covering environmental and climate concerns processes. This is mainly made up by cardboard • We took the strategic decision to work for the UN Sustainaand plastic waste from the cutting process. In ble Development Goals (SDG) 7 Clean Energy and 12 Readdition, waste is generated from film and plasWater consumption sponsible Consumption and Production tic used during transportation and metal and Our carton companies mainly use water for electronic waste from redundant machinery. osmosis and in printing machines installaPlanned activities 2019/2020 tions to keep the carton moist. At other com• We will continue to focus on energy efficiency in our comWe have chosen to pay special attention to the panies, water is mainly used for cooling and panies outside of Denmark generated waste levels of carton and paper as cleaning of our machines. Our focus lies on • A new policy for the use of work-related cars was implewell as film and plastic. Our target is to achieve identifying new water efficiency initiatives that mented in January 2020 to optimise environmentally a level of waste percentages under 20 percent will reduce the water consumption primarily in friendly car use. The target is that all company cars must for film and plastic and 15 percent for carton the carton plants. be hybrid/electric by 2030 • Action plan to reduce CO2 emissions will be developed waste by 2021. In 2019 we reached the target • Action plan for Schur’s strategic SDG work will be devefor film and plastic waste. We continued to Our target is to reduce water consumption by loped, including circular economy initiatives decease the level of carton and paper waste 20 percent by 2021 compared to the level of • Schur’s system for responsible business partnerships will but are still on a level of 17.1 percent and have 2011-12. In 2019, the total amount of water be implemented to ensure that suppliers live up to global some more way to go to reach our target. The used grew from the previous years and was principles regarding environmental responsibility decline in waste percentage can mainly be at19,974 m3. This can mainly be explained by • An Employee Code of Conduct covering environmental contributed to optimisation of production processgrowing production volumes. In the short cerns will be launched in 2020 es and modernisation of equipment. term, the relative water consumption has also Environmental Sustainability 18  Total water m³  Water m³ per sold Ton packaging Water consumption thousands 21 0,3 20 19 0,2 18 17 0,1 16 15 14 0 increased. However, compared to the bench2011/12 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 mark level 2011/12, we have managed to decrease the amount of water used per sold ton of packaging by 20 percent. Chemicals We always seek to use the solution with the smallest environmental and health impacts “Utilising waste” when designing our packaging solutions and Escapure flexible bags: Recyclable laminate Schur Labels a/s cooperates with a company specialised in we comply with the REACH requirements and Escapure GmbH is a German pet-food producturning waste from labels into a resource. The glassine paper all applicable laws and regulations. We use a er that has applied the Schur Star Concept for is collected, the silicone coating is removed so that the paper limited amount of hazardous substances in a more automated and effective packaging of can be reused for new paper products. our production. We are committed to keeping pet-food in flexible bags. The many product the use of chemicals at a minimum, as well as varieties are packed into fully recyclable bags ensuring responsible handling and storage of made of a PE/PE laminate. By employment of a special extrusion technique, Schur Star Sys“Compliance in the use of chemicals” the chemicals in our production. tems GmbH, Germany made it possible with Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of a laminated PE structure to achieve the funcTo guarantee the required safety level, we use Chemicals (REACH) is a European legal requirement which tionalities of a PET/PE film. A PET/PE solution an internal system to keep track of all purwould not be recyclable due to layers of difplaces responsibility on companies handling chemicals to manage risks and to provide safety information on the subchased, stored and disposed chemicals at ferent plastics. Escapure GmbH decided to go stances. REACH aims to improve the protection of human our locations. We continuously assess if our for the stand-up bag construction because it is health and the environment through the better and earlier chemical storage complies with regulations convenient in handling and the reclosability preidentification of the intrinsic properties of chemical subon environment and fire hazards and we use serves the product quality and thus eliminates stances. professional external partners to collect and food waste. dispose of used chemicals. Environmental Sustainability 19 6 Social Sustainability Being a responsible company has always been fied in our assessment. Areas deemed most Sickness percentage a question of treating our employees with revital for Schur’s business conduct will be adspect and engaging in partnerships and close dressed on the following pages. cooperation with our business partners.  Salaried employees  Hourly paid employees Consumer health sustainability 5% We respect human rights and support the At Schur, we believe that contributing to coninternationally agreed principles of the UN sumer health is one of our greatest responsi4% Global Compact, including the principles set bilities as a packaging provider. We achieve forth in the International Bill of Human Rights this by delivering high standards and quality in 3% and the International Labour Organisation’s our manufacturing process. We provide pack(ILO) declaration on Fundamental Principles aging solutions that enable a high degree of 2% and Rights at Work. We find all human rights food safety for our customers’ products. This equally important which is why we thoroughly includes material quality, product designs, 1% addressed all 54 possible adverse impact arand hygienic factors in the production proeas on human rights, incl. labour rights withcess. To maintain the high quality and hygiene 0% in our business activities (appendix 1 for full standards, relevant production companies are 2011/12 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 overview). In this process we identified impact BRC certified. This helps us manage and safeareas related to both external and internal guard our operational quality for food safety in stakeholders. These will be addressed in the accordance with industry best practices. following two chapters. rights which has also been underlined in the assessments During 2018/19, we have not received any made in the Schur companies that do printing. Social sustainability related to quality claims related to consumer health. external stakeholders To respect this right, we have initiated the following initiAs a manufacturer and packaging provider Respecting intellectual property rights atives: we naturally have potential impact on human As a packaging producer, we print our custom1. Investigation of terms of sales and delivery to make sure rights in both our upstream and downstream ers’ designs on their packaging. That means that responsibilities regarding authors’ rights are clear. business activities. Consequently, possible that we daily print a wide variety of designs, 2. A new design manual for all PR/information material risk areas related to external stakeholders inpictures, texts and artwork. It should always be made by Schur including a statement on employees’ cluding suppliers and consumers were identian area of awareness for us to respect authors’ responsibility to be aware of authors’ rights. Social Sustainability 20 Working accidents Social sustainability related to our employees Our target is to reduce the number of workSchur is growing, and we currently employ alrelated accidents by 5 percent annually  Number of absence  Number of working most 1,000 people. Our assessments showed (baseline year 2011/12). This also accounts days due to accidents accidents that across our companies, attention areas are for the number of resulting absence days Avg. absence days per accident amongst others: diversity, anti-harassment, per work-related accident. In 2018/19 we 820 40 safe and healthy working conditions, health reached a reduction in the total number of 720 35 and safety, right to privacy and information. accidents of 13 percent compared to the previous year and the number of average ab620 30 In the following sections we will go into detail sence days per accident dropped to 11 and is 520 25 with some of the topics, which received spenow close to our target of 7 days. 420 20 cial attention this year. 320 15 For absence due to illness for salaried employ220 10 Health and safety ees our target is 1.5 percent and we reached 120 5 As a responsible company, we take the health our target for 2018/19. For hourly paid em20 0 and safety of our employees very seriously. To ployees the target is 3 percent and that target 2011/12 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 prevent accidents and injuries we have manis not reached yet. Absence due to illness is datory health and safety guides locally. The one of Schur’s main focus points. The reasons guides are available on our local intranet-sites for illness vary locally and most of our initiaand provides comprehensive information tives are therefore also locally based. These “The BRC-Standard” including in-depth information on handling initiatives include amongst other things nearThe BRC-Standard supports traders and brand owners rechemicals, fire safety and -preparedness, first miss registration, follow-up plans to prevent garding food safety and food quality during the production aid, defibrillators and hygiene. illness developing into long-term illnesses., process. This comprehensive standard covers the following flexible work conditions and psychological aspects: In 2005, Schur introduced ‘Healthy Schur’ with help to reduce stress. • Food safety • Quality management a range of activities to strengthen the health • Environment during the production process of employees with a continuous focus on the Employees’ working conditions • Product and process controls right to safe and healthy work conditions, inWe are committed to creating a good and open • Personnel cluding the mental work environment. work environment for all our employees. To mitigate any misunderstandings related to emSocial Sustainability 21 4% Share of employees per age 4% 13 % group for 2018/19 13 % 32 % 18 % 32 % 18 % 33 % ployment at Schur, we aim to provide clear job dardise efforts for good working conditions 33 % descriptions for necessary functions in sales, for employees and managers. production and quality. Additionally, we ensure that all contracts are written in a clear language Diversity Right to non-discrimination Employees and understood by the employee before signing. At Schur, we value a diverse workforce and Employees  4 % below 25 years  13 % between 25 and 34 years believe that different minds and capabilities  4 %18 below 25 years % between 35 and 44 years  1332% between and 34 years 25 years % above 55 We also continuously work to improve procestrengthen the company culture and perfor 18 33 % between % between andand 35 45 44 54 years years  32 % above 55 years  33 % between 45 and 54 years dures for on-boarding, training and employee mance. We want all our employees to have development. equal opportunities for promotion and development within the organisation. This includes In 2019, a HR Manager for all the Schur comall areas of the employment from recruitment our focus on improving knowledge sharing, customer repanies was employed to strengthen and stanto promotion, employee benefits, dismisslation systems and on-boarding activities in the coming al etc. As a responsible company, we do not years. tolerate any form of discrimination amongst our employees related to for example race, naGender diversity tionality, gender, age, language, political views It is our policy to keep a strong focus on the underrepreActivities 2018/2019 or disabilities. sented gender without compromising the right capabilities • All accidents are registered and some compawhen choosing the best candidate for the job. Our policy nies work to prevent accidents with a targeted Age diversity includes spotting talent who has the desire and abilities to approach to ‘near-misses’. It is our target to have a diverse workforce, pursue a specialist or managerial position. • Offer our employees an annual health check to catch physical and mental symptoms, inalso regarding age. Over the past years, our cluding stress. employees’ age distribution has been rather We aim to continuously increase the share of the un• Track sick days to idenfy if new mitigating acstable. However, as many employees stay derrepresented gender by encouraging and supporting tions are needed. with us for a long time, we have seen an incandidates to continuously improve their skills with the crease in the higher age groups, which we exprospect of promotions. We currently have a share of 19 Planned activities 2019/2020 pect to grow even further in the future. This percent women in our management positions. • Survey of employees’ wellbeing and work satisaligns with the population development in faction is planned. most Western countries. To avoid knowledge The Board of Directors of Schur International Holding a/s depletion when people retire, we will increase currently consists of seven men and one woman. Social Sustainability 22 Number of employees Gender diversity at Schur in 2018/2019 Our objectives are: 1. balance the gender distribution in management to match the distribution among our em950 ployees. 2. To have 33.3 percent of women in the boards of directors. These objectives have been reaffirmed in 2020 with an aim of reaching them over a 4-year period. 900 850 Board of directors Board of directors 800 in parent company all companies 750 13 % 24 % 700 650 600 87 % 76 % 2011/12 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Management all Gender split companies all employees 19 % 23 % Activities 2018/2019 • Initiation of development of common job categories and  Women criteria initiated across the companies to ensure equal  Men 81 % 77 % treatment. • We established a grievance channel for employees including human rights and labour rights. Planned activities 2019/2020 • For the first time, all employees in Denmark are covered by the same Employee Handbook by the 1st of January 2020 to ensure equal working conditions. • Development of Employee Handbooks for companies outside Denmark will start. During 2018/19, one male has left the Board of Across the Schur companies, an explanation • An Employee Code of Conduct covering human rights will Directors without any new replacements to the for not reaching the targets is the low rate of be launched in 2020. For the first time, the company posiBoard. This has changed the percentage of the replacements of employees. tion has been explicitly formulated regarding anti-discriunderrepresented gender from 11 to 13 permination, anti-harassment and equal opportunities cent. Since no women have entered the Board From 2020, a pro-diversity call to potential apamongst other things. of Directors during the financial year, we have plicants will be a fixed part of all job postings not yet met our target. at Schur. Social Sustainability 23 7 Economic Sustainability Our long history is firmly rooted in a tradition transactions, control mechanisms such as secfor orderliness and responsible business pracond party approvals, transaction registers and tices. We are committed to conducting resuperior approvals have been implemented as sponsible business as outlined by the OECD, inherent aspects of our processes. We have a and we expect our business partners to do very limited use of agents and conduct most of the same. Thus, we do not tolerate any form our deals directly with customers and suppliers. of corrupt behaviour. When conducting larger deals with suppliers and in all company acquisitions made in subWe have conducted analysis on corruption sidiaries the headquarter in Denmark is always risks for all companies. As a result, key areas for involved. Cooperation with business partners potential impacts were identified: corruption of is always based on detailed contracts or terms Activities 2018/2019 private counterparts; offering or accepting gifts; and conditions with fixed prices. cronyism and nepotism and clearly defined job • We developed grievance channels for employees and third parties covering anti-corruption duties to prevent conflict of interest. In the folTo align policy throughout all Schur’s com• We have started the development of common job categolowing sections we will go more into detail with panies, the use of gifts and entertainment ries and criteria across Schur to ensure equal treatment some of the identified topics and actions. amongst business relations is limited and gifts and combat conflicts of interest. above a certain value are always approved by This section focuses on business ethics. Fimanagement. Planned activities 2019/2020 nancial information is not disclosed in the • All employees in Denmark are covered by the same Emsustainability report. This information can be Conflict of interest ployee Handbook by the 1st of January 2020 to ensure found in Schur’s annual report. As a family owned company, Schur has a highequal working conditions. er risk of conflict of interest including nepotism. • In 2020, we will implement guidelines on the employment Anti-corruption and bribery Transparency and openness regarding this isof candidates and management of employees who are For Schur, potential risks of bribery could ocsue has always been pursued. When working for related or from the same family. cur in procurement and relations with busiSchur, one should always work in the interest of • An Employee Code of Conduct including the topics of ness partners. the company as opposed to personal interest. conflicts of interest and anti-corruption will be launched in 2020 with a clear statement of Schur’s approach toAt Schur, we work to prevent corruption in all wards corruption. its forms. To prevent misconduct in economic Economic Sustainability 24 25 8 Sustainability key figures 2011/12 KPI Baseline year 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 ACCOUNTING PRACTICE Energy, Mwh Gas (heating) 5,139 3,041 3,837 3,381 Gas consumption is based on invoices or information provided by the supplier. It is collected annually for all companies Other (heating) 3,771 4,467 4,969 6,469 Heating is based on invoices or information provided by the supplier. It is collected annually for all companies Oil (heating) 1,851 90 150 200 Oil consumption is based on invoices or information provided by the supplier. It is collected annually for all companies Heating total 10,761 7,598 8,957 10,050 The total of heating from gas, oil and other sources Electricity Total 22,555 25,329 26,163 27,202 Electricity consumption is based on invoices or information provided by the supplier. It is collected annually for all companies Heating MWh per 0.187 0.087 0.101 0.101 Heating divided by sold tons in packaging companies (carton, flexibles) sold Ton packaging Electricity MWh per 0.415 0.323 0.327 0.303 Electricity divided by sold tons in packaging companies (carton, flexibles) sold Ton packaging Emissions, CO² Flights, Tons CO² 410 845 470 642 CO² emissions from flights are derived from flight tickets from business travels Cars, Tons CO² 588 613 549 599 Employees’use of cars for business. Until now, emissions have been calculated based on standard figures, but from this financial year the emissions have been calculated as actual when possible. This explains the rise in total emissions from cars in 2018/19 Cars, g CO²/km 188 146 146 162 Indirect Tons 11,259 13,097 12,466 5,616 Calculated from the use of electricity and heating in production. Sources for emission factors: Trefor, Energinet, Ørsted. CO² total Average kilo indirect CO² per sold Ton 206 164.97 153.81 61.35 Indirect CO² divided by produced tons in packaging companies (carton, flexibles) Waste, pct. Film/plastic 29.7 17.70 17.22 17.10 Waste of film/plastic for flexible companies is defined as the difference between the kilograms that come into the production and kilograms produced. Therefore, the waste percentage also includes failed productions Carton and paper 18.6 18.11 20.43 19.64 Waste of carton and paper for carton companies is defined as the difference between the kilograms that come into the production and kilograms produced. Therefore, the waste percentage also includes failed productions and waste from cutting the material. Water, M3 Water 14,433 16,647 17,112 19,974 Water consumption is based on invoices or information provided by the supplier. It is collected annually for all companies Water per sold ton, 0.255 0.190 0.190 0.203 packaging comp. Sustainability key figures 26 2011/12 KPI Baseline year 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 ACCOUNTING PRACTICE Working environment Salaried, sick 1.6 1.70 1.78 1.49 For both salaried and hourly paid sick days/hours are defined as sick days/hours excluding long-term illness. For percentage salaried you should use the following rules for counting sick days: illness 1-4.5 hours should be registered as half a sick day, and illness 4.5 hours and above should be registered as one sick day Hourly paid, sick 4.5 4.22 4.57 4.66 For both salaried and hourly paid sick days/hours are defined as sick days/hours excluding long-term illness percentage Number of 21 35 34 30 Total number of accidents that have resulted in more than one sick day following the day of the accident working accidents Number of absence 132 466 717 326 Absence days include both monthly and hourly paid employees. The number is excluding long-term illness days due to accidents Avg. absence days 6 13 21 11 Total number of absence days due to illness divided by the total number of accidents resulting in one or more sick days per accident Employees Number of employees 680 807 813 939 Includes hourly paid and salaried employees. Figures are calculated based on average full-time employees Employees below 25 years pct. 4 5 5 4 btw 25 and 34 years pct. 14 12 13 13 btw 35 and 44 years pct. 23 20 20 18 btw 45 and 54 years pct. 36 36 35 33 above 55 years pct. 23 27 27 32 Diversity, pct. Share of women 19 21 21 23 All employees employees Share of women 13 18 19 19 Management is defined as the director who has people directly referring to him/her. Locally those can include in management directors, managers and specialists Share of women in 9 27 23 24 Boards across all companies boards or directors group Share of women in board 11 11 11 13 The number of board members elected on general meetings of directors, parent comp. In August 2019, Schur acquired Emballagegruppen A/S and Dan Labels A/S (now Schur Pack Denmark a/s, Vejle and Schur Labels a/s) and the KPI results for 2018/19 include data from these companies from Augto the end of Schur’s financial year, 31 Oct. 2019. Sustainability key figures 27 9 Appendix 1 Results of impact analysis The 8 companies within Schur’s core business of the potential impacts in the scheme are a re-analysed regularly with a maximum of three-year interhad impact analysis conducted during 2017result of the business area. For example, carvals. If the same impact reoccurs in the second analysis it 19 covering potential impacts/risks in all the ton packaging companies have a production might be defined as an actual impact. areas where a company can potentially have process where more water usage is required negative impacts (formulation of areas based than in the other production companies. A company can have three levels of potential impacts deon UN Global Compact Principles, OECD and Other impacts are country specific. For exampending on how direct the impact is: 1. cause (the comUNGP): 54 human rights areas, 20 environple, it is not a risk in our German companies pany causes the impact), 2. contribute to (the company’s mental areas and 12 anti-corruption areas. that employees do not receive equal pay for actions have an impact in combination with a third party’s equal work because salary levels are regulatactions) and 3. have relation to (the company is associat1. Schur Pack Denmark a/s ed as tariffs. In all other companies, salaries ed with a third party who can have an impact). 2. Schur International a/s are not fixed and therefore the companies 3. Schur Technology a/s should always be aware of ensuring equal pay Severe human rights’ impact are defined by the UNGP 4. Schur Pack Sweden AB, Sweden for equal work. In some areas, all of our comscale of the impact: Scale/gravity, scope/the number of in5. Schur Pack Germany GmbH, Germany panies have potential impacts – for example dividuals potentially affected or its irremediable character. 6. Schur Star Systems GmbH, Germany on all forms of discrimination. The reason is 7. Schur Star Systems, Inc., USA that any company that has employees and Identification of areas with significant, material or severe 8. Schur Star Systems Australia Pty. Ltd. other stakeholders always is in risk of discrimimpacts will guide Schur’s choice of focus areas in the ination and it is something that any company years to come at both corporate and individual company In November 2019, Emballagegruppen a/s should always be aware of. These kinds of level. (now Schur Pack Denmark a/s, Vejle) and Dan impacts in Schur should be dealt with at corLabels a/s (now Schur Labels a/s) became porate level. Yet other impacts are specific for In all areas where potential impacts have been identified, part of Schur. They will be included in the due the individual company due to its specific cirpreventive actions have been defined. Some actions were diligence process in 2020. cumstances, management, practice or other already under implementation and others have been initifactors. ated as a result of the identified risk in the due diligence A business will always have potential impacts process. These actions will be implemented in the coming on people involved and the environment. Below you find the complete overview of idenyears. Some of the preventive actions happen at corpoSchur does not have more or fewer impacts tified impact areas. The first time an impact rate level while others at the individual company level. than other companies in the sector. But we analysis is done, all the company’s impacts have a system to manage the impacts. Some are identified as potential. Companies will be Appendix 1 Results of impact analysis 28 Number of companies with potential impacts in 20 environmental areas Number of companies with potential impacts in 12 anti-corruption areas (Total of 8 companies) (Total of 8 companies) Water consumption 3 Energy use 8 Raw materials 8 Use of chemicals 7 Ozone deInaccurate books and records (including data on income from the past five pleting substances 0 Handling and transportation of dangerous substances 7 Surface or years) 0 ground water emissions 0 Air emissions 1 Noise emissions 2 Odour emissions 0 Dust emissions 0 Soil emissions 0 Biodiversity 0 Animal welfare 0 Waste management solid Bribes to corruption of public officials (including both ‘active’ and ‘passive’ waste 7 Waste management water 6 Waste management hazardous substances 7 Food corruption also called ‘extortion/’solicitation’) 0 waste 7 New environmentally friendly technologies 7 Diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 0 Bribes to or corruption of private counterparts (including both ‘active’ and ‘passive’ corruption also called ‘extortion’/ ‘solicitation’) 8 Trading in influence in relation to business partners, government officials Number of companies with potential impacts in 54 human rights areas incl labour rights or employees 0 (Total of 8 companies) Bribes, corruption or trading in influence through the use of intermediaries 1 Indegenous peoples’ rights 6 Discrimination race 8 Discrimination gender 8 Discrimination age 8 Discrimination language 8 Discrimination handicaps 8 The right to work: contract Use of facilitation payments, unless you are subject to threat or other 8 The right to work: training 8 The right to work: termination 8 Equal pay for equal work coercion 0 6 The right to a living wage 0 Safe and healthy working conditions 8 Equal opportunities for everyone to be promoted 8 Rest, leisure and paid holidays 8 Form and join a trade union Political contributions, charitable donations and sponsorships in expectations and strike 6 Social security including social insurance 6 Protection of mothers before and of undue advantages 0 after childbirth 8 Childrens’ right to be free from child labour 0 Adequate food and its fair distribution 0 Adequate clothing 5* Adequate housing 0 Water and sanitation 0 Right Hiring government employees whose jobs conflict with obligations of to education 0 Right to take part in cultural life 0 Benefit from scientific progress 0 Right employees 0 to health 7 Material gains from inventions 7 Moral rights of authors 8 Right to life 0 Not Offering or accepting gifts beyond stated value (approvals) 8 to be subjected to torture, cruel, inhuman and/or degrading treatment or punishment 8 The right to free, prior and informed consent to medical or scientific experimentation 0 Slavery, Cronyism and nepotism 8 servitude or forced labor 0 Liberty and security of a person 0 Detained persons to human treatment 0 Not to be subjected to imprisonment for an inability to fulfil a contract 0 Right Permitting or participating in money laundering 0 to freedom of movement 0 The right of aliens to due process when facing expulsion (seeking Clearly define job duties based on skills, qualifications and experience 8 asylum) 0 Right to a fair trial 0 To be free from retroactive criminal law 0 Recognition as a person before the law 0 Right to privacy 8 Freedom of thought, conscience and religion 0 Freedom of opinion 0 Freedom of expression 8 Freedom of information 8 Freedom from war propaganda 0 Freedom from incitement of racial, religious or national hatred 1 Freedom of peaceful assembly 0 Freedom of association 0 Protection of the family and the right to marry 0 Right to protection of the child and the right to aquire a nationality 0 Participate in public affairs 0 The right to equality before the law, equal protection of the law, and rights of non-discrimination 0 The rights of minorities (culture, religious practice and language) 8 *In the production companies (7 out of 8 companies) it is obligatory to wear work clothes. During the period of analysing impacts in the companies, it was decided to see the risk of not supplying adequate work clothes for employees a potential impact. This was not the case when the 2 first production companies, were analysed but it will be at the time of re-analysing all the companies. Appendix 1 Results of impact analysis 29 10 Appendix 2 The “Sustainable Schur” Policy Who we are Our Commitment ings and actions. We will manage adverse impacts that Schur is a group of international companies. Schur is committed to contributing to social, we may cause or contribute to, or to which we are directly Our main activities are development, producenvironmental and economic sustainable linked through our business relations. If we become aware tion and sales of packing in cartonand flexidevelopment. We will continuously work to of an adverse impact that we cause or contribute to, we ble materials, consumer products in addition prevent or mitigate adverse impacts on the will seek to ensure access to remedy for the affected perto packaging-, production machines, and cominternationally agreed principles for sustainasons or notify the appropriate authorities. plete packaging systems. Schur is based in ble development. In addition, Schur strives to Denmark, Sweden, Germany, France, Australia contribute to environmental sustainability in This Sustainable Schur Policy is reflected in all relevant and the USA. all activities. policies, procedures and guidelines in Schur. In full alignment with our values, we commit Our commitment is built upon internationally Our Contributions to sustainable development. recognised principles for human rights (inWe recognise that our core business may have significant cluding labour rights), environment and animpacts on the environment. We will seek to contribute to “Familializing” our customers! ti-corruption. The principles are all referenced environmental sustainability, wherever possible and viable. Constant care! by the UN Global Compact and the minimum We think before we act! responsibility made operational through the Our Expectations We walk the talk! UN Guiding Principles for Business and HuWe expect all our business relations to meet the minimum man Rights (the UNGPs)/OECD Guidelines for standard for responsible business conduct as outlined by The Scope of our Sustainable Schur Policy Multinational Enterprises (the OECD). the UNGPs/OECD. We acknowledge our responsibility for Schur applies the internationally agreed upon adverse impacts in our value chain and seek to meet this principles for sustainable development refAs premise for our Sustainable Schur policy, responsibility by asking all our business relationships to erenced in the UN Global Compact; i.e. the we commit to respecting the rule of law and meet the globally agreed minimum standard for responprinciples mentioned in The International Bill comply with national regulations, wherever sible business conduct referenced in this policy. This of Human Rights (that includes the principles we operate. expectation is also represented in our Suppliers Code of referenced by the International Labour OrganConduct; an important element in our work to ensure reisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Rights Our commitment will be made operational by sponsible business conduct among our suppliers. and Principles at Work), the Rio Declaration identifying, preventing or mitigating potential on Environment and Development, and the and actual adverse impacts on the internaWe will monitor known risks for severe impacts in our valUN Convention against Corruption. tional principles and communicate our findue chain and require our business relationships to demonAppendix 2 Sustainable Schur 30 strate increased due diligence in relation to such impacts. If our business relationships identify that they cause, contribute or are linked to severe impacts on any of the international principles, they shall immediately notify Schur about this. We invite our stakeholders to contact us directly at: sustainable@schur.com. We expect our employees, and encourage other stakeholders, to call our attention to potential and actual adverse impacts on principles for human rights, the environment and anti-corruption, that Schur may be associated with through our activities, products, services or business relations. We expect our employees to help us live up to our commitment by reflecting this policy in their daily work. Packaging for life Communication and Revisions This policy is developed and approved by the board of directors. Schur has been advised by external CSR experts in the preparation of this policy commitment. The policy is publicly accessible and communicated both internally and externally and to ensure that we maintain focus on respecting principles for human rights, the environment, and anti-corruption, we will go through and if necessary revise this policy on a regular basis. Our policy commitment will be revisited every third year as a minimum. DK-Horsens, September 2017 Schur.com 32
