SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Svizera Europe BV Communication on Progress 2020 SVIZERA EUROPE BV | ANTENNESTRAAT 84 | 1322 AS ALMERE | THE NETHERLANDS | INFO@SVIZERA.ORG | WWW.SVIZERA.ORG SVIZERA EUROPE Social Corporate Responsibility 2020 Almere, may 2019 We are pleased to confirm that Svizera Europe B.V. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. And we also reflects the progress we made over the last year. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, B.R.L. Ploos van Amstel Managing Director This report is available on the UN Global Compact website and the website of Svizera Europe BV. Report period: 2019 Publishing date: May 2020 We Care! 2 SVIZERA EUROPE Social Corporate Responsibility 2020 ABOUT SVIZERA EUROPE BV Svizera Europe started as a leading company in the supply of products for the diagnosis and treatment of Tuberculosis. Nowadays Svizera Europe provides products for the prevention, diagnose and treatment of all infectious diseases and became specialized in the supply of various kits. Svizera also invests in innovative solutions in collaboration with her partners. Svizera Europe has been supplying to the major Non-Governmental Organizations (including UN ), and Ministries of Health all over the world for more than 15 years. Facts: Gender Delivered to important • 22 employees organizations such as: • Age: 18 – 74 years • GDF 41% • UNDP 59% • UNICEF • IUA TLD • MSH Male Female • JSI • UNOPS • PFSCM • PAHO and KNCV. Delivery of Diagnostic Kits to 26 countries Delivery of all product to more than 80 countries We Care! 3 SVIZERA EUROPE Social Corporate Responsibility 2020 HUMAN RIGHTS Svizera Europe BV believes that awareness of social responsibility starts with the individual. The office of Svizera Europe BV is located in the Netherlands. Because we believe that the employees within the company are the most important asset of the company, we have set of rules and guidelines to ensure everybody can work and develop themselves. So they can maintain a healthy work-life balance. Svizera Europe BV complies to all national and international regulations and laws, and will not tolerate any breach with the regulations and laws. To ensure that the human rights are safeguarded at Svizera Europe, the following concrete measurement is made: ✓ There is a confidential counselor where employees can go to when they encounter issues at work with colleagues or management Code of Conduct Svizera Europe BV holds a Code of Conduct. A statement like this is signed by an authorized person and is required as evidence of compliance with this Principle 1: Businesses should support Code of Conduct in their own and respect the protection of company. All employees of Svizera internationally proclaimed human Europe are fully aware of the rights; and Human Rights and Policies. The team respects the human rights and Principle 2:Make sure that they are take all required responsibilities for not complicit in human rights abuses the protection of human rights within the company and their environment. We Care! 4 SVIZERA EUROPE Social Corporate Responsibility 2020 The team of Svizera Europe believes that: ✓ Everybody must be treated with equality and dignity without regard to gender, color, race, place of origin, ancestry, creed, political beliefs, sexual orientation, religion, marital status, disability or age. There is a zero tolerance policy to any form of discrimination. Svizera Europe expects every relation inside and outside Svizera to respect the code of conduct. In addition Svizera Europe will take the company goals on human rights of our suppliers and freight carriers into account during the selection process. If Svizera Europe discovers that one of the employees or business relations is violating the code of conduct, this will lead to termination of the business relationship. 2019: No human incidents regarding human rights were reported. 2020: The compliance with our Code of Conduct will still be included when we audit the suppliers. ➢ 19% customers are signatory to the UN Global Compact ➢ 2,2% suppliers are signatory to the UN Global Compact Svizera Europe strives to spread the Global compact message to our customers and suppliers. With the aim of persuading them to join the Global Compact We Care! 5 SVIZERA EUROPE Social Corporate Responsibility 2020 LABOUR RIGHTS All employees have a fundamental right to a safe and healthy working environment. The working spaces of the employees are up to all relevant Arbo legislation standards in the Netherlands. Svizera Europe BV also have an Inhouse Emergency Response team that can be called upon in case of an accident or other medical related events. As said above social responsibility starts with the individual. Therefore Svizera Europe BV chooses to invest in the well-being and development of our team: ✓ Each year a fund is set for each employee for their personal professional growth ✓ A budget for each Svizera employee for optimizing the personal workplace ✓ Every six weeks an internal and external training program ✓ All the employees are always welcome to express their questions or concerns towards their colleagues or management. The team of Svizera Europe consists of multi ethnic team. Demographics of employees are based on diversity factors as culture, languages and habits. These differences in culture and habitats gives the team of Svizera Europe a wider view of the world. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold Principle 4: the elimination of all the freedom of association and the forms of forced and compulsory effective recognition of the right to labour; collective bargaining; We Care! 6 SVIZERA EUROPE Social Corporate Responsibility 2020 Labour rights with our stakeholders ‘Child labor and forced labor should not be used in any situation. No harsh or inhumane treatment is Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and allowed and no discrimination is practiced. Working conditions are safe, hygienic, working hours are not excessive and living wages are paid.’ Principle 6: the elimination of As a team, as well as a company Svizera Europe discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. strives to spread this message to the companies we are working with. Svizera Europe ensures that we only work with manufacturers and suppliers who act on the same values regarding the labor rights as written in our Code of Conduct. Svizera will not tolerate child labor and forced labor in any situation, not even with our suppliers and manufacturers. Each manufacturer and supplier will be re-evaluated each year. For our own investigation the business relations will be visited. If any violation occurs this will lead to immediate termination of the business relationship. 2019: No human incidents regarding labour rights were reported. 2020: Every six weeks there will be an internal and external training program. During this training programs, the employees can give their feedback regarding the company. We Care! 7 SVIZERA EUROPE Social Corporate Responsibility 2020 ENVIRONMENT Svizera Europe is aware of the impact of their activities on the environment. As a team we do the utmost to optimize our practices to have the most beneficial effect. We strive to ensure that our manufacturers and suppliers will do the same. Waste Management Within the team of Svizera Europe, we manage a paperless office. To ensure that the total waste generated by our company is as lowest as possible, Svizera Europe Principle 7: Businesses should separates all kinds of waste for recycling: support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; ✓ Separate waste collection ✓ Products and materials are reused ✓ Whenever applicable, we donate items which Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to would have gone to waste to ends users promote greater environmental ✓ Use of long-lasting products over disposable responsibility; and ones Svizera Europe holds its own bonded warehouse complete with a quarantine and assembly section. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of Thanks to this facility we have total control over the environmentally friendly packaging and assembly of our products. This enables technologies us to achieve and maintain the highest quality standards and reduction of packaging material. Environmentally neutral building We strives to implement all kinds of modifications that lead to an more environmentally neutral building for example: ✓ The entire office and warehouse are equipped with LED-lightning. ✓ The skylights in the warehouse are covered with Redusol. This is a protective layer which reflects a high level of sun light. ✓ Free air cooling in the warehouse. We Care! 8 SVIZERA EUROPE Social Corporate Responsibility 2020 Environment and our stakeholders ✓ Svizera Europe strives to choose for the most innovative way for the shipment of our goods. ✓ When possible we choose suppliers and manufacturers close to our premises. ✓ The environmental policies of our freight carriers and suppliers will be taken into account during the selection process and request our suppliers for commitment to this Code of Conduct. ✓ We also encourage our employees to use the bike instead of the car when traveling to work. At Svizera, employees are reimbursed for travel expenses if they go by bike, they receive this in the form of a “bicycle plan”. This is a plan in which an employee is reimbursed a bicycle to encourage cycling. The Dutch government encouraged this way of commuting and financially support companies that applies this arrangement ✓ Solar panels are installed on the roof of the plot of Svizera Labs in India. This is a joint venture construction. We Care! 9 SVIZERA EUROPE Social Corporate Responsibility 2020 Sustainable solutions Our goal for the upcoming years is to continuous developing our new line of products which contribute to a better society and environment. Providing a solution to societal problems. For example solar and water solutions. It is our aim to find alternative sources of energy that are environmentally and economical friendly that will contribute and improve the quality of life in rural areas. In addition to our research on sustainable solutions, Svizera is developing a new line of products which contribute to a better society and environment and provide a solution to societal problems. The sustainable solutions Svizera is developing: ✓ Developing and supplying our Solar Power Supply Kit ✓ Developing and renewing our Water Solutions Kit 2019: No human incidents regarding the environment were reported 2020: We strive to keep on reducing and recycling our waste. And will always search for the for the most innovative and sustainable way for the shipment of our goods. We Care! 10 SVIZERA EUROPE Social Corporate Responsibility 2020 ANTI-CORRUPTION Fraudulent and corrupt practices will by no means be tolerated by Svizera Europe. We will not accept Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its any gifts and/or benefits from anyone with whom forms, including extortion and we’re doing business with. Services, gifts and bribery payments to any employee or agent are illegal under anti-corruption law. In addition, Svizera Europe has a zero-tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion: ✓ Employees are not allowed to except any personal gifts. Receipt of packages in the warehouse of Svizera Europe will always be attended by two persons. ✓ All mailboxes within Svizera Europe are also accessible by a ghost reader and are for that reason monitored. The bank account of Svizera Europe is double handed and monitored by a third person. With all agents there are agency agreements in place with incorporated the ethical code. ✓ Employees are not allowed to store any information on a local hard drive, all information is stores on the server and accessible for a limited group of persons. ✓ Svizera Europe is a known sender and has an AEO security and safety, the employees are trained to recognize risks. Svizera works together with other organizations to share information or carry out joint actions to discover corruption if any. Any form of corruption by Svizera employees or external relations will 2019: No human incidents lead to immediate ending of the regarding corruption were reported. relationship. We have yearly audits, 2020: The compliance with our from our ISO, GMP, our accountants Code of Conduct will be included and from key NGO customers. when we audit the suppliers. We Care! 11 SVIZERA EUROPE Social Corporate Responsibility 2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Local and global communities Alongside the investment in their own team, Svizera Europe finances a school project for children in Rwanda and provides scholarships for students. This in cooperation with the non-profit organization Omega Ministries. Together we strive for better future for the children and young adults in Rwanda. Education is also a key part for the awareness of the human rights. Svizera Europe also contributes to the local community by participation on small as large (charity) project: ✓ Like playing recycle-Bingo at the local nursing home and reuse the small company gifts as prizes. ✓ Helping with chores and Christmas decorations at the local nursing home ✓ Participating as a team to clean our environment for example cleaning the water canals (plastic soup) ✓ We also made a website against the plastic soup. On this website interested parties can find information and tips about how to reduce and reuse plastic at a sustainable way. Schools can use this for (art) projects. ✓ Participating in the initiative of the City Almere (Floriade) to achieve a city with full recycling of all garbage in 2022 and already reduce the packaging material, to reduce garbage and high volumes during transportation. 2019: In 2019 we helped with the Christmas decoration at the local nursing home. 2020: This year we will keep on financing the school project for children in Rwanda and provide scholarships for students. In addition to our annual help at the nursing home, we also want to orientate at other local charity project(s). In 2020 start with the preparation for our participation at the City Almere Floriade. We Care! 12 SVIZERA EUROPE Social Corporate Responsibility 2020 Contact Svizera Europe is always in search for a better environment worldwide. We believe that awareness of social responsibility starts with the individual. But we also know that when you put your strength together you are able to achieve more. Therefore Svizera Europe is inviting you to share your thoughts and ideas, to optimize our practices and to have the most beneficial effect. You are more than welcome to contact us. Contact: Marketing and Communication Manager Jenay Glas: glas@svizera.org Quality Manager Anuschka Ploos van Amstel: qm@svizera.org Address: Svizera Europe BV Antennestraat 84 1322 AS Almere The Netherlands Phone: (+31) 36 539 73 40 Fax: (+31) 36 539 73 49 We Care! 13 SVIZERA EUROPE Social Corporate Responsibility 2020 APPENDIX 1: LETTER OF COMMITMENT We Care! 14
