2. Ternium Contents 4 About Ternium's Reporting 7 The Company 14 Chairman's Letter 19 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation 22 Delivering Ternium's Business Strategy 38 Improving Our Safety Performance 46 Minimizing Ternium's Environmental Footprint 56 Realizing People's Full Potential 66 Strengthening of Ternium's Value Chain 70 Helping Our Communities Thrive 79 Commitment to Integrity 89 GRI and UN Global Compact Information Ternium S.A. (the “Company”) is a Luxembourg company and The financial and operational information contained in this its American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, are listed on the report is based on Ternium’s operational data and on the TX New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: TX). We refer to Ternium LISTED Company’s consolidated financial statements, which were S.A. and its consolidated subsidiaries as “we,” “our” NYSE prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations or “Ternium.” as issued by the IASB and adopted by the European Union and presented in U.S. dollars ($) and metric tons. 3. Sustainability Report 2019 About Ternium's Reporting ' Ternium's 2019 Sustainability Report This report intends to be an integral discussion of Ternium's progress towards achieving its objectives in a sustainable way. It has been prepared taking into account the guidelines established by worldsteel, the UN Global Compact and the Global Reporting Initiative. Ternium's Sources of Corporate Information Annual Report Consolidated Sustainability Ternium.com on Form 20-F Management Report Report Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines has carried out a Materiality Analysis according to the Ternium's Sustainability Report for the year 2019 GRI four-step process. The result of this analysis has follows the GRI standard core option of the reporting been included on page 90, by means of a materiality levels. matrix that ranks relevant economic, environmental and social topics according to their influence on In order to comply with this standard, Ternium has stakeholders' assessments and decisions, and according assessed its sustainability report in light of the GRI to their significance to Ternium. The GRI standards principles of Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability that Ternium has selected to fulfill, in accordance with Context, Materiality and Completeness. The company the reporting requirements of those topics, have been 4. Ternium included in the GRI Index on pages 92 to 94 of this Forward looking Statements sustainability report. The historical data related to This sustainability report contains “forward-looking these standards, as well as other historical data, has statements”, including with respect to certain of our been included on pages 95 to 101 of this sustainability plans and current goals and expectations relating to report. Ternium’s future financial condition and performance, which are provided to allow potential investors the UN Global Compact Initiative opportunity to understand management’s beliefs and In 2019, Ternium joined the UN Global Compact opinions in respect of the future so that they may use Initiative with a commitment to integrate its principles such beliefs and opinions as one factor in evaluating an into the company's strategy, culture and day-to-day investment in Ternium’s securities. All forward-looking operations. Ternium has engaged in collaborative statements are based on management’s present projects to advance the broader development goals of expectations of future events and are subject to a the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable number of factors and uncertainties that may cause Development Goals (SDGs). The company's actual results, performance or events to differ contribution to the UN Global Compact SDGs is materially from those expressed or implied by those reported throughout the document and has been statements. By their nature, certain disclosures relating indexed on page 102 of this sustainability report. to these expectations are only estimates and could be materially different from what actually occurs in the New Ternium.com future. As a result, actual future gains or losses that In September 2019, Ternium launched a new corporate may affect Ternium’s financial condition and results of website with a new approach to interact with its operations could differ materially from those that have stakeholders. The company has established different been estimated. You should not place undue reliance on goals for this project: the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this sustainability report. Except as required Firstly, to increase the importance of the website as a by law, we are not under any obligation, and expressly go-to resource for current and potential customers, disclaim any obligation, to update or alter any forwardencouraging them to engage with Ternium’s wide range looking statements, whether as a result of changes of of products and solutions. As a company that operates circumstances or management’s estimates or opinions, in various countries, Ternium.com aims to link new information, future events or otherwise. customers to its local commercial contacts while keeping a seamless brand vision, through new relevant Risk factors and localized content supported by cutting-edge easyFor a detailed description of Ternium’s main risk to-use navigation tools. factors, please see the section Risk Factors included in the Company's annual report on form 20-F for the Secondly, to improve the navigation experience of the year ended December 31, 2019. investor relations section with the addition of new trends in design and functionality. The new features These risks include but are not limited to risks relating facilitate access to corporate messages and reports, and to the steel industry and mining activities, risks relating the new resources enhance interactions with the to countries in which Ternium operates, risks relating company. to our business, including uncertainties as to gross domestic product, related market demand, global Thirdly, as a leading steel manufacturer, Ternium.com production capacity, tariffs, cyclicality in the industries has been conceived as a relevant means of that purchase steel products, risks relating to the communication to raise awareness on the role that steel Company’s structure and regulatory risks, as well as plays today and will play in the future, as we build an other factors beyond Ternium’s control. increasingly sustainable society. 5. Sustainability Report 2019 6. Ternium The Company Ternium is Latin America’s leading flat steel producer. We operate manufacturing facilities, service centers and distribution centers in several countries in the region and the southern United States, serving customers from various industries. $10.2 BILLION 12.5 MILLION TONS 20,000 EMPLOYEES ANNUAL NET SALES OF FINISHED AND OF 27 NATIONALITIES. OF STEEL AND SEMI-FINISHED OTHER PRODUCTS. STEEL SHIPMENTS. 7. Sustainability Report 2019 The Company worldsteel Sustainable Champion. In 2019, Ternium was honored with this recognition for the second consecutive year for its contribution to sustainability initiatives and reporting. Profile Ternium is Latin America’s leading flat steel producer Ternium's innovative culture, industrial expertise and with an annual crude steel production capacity of 12.4 long-term view enable the company to continuously million tons. It operates in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, achieve new breakthroughs in industrial excellence, Colombia, the southern United States and Central competitiveness and customer service. Ternium is the America through regional manufacturing facilities, service leading supplier of flat steel products in Mexico and centers and its own distribution network. In addition, Argentina, has a significant position as supplier of steel Ternium participates in the control group of Usiminas, a products in Colombia and in other Latin American leading flat steel company in the Brazilian market. coumtries, and is a competitive player in the international steel market for steel products. The company's customers range from small businesses to large global companies in the automotive, home Through its network of commercial offices in several appliances, heat, ventilation and air conditioning countries in Latin America, the United States and (HVAC), construction, capital goods, container, food and Europe, Ternium maintains an international presence energy industries across the Americas. Ternium’s that allows it to reach customers outside its local industrial system has various production technologies that markets, achieves improved effectiveness in the supply provide a diversified cost structure, based on different of products and in the procurement of semi-finished types of raw material and energy sources, and a flexible steel, and maintains a fluent commercial relationship production configuration. The industrial system includes with its customers by providing continuous services and proprietary iron ore mines and processing facilities, assistance. steelmaking facilities, finishing facilities, service centers and a broad distribution network to offer slabs, billets, We operate with a broad and long-term perspective, and hot-rolled products, cold-rolled products, galvanized and we work towards improving the quality of life of our electro-galvanized sheets, pre-painted sheets, tinplate, employees, their families and the company's local welded pipes, rebars and wire rods as well as slit and cutcommunities. to-length products. 8. Ternium A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation • Quest for excellence in industrial management and technology • Focus on differentiation through sophisticated products and services • Proactive approach to environment, health and safety • Recruitment, training, and retention of talent • Fostering of steel value chain • Deep ties with our communities • Commitment to integrity Environment, Health and Safety confidential channels to report all types of alleged We devote significant resources to environment, and breaches of the Code of Conduct and its principles. occupational health and safety (EHS), as we believe they are key to our long-term sustainability. We have Communities standardized EHS management systems. Our employees We believe that having deep ties with Ternium's are well trained in EHS and our management is communities is also fundamental to the company's longaccountable for EHS performance. Ternium's term sustainability. We are having a significant positive occupational health and safety system is certified under impact on Ternium's communities, both from a human OHSAS 18001, and its environment and energy system is perspective as well as in terms of economic certified under ISO 14001 and ISO 50001. The company development. We work together with local institutions regularly invests in state-of-the-art technologies to reduce to enhance the communities' education and welfare. We its environmental footprint and minimize safety risks. provide scholarships, internships, teachers' training and infrastructure funding. We also organize and fund Integrity volunteering programs and health prevention We believe integrity is key to Ternium's long term campaigns, and sponsor sports, social and arts events. sustainability. The Company’s Board has an Audit Committee solely composed of independent directors and Steel Industry Value Chain an Internal Audit Department, which reports to the We support approximately 1,800 small and medium-sized Chairman of the Board and, with respect to internal enterprises (SMEs), customers and suppliers through our control over financial reporting, to the Audit Committee ProPymes program to strengthen the steel value chain in and meets organizational independence and objectivity our markets. ProPymes provides training, industrial and standards. Ternium has a Business Conduct Compliance Officer reporting to the CEO and a compliance business consultancy, institutional assistance, commercial department that oversees SOX certifications and related support and financial aid. The program plays an active party transactions. The company's employees are trained role at universities, business schools, government agencies and accountable for ensuring a transparent behavior. and industrial associations. ProPymes has helped create Ternium has established different policies, codes and an industrial network that encourages the procedures for this purpose. In addition, it has professionalization and quest for excellence of SMEs. 9. Sustainability Report 2019 10. Ternium Ternium's manufacturing facilities, service centers and distribution centers are located in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, the southern United States, Guatemala and other Central American countries. The company's mining operations are located in Mexico. 01. Shreveport 22. Puebla 43. Bucaramanga 02. Monclova 23. Veracruz 44. Bogotá 03. Baja California 24. Tuxtla 45. Manizales 04. Chihuahua 25. Villahermosa 46. Cali 05. Culiacán 26. Mérida 47. Río de Janeiro 06. Guerrero* 27. Petén 48. Rosario 07. Pesquería 28. Teculután 49. San Nicolás 08. Universidad 29. Cobán 50. Serviacero III 09. Churubusco* 30. Huehuetenango 51. Sidercrom 10. Apodaca 31. Villa Nueva* 52. Haedo* 11. Juventud* 32. Quetzaltenango 53. Canning* 12. Edificios Metálicos 33. Occidente 54. Florencio Varela* 13. Apodaca Industrial 34. Norte 55. Ensenada 14. Apodaca Comercial 35. Juitapa 15. Norte 36. San Salvador 16. San Luis 37. Managua 17. Guadalajara 38. San José 18. Las Encimas 39. Barranquilla 19. Peña Colorada 40. Montería 20. León 41. Medellín 21. México 42. Itagüí (*) Includes service or distribution centers FACILITIES • Steel production and processing • Service or distribution centers • Iron ore mining and processing 11. Sustainability Report 2019 The Company Sophisticated steel products and services. The Mexican automotive sector is the largest in Latin America and the seventh largest worldwide. TERNIUM'S STEEL MARKETS automotive industry, the Mexican home appliance, Ternium's customers range from small businesses to HVAC and lighting manufacturers have also reached a large global companies in the construction and high level of sophistication, requiring innovative and industrial sectors. We report steel shipments under high-end steel products. three geographical regions: Mexico, the Southern Region and Other Markets. Southern Region The Southern Region encompasses the steel markets of Mexico Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay. The The Mexican steel market is the largest in Latin Argentine steel market, the third largest in Latin America. The industrial sector, which in 2019 America, accounts for most of Ternium's shipments in accounted for 53% of Ternium’s total shipments in the this region. country, is the main driver behind an attractive highend steel market segment. Ternium's industrial customer base in Argentina represented approximately 47% of Ternium’s total Ternium's largest industrial customer in Mexico is shipments in the country in 2019. The Argentine the automotive industry. With 3.8 million vehicles automotive industry, the third largest in Latin America, produced in 2019, the local industrial hub is the is part of the value chain within the Mercosur, a largest in Latin America and ranks seventh in the customs union encompassing Argentina, Brazil, world behind China, the US, Japan, Germany, India Uruguay and Paraguay that has eliminated or and South Korea. significantly reduced import duties, tariffs and other trade barriers among member states. The Mexican manufacturing industry is a fundamental part of a complex supply chain within the USMCA, Other relevant industrial sectors in Argentina include and is prepared to supply highly sophisticated products the agro machinery, cans and home appliance for demanding end-user markets. In addition to the manufactures, and the oil & gas sector. 12. Ternium TERNIUM'S STEEL SHIPMENTS BY COUNTRY 2019 Brazil (slab): 11% U.S. (14% slab): 18% Colombia: 4% Other: 3% Argentina: 14% Mexico: 50% High-end steel. An attractive market segment. Other Markets ATTRACTIVE HIGH-END STEEL Ternium’s finished steel customers in the Other MARKET SEGMENTS Markets segment are mainly in the construction and energy-related industries in Colombia, the United States and Central America. Following the acquisition of Ternium Brasil in September 2017, Ternium started 53% PARTICIPATION shipping steel slabs to third party steel companies OF SHIPMENTS TO INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMERS mainly in the United States and Brazil. IN MEXICO. A small share of Ternium’s shipments is destined for 47% steel markets outside the Americas. Sales to Europe, Asia and Africa are carried out mainly through Ternium’s commercial office in Spain. PARTICIPATION OF SHIPMENTS TO INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMERS IN ARGENTINA. 67 MILLION TONS OF STEEL CONSUMED IN LATIN AMERICA IN 2019, MAINLY IN MEXICO, BRAZIL, ARGENTINA AND COLOMBIA. 13. Sustainability Report 2019 14. Ternium Chairman’s Letter Over the past months, the global economy has been deeply affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The measures taken around the world to contain the spread of the virus have resulted in a global crisis, whose speed and severity is unprecedented in recent history. Though, in many parts of the world, businesses are reopening, people are gradually returning to work, and developed country governments have implemented massive economic stimulus programs, the pandemic continues to spread and the recovery from the crisis will take time and hasten change in many fields. Latin America is particularly affected, as its economies were already under stress and the number of affected persons continues to rise. We took prompt action to adjust the company for the crisis and a high level of ongoing uncertainty. To protect our people and assure a safe working environment, we introduced new work protocols including mandatory use of face masks, temperature checks, strict social distancing rules and disinfection policies for company transportation, site entry and common working areas as well as applying work-from-home policies and testing every person showing compatible symptoms and their close contacts. To secure the financial stability of the company, we are making full use of the opportunities we have for industrial integration to optimize production and overhead costs, reducing inventories and working capital and quickly adjusting our operations to the reduction in sales. We are delaying some of our investment projects, pushing out the startups of our new hot rolling mill in Pesqueria, Mexico, and our new rebar mill in Colombia, and thereby reducing our capital expenditure commitments for this year to $600 million from the $850 we had originally planned. We also elected to suspend our annual dividend payment for the 2019 fiscal year. To support our communities, we established and deployed a $5.5 million fund to strengthen local medical response capabilities, using our global procurement network to provide ventilators, intensive care equipment and protective gear as well as constructing and operating a field hospital with 100 beds for the community of Monterrey in Mexico and providing infrastructure and equipment for intensive care units to other hospitals in Ensenada in Argentina and in Rio de Janeiro in Brazil. Our employees have responded with solidarity and purpose in joining these initiatives. At a time like this, the support we provide to our smaller customers and suppliers through the ProPymes program is particularly relevant and we are reinforcing the financial help we provide to members of the program with $8.0 million applied among 125 companies, together with assistance in raising financing from local financial institutions. Our training programs have been reinforced with more webinars and online workshops reaching over 1,200 persons. Equally, as the gradual recovery advances, our Webservice digital integration portal, which is used by our commercial customers to place 80% of their orders, will facilitate safe working practices. As we reflect on our achievements during the past year, this crisis is a reminder of the importance of a long-term management focus that addresses all aspects of the company’s performance and its relations with customers, suppliers, employees and the communities that sustain us. To better report on the actions we carry out on this respect, this year we completely 15. Sustainability Report 2019 Chairman's Letter redesigned our Sustainability Report and strengthened it by using the guidelines established by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), including consultations with our stakeholders to determine material topics to cover. Our operational and financial results in 2019, though down from the outstanding results of the previous year, were solid, with an EBITDA of $1.5 billion on sales of $10.2 billion. Even after investments of $1.1 billion in our expansion program, our free cash flow amounted to $595 million and we ended the year with net debt of $1.5 billion, which has declined further in the year to date. We continue to consolidate our position as a leading Latin American steel producer with a strong focus on serving the industrial and construction sectors. In Mexico, we started up new galvanizing and painting lines expanding our product range for industrial markets, which account for over 50% of our sales in the country. With the recent enactment of the new USMCA agreement confirming a free trade area across North America, the Mexican automotive and industrial sector is well positioned for a post-pandemic recovery. Although we have delayed the planned start-up of our new hot rolling mill in Pesquería until 2021, this new mill will strengthen our competitiveness through further broadening our range of high-end industrial products and allowing further integration of our industrial system by using high quality steel slabs from our mill in Brazil. In times when regional supply chains are being strengthened, the new line will also reinforce our import substitution strategy. At the center of the growing community in Pesquería, Mexico, lies the Roberto Rocca Technical School. Last year, the first cohort of students graduated following three years of study focused on technical education, including industrial apprenticeships. During the annual worldsteel assembly held in Monterrey in October 2019, Ternium received the Steelie Award for “Excellence in Education and Training” based on the achievements of the school and its pupils. Aside from our response to the pandemic, education at all levels remains the focus of our community programs, not only in terms of money spent but also in terms of the design and organization of programs that can contribute to improving the level of education, particularly technical education, and open educational opportunities at all levels in the communities where we operate. Last year marked the 50th anniversary of the origins of the company in the inauguration of a cold rolling mill at Ensenada in Argentina. The construction and start-up of this greenfield plant, carried out by a highly motivated team of young professionals, has shaped the culture and management ethos of the company to this day. Providing a stimulating working environment and effective opportunities for employee training, education and development is a constant focus in our management efforts and critical to maintaining high levels of employee motivation. In August 2019, we inaugurated an in-house corporate university with responsibility for organizing knowledge and training across the company and developing a curriculum with participation from outside universities that provide employees the tools for their own education and development. In 2019, Ternium’s employees had an average of 62 hours of training and 662 employees participated in management development programs. In our most recent pulse survey on employee satisfaction, with an 87% participation rate, 83% of the respondents expressed their satisfaction with Ternium as a place to work. 16. Ternium Safety and minimizing the environmental impact of our operations are paramount in our management focus and routines. In total, we invested $120 million during 2019 in projects aimed at improving our environmental, energy and safety performance by modernizing our facilities. Major investments include those aimed at reducing particulate emissions at our steel shops, significantly improving air quality and working conditions, and reducing water consumption rates in our facilities in Mexico which are located in a region of high water stress. We also advanced with the certification of our energy intensive operations under the new ISO 50001 standard. Now most of our steelmaking, hot rolling and finishing facilities in Brazil, Argentina and Mexico are either certified or under certification. During the year, we revised our health and safety strategy, developing specific practices to prevent situations where our employees or contractors are exposed to severe injury, and establishing safety committees to strengthen the consultation and participation of workers and their representatives on health and safety issues. We are active participants in worldsteel’s climate action initiatives, joining the recent Step Up Program to reduce carbon emissions through benchmarking, and have committed ourselves to the UN Global Compact and to advance its Sustainable Development Goals. In the past five years, we have implemented a number of energy savings initiatives which have yielded an annual reduction of 298,000 tons of carbon emissions. We are also working with industrial gases companies serving the soft drink bottling industry to recycle carbon emissions captured in our production system which should yield further annual savings of 60,000 tons. The challenge of reducing emissions to meet the Paris Agreement commitments is, however, of a different order of magnitude and will require a coordinated response from our industry alongside governments, customers and suppliers. Our ambition is to be at the forefront of our industry’s response to this challenge. As we prepare for the future, we are confident that the company is well positioned to continue a path of sustainable growth as a leading supplier of steel products to the industrial sector in the Americas. Our ongoing investment program, the transformation of our industrial system using Industry 4.0 technologies, and the long-term focus developed since the origins of the company 50 years ago will enhance our competitive position and the sustainability of our operations over the coming years. During these difficult times, I would like to give special thanks to our employees, who are showing exemplary solidarity and resilience. I would also like to thanks our customers, suppliers and investors for their ongoing support. July 20, 2020 Paolo Rocca Chairman 17. Sustainability Report 2019 18. Ternium A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Ternium's value proposition aims to achieve profitable operations on a sustainable basis, through a management approach that comprehends the interests of shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers, as well as of the community. $10.3 BILLION ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED IN 2019 $827 $1.1 $357 MILLION BILLION MILLION EMPLOYEES CAPEX TAXES $7.7 $352 BILLION MILLION SUPPLIERS CAPITAL PROVIDERS $10 $7 MILLION MILLION RESEARCH AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENTS 19. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Value Drivers 20. Ternium Delivering Ternium's Business Realizing People's Strategy Full Potential • Focus on higher margin value-added • Attract and retain talented products. employees. • Pursue strategic growth opportunities. • Promote a culture of excellence • Implement Ternium's best practices. throughout the company. • Maximize the benefits arising from SEE PAGE 56 Ternium's distribution network. • Enhance Ternium's position as a competitive steel producer. Strengthening SEE PAGE 22 Ternium's Value Chain • Promote a collaborative network Improving Our to foster performance excellence. Safety Performance • Help small and medium-sized customers and suppliers grow. • Prevent all work-related injuries and SEE PAGE 66 illnesses, and achieve zero accidents • Promote healthy and safe operations in the steel industry value chain. Helping Our SEE PAGE 38 Communities Thrive • Foster education. Minimizing Ternium's Environmental • Support initiatives that Footprint strengthen our communities. SEE PAGE 70 • Use natural resources responsibly. • Pursue excellence in environmental performance. • Protect biodiversity. SEE PAGE 46 21. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Delivering Ternium's Business Strategy SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 4.4 MILLION TON ANNUAL CAPACITY OF NEW HOT-ROLLING MILL IN MEXICO, WITH EXPECTED START UP IN 2021. Elements of strategy Actions Focus on high-margin value-added products New laboratory, project launch for new research center Research and development of products and processes Pursue strategic growth opportunities New galvanizing and painting lines (start-up in 2019) Progress in the construction of the new hot-rolling mill Progress in the construction of the new steel bar & coil mill Integration and optimization on newly-acquired Rio de Implement Ternium's best practices Janeiro unit Maximize the benefits arising from Ternium's distribution network Full range of products and services On-line purchasing platform (Webservice) Just-in-time and short notice supply agreements Enhance Ternium's position as a competitive steel producer Continuous improvement program Industry 4.0 initiatives 22. Ternium Implementation of best practices. Ternium’s managerial, commercial and production experience generates benefits and savings in acquired new businesses. Ternium's Business Strategy Delivering Ternium's Ternium's main strategic objective is to enhance stakeholder value by further consolidating the Business Strategy company’s position as a leading steel producer in Latin America and a strong player in the Americas, while • New state-of-the-art hotstrengthening its competitiveness. The main elements of dipped galvanizing and this strategy are: painting lines in Mexico. FOCUS ON HIGHER MARGIN VALUE-ADDED PRODUCTS We intend to continue to shift Ternium’s sales mix • New cutting-edge hot-rolling toward higher margin value-added products, such as cold-rolled sheets and coated and tailor-made products, mill in Mexico (2021). and services, such as just-in-time delivery and inventory management. For example, during 2019 Ternium • Integration of the Rio de inaugurated a new hot-dip galvanizing line and a new Janeiro high-end steel mill. painting line, and made progress on the construction of a new state-of-the-art hot-rolling mill at its facility in • Strengthened product research Pesquería, Mexico. and development capabilities. PURSUE STRATEGIC GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES We have a history of strategically growing our • Digital transformation agenda. businesses through acquisitions and joint ventures. In • Continuous improvement plan. addition to pursuing organic growth, we intend to continue to identify and actively pursue growth• Solid financial performance. enhancing strategic opportunities to consolidate Ternium’s presence in its main markets and expand it to the rest of the Americas, increase its integration, 23. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation TOTAL CRUDE1 AND HOT-ROLLED2 STEEL PRODUCTION CAPACITY MILLION TONS PER YEAR. 20.0 68% SLAB CAPACITY INCREASE 15.7 16.0 ON 2017 ACQUISITION. 12.4 12.4 12.0 10.3 10.8 8.0 4.0 7.3 47% HOT-ROLLED COILS CAPACITY EXPANSION 0.0 IN 2021. 2016 2019 2021f n 1 Crude steel: flat steel slabs and long steel billets n 2 Hot-rolled steel: flat steel coils and long steel rods expand its offerings of value-added products, and by combining the demand of products and services by enhance its production and distribution capabilities. both Ternium and our affiliate Tenaris. We pursue this goal through Exiros, a purchase and sale agency which IMPLEMENT TERNIUM’S BEST PRACTICES we own 50/50 with Tenaris. Exiros has offices in various We believe that the implementation of Ternium’s countries and is in charge of the procurement of a managerial, commercial and production best practices majority of our raw materials and other products and in acquired and new facilities and businesses should services. generate benefits and savings. A Significant Expansion of Ternium’s Industrial Capabilities MAXIMIZE THE BENEFITS ARISING FROM TERNIUM’S BROAD DISTRIBUTION NETWORK In September 2017, the company acquired a state-ofWe intend to maximize the benefits from Ternium’s the-art slab facility in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, with an broad distribution, sales and marketing network to annual production capacity of 5 million tons of highreach customers in major steel markets with a end steel slabs, a deep-water harbor and a 490 MW comprehensive range of value-added products and combined cycle power plant. services and to continue to expand its customer base and improve the value of its product mix. With the addition of this mill, total crude steel production capacity of Ternium's industrial system ENHANCE TERNIUM’S POSITION AS A COMPETITIVE STEEL PRODUCER increased 5.0 million tons to 12.4 million tons. We are focused on improving utilization levels of our plants, increasing efficiency and further reducing The Rio de Janeiro unit has provided Ternium with production costs from levels that we already consider to new business opportunities, particularly in Mexico. be among the most competitive in the steel industry Following its acquisition, the company started the through, among other measures, capital investments construction of new hot-rolling, hot-dipped galvanizing and further integration of our facilities. In addition, we and painting lines in its Pesquería Industrial Center, aim at obtaining better purchase conditions and prices Mexico, and strengthened its product research and 24. Ternium CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM TO MAXIMIZE EFFICIENCY 44 PRODUCTION LINES ACHIEVED NEW RECORD OUTPUT IN 2019. 68 TEAMS WORKING TO MAXIMIZE EFFICIENCY, MINIMIZE COSTS AND IMPROVE ENVIRONMENTAL, SAFETY AND QUALITY PERFORMANCE. Steel production and processing. A relentless quest for excellence in operating performance. development capabilities. In addition, Ternium started the 300,000-tons of cold-rolled coils. Ternium's state-of-theconstruction of a greenfield reinforcing bars facility in art hot-rolling mill in Pesquería will represent a significant Palmar de Varela, Colombia. technological leap forward in the country's steel production capacity. The company’s product range will The results of this transformation process started in 2018 encompass a broader dimensional offering with the most with the inauguration of a new laboratory in Pesquería, advanced steel grades. In addition, customer service will which increased Ternium's product research capabilities be enhanced and the value chain lead-times reduced. for high-end industrial requirements. During 2019, the company started-up its new hot-dip galvanizing and This, combined with the company's service center and painting lines in Pesquería, adding 350,000 and 120,000 distribution capabilities in the country, will enable tons of annual production capacity to Ternium's Ternium to expand its footprint in Mexico with cuttingindustrial system, respectively. These new facilities edge new products and substitute high-value-added steel incorporated the most advanced painting technology to imports targeting the demanding and innovative the Mexican steel industry, providing high-end valueautomotive industry, as well as the home appliance, added products for the HVAC and automotive industries. machinery, energy and construction sectors. The new hotrolling mill will source high-end slabs from our facility in Ternium's new hot-rolling mill in Mexico will have an Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and from third parties. annual production capacity of 4.4 million tons, with an option to increase capacity in the future by an additional Ternium's new reinforcing bar facility will enable the 300,000 tons. With the addition of this new mill, expansion of its market share in Colombia's construction Ternium's industrial system will increase total flat steel sector by substituting imports. In addition, the company's hot-rolling production capacity by 47% to 13.8 million new facility will enable the upstream integration of its tons. In addition, expected synergies between Ternium's operations by replacing current purchases of reinforcing new hot-rolling mill and its cold-rolling mill in Pesquería bars from third parties. will result in an annual production capacity increase of 25. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation 2019 Award in Innovation . Granted by the Nuevo Leon Automotive Industry Cluster in Mexico for the design of a new heavy-duty trailer model. Ternium and one of its customers developed the new model, which enables a more efficient transportation of extra-heavy steel coils. RESCHEDULED INVESTMENT PLAN FOLLOWING COVID-19 OUTBREAK high-end products, with an emphasis on creating and In order to mitigate the impact of expected lower sales manufacturing increasingly sophisticated steel products resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic induced for new applications and industries. recession, Ternium has recently reduced its planned capital expenditures for the year 2020 by an estimated A COLLABORATIVE APPROACH TO PRODUCT RESEARCH AND DEVELOMENT $250 million, to $600 million. Consequently, the At Ternium, we carry out applied research efforts in inauguration of Ternium's new hot-rolling mill in the different ways. We develop steel products through inPesquería Industrial Center has been postponed from 2020 house programs, joint projects with leading industrial to 2021, and the commissioning of the new reinforced bar customers, joint efforts with recognized universities facility in Palmar de Varela has been postponed from or research centers, and through our participation in March 2020 until the second half of 2020. The final international consortia. reduction in Ternium's capital expenditures in 2020 will depend on the pace of recovery of economic activity and Ternium has identified synergies in collaborating with its steel market demand. customers in the early stages of their projects. Anticipating our customers' upcoming steel product Strengthened Product Research and Development Capabilities requirements through our participation in joint Steel is a highly versatile metal, offering a wide space development projects is key not only to build customer for product innovation. For example, over 70% of the relationships but also to plan and develop new processes, structural steel parts used to build a car today involve which may sometimes require the addition of new solutions that did not exist 20 years ago. equipment and technology. The properties of the steel products required by Ternium's Ternium’s research programs are open to a broad-based customers are usually the result of a combination of their international network of industry consortia. Over 50 metal composition and the way metal gets processed into universities and research laboratories from both the finished steel products. Ternium’s business strategy public and private sectors collaborate with Ternium. is based on offering a complete range of value-added, The goal is to find and develop the best solutions to 26. Ternium AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY CERTIFICATIONS INVESTMENT IN PRODUCT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT NUMBER OF CERTIFICATIONS APPROVED $ MILLION 500 12.5 413 432 397 9.8 10.0 400 363 10.0 9.2 8.9 286 300 7.5 6.2 200 5.0 100 2.5 0 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 support an agenda aimed at achieving better and more INVESTING IN NEW EQUIPMENT AND TECHNOLOGIES FOR HIGH-END STEEL sustainable steel. Research spans the entire production The inauguration of the Ternium Industrial Center in cycle, from primary steel making and metallurgy, to Pesquería, Mexico, in 2013, gave way to an intensive rolling and galvanizing. product development period. We broadened our product range offering to include sophisticated high-end steel Ternium is a member of WorldAutoSteel, an organization products required by the manufacturing industry, comprising some of the world’s major steel producers. particularly automotive manufacturers. These Under the auspices of worldsteel, the group regularly developments were made possible with the addition of updates the automotive industry on upcoming new steel new production technologies to our industrial system at capabilities available to meet their design and the Pesquería unit, such as cold-rolled steel and galvanized manufacturing requirements. products that provide corrosion resistance to external vehicle parts. The company is engaged in over 120 ongoing product development projects in partnership with industrial Furthermore, the installation in 2015 of state-of-thecustomers, and over 50 ongoing research projects art cooling technology in the hot strip mill of our including in-house developments and others involving Churubusco unit in Mexico, has allowed developing university researchers and students from some of the and processing new advanced high-strength steel world’s most prestigious institutions. We have been grades, including dual phase, ferrite-bainite, increasingly engaging universities in our research efforts in martensitic and complex phase grades. Based on these order to expand and further diversify Ternium’s research new capabilities, we have further widened our highnetwork and capabilities. This initiative fosters the end product portfolio for customers in the development of fundamental knowledge and know-how at automotive, metalmechanic, home appliance, oil & participating universities while enabling the optimization gas and electric motors industries. of Ternium’s in-house research resources. In 2019, approximately thirty undergraduate and postgraduate Advancing Ternium's Digital Transformation students pursuing degrees in engineering, materials Since Ternium's origins in 1969 with the inauguration of science and metallurgy took part in the program. the Ensenada manufacturing unit in Argentina, the 27. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Steel to Make , a media campaign in Argentina aimed at consolidating a seamless brand recognition to support Ternium's regional leadership. The campaign highlighted the use of steel in everyday life and its importance for our future. company has acquired various steelmaking and steel CERTIFICATION OF TERNIUM'S INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS processing facilities in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, In May 2017, after a two-year preparation process, Colombia, the United States and Central America, that Ternium certified its information technology system resulted in a myriad of legacy industrial information under the ISO 20000 standard. This standard describes technology (IT) systems. Ternium's business model the best practices in the management of an organization's required a unified industrial system able to offer an ample IT processes and services. range of products and services to its customer base. The implementation of this unified model implied a significant This certification process has helped the company to effort of digital transformation. For example, after the optimize costs, resources and processes, enhance customer acquisition of Hylsamex in 2005 and Grupo Imsa in 2007, satisfaction, strengthen the performance assessment of its there were 28 different information technology systems IT system, increase compliance with multiple regulations, that had to be consolidated into a single one. and increase overall business competitiveness. With that target in mind, by 2009 we were able to bring SMART FACTORY Ternium on-line in real time with a single, unified Ternium is making progress in the construction of a information technology system, spanning all of its SMART factory, the acronym for Social, Mobile, facilities. Once this process was completed, the company Analytics, Robotics and (internet of) Things. This extended its digital tools to its customers and suppliers, concept, supported by the company’s unified information enabling the integration of its processes with theirs. technology platform, ensures a constant stream of knowledge and information (data and events) that will This integration was implemented through the lead its facilities to a more productive and efficient development of a digital marketplace called WebService . evolutionary stage. Nowadays, approximately 80% of Ternium’s commercial orders are placed through this tool, enabling an efficient Users achieve a more efficient performance by interacting business to business interaction. from any location (offices, facilities or elsewhere) through different kinds of devices. 28. Ternium 2,100 cameras to oversee a safe operating environment. The assessment of Implementation of mobile monitoring capabilities. Efficient, real-time analysis of worker distance from suspended loads is one of the functionalities comprising an equipment parameters during maintenance inspections. early alarm system. Employees working in Ternium's industrial, commercial areas, verify the observance of marked pathways and and maintenance areas are equipped with mobile devices social distancing, and monitor the use of safety helmets, that enable them to perform all their tasks from any vests and face masks. Deviations from protocols are location with a remarkable increase in productivity. automatically reported to the relevant manager with the ultimate purpose of preventing accidents based on early Analytics and data correlation detect patterns for various detection. applications to increase safety and efficiency, and to reduce costs. Through video-feed analysis (machine In addition, radio frequency identification (RFID) learning), new applications include real-time detection technology enables the automated handling of steel and reporting of unsafe situations or behavior within the products in the yards, speeding up logistics and increasing facilities to prevent accidents and, using drone technology, safety. Ternium’s RFID project is intended to identify and the identification of potential damages in either tall track each coil from the moment it reaches the yards until structures or confined spaces, whether internal or shipment, facilitating inspections procedures, improving external, as well as the assessment of bulk material inspectors' safety and reducing operations lead times. The stockpiles. Drones substitute human inspection at height tracking system has already been implemented in 27 and minimize the risks inherent to this type of tasks. In stockpile yards in Mexico and Argentina. 2019, the system autonomously issued 440 maintenance tickets, removing human inspection at 55 roofs. In the maintenance area, analytics and data correlation technology has proved its potential with the prediction of We installed 2,100 cameras for tracking operations in our failures two to three weeks in advance. During 2019, we Mexican, Argentine and Brazilian facilities, enabling the applied this technology to the continuous casters at the implementation of an early alarm system. company's Mexican and Argentine facilities. Through video analytics, 500 of those cameras are able to We plan to apply this technology in the company's most assess distances from suspended loads, moving vehicles critical production lines to shield strategic equipment and and entrapment significantly reduce non-operational interruptions and, 29. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Inspection at height. During 2019, the system autonomously issued 440 maintenance tickets, removing human inspection at 55 roofs. therefore, the impact on the production process. In order projects to train employees in water leakage protocols to support Ternium's analytics needs across all business and in productivity enhancement using digital twin functions, we have implemented a single technological technology. This technology generates a digital replica platform, known as Data Lake, that meets all our big data of physical assets, processes, people, sites, systems and analytics requirements. and devices that can be used for various purposes. Other projects aimed at improving safety and productivity Ternium has seven administrative robots in operation, are the use of virtual reality software for training running automated processes and tasks in the areas of purposes, the use of augmented reality for experts accounts payable, accounts receivable, sales back office providing remote assistance to operators, 3D printing and and industrial engineering administration. We are the use of 3D scanning for several applications. We have advancing projects to gain productivity in accounts also developed virtual reality software to train employees payable tasks in Mexico and Argentina, where more on risk perception. This software simulates risky than 50% of all suppliers' invoices are expected to be situations in 3D, depicting potential sequences that could loaded in our systems using robots. end up in fatal accidents. CONCERTED RESEARCH EFFORTS IN THE QUEST FOR INNOVATIVE IT SOLUTIONS In addition, we have successfully finished the proofThrough cooperation agreements with two universities, of-concept stage for replacing on-site crane training Ternium has engaged 110 students in twenty Industry exercises with virtual reality training facilities, 4.0 projects. The objective of this new initiative is to simulating the cabins of the three types of cranes used develop innovative IT solutions aimed at improving the by Ternium: magnetic crane, hook crane and dump. company's operations in the areas of health & safety, We have also developed a virtual reality software to maintenance, automation, management, commercial, train our personnel on specific operating procedures quality and raw materials. performed in the secondary metallurgy area of our steel shop in Argentina. In Mexico, we are developing 30. Ternium Virtual reality training. During 2019, the company incorporated new VR training modules for the operation of cranes as well as steel making equipment. 31. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Ternium has recently reinforced its financial profile, which has been traditionally robust, through a quick deployment of economic and financial measures to better face the recession induced by the COVID-19 outbreak. 2019 Economic and Financial Performance in 2019. Steel prices declined in North America during the year, following a strong pricing GOOD RESULTS IN A CHALLENGING YEAR environment in 2018. During 2019, shipments in the Mexican market were 6.3 million tons, representing 50% of Ternium’s total steel EBITDA reached $1.5 billion in 2019 with EBITDA shipments. Apparent flat steel use decreased in the year margin of 15%, remaining at an industry-leading level reflecting a softer commercial market in 2019 and a strong of profitability. level of shipments in the first half of 2018 in anticipation of rising steel prices. Net income attributable to Ternium's equity owners was $564.3 million, or $2.87 per ADS. Free cash flow was Shipments in the Southern Region reached 1.9 million $595.4 million, with a high level of capital expenditures tons in 2019, or 15% of Ternium’s consolidated being partially offset by a $572.7 million reduction in shipments in the steel segment. Most of Ternium’s working capital. shipments in the region are destined for the Argentine market. Apparent steel use decreased significantly in SOUND FINANCIAL POSITION Argentina in 2019, as the country's macroeconomic In 2019, the company’s capital expenditures were $1.1 situation deteriorated. billion, $532.0 million higher than in 2018, as Ternium's investment program progressed as planned. Shipments in the Other Markets region reached 4.3 million tons in 2019, or 34% of Ternium’s consolidated The main investments during the year included those shipments in the steel segment. Our major shipment made for new hot-rolling, hot-dipped galvanizing and destinations in the Other Markets region were the United painting production capacity in the company’s States, Brazil, Colombia and Central America. Pesquería industrial center, a new steel bar and coil mill in Colombia, the improvement of environmental Net sales in 2019 were $10.2 billion, including net sales of and safety conditions at certain facilities, the steel products for $9.9 billion on steel shipments of 12.5 expansion of connectivity, integration and million tons, net sales of other products for $296.1 million automation of our operations, and those made in the and net sales of iron ore products for $364 million on iron iron ore mining operations. ore shipments of 3.6 million tons. Ternium's net debt position reached $1.5 billion at the Most of the iron ore production was consumed in our end of December 2019, with a net debt to last twelve own steel operations. Steel revenue per ton was $790 months EBITDA ratio of 1.0. 32. Ternium Economic and Financial Performance 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 STEEL SALES VOLUME (THOUSAND TONS) Mexico 6,305.0 6,544.8 6,622.8 6,405.2 5,933.4 Southern Region 1,938.3 2,301.1 2,456.0 2,220.8 2,552.2 Other Markets 4,268.0 4,105.2 2,517.7 1,138.1 1,114.6 Total 12,511.3 12,951.1 11,596.5 9,764.1 9,600.2 IRON ORE SALES VOLUME (THOUSAND TONS) 3,575.9 3,616.3 3,551.1 3,309.6 3,635.6 FINANCIAL INDICATORS ($ MILLION) Net sales 10,192.8 11,453.4 9,700.3 7,224.0 7,877.4 Operating income 864.6 2,108.4 1,456.8 1,141.7 639.3 EBITDA(1) 1,525.7 2,697.7 1,931.1 1,548.6 1,073.1 EBITDA MARGIN (% OF NET SALES) EBITDA PER TON ($)(2) Equity in earnings (losses) of non-consolidated companies 61.0 102.8 68.1 14.6 (272.8) Profit before income tax expense 826.6 2,031.6 1,359.8 1,118.5 267.1 Profit for the year attributable to: Owners of the Parent 564.3 1,506.6 886.2 595.6 8.1 Non-controlling interest 65.8 155.5 136.7 111.3 51.7 Profit for the year 630.0 1,662.1 1,022.9 706.9 59.8 Capital expenditures 1,052.3 520.3 409.4 435.5 466.6 Free cash flow(3) 595.4 1,219.0 (25.5) 664.1 856.8 BALANCE SHEET ($ MILLION) Total assets 12,935.5 12,547.9 12,122.6 8,322.9 8,062.6 Financial debt 2,188.7 2,037.0 3,221.9 1,218.6 1,521.0 Net financial debt(4) 1,453.4 1,734.9 2,748.3 884.3 1,132.3 Total liabilities 5,220.6 5,063.3 6,269.8 3,156.3 3,259.6 Capital and reserves attributable to the owners of the parent 6,611.7 6,393.3 5,010.4 4,391.3 4,033.1 Non-controlling interest 1,103.2 1,091.3 842.3 775.3 769.8 STOCK DATA ($ PER SHARE/ADS(5)) Basic earnings per share 0.29 0.77 0.45 0.30 0.00 Basic earnings per ADS 2.87 7.67 4.51 3.03 0.04 Dividend per ADS paid in the year 1.20 1.10 1.00 0.90 0.90 Weighted average number of shares outstanding (6) (million shares) 1,963.1 1,963.1 1,963.1 1,963.1 1,963.1 (1) EBITDA is operating income adjusted to exclude depreciation and amortization. (6) Ternium S.A. has an authorized share capital of a single class of 3.5 billion shares having a nominal (2) Consolidated EBITDA divided by steel shipments value of $1.00 per share. As of December 31, 2019, there were 2,004,743,442 shares issued. All issued (3) Free cash flow equals net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. shares are fully paid. In addition, as of December 31, 2019 Ternium S.A. held 41,666,666 shares as (4) Net financial debt equals total financial debt less cash and cash equivalents plus other investments. treasury shares, representing 3% of the subscribed capital. (5) Each ADS represents 10 shares. 33. Sustainability Report 2019 Why to Invest in Mexico The Largest Steel Market in Latin America Why to invest SOLID GROWTH FOR A LONG PERIOD in Mexico Compound annual growth rate of Mexican steel consumption during the last 30 years reached 4.6%, leading to an average of 192 kilograms of steel consumed per person by 2019. The Mexican steel market is The rate of steel consumption achieved by the Mexican economy was approximately two times the largest in Latin America. higher than that of other Latin American nations Steel consumption growth in with a developed industrial sector. With 24.2 million tons of steel consumed in 2019, Mexico is the largest Mexico over the last decades steel consumer in the region. has been mainly driven by a TERNIUM'S LARGEST STEEL MARKET dynamic manufacturing Ternium's net sales in Mexico accounted for 54% of the company’s total net sales of steel products industry. The result has been in 2019. The majority of Ternium's flat steel an attractive steel market products are sold to industrial customers, which usually require more sophisticated services and with a significant demand for high-value-added steel products, with the balance high-end steel products. being sold to construction companies and distributors. TERNIUM HAS A LEADING POSITION IN THE MEXICAN MARKET Mexican Competitive Advantages Mexico's privileged conditions to home a competitive and innovative manufacturing sector 8 PRODUCTION 7 SERVICE CENTERS have been behind its success story. LOGISTICS FACILITIES DELIVERING CUSTOMIZED The country's geographic location provides a INTEGRATED AND/OR PRODUCTS JUST-IN-TIME competitive logistics base to reach every major DOWNSTREAM OR ON SHORT NOTICE market. TRADE AGREEMENTS 12 The Mexican industrial sector has access to the US and Canadian markets through the US, Mexico and Canada Agreement (USMCA), and to other major DISTRIBUTION CENTERS economic regions and trade blocks through other TOGETHER WITH A BROAD trade agreements in place, including a free trade NETWORK OF REGIONAL agreement with the European Union (FTA EU-MX) DISTRIBUTORS and Japan (a.k.a. Agreement Between Japan and the United Mexican States for the Strengthening of the Economic Partnership). 34. Ternium Why to Invest in Mexico Ternium's Pesquería unit. Inaugurated in 2013, the new industrial center has incorporated cold-rolling, galvanizing and painting facilities, and will incorporate a new hotrolling mill in 2021. In addition, Mexico has trade agreements in place with APPARENT STEEL USE MEXICO Argentina, Australia, Bolivia, Brunei, Colombia, Chile, MILLION TONS Costa Rica, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Malaysia, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Peru, Singapore, Switzerland, Uruguay and Vietnam. 30.0 Growth Opportunities We compete in the Mexican steel market with other 25.0 24.2 domestic steel producers, and with US and other 20.0 foreign steel producers. Local steel producers, including 15.0 Ternium, represent a little over half of total apparent flat steel use in Mexico, with the balance of the 10.0 country's flat steel consumption being supplied from 5.0 abroad. 0.0 According to Canacero, the Mexican chamber of the 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2019 iron and steel industry, imports of finished flat steel products into Mexico accounted for approximately 8.2 million tons in 2019. Ternium believes that it is very well positioned to compete with foreign producers and substitute imports in Mexico. The company believes it has built 35. Sustainability Report 2019 Why to Invest in Mexico a solid differentiation strategy leaning on its unique industrial presence in the country, as well as on its cost competitiveness. TERNIUM'S COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES AS A LOCAL STEEL PRODUCER Ternium's industrial presence together with its own network of distribution centers and commercial offices enable the company to provide logistics and stock management services. In addition, Ternium offers its customers an integrated connectivity platform that has 75 functions covering the entire customer relationship process. For more information on Ternium's Webservice Platform, see page 22 Delivering Ternium's Business The new state-of-the-art Strategy . hot-rolling mill at Pesquería Ternium's ProPymes program has been focusing its efforts on the development of small and medium-sized Industrial Center will enable customers and suppliers in Mexico. The prosperity of us to consolidate our small and medium-sized companies, and the development of a collaborative industrial network have leadership in the Mexican strengthened the country's steel industry value chain. flat steel market”. The consequent improved competitiveness has led to a virtuous cycle of increased exports as well as imports Máximo Vedoya substituted by locally manufactured new products. For CEO more information on the ProPymes program, see page 66 Strengthening Ternium's Value Chain . In addition, Ternium has further enhanced its TERNIUM'S STEEL SHIPMENTS IN MEXICO BY INDUSTRY differentiation strategy by investing in state-of-the-art 2019 technologies. This strategy included the inauguration of its Pesquería Industrial Center in 2013, with new HVAC / lighting: cold-rolling and galvanizing mills, an expansion of this Other industries: 8% industrial center in 2019, with the inauguration of new 10% galvanizing and painting lines, and a further expansion expected by 2021, with a new state-of-the-art hotAutomotive: 26% rolling mill. Together with the technological upgrade of its facilities, Ternium has increased its product research and development capabilities in the country in order to Home appliances: Commercial: 47% broaden its range of product offerings, particularly in 9% the high-end steel segment, with the aim of fulfilling all industry requirements. 36. Ternium Why to Invest in Mexico The US, Mexico and Canada Furthermore, Ternium's product research and development area has provided technical assistance to its customers, maximizing the performance of the free trade agreement, or company's steel products and the manufacturing processes downstream in the Mexican steel industry USMCA, came into effect on value chain. July 1, 2020. The new agreement, which resulted from APPARENT FLAT STEEL USE IN MEXICO BY SEGMENT the renegotiation of NAFTA 2019 between the three member states, encourages the Industrial: 65% production of cars and trucks within the trade block. Commercial: 35% APPARENT FLAT STEEL USE IN MEXICO BY ORIGIN 2019 Imports: 54% Strengthened research capabilities in Mexico through the inauguration of a new Local: 46% laboratory and the construction of a new research center, launched during 2019. Source: Canacero 37. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Improving Our Safety Performance SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS DEC 2019 NEW CORPORATE STRATEGY ON OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT TO ADVANCE OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AGENDA. Goals Measures Prevent all work-related injuries and illnesses, and achieve zero Occupational health and safety policy accidents -Identify and eliminate operational hazards Occupational health and safety management system -Operate in compliance with established protocols Safety-focused capital expenditure plan Integral program for critical steel production processes and -Raise people's awareness of non-compliance risks iron ore tailings dams Periodical management tours at the facilities, training -Identify and rectify unsafe acts or situations activities, workshops and conferences to raise awareness Extensive communication to engage and commit Ternium's and contractor's employees Promote healthy and safe operations in the steel industry value chain Code of conduct for suppliers -Evaluate suppliers' occupational health and safety policies and Safe supplier program performance -Raise people's awareness of non-compliance risks Safety training of third-party employees Participation of suppliers in deviations reporting 38. Ternium Fast implementation of COVID-19 mitigation measures. New protocols for on-site working and work-from-home policy whenever possible. Ternium ranks occupational health and safety (OH&S) achieving excellence in OH&S performance as part of a performance as its top priority, with the conviction that comprehensive set of goals. In December 2019, Ternium all injuries and work-related illnesses can and must be launched a new corporate strategy on OH&S. We are prevented. Each of the company's and third-party committed to taking every possible step to protect the employees' OH&S is our top concern. safety and health of our employees and the people of the communities in which we operate. This vision has COVID-19 Outbreak acted as a framework to adjust our strategies and to Ternium is focused on safeguarding the OH&S of its adopt new ones, including the alignment of our safety employees, customers and suppliers based on best culture to our vision, the prevention of severe accidents practices that comply with and, in some cases, exceed or fatalities, the achievement of excellence in process local governmental directives. Beyond implementing safety management, the engagement of employees work-from-home policies wherever possible, the through effective communication and the engagement company has looked to protect the safety of those of customers' and suppliers' managers and employees to employees working on-site by adopting stringent embrace our vision and goals. In 2019, Ternium invested social distancing, temperature check and disinfection $50 million under its safety-focused capital expenditures policies at all transportation, site admission, working plan. post and cafeteria locations, among other initiatives. In addition, Ternium has developed a protocol to Occupational Health and Safety Management System track suspect or positive contagion cases and the Ternium has an OH&S management system to oversee its successful reintegration of returning workers. production units, which abides by the company's OH&S policy, and local and national laws and regulations. The New Occupational Health and Safety Corporate Strategy company periodically audits its processes and procedures, According to Ternium's OH&S policy, the assessment which helps us find new opportunities to improve our of risks and management of our people's OH&S must safety management systems and ensure their compliance be integrated into all our business processes. with our policy. Ternium’s steelmaking and steel Management is responsible and accountable for processing facilities in Mexico, Argentina, Colombia and 39. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Improving Health and Safety Performance • Proactive approach to occupational health and safety management • Standardized OH&S management system • Extensive employee training • Management accountable for OH&S performance • Certified OH&S management system • Capital expenditures program to reduce H&S risks Guatemala have their OH&S management system addressed through an open dialogue with employees. This certified under international standards by third party exchange helps identify potential risks and enables a fluid certification bodies. The company’s facilities in Mexico and constructive feedback to implement effective have completed the migration process of their OH&S preventive measures. In 2019, the company held a total of management system to ISO 45001:2018, and have 147,100 Safety Hour sessions, with the regular obtained the certification in this new standard. Ternium’s participation of 1,600 employees and contractors, that Rio de Janeiro unit in Brazil and its mining facilities in helped to detect, record and correct 177,500 deviations. In Mexico are undergoing a migration and certification addition, these sessions helped to recognize 106,800 fullprocess, which is expected to be completed within the compliance cases. Furthermore, management performed next two years. safety verification audits (SVAs) at the facilities to evaluate compliance with policies, procedures and Aligning Our Safety Culture to Our Vision practices in relation to relevant OH&S topics. In 2019, a Ternium’s continuous quest for a virtuous safety culture new record 200,000 SVAs were performed. leans on its top management’s effective leadership. The company’s senior management has identified measurable, TEN LIFE-SAVING RULES repeatable, proactive and leading safety attitudes to Ternium has established Ten Life-Saving Rules, which lists deploy along the organization, as part of a strategy to the actions that all employees must follow in order to align people’s safety culture with the company’s vision. protect their lives and that of their colleagues. The rules are the result of a process that included worldsteel's SAFETY FIRST PROGRAM guidance, and the contribution of focus groups and The Safety First program fosters a pro-active approach to studies performed to detect the main causes of risks in safety issues to prevent incidents and accidents. One of our operations. The rules are backed by practices and the program's main tool is the Safety Hour initiative, in routines to follow and reflect the scope of safety which middle and senior managers tour operating areas regulations in the countries where Ternium operates. The for an hour, three times a week, to identify safe behaviors rules have been extensively communicated throughout to be consolidated or unsafe acts or situations to be Ternium’s operations to foster employees', 40. Ternium Safety hour (hora segura) at the Villa Nueva unit, Guatemala. An articulated on-site exchange to implement effective preventive measures. customers' and suppliers' awareness, and have been injuries risks stemming from the lack of effective control audited to ensure their observance. In 2019, we held over identified safety risks. 42,800 compliance audits. Prevention of Severe Injuries or Fatalities TERNIUM’S ANNUAL SAFETY DAY A steel industry-wide analysis found out that, over time, Since 2014, every July 22nd we have been holding the downward trend in fatal accidents has been slower Ternium's Annual Safety Day, an occasion to prompt a than the trend for non-fatal accidents, mainly due to renewed commitment to improving safety and increasing causality differences. Accordingly, the company has risk awareness, in the belief that every accident can and increased its efforts to identify severe injury or fatality must be prevented. During this event, we hold safety precursors. In order to do so, we identify non-controlled management meetings and discussions to review our repetitive precursors through interviews with performance in the past year and agree on concrete employees, based on critical control and verification actions to improve safety in every facility. methodologies. TRAINING PROGRAMS Process Safety Management Management is committed to training Ternium's Iron ore processing, and steel production and processing employees, customers and suppliers on the appropriate include potentially hazardous processes. Ternium has application of the company’s OH&S management identified critical processes in some of its facilities, and systems in performing their tasks, and to raising developed specific tools to manage them. In addition, awareness of risks. In 2019, Ternium delivered 487,600 during 2019 Ternium launched a new program focused on safety training hours to 15,700 employees, customers the identification of risk factors in critical processes and and suppliers. the development of specific strategies aimed at eliminating the exposure to severe personal injury. TASK REJECTION TOOL This tool aims at strengthening people’s determination Engaging Through Effective Communication not to start or, if started, to suspend a task under certain Over the years, Ternium has increased the visibility of conditions. The Task Rejection tool helps people prevent safety issues through its communications platforms. 41. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (IFR) LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) 1 TOTAL QUANTITY OF INJURIES PER MILLION HOURS WORKED QUANTITY OF DAY-LOSS INJURIES PER MILLION HOURS WORKED 5 1.5 4 1.2 3 0.9 2 0.6 1 0.3 0 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Our agenda includes videos, articles and the coverage of an IFR of 3.0 in 2018. The lost time injury frequency rate selected events. To engage the company’s employees and (LTIFR) was 0.8 day-loss injuries per million hours raise awareness on safety issues, we have developed a new worked in 2019, compared to an LTIFR of 0.7 in 2018. communications system aimed at sharing key messages The year-over-year increase in LTIFR in 2019 reflected with employees operating at every location, including mainly the effect of construction works carried out for the posts at the company’s communications platforms and new facilities in Pesquería, Mexico, and Palmar de Varela, other distribution channels. We have also implemented the Colombia. Five-Minutes Safety Talks, an open-dialogue instance for blue-collar supervisors and their teams to analyze OH&S Analysis of Accidents and Incidents issues selected every week by senior management. Ternium's management follows specific protocols when a workplace accident or incident occurs, regardless of the Engaging Customers' and Suppliers' Managers and Employees damage or injury, or lack of, cause by an event. The We aim at having all contractors' employees embrace our research and analysis of an event is conducted by vision and goals. With this purpose, we have launched multidisciplinary teams that include the participation of several initiatives including working meetings with the manager with direct responsibilities in the area contractor’s top managers and the participation of their involved. employees in Ternium's OH&S workshops. We have recently launched an OH&S improvement plan for An event is analyzed through a causal factor tree contractors. This plan has been developed based on methodology that has been homologated at Ternium. contractors' best practices, which were identified through Management uses all available resources that could a benchmark of contractors' operations at the company's contribute to the understanding of an event, including the facilities in different locations and countries. evidence collected by nearby cameras. Once causes are fully understood, the company implements a new Accidents and incidents preventive action plan structured in hierarchy of controls. In 2019, Ternium recorded an injury frequency rate (IFR) This methodology was incorporated in the company’s of 2.7 injuries per million of hours worked, compared to occupational health and safety management system in 2019. 42. Ternium STRICTER STABILITY STUDIES FOR TAILINGS DAMS $19 MILLION INVESTED IN 2019 BY TERNIUM AND PEÑA COLORADA. 4 TAILINGS DAMS SUBJECT TO ONGOING REINFORCEMENT PLANS, FOLLOWING NEW STUDIES CARRIED OUT WITH THIRD PARTY CONSULTANTS. Las Encinas, Mexico. Ternium has a proactive approach to safe mining operations. Health and Well-being including tailings dams. Over time, Ternium has Ternium’s comprehensive occupational health program conducted stability studies of its tailings dams, with the embodies the company’s commitment to providing a help of consultant companies, using increasingly strict healthy workplace, with equipment and technology that standards for seismic areas and, as a result, has been ensures the well-being of its workforce. The health carrying out several investment projects to reinforce management system includes periodic workplace certain dams. monitoring and risk analysis to evaluate and control a range of activity-related factors with the potential to In late 2019 and early 2020, Ternium and Consorcio affect employees’ health, including chemical, biological, Peña Colorada concluded new stability studies in physical, ergonomic and psychological risks. Our certain of their tailings dams that are closed or standcorporate procedures and guidelines in relation to the by, in order to proceed to final closure with stricter and level of indoor air quality, noise and vibrations pursue more conservative standards for seismic areas. As a stricter threshold levels than those defined by the more result of those studies, performed by recognized rigorous international standards. Some of our facilities, consultant companies, and in order to meet those new like the Ternium Industrial Center in Pesquería, built in stability standards and mitigate risks, Ternium and 2013, adopted the best-available technologies from the Consorcio Peña Colorada are planning to reinforce design phase. In other facilities, particularly those we certain stand-by and closed tailings dam sections in acquired, we are consistently adopting the best-available Alzada and Guasimas, respectively. technologies as part of our drive to continuously improve our sites' air quality. In addition, a new paste plant was started-up in July 2019 near Consorcio Peña Colorada's Arrayanal dam, to Tailings Dams Reinforcement increase the efficiency and speed of water recovery from Ternium has equity interests in two iron ore mining the dam tailings. With this initiative, Ternium expects to companies in Mexico: a 100% interest in Las Encinas and increase the solid content of tailings from 45% to 68%, a 50% interest in Consorcio Peña Colorada. The company increasing the stability of the dam and freeing space for operates extractive, processing and logistical operations, additional tailings. 43. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation On the Right Path. Ternium has established safety committees to formalize the consultation and participation of workers and their representatives on occupational health and safety issues. 44. Ternium Occupational Health And Safety Policy Ternium, an integrated steel company, along with its subsidiaries is committed to the occupational safety and health of its personnel, clients, contractors, and suppliers. The company’s occupational safety and health policy is the baseline for sustainable development across all its operations. Policy adherence, dissemination, and compliance apply and are to be promoted throughout Ternium and its subsidiaries. Looking out for the occupational safety and health of every person who works for the company or is inside its facilities is an essential value. To that end, we promote our commitment through the following principles: – All work-related injuries and illnesses can and should be prevented. – Compliance with all applicable legal and other regulations to which Ternium voluntarily agrees. – Continuous improvement of all processes related to staff's health and safety. – Occupational safety and health must be integrated into all company processes. – No emergency situation, production process or results justify putting people’s occupational safety or health at risk. – Commitment from and training of the entire staff is essential. – Working safely is an employment condition. – Every person is responsible for looking after his/her own safety and the safety of others. In each company, everyone is responsible for occupational health and safety: – The company provides the means and resources for activities to be carried out safely so as to preserve everyone's physical integrity and occupational health. – Managers are in charge of the occupational health and safety of everyone who works for them or is in their area. – All other workers must comply with regulations and instructions, and work with their managers to detect, control, and resolve any dangerous situations. – Contractor companies and their staff must comply with the Safety Regulations in force at the facilities where they provide services. – People who enter the facility must comply with the applicable Safety Regulations. – Health and Safety staff must take preventive measures through support, advising and auditing. At Ternium and its subsidiaries, these principles are shared throughout the entire value chain and in all the communities where it operates in order to promote people's healthcare and safety. March 2018 Máximo Vedoya CEO Ternium 45. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Minimizing Ternium's Environmental Footprint SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS $70 MILLION INVESTED IN 2019 TO REDUCE TERNIUM'S ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT. Goals Measures Use natural resources responsibly Environment and Energy Policy -Minimize consumption of raw materials and other inputs Steel scrap recycling (self-generated and from third-parties) -Minimize waste generation Intake of recycled and treated water (replacing subsurface) Investment in energy and material efficiency projects Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Participation at worldsteel's and Alacero's environmental committees and worldsteel's Climate Action Pursue excellence in environmental performance Environment and energy management system -Preserve water and air quality Investments to control particulate emissions and discharges -Maximize energy efficiency of Ternium's infrastructure Sustainable building solutions at new facilities Environmental performance certification Protect biodiversity Field works at greenfield projects to preserve biodiversity Support to Sepetiba Bay and Iberá Wetlands initiatives 46. Ternium Minimizing Ternium's Environmental Footprint • Standardized management system certified under ISO 14001 and 50001 • Continuous progress in environmental management performance • Management performance accountability • Investment in best available technologies The protection of the environment is a fundamental value applicable environmental laws and regulations, and aims for Ternium. The company seeks to reach the highest to achieve the highest standards of environmental standards of environmental and energy performance in performance as a basis to enhance sustainable order to minimize the environmental footprint of its development. Compliance with environmental laws and operations. To achieve this, we are continuously working regulations and monitoring of regulatory changes are on the improvement of Ternium's production system. The addressed primarily at national level. Ternium has not company's Environmental and Energy Policy states been subject to any material penalty for environmental Ternium's views regarding the preservation of the violations in 2019. environment. Ternium's environmental and energy management system The monitoring of the company's environmental at its steel production facilities is certified under ISO performance leans on an environmental and energy 14001, ISO's environmental management standard. This management system encompassing all its production units. standard was created by the International Organization Ternium periodically audits and certifies its systems and for Standardization, a network of national standardization procedures. This process helps us identify improvement institutes that work together with governments, the opportunities, update the company's environmental industry and consumer representatives with the purpose of management processes and make sure Ternium complies supporting the implementation of an environment with legal regulations. management plan in public and private organizations. Ternium’s steel and mining operations are subject to a In addition, Ternium is certifying the system at its energy broad range of environmental laws and regulations intensive operations under ISO 50001, ISO's energy relating to the protection of the environment, such as land management standard. The system has already been use; air emissions; wastewater treatment and discharge; certified at the Rio de Janeiro unit, at the steel shop of the the use, handling and disposal of hazardous or toxic San Nicolás unit and at the Pesquería unit (downstream materials and the handling and disposal of solid wastes. facility), and is undergoing the certification process at the Ternium’s corporate environmental and energy policy steel shop of the Guerrero unit and the hot-rolling mill of commits each of its business units to comply with all 47. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Ternium's steel shops in Puebla and Nuevo León, Mexico, capture carbon dioxide from its production process to deliver it mostly to the beverage industry, for use in soft drinks production. The company has recently launched a new project to increase its carbon dioxide capturing capacity, which is expected to be completed in 2021. This project will enable a yearly increase in carbon dioxide emission savings of up to 60,000 tons, to a total of 270,000 tons. the San Nicolás unit. Ternium's environmental and energy the most common in the world. Steel scrap has been management system will help the company maximize its growing as an alternative raw material for steel efforts to reducing carbon emissions. The targets of the production. In addition to keeping the attributes and company in this regard are in line with those of the performance of steel upon recycling, steel scrap has countries in which Ternium has operations and are magnetic properties that enable feasible separation expected to contribute to the achievement of the goals of technologies. The use of steel scrap reduces carbon the Paris Agreement adopted at the UN climate change emissions from the steel life cycle. In combination with a conference. long history of significant efforts to increase recycling rates, this has resulted in steel leading the recycling A Material at the Heart of a Low-Carbon Economy statistics, for example in cars and cans. Furthermore, its Ternium subscribes to worldsteel's position as for the role biodegradable nature positions steel as a solution to our of steel in our present and future. Abundant iron ore society's waste disposal challenge. resources, endless recyclability and unparalelled performance make steel the material of choice in a lowSteel recycling is limited by the availability of scrap, due carbon circular economy. We rely on steel for our housing, to the relatively long life of steel-based products and transport, food and water supply, energy production, tools infrastructure. Developing economies have relatively and healthcare. Almost everything around us is either young infrastructure stocks and have, therefore, limited made of steel or manufactured by equipment made of amounts of obsolete steel scrap to use in steelmaking. steel. Steel is a highly versatile metal, offering a wide space However, as these economies’ climb the development for the development of new workable and light products. curve, and infrastructure enters the replacement phase, Innovation is driving to increasingly sophisticated ferrous availability of obsolete scrap increases, supporting a castings, enabling a new generation of stronger and lighter shift from steelmaking technologies based on iron ore to structures, with lower carbon footprint, that are essential steelmaking technologies relying more heavily on steel inputs for the automotive, engineering, energy and scrap. In time, this shift will have a significant impact on transport industries. Iron ore is currently the main raw trends in iron ore and steel scrap consumption globally. material for steel production, a material that ranks among 48. Ternium EMISSION INTENSITY ENERGY INTENSITY CARBON DIOXIDE TONS EMITTED PER TON OF STEEL PRODUCED. YEAR-END. GIGAJOULES CONSUMED PER TON OF STEEL PRODUCED. YEAR-END. 3.5 12.0 25 Emission Intensity (tons/ton) Steel production (million tons) 2.8 9.6 20 2.1 7.2 15 1.4 4.8 10 0.7 2.4 5 0.0 0.0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 n Scope 1: direct n Scope 3: raw materials upstream Scope 2: energy upstream n • Steel production Energy and Climate Action performance, share best practices and ultimately set The steel industry is energy intensive. There are two main improvement plans for their industrial processes. In 2008, technologies for producing steel: the blast furnace / basic worldsteel launched its Climate Action Recognition oxygen furnace (BF/BOF) route, which consumes mainly Program. Since its launch, Ternium has been recognized by iron ore and uses metallurgical coal as its main energy worldsteel for its compliance with the program's source; and the electric arc furnace (EAF) route, which requirements for carbon dioxide emission reporting. consumes mainly steel scrap and/or direct reduced iron and uses electricity as its main energy input. Direct In 2019, Ternium joined worldsteel’s Step Up Program. reduced iron is produced out of iron ore and uses natural This initiative supports the steel industry's efforts to gas as a reduction agent. The steel industry has a strong reduce carbon dioxide emissions by means of better commitment towards the reduction of greenhouse gas operational models and benchmarking of operating (GHG) emissions, through the development of innovative technologies. Based on the Step Up Program findings, steel products for a successful low carbon society and the Ternium seeks to identify opportunities to improve the improvement of steel production processes. According to efficiency of its operations, mainly related to raw materials worldsteel, in the last 50 years the steel industry reduced usage, energy input, materials yields and maintenance its energy consumption per ton of crude steel produced by models. 60%. Yet, steel production accounts for approximately 8% of all human-made GHG emissions. Ternium's carbon dioxide emissions totaled 18.5 million tons in 2019, 3% lower than in 2018. Steel production As a member of worldsteel, Ternium is signatory of totaled 10.3 million tons, decreasing 6% year-over-year. worldsteel's sustainability policy and joins its efforts, Average carbon dioxide emissions per ton of crude steel through the company's participation in several programs, produced, including scopes 1, 2 and 3, was 1.8 tons in to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. As a participating 2019, 2% higher than in 2018 mainly due to a net lower member, Ternium submits to worldsteel its performance operating rate. Ternium's average energy consumption per indicators to contribute to its statistics and databases, ton of crude steel produced was 22 gigajoules in 2019, 3% which enable steelmaking companies to benchmark higher year-over-year for the same reason. Ternium's 49. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Adopting the best-available technologies. In the last five years, Ternium has made investments of approximately $137 million to improve the capture and treatment of air emissions. carbon footprint includes only carbon dioxide emissions, technologies from the design phase. In other facilities, as the incidence of other greenhouse gases is negligible. particularly those acquired, Ternium is enhancing its air quality monitoring systems and is consistently adopting The assessment of the company's energy consumption is the best-available technologies as part of its drive to based on worldsteel's sectoral approach methodology in continuously improve its environmental performance. accordance with ISO 14404. Ternium has made investments of approximately $137 In 2014, Ternium launched an energy efficiency program, million in its facilities in the last five years to improve the an initiative aimed at reducing GHG emissions by capture and treatment of air emissions. In 2019, the identifying opportunities to implement energy savings at company concluded the construction of a new bag filter its production facilities. Since 2014, we have completed 366 for the fume and dust capturing system at its steel shop in projects under this program that, in the aggregate, have the Puebla unit in Mexico, and made progress in the reduced Ternium's yearly carbon dioxide emissions by improvement of the fume and dust capturing system at its approximately 298,000 tons, comparable to the yearly steel shop in the San Nicolás unit in Argentina. emissions from 117,000 cars. In addition, Ternium concluded works in the electrostatic During 2019, Ternium's Rio de Janeiro unit started precipitator of the sinter facilities at its Rio de Janeiro unit purchasing biomethane from a nearby waste landfill. The in Brazil. To mitigate dust emissions in all its operations, company expects to gradually increase the use of Ternium implemented specific solutions, such as retaining biomethane to replace natural gas, for up to 30% of its walls and live fences at bulk storage yards, washing historical consumption level, with the consequent systems for truck tires and road pavement. avoidance of carbon dioxide emissions in the landfill. In 2019, Ternium launched a project to capture and Air Quality contain emissions at the iron ore handling equipment and Some of Ternium's facilities, like the company's Industrial direct reduction facilities in its Guerrero unit in Mexico. In Center in Pesquería, adopted the best-available addition, the company launched a project to control sulfur 50. Ternium WATER INTAKE MEXICAN STEEL FACILITIES INVESTING TO IMPROVE WATER PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MILLION CUBIC METERS. 20.0 18.6 19.1 19.3 19.6 18.2 48% OF WATER INTAKE 16.0 IN MEXICO COMES FROM EITHER TREATED, 12.0 RECYCLED OR SEWAGE SOURCES. 8.0 4.0 1.6 MILLION CUBIC METERS 0.0 DECREASE IN SUBSURFACE WATER 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 INTAKE IN 2019 COMPARED TO 2015. n Subsurface n Third party treated n Sewage n Recycled n Municipal emissions with the addition of new technology at its Consequently, Ternium has developed specific strategies to pelletizing line in its Alzada unit in Mexico. minimize water usage, reflected in a water consumption rate of 4.3 cubic meters per ton of crude steel produced in Water Management its steel shops in Mexico. In steel manufacturing, in which water plays a major role, most water is recycled and returned to the source. In this country, Ternium has consistently reduced the Ternium is fully aware of its responsibility for consumption of subsurface water by increasing the usage managing water resources. Its water management of treated or sewage water. As a result, the company's strategy is designed on a case-by-case basis in consumption of subsurface water decreased from 11.0 accordance with the specific situation at each of its million cubic meters in 2015 to 9.4 million cubic meters in operating sites. 2019, or 52% of total water consumption. The company continuously incorporates best available Total water consumption in 2019 also included a 23% technologies to improve water management and water share of third party treated water, a 17% share of external discharge monitoring systems. For example, Ternium sewage water and an 8% share of recycled water. has recently revamped a water treatment facility in the steel shop of the San Nicolás unit, to improve the WASTEWATER DISCHARGE quality of recirculated and discharged water. Ternium Ternium permanently monitors wastewater discharges, in has invested a total of $72 million in the last five years compliance with local environmental regulations. The to improve its water management. company designs capital expenditure projects to incorporate best available technologies and monitoring WATER INTAKE AND USE systems to reduce and improve the quality of water Many of the company's facilities are located in areas of discharges. During 2019, the company concluded the low water-stress risk. However, Ternium's Mexican construction of a new runoff water pumping station for facilities are placed in water stressed regions. the coal and coke yards, the coking batteries sector, the 51. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation CO-PRODUCTS OPTIMIZING MATERIAL EFFICIENCY AT THE GUERRERO UNIT, MEXICO KILOGRAMS PER TON OF STEEL PRODUCED. 500 86,000 TONS 400 OF MIX ROCK® SOLD 300 TO THE CEMENT INDUSTRY IN 2019. 79% 200 100 OF DUST 0 AT THE GUERRERO STEEL SHOP 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 TURNED INTO VALUABLE CO-PRODUCTS. co-products facilities and nearby areas at its San Nicolás In addition, the company has developed environmental unit in Argentina. In addition, it built new infrastructure product declarations (EPDs) of eight products, as required to prevent discharges to the Paraná river in the event of for certain market segments. More information on extreme weather conditions. Ternium's EPDs are available at our website. This investment followed other investments in previous Environmental Certifications years like the gas scrubbing circuit-close at a blast furnace and a new runoff water capturing system at the sinter LEED yard. We design Ternium's new facilities considering the best available sustainable building solutions. In Pesquería, Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Mexico, Ternium's technical school and the industrial Ternium supports worldsteel's efforts and customer buildings of Ternium's production facilities were certified requirements to assess the environmental impact of steel under the Leadership in Energy and Environment Design products. The aim of this program is to document and Certification standards of the U.S. Green Building improve the overall environmental profile of the company's Council. In 2019, Ternium received the Green Building offerings. Leadership award, in recognition for reaching environmental performance excellence in Mexico. A steel LCA involves a thorough inventory of the energy and materials that are required across the industry value CLEAN INDUSTRY chain, according to ISO 14040 and 14044, to determine the In Mexico, most of Ternium's steel and in-use mining global warming potential of steel products, among other facilities have Clean Industry certificates issued by the indicators. In 2019, Ternium incorporated 63% of its local environmental authorities. The standard of this crude steel production to its LCA inventory reporting, program was created by the Mexican government and reaching a total LCA inventory reporting of 92% in the ema, a technical rating and standardization institute. year. 52. Ternium Iberá Wetlands, Santiago del Estero, Argentina. Ternium sponsors the projects of the Rewilding Argentina Foundation in the wetlands, part of the National Geographic Society's Last Wild Places initiative. Material Efficiency its air and water cleaning equipment, including iron In Ternium we continuously develop strategies to ore fines, coal, lime and dolomite. Furthermore, the maximize the use of co-products and reduce the dust generated by the electric-arc furnaces at production of waste. We believe that the recovery and Ternium's Guerrero and Puebla units, Mexico, is proper use of co-products is central to the application of transformed into Mix Rock®, an innovative co-product circular economy concepts in the steel industry's value developed and registered by Ternium. Mix Rock® chain. enabled the re-use of dust and slag as a substitute for iron ore in the clinker production process at the The use of co-products reduces the consumption of raw cement industry. In 2019, Ternium sold 86,000 tons of materials and energy, with a positive effect on carbon Mix Rock®. dioxide emissions and waste generation. All the steel scrap generated in Ternium's facilities is recycled. In addition, The processing of metallurgical coal for the steelmaking the company purchases steel scrap generated by other steel production process yields significant volumes of coprocessors in its value-chain and steel scrap gathered by product gases. These gases stem from the distillation recyclers. In 2019, Ternium recycled 2.8 million tons of process in the coking batteries. Ternium cleans coking steel scrap to produce new steel with all its properties, battery gases and obtains chemical products like tar, representing 27% of its total crude steel production. benzol and hydrated lime that are sold to third parties. In addition, once the gases obtained from the coking The granulated slag generated in the blast furnaces is batteries, blast furnaces and, in the case of the Rio de sold to the cement industry. The re-use of granulated Janeiro unit, the steel shop, are cleaned, they are used to slag as a substitute for clinker enabled carbon dioxide produce steam for the generation of electricity. emission savings in the cement production process of 1.3 million tons in 2019. The slag generated in the All these processes have enabled Ternium to achieve a steel shop is also used to consolidate roads. In material efficiency rate of 99.6% in 2019, with 4.8 million addition, Ternium has sinter and briquetting facilities tons of co-products generated and 60,300 tons of waste that enable it to recycle different materials captured by disposed of. Co-products mainly include blast furnace and 53. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Sepetiba Bay, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Ternium has recently launched, together with local institutions, a project aimed at enhancing the conservation techniques for the boto cinza, a bay dolphin. steel shop slag, iron oxide and chemical substances. and the yaguareté, a kind of jaguar. Ternium contributed with steel products to build a new shoreline Biodiversity Care pen for a couple of giant otters brought from European zoos and for the yaguareté breeding center. This center SEPETIBA BAY now holds the offspring of the first breeding couple of Ternium's Rio de Janeiro unit is located near a coastline yaguaretés. area rich in mangroves in the Sepetiba bay in Brazil, where it has its port. The company protects the fauna TERNIUM'S PRESERVATION WORKS and flora of 600 hectares of mangroves. In addition, Ternium performs field works aimed at preserving Ternium has recently launched, together with the local biodiversity before starting the construction of Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro and the Instituto new facilities and carries out a continuous control and Boto Cinza, a project to study a dolphin that inhabits surveillance program in areas intended for the bay, the boto cinza. Under this project, the specimens conservation in steel and mining operations. The will be tagged in order to study their habits and enhance company defines various areas of ecological conservation techniques. connectivity between its terrain and the natural ecosystems, and develops rescue programs to release IBERÁ WETLANDS wildlife in those areas and install wildlife connectivity Ternium sponsors the projects of the Rewilding gates for reptiles, amphibians and small mammals. Argentina Foundation at the Iberá wetlands, a protected area located at the northeast of Argentina. These projects have recently been incorporated to National Geographic Society's Last Wild Places initiative. They seek to reintroduce in this area species that are considered extinct or endangered, such as the giant otter 54. Ternium Environment and Energy Policy Ternium is an integrated steel company committed on preserving the environment. Its goal is to achieve the highest standards in environmental and energy performance as a basis for sustainable development throughout its operations in regards to company employees, the community and future generations. The company has committed to develop a high-quality performance, integrated and eco-efficient production system based on continuous improvement. Caring for the environment is a fundamental value, and its principles are the following: – Compliance with the applicable legislation, as well as any voluntary agreements in relation to environmental protection and energy use, consumption and efficiency. – All levels in each area, throughout the company, are responsible for the results of environmental protection. – The commitment of all our personnel is essential, as is the training provided. – Environmental protection and energy efficiency are responsibilities of Ternium’s staff as well as of its subsidiaries, suppliers and contractor personnel. – Environmental and energy dimensions are an integral part of the company's management processes. – Continuous improvement in environmental and energy performance is actively promoted throughout the company, in addition to all the efforts necessary to achieve the objectives and established goals. – Pollution must be prevented at the source, controlling the most significant environmental aspects of our operations and minimizing their impacts and risks. – Promoting the acquisition of energy efficient products, technologies, services and implementing projects that enhance our energy performance. – Use energy and natural resources efficiently. – Encourage the use of best technologies and practices, as well as renewable energies, when feasible. In each company, everyone is responsible for environmental and energy management: – The company supplies the means and resources to enable compliance with this policy, thereby supporting the sustainability of all operations, depending on the operations context. – All persons entering company facilities, such as own personnel, suppliers, contractors and customers, must comply with this policy. The company seeks to share these principles throughout its value chain and across the communities where it operates, to promote the protection of the environment, encourage the efficient use and consumption of energy resources and foster an open dialogue with stakeholders. This Policy applies to Ternium and its subsidiaries. It will be actively disseminated with a view to ensuring compliance throughout the organization. June 2018 Máximo Vedoya CEO Ternium 55. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Realizing Our People's Full Potential 20,000 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS EMPLOYEES LOCATED MAINLY IN THE AMERICAS. Goals Measures Attract and retain talented employees Code of Conduct -Be an equal opportunity and equal treatment organization Diversity Policy and diversity acknowledgment activities -Enable career development in an appealing work environment Health care and other benefits for employees and families Personal development plan Mandatory internal job application system (hiring process) Work climate improvement initiatives Promote a culture of excellence throughout the company Ternium University (launched in 2019) -Enhance employees' skills and cultivate the company's values Training programs -Develop a world-class management team Performance evaluation system 56. Ternium New Diversity Policy. With 27 nationalities represented among Ternium's staff, the company aims at consolidating a culture of inclusion. 83% Over the last decade, Ternium has become a leading flat steel producer in Latin America by virtue of its main asset: a team of committed, innovative, industrious, diverse and highly qualified individuals. As of December OVERALL SATISFACTION 31, 2019, Ternium's team was composed of 20,061 ON WORKING AT TERNIUM, employees, the majority of whom are distributed ACCORDING TO A PULSE SURVEY throughout our facilities and offices in the Americas. As OF SALARIED EMPLOYEES. Ternium has embarked on a new phase of growth, we rely 451 on the talent and determination of our people to successfully shape our company in this stage. Ternium has a human resources policy guiding our efforts NEW INITIATIVES IN 2019 in managing talent and attracting and retaining motivated TO ENHANCE EMPLOYEES' employees. Ternium is an equal opportunity employer WORKING EXPERIENCE. that embraces diversity in its different forms, including age, gender, nationality, race, ethnicity and creed. We believe that the coexistence of diverse perspectives helps our teams achieve rational solutions to challenges and more effectively and creatively accomplish their goals. Over the years, Ternium has grown increasingly diverse and we will continue to welcome and adopt new and different viewpoints. Mexicans, Argentines, Brazilians 57. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation HEADCOUNT HEADCOUNT BY NATIONALITY # OF EMPLOYEES DECEMBER 2019 25,000 Argentine: 26% 21,353 20,660 20,061 20,000 16,739 16,725 Brazilian: 19% 15,000 10,000 5,000 Colombian: 8% 0 Mexican: 44% Other: 3% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 n Hourly employees n Salaried employees n Hourly employee supervisors n Management and Colombians account for the largest share of the The Flexible Schedule program offers employees the company's team members, yet a total of 27 nationalities option to accommodate their working schedules every are represented among Ternium's staff. Following the Monday and Friday, year-round. In addition, the company introduction of its Diversity Policy in 2018, the company has programs focused on clinical examination, disease launched a training program and the Lean In Circles prevention campaigns, sports and addictions control, initiative in 2019, to consolidate its culture of inclusion. scholarship and leisure programs for employees’ children, and loan programs for home improvement and special Tenium's Code of Conduct forbids unlawful situations. discrimination in employment relations and grants all persons the right to apply for a position in the company Since 2006, we periodically commission international or to be considered for a new position based on the skills consultancy agencies to conduct confidential surveys required. In 2019, 63% of the company's management among Ternium's employees. We develop corporate and positions throughout the organization, encompassing regional action plans based on the results of these surveys senior managers, were held by nationals of the relevant and tackle areas of opportunity to improve overall labor country. climate. In addition, we conduct pulse surveys in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the new initiatives Labor Benefits and Work Climate implemented to enhance the working experience. The countries in which Ternium has operations have in place labor regulations providing for basic labor benefits, In 2019, we defined 451 new initiatives to improve the such as life and disability insurance, health assistance, working experience at the company. Our latest poll, parental leaves and pension systems. In addition to legal carried out in 2019 in pulse format, included 3,555 labor benefits, Ternium has in place several other salaried employees across our operations and had a programs. The Flexible Working program offers participation rate of 87%. The poll showed overall employees access to on-demand office space located closer satisfaction by 83% of participants. to their homes, aimed at reducing commuting time. 58. Ternium Training is a key component of Ternium's strategy in its pursuit for performance Ternium's corporate university provides its employees with career development excellence. activities and programs. Development and Training Ternium's programs for professionals spans a person’s Our constant pursuit of excellence in Ternium's entire career, from the initial level as a young professional operations requires a continuous search for improvement to management levels. During 2019, 662 employees and innovation from our teams. We believe training is a participated in different management academy programs. key tool to achieve this goal. Over the last five years, each salaried employee has received an average of 47 hours per Among these initiatives, the Leaders’ Development year of training and each hourly employee has received an Program provides dedicated training for the company’s average of 107 hours per year of training. current and future leaders. The course is designed to enhance middle management leadership skills, as they TERNIUM UNIVERSITY advance their careers. In August 2019, the company inaugurated its corporate university. With the mission of learning, sharing and Approximately half of the company’s middle-level growing, Ternium University provides its employees with managers have taken part in the program. The leadership career development activities and programs. In addition, course is a joint effort with the EGADE Business School this project is expected to support the company's business of Monterrey, Mexico, and the Torcuato Di Tella transformation through its culture, to develop and shape University of Buenos Aires, Argentina. the company's leadership, and to foster excellence in technical and functional skills and in the development of Our program for hourly employee supervisors includes a professional networks. 40-hour course discussing the components of the supervisory role with a focus on hard and soft skills. This The project, launched in 2018, involved a team of 50 course has received the Excellence in Practice Award from professionals from the Human Resources, Corporate the Association for Talent Development. A total of Communication and Information Technology areas of approximately 1,300 supervisors have completed the the company. Ternium University is expected to be fully course since its launch in 2015. operational during 2021. 59. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation HEADCOUNT BY GENDER HEADCOUNT BY AGE %, DECEMBER 2019 %, DECEMBER 2019 Hourly & Hourly Supervisors Supervisors Salaried Salaried Management Management 0 20 40 60 80 100 0 20 40 60 80 100 n Female n More than 50 years n Less than 30 years n Male n Between 30 and 50 years In addition, Ternium has a program designed for Training for diversity. employees near retirement, and offers outplacement support to certain managers on a case-by-case basis. In 2019, 679 leaders of Encouraging Innovative Initiatives diverse nationalities, genders, We strive to run safe operations, creating value for our cultures and generations were customers, increasing productivity, enhancing the value chain's competitiveness, achieving a highly efficient and trained on the value of sustainable industrial system and establishing a long-term diversity in the workplace. presence in our thriving communities. These tasks require our commitment to a continuous quest for excellence and improvement, and a culture of innovation throughout our organization. We believe that a fresh approach to old and new challenges and staying up-to-date with the fast-paced changes in technology are key elements required to achieve step changes in our activities, including health and safety management, environmental stewardship, energy efficiency, product and process development, training design and community improvement. We encourage our employees to team up to develop new ideas and foster a culture of inclusion and diversity as a way to facilitate innovative results. During 2019, Ternium launched, under the company’s Diversity+ program, the Lean In Together initiative. The first stage of the program 60. Ternium EMPLOYEES TRAINING PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEW AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR AND EMPLOYEE. % OF WHITE COLLAR EMPLOYEES 150 138 125 129 93 94 94 120 101 105 100 83 89 89 87 87 91 82 85 86 90 90 74 74 75 61 49 53 60 50 35 36 30 25 7 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 n Hourly Employees n Upward feedback n Hourly employee supervisors n (Internal) client-customer opinion n Salaried employees and management included ten pilot networks and 140 participants, with with the company’s objectives and guarantees nine collaborative networks encompassing employees transparency and fairness in the assessment of each from the same countries and with different profiles, and employee’s work throughout the year. one collaborative network encompassing managers from different countries. Participants raised their awareness on The evaluation of the accomplishment of objectives is identity, unconscious biases, global perspective, crossaddressed through a combination of different views: the cultural leadership and inclusive spaces, and learned on actual employee, internal customers, assessment the strategic management of differences. committees and feedback meetings, as well as mid-year reviews. The system offers employees additional options Performance Management to provide and receive assessments, including the The individual performance of each of Ternium's salaried possibility of submitting client-supplier opinions related employees is assessed annually through a formal to specific objectives. performance assessment process. The results of the evaluation process drives different aspects of an In addition, the system includes an upward feedback employee's corporate life, such as compensation and tool for management positions accessible to the career development, training requirements and manager’s supervisor. Although this tool is not performance improvement opportunities. mandatory, 94% of our managers received feedback in 2019's performance assessments, an indication of the Ternium relies on a human resources IT system to credibility achieved by Ternium´s procedures. A manage its performance assessment processes. The performance assessment process based on a measurable system includes a set of measurable objectives for each set of objectives is an important aspect of our Human employee under a 360-degree approach to the process. Resources Policy. It aims at improving our employees’ This is a key component of the performance assessment working experience throughout their careers and their process as it ensures that everyone’s goals are in line relationship with their supervisors. 61. Sustainability Report 2019 Ternium's 50th Anniversary A 50 Year Legacy Ternium's The startup of a greenfield project constitutes a memorable milestone for any company. Even more so if 50th Anniversary it is the first one. This is the history of Propulsora Siderúrgica's facility in Argentina, today the Ensenada unit, which back in 1969 gave shape to the vision and values of Agostino Rocca, Back in 1969, the company founder of the Techint Group, and the group of young engineers who decided to embrace a unique industrial inaugurated its Ensenada unit challenge. in Argentina, its first facility. Now, as it celebrates its 50th anniversary, its industrial The execution of this greenfield legacy has expanded around the globe, reflecting the project and its start-up process, values and commitment of its founders and the group of talented engineers who, at a very young age, carried out by a trained and embraced the dream of creating an industrial colossus motivated team of young in what had been an isolated estuary. professionals, shaped Ternium's The Challenge The facilities included a cold-rolling mill and a port management profile. with an annual production capacity of 350,000 tons. From its inception, Propulsora's plant was envisioned to become a milestone in the development of the entire Techint Group. The development of the project, its THE COMPANY'S FIRST FACILITY construction and inauguration took 33 months. For the company it was not only a complex 11 MONTHS 2,000 PEOPLE technological challenge but a great responsibility, as Propulsora was expected to meet Argentina’s rapidly growing demand for steel. But building the mill was not TOOK THE CONSTRUCTION WORKING ON THE the only challenge faced by the company at the time. OF THE ENSENADA UNIT'S FACILITIES' More importantly, it had to bring together a team of GREENFIELD FACILITY CONSTRUCTION SITE talented professionals with the skills, passion and commitment to get it up and running. 3 The Team “If you want new things to happen, you need to hire young people”, said Agostino Rocca at the time. The MONTHS company chose to hire young people with little TO GET THE MILL UP experience but with optimal development potential, AND RUNNING people with a mental and professional structure prone to change, flexible, with a strong sense of integration between personal and business objectives. 62. Ternium Ternium's 50th Anniversary The company wanted to develop a creative environment where the weight of all individuals was given by their specific tasks and responsibilities and not by external symbols of authority. Having placed such a huge capital in the hands of people with great enthusiasm and potential but with really few developed competencies was definitively not a minor risk, but it meant a turning point in the professional profile of the Techint Group. Training Even while works at the mill site continued, a group of close to 120 people traveled to Italy in early 1969 to be trained at an Italsider facility in Novi Ligure. The experience abroad, in a foreign country, gave birth to Propulsora’s team spirit, in circumstances that led people to build stronger ties with their partners. Ternium's first facility. 50 years later the company is positioned as Latin Construction of the Facility America's leading flat steel producer. The construction of the facilities was completed within just eleven months by Techint S.A.C.I., which was responsible for civil works, electrical and mechanical assembly, with more than 2,000 people working on the site. This was a true EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) project, which required an integrated and efficient interaction between the different functions. Considering the speed at which decisions had to be made, observing tight schedules and rigid cost controls, the organizational autonomy was only possible thanks to the total harmony between all different participants. Start-Up As the “Novi Ligure team” came back to Ensenada in September 1969, they were surprised to see that the mill was already there. However, there was no time to contemplate the new industrial beauty. An eleven-month project built in what used to be an empty marshland. 63. Sustainability Report 2019 Ternium's 50th Anniversary Start-up. By the end of 1969, the Ensenada mill was up and running. The Ensenada unit. It took 33 months from project design to the facilities' start-up. 64. Ternium Ternium's 50th Anniversary The team had now to get it up and running in a record time of three months. And so they did. On November 7, 1969, the annealing plant began operating and the opening of the port took place the following day. On November 13th, just 26 months after the main orders were issued, the first steel sheets cut at the plant began to leave the packing lines. On December 23, the first coil in the scaling line was processed and the first cold-rolled coil by Propulsora was expected to leave the tandem the following day, which technically and symbolically took place on Christmas eve. We have reached the end of A few days later, in his year-end wishes to company this year (1969) with the employees, Roberto Rocca expressed: satisfaction of having carried “We have reached the end of this year (1969) with the satisfaction of having carried out the most important out the most important work work of all that we have planned and promoted to date: of all that we have planned Propulsora. and promoted to date: We focus on it all our capacity, our passion and Propulsora.” professional and entrepreneurial pride to fulfill our commitment to give the country a modern industrial plant that contributes to its economic development.” Roberto Rocca President of the Techint Group between 1978 and 2001 “Everything has been possible for a unity of efforts, in which many qualities were combined: vision of the future, affection for the country, personal drive and eagerness for progress. Therein lays our success. In that imponderable predisposition you all have to get things done.” 65. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Strengthening Ternium's Value Chain SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 1,800 SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED ENTERPRISES PARTICIPATE IN THIS ENDEVOUR TO STRENGTHEN THEIR BUSINESSES AND TERNIUM'S VALUE CHAIN. Goals Measures Promote a collaborative network to foster excellence performance Engagement of universities and business schools Engagement of industrial chambers Engagement of special-purpose governmental agencies ProPymes conferences Help small and medium-sized customers and suppliers grow Training programs for managers, employees and workers Assistance in the development of industrial projects and -Enhance competitiveness and foster capital expenditures management tools Endorsement of industrial projects before commercial -Identify and pursue business opportunities banks, working capital financing Assistance in the implementation of institutional projects Assistance in the development of commercial relationships 66. Ternium Small and medium-sized enterprises in the steel industry value chain in Argentina are encouraged to expand their businesses abroad with the support of Propymes Exporta. This initiative offers industrial, commercial and financial support to help companies achieve their business goals, leveraging on their export potential. Ternium offers support to small and medium sized help them reach their potential, enhancing their enterprises (SMEs) through a program that provides a professional, management and financial capabilities, and variety of services, including training, industrial helping them participate competitively in both domestic assistance, institutional assistance, commercial support and foreign markets. A strengthened value chain fosters, in and financial aid. With the participation of approximately turn, the development of industrial infrastructure at 1,800 companies, our ProPymes program fosters the Ternium's main markets, with increased steel demand and development of the industrial value chain in Mexico and enhanced competitiveness. Argentina. ProPymes has helped create an industrial network that encourages the professionalization and quest ProPymes Assistance Services for excellence of SMEs, which, based on knowledge sharing, reciprocal learning and exchange of experiences, TRAINING aims at the implementation along the whole value chain ProPymes designs and implements an annual training of the best practices utilized in the industry. agenda. The course contents are continuously updated to offer our customers and suppliers the best available tools Why Should Ternium Help Other Companies? and management practices for their salaried and hourly Ternium believes that its role as a large industrial employees, as well as for managers. Every year the company in Latin America is to strengthen its value chain. program incorporates additional subjects to the The ProPymes program was first launched in Argentina in curriculum to meet SMEs' increasingly sophisticated 2002, during a deep economic crisis that severely affected range of needs, as they advance their learning curves. many companies in the steel industry value chain. It has Training activities are performed in-house or at been named after the acronym PYME, which in Spanish universities or business schools. During 2019, ProPymes stands for SME. In Mexico, the program was introduced has sponsored training courses for 5,300 attendants, who four years later. spent an aggregate 87,400 hours in class. ProPymes institutionalizes the cooperation between INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT Ternium and the company’s small and medium-sized ProPymes' industrial assistance services focus on a broad customers and suppliers. Ternium works with SMEs to array of issues from the use of automation technology, the 67. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation PROPYMES' SPONSORED INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS PROPYMES SPONSORED TECHNICAL SCHOOLS # OF PROJECTS # OF SCHOOLS 451 450 408 50 376 41 375 40 316 307 32 300 30 24 225 22 19 20 150 75 10 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 n Mexico n Argentina optimization of production facilities and quality oil & gas and other industrial sectors. certifications, to the development of environment, health and safety protocols and human resources management. ProPymes also offers SMEs the possibility to leveraging on During 2019, ProPymes assisted 451 SMEs with their the Techint Group's global network of commercial offices industrial projects. in order to enhance their market reach. INSTITUTIONAL INITIATIVES FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE ProPymes institutional assistance helps SMEs develop The financial assistance services aim at fostering strategies aimed at ensuring a level playing field in the investments to enhance productivity and increase SMEs' local market, given the potential threat of increased installed capacity. The scope of ProPymes assistance unfairly traded imports. includes the development of the project, its budget and the application for commercial bank financing or Assistance initiatives include those for the setting of government-sponsored low-cost financing instruments. industry chambers, the development of technical Since its creation, the program has helped obtain standards for industrial products and those aimed financing or financed projects of Ternium's customers at improving SMEs competitiveness. In addition, for an amount of $123 million. we help SMEs set their own corporate social programs through the implementation of a support program for Advancing the SMEs Agenda technical educational institutes. SMEs making up Ternium’s value chain are key players for the social integration of their communities, as they COMMERCIAL SUPPORT generate a substantial share of total industrial jobs ProPymes assists suppliers in the development of new in Latin America. The ProPymes program plays an products for Ternium and/or any of its affiliated important role in advancing the SME policy agenda companies. In addition, it assists SMEs in the in Mexico and Argentina. development process required to become a supplier of large companies to gain new customers for automotive, Ternium organizes major events under the auspices of 68. Ternium Community technical schools are sponsored by small and medium-sized enterprises in the steel industry value chain in Argentina. This initiative, coordinated by ProPymes and inspired by Ternium's Technical Gene community program, aims at improving the infrastructure of technical educational institutes, and teachers and students training activities. the ProPymes initiative, bringing SMEs' representatives together with government officials, economists and journalists to discuss the sector’s economic context and outlook. In Mexico, the ProPymes biannual event showcases awards for SMEs excelling in areas such as industrial safety, logistics services, delivery, raw material handling and other services. The occasion also includes a Supplier of the Year award. In Argentina, the event features several panels designed to allow SME executives share their experiences and lessons learned. ECOSISTEMA PYME Since 2017, the Argentine government sponsors the Ecosistema Pyme program, or SME Ecosystem, which considers the ProPymes program a model to be replicated by other large companies in the support of their sector's value chain. In Argentina, the stories of SMEs that are part of Ternium’s ProPymes program appeared in videonarrations published in the web platform of one of the 18th ProPymes' seminar in Argentina. country’s largest media groups and have been widely circulated on social media. Different companies owners were featured sharing how their enterprises started and grew, the difficulties they had to overcome, and the potential they envision for the future. 69. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Helping Our Communities Thrive SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS $60 MILLION INVESTED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS TO FOSTER EDUCATION AND LIFE QUALITY. Goals Measures Construction and operation of a technical school (ETRR in Foster education Pesquería) and sponsorship of other technical schools -Achieve excellence in technical education Maintenance and refurbishing of community schools -Support schools and outstanding students Implementation of a special education program for children Financial support to high-school, undergraduate and graduate students Support initiatives that strengthen our communities Funding of health care infrastructure and equipment -Fund health care infrastructure and humanitarian initiatives Construction and operation of a field hospital (COVID-19) -Promote cultural activities Building and donation of houses and a school (earthquake) -Foster sport activities Sponsorship of diverse cultural exhibitions and events Arrangement of city races and other sport activities 70. Ternium Roberto Rocca Technical School in Pesquería, Mexico. In 2019, the first cohort of students graduated from the school after three years of study. Our community programs reflect over seven decades of with a special focus on refurbishing schools, as a way of the Techint Group's worldwide industrial tradition. The cultivating pride and integration in our communities. principle guiding our work is that an industrial project like ours can only be sustainable if community and With the aim of improving people's life quality and industry grow together. In recent years, we have fostering welfare, we support health care initiatives concentrated our community action on four main mainly by funding improvements in the health care areas: education, culture, volunteer work and health. infrastructure of Ternium's communities. More Our strategic programs were designed to be recently, Ternium launched a special $5.5 million implemented at local level, taking into account the funding program to strengthen health care particular circumstances of each community where we infrastructure to face the COVID-19 outbreak at its operate. communities in Mexico, Argentina, Brazil and Colombia. We believe that education is the key to prosperous community growth and have developed educational Developing High Standards of Technical Education programs covering the entire school cycle, from The Roberto Rocca Technical Schools program elementary to higher level, helping all children to fulfill (ETRR, for its acronym in Spanish), which operates their potential and become active contributors to purpose-built schools, was launched to educate high society. In 2019, 70% of our $6,6 million community school students from our communities using relations budget was invested in education. innovative teaching methods and the latest technology in both classroom and laboratory. The As a multi-cultural and multi-lingual company, we schools, named after one of the company’s founders, enrich and broaden people’s cultural horizons in the is dedicated to promoting technical education and communities where we work, fostering diversity and enterprise, offering students different levels of inclusion by promoting cultural activities. scholarships, depending on their needs. We encourage our employees to volunteer for The first school, inaugurated in 2013 in the city of community activities aimed at helping those in need, Campana, Argentina by our sister company Tenaris, 71. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation COMMUNITY PROGRAMS SUPPORT IN NUMBERS $ MILLION 25 23.7 $29 MILLION 20 INVESTED IN OUR FLAGSHIP EDUCATIONAL 15 PROGRAM, THE ROBERTO ROCCA TECHNICAL 12.6 SCHOOL IN PESQUERÍA, MEXICO 9.5 10 8.2 6.6 5 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1,200 SCHOLARSHIPS FOR HIGH SCHOOL AND UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS UNDER SEVERAL PROGRAMS n Ongoing programs n Construction of Roberto Rocca Technical School in Pesquería, Mexico has a capacity of 420 students. In 2016, Ternium We believe that academic excellence is fostered by opened a second technical school, which now has 372 gifted teachers who are truly committed to both students in the town of Pesquería, Nuevo León, students and the community. In 2015, the ETRR Mexico. pioneered in Argentina a comprehensive teacher performance assessment system, involving student In 2019, both schools saw their first classes graduate surveys, on-the-ground class observation, and school after three years of study in Mexico and seven years committee evaluation. The ability to benchmark and in Argentina. Many of these students are the first in guide improvement is the cornerstone of our teacher their families to finish high school and go on to development plan, which rewards performance, university. Like their peers in European countries, attendance, the use of technology and training. ETRR Pesquería students receive 1,600 hours of During 2019, 23 teachers were evaluated and 3,777 teaching per year, as well as more than 600 hours of training hours were provided in Mexico as part of industrial internships. their continuous development. In order to help students develop Industry 4.0 skills, we In October 2019, during the annual worldsteel have adapted the Maker project-based-learning assembly in Monterrey, Mexico, Ternium received teaching methodology to encourage them to think in the Steelie Award for “Excellence in Education and different ways, fostering innovation and teamwork, as Training” on account of the work done in the well as other personal abilities including critical Pesquería ETRR. As creativity and self-expression thinking and communication skills. In 2019, we trained are essential to our students’ all-round development, 15 teachers to use this methodology; students produced we organized the second Literary Contest for the 97 projects they subsequently exhibited, putting some Roberto Rocca Technical School's network as part into practice to benefit their local communities. ETRR of our literary activity program. The winning pieces students participated in the World Educational Robot were presented at the International Book Fair in Contest (WER) with one team participating at the Monterrey, Mexico. international finals in Shangai, China. 72. Ternium TECHNICAL GENE PROGRAM AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM PARTICIPATION # OF PARTICIPANTS # OF STUDENTS 2,500 300 270 2,215 266 2,077 252 2,000 240 214 1,583 1,578 196 1,501 1,500 180 1,000 120 500 60 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 n Teachers n Students Strengthening Technical Education Community-Wide Quality Education for the Communities The Technical Gene program provides support for Ternium has different programs aimed at improving infrastructure and equipment, as well as teacher skills and education in developing communities near training, school management and on-the-job training its facilities. We organize workshop academies in internships for high-school students, sharing teaching Pihuamo, Aquila and Alzada in Mexico. In addition, and learning practices, and concepts developed in the through the AfterSchool program, we provide Roberto Rocca Technical Schools program. support to primary schools in San Nicolás de los Garza, Mexico, and in Ramallo, Argentina. The It provides opportunities for high-school students in AfterSchool Program was designed for communities our local communities to develop industry 4.0 skills by with considerable school dropout rates. Last year, in offering them specific tools to guide their learning. the two countries hosting the program, 270 children aged between six and twelve enrolled in these In addition to providing infrastructure and equipment, activities. the focus of the program is to train students and bring schools closer to industry, an approach that also Focused on STEM subjects (Science, Technology, includes on-the-job internships. Furthermore, a project Engineering, Math), the program offers primary was launched in San Nicolás and Ramallo to improve school children extra hours of quality education maths teaching skills. 21 teachers at five technical highfour days a week to encourage them to commit to schools participated in the project, causing a direct learning and further their personal development in impact on 571 students. the longer term. During 2019, we strengthened the AfterSchool model with new maths content and The third edition of Technical Gene Makers was held in related project-based learning methodologies. After San Nicolás and 105 students participated and just one year, the results showed students had brainstormed innovative projects to add value to the improved their maths skills from those of a low local community. level at a low-performing school to the 73. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation equivalent of a medium level at a mid-performing Roberto Rocca Education Program school, amounting to the progress of an entire year. The Roberto Rocca Education Program awards fellowships and scholarships to promote engineering Participants not only improved their maths abilities and applied sciences studies at undergraduate and but also developed other life skills and a sense of graduate level in countries where we have a major purpose after attending the program for several years: presence. In 2019, the program funded 15 fellowships 84% of students improved their perseverance, 83% for students pursuing for their PhDs at universities improved critical thinking, and more than 75% are outside their country, and 305 scholarships for keen to pursue STEM careers. undergraduate students at universities in their home countries. In addition, the program was implemented Encouraging Excellence Among High-School Students for the first time in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Launched in 1976 in Argentina, the Merit Awards program was initially designed to benefit the We also reinforced our relationships with universities children of Ternium's employees but has long since based in the UK, The Netherlands and Germany, been extended to the wider community. It focuses on with two PhD fellows currently carrying out their stimulating academic performance and commitment industrial practices at our R&D centers and five visits among high-school students living in our from other PhD fellows. In addition, we held three communities. webinars and are pursuing quarterly follow-up activities with each university. In 2019, we awarded 759 scholarships to outstanding students in six countries, including Brazil for the Culture and Tradition to Foster Diversity and Integration first time. In addition, we launched a pilot project in For Ternium and its sister companies in the Techint Brazil, for eligible students, for the on-line Group, art and culture are a source of innovation as application to 60 high-school scholarships. well as a means of celebrating diversity and exploring Improving schools. 300 employees, teachers, graduates and relatives volunteered to enhance the Roberto Coelho municipal school in Santa Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 74. Ternium MERIT AWARDS ROBERTO ROCCA EDUCATION PROGRAM # OF SCHOLARSHIPS # OF SCHOLARSHIPS 305 800 759 300 282 276 712 637 234 239 640 565 240 544 480 180 320 120 160 60 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 humanity. The cornerstone of our cultural activities is time. The activities involved Ternium employees based on our association with the PROA Foundation, working together with members of the local which in addition to its activities in the community in community to refurbish school buildings, lead Buenos Aires, provides us with invaluable expertise classroom readings and share vocational talks to and experience to guide us in the selection and students in schools in vulnerable areas, not only an development of content in our arts programs. opportunity to improve infrastructure but also to strengthen personal relationships. In 2019, Ternium earmarked 21% of its community budget for cultural activities in 3 countries. In 2019, During 2019, 191 houses and a high-school were together with the PROA Foundation, we organized 5 delivered in the municipalities of Reforma de film festivals in Mexico and Argentina, attracting a Pineda and Santiago Laollaga in Oaxaca, Mexico. total of 11.604 participants to 35 screenings. Also, In 2017, the area was hit by a 7.1-scale earthquake. under the guidance of the PROA Foundation, we This endeavor was funded by Ternium and sister collect and preserve photographic data recording the companies in the Techint Group, as well as by their history of the locations and communities where we employees. operate. For almost three decades, Toni Ruttiman, who Volunteering: Making a Difference continues to be a source of inspiration for us at We are committed to making a difference and Ternium, has worked to unite communities. He has strengthening a sense of pride in belonging to the helped to bring together the lives of more than two communities where we operate. Ternium employees million people in Latin America and South East and their families regularly volunteer to improve local Asia, by building suspension bridges with school infrastructure, joining students, their relatives, collaboration from those who then benefit from school teachers and neighbors in this effort. In 2019, a them. So far, he has built 835 bridges in 13 total of 1,878 volunteers in Argentina, Brazil, countries, with support from Ternium, which has Colombia, Guatemala and Mexico joined efforts to donated 839 tons of material to his singular but transform schools, putting in 16,611 hours of volunteer far-sighted mission. 75. Sustainability Report 2019 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation Making the difference. Ternium, its sister companies in the Techint Group and employees funded the construction of 191 houses and the rebuilding of a high-school in Oaxaca, Mexico, an area hit by a 7.1-scale earthquake in 2017. Sports and a Healthy Lifestyle 2019, we designed a consistent reinforcement plan As part of our drive to promote a healthy lifestyle, we together with the directors of key hospitals in each of organize the 10K Ternium annual local race in several Ternium's communities. The plan considered the age locations, together with local institutions. In 2019, of the local population and the availability of health approximately 4,000 runners participated in the 15th care infrastructure, such as intensive care units (ICUs) edition of the 10K Ternium in San Nicolás, and protective gear, among other medical equipment. Argentina; 5,000 runners participated in the 11th In Monterrey, Mexico, Ternium has built in record time edition of the race in Monterrey, Mexico; 1,500 and is operating a field hospital, taking advantage of runners participated in the 8th edition of the race in the operations of Clínica Nova, the company's local Colima, Mexico; 1,200 runners participated in the health care unit. The field hospital has 100 beds and 10 2nd edition of the race in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; and ICUs for people without health insurance. 1,200 runners participated in the 2nd edition of the race in Villa Nueva, Guatemala. In Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, the company has supplied 25 ICUs and ventilators to two local hospitals, and has In addition, we organize sport leagues involving partnered with Senai, a national network of technical schools in neighboring communities. Regarding schools, to repair out-of-use ventilators from local health care initiatives, the company supports and hospitals. In Ensenada, Argentina, Ternium supplied funds a basic health care unit in Aquila, Mexico, and 100 beds to a field hospital. The company also supplied funds improvements in health care infrastructure in ICU equipment and protection gear for doctors. All-indifferent countries. In addition, we organize health all, more than 90 ventilators, 1,700 medical equipment fairs, clinical examinations, and disease and and 170,000 safety kits for health professionals were addiction prevention campaigns. donated to 14 hospitals and health care facilities in four countries. SPECIAL FUNDING PROGRAM FOR COVID-19 OUTBREAK In response to the COVID-19 outbreak at the end of In addition, Ternium manufactured face masks at its 76. Ternium Field hospital in Monterrey, Mexico. In the context of the COVID-19 outbreak, Ternium is very actively helping its communities face these difficult times. facilities and in the ETRR for doctors and first FIELD HOSPITAL IN MONTERREY, MEXICO, responders. Furthermore, the company offered support TO FACE THE COVID-19 OUTBREAK to local entrepreneurs for manufacturing ventilators, and to hospitals for adapting their facilities. To foster the sharing of knowledge on treating 100 BEDS COVID-19, we created a network of medical IN A NEW FACILITY BUILT professionals alongside our sister company Tenaris. AND OPERATED BY TERNIUM Seventy doctors from local communities in Mexico, TO STRENGTHEN THE COMMUNITY'S Argentina and Brazil participated in a virtual HEALTH CARE SYSTEM meeting with their colleagues at Humanitas, an Italian network of hospitals controlled by the 10 Techint Group. Through this platform, Humanitas' know-how on dealing with the COVID-19 outbreak in Italy is available at a public virtual campus. FULLY-EQUIPED ADDITIONAL UNITS Alongside the Fundación Hermanos Agustín y FOR INTENSIVE CARE Enrique Rocca (Agustín y Enrique Rocca Brothers Foundation), and Tenaris, Ternium contributed 20,000 boxes of food for vulnerable families through the #SeamosUno project in Argentina. In addition, Ternium provided food support for 446 families of children participating at its education programs in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and for 44 families of students at the ETRR in Pesquería, Mexico. 77. Sustainability Report 2019 78. Ternium Commitment to Integrity Integrity is key to Ternium's long-term sustainability. With ethical behavior and the observance of law as a core company value, we continuously work on building a corporate culture of transparency. 64 ON-SITE TRAINING SESSIONS 878 ON-SITE PARTICIPANTS 325 THIRD-PARTY EMPLOYEES ON TERNIUM'S POLICY ON FROM MEXICO, ARGENTINA, COMPLETED MANDATORY BUSINESS CONDUCT IN 2019. BRAZIL, COLOMBIA AND GUATEMALA. TRAINING ON E-LEARNING. 79. Sustainability Report 2019 Commitment to Integrity Commitment to Integrity through Strong Corporate Governance • Audit committee (three independent directors) • Internal Audit Department reporting to the Chairman and the Audit Committee • Business Conduct Compliance Officer reporting to the CEO • Compliance department that oversees SOX certifications, related party transactions and conflict minerals • Employee training and accountability to ensure transparent behavior • Confidential channels to report non-compliant behavior SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS construction company; Tenova, a supplier of equipment and technology for iron mining and steel; and Humanitas, a network of hospitals in Italy. The Company has an authorized share capital of a single class of 3.5 billion shares having a nominal value of $1.00 per share entitling one vote each. As of December 31, 2019, there were 2,004,743,442 shares issued and outstanding, of which 41,666,666 were held in treasury. Ternium S.A. is organized as a public limited liability The Company’s ADSs are listed in the New York Stock company (société anonyme) under the laws of the Exchange. Each ADS represents ten shares. Holders of Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The Company holds ADSs only have those rights that are expressly granted controlling stakes in steel companies operating in Latin to them in the deposit agreement dated January 31, America and the Southern United States. San Faustin 2006, among the Company, The Bank of New York S.A., the holding company of the Techint Group, an Mellon (formerly The Bank of New York), as international group of companies, has a 62% indirect depositary, and all owners and beneficial owners from controlling interest in Ternium. time to time of ADRs of the Company. ADS holders may not attend or directly exercise voting rights in San Faustin also has controlling interests in Tenaris, a shareholders’ meetings, but may instruct the depositary global supplier of steel pipes and related services how to exercise the voting rights for the shares which mainly for the energy industry, which holds an underlie their ADSs. Holders of ADSs maintaining additional 11% interest in Ternium; Tecpetrol, an oil non-certificated positions must follow instructions and gas company; Techint, an engineering and given by their broker or custodian bank. 80. Ternium Select Codes Policies Procedures Code of Conduct Business Conduct Disclosure Procedure ––– ––– (relevant information) Code of Conduct Transparency ––– for Suppliers ––– Transactions Between ––– Anti-Fraud Related Parties Code of Ethics for Senior ––– ––– Financial Officers Securities Trading Conflict Mineral Disclosure ––– Diversity and Work Environment Free of Harassment ––– Human Rights Our articles of association provide that our annual Ternium has adopted a Code of Conduct incorporating ordinary general shareholders’ meetings shall take place guidelines and standards of integrity and transparency in Luxembourg, or in a foreign country whenever that apply to all directors, officers and employees. The circumstances of force majeure take place, within six Code of Conduct is periodically reviewed to bring it up months from the end of the previous financial year. to date with the latest trends and incorporate new There are no limitations currently imposed by provisions, if applicable. Luxembourg law on the rights of non-resident shareholders to hold or vote the Company’s shares. In addition, the company has adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, a Transparency Policy The Company’s Board of Directors is currently governing relationships with third parties, a Policy on comprised of nine directors (eight male and one Business Conduct, a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, an female). Four directors are independent under the Anti-fraud Policy, a Policy on Securities Trading, a articles of association and SEC regulations applicable Human Rights Policy and a Policy on Diversity and to foreign private issuers. The Board of Directors has Work Environment Free of Harassment. an Audit Committee consisting of three independent members. The charter of the Audit Committee sets All members of Ternium's Board of Directors, all of its forth, among other things, the Audit Committee’s senior managers and 99.7% of its white collar purpose and responsibilities, which include the employees (salaried employees and managers, excluding responsibility to review material transactions with hourly employee supervisors) have acknowledged and related parties to determine whether their terms are committed to abide by its Code of Conduct and Policy consistent with market conditions or are otherwise fair on Business Conduct. to the Company and/or its subsidiaries. In addition, the Audit Committee reports to the Board of Directors on Ternium has an Internal Audit area that reports to the the adequacy of the systems of internal control over Chairman of the Board of Directors and, with respect financial reporting. to internal control over financial reporting, to the Audit 81. Sustainability Report 2019 Commitment to Integrity Committee. The Internal Audit area evaluates and CRC has focused its attention on the main actions and reassures the effectiveness of internal control processes, mitigation plans to tackle the consequences of the risk management and governance. COVID-19 outbreak to ensure business continuity. Risk Management Business Conduct Compliance Program Ternium has an established process of risk Ternium has developed a Business Conduct identification and management. At the helm is the Compliance Program with the objective to prevent and company's Critical Risk Committee (CRC), which mitigate bribery and corruption risks. The Compliance assists the CEO on the subject. While management is Program involves white collar employees and is aimed responsible for identifying and managing risks, the at promoting the implementation of best practices in CRC facilitates the identification and assessment of business conduct internally and also regarding the critical risks, the development of mitigating actions and relations with customers, suppliers, state-controlled the monitoring of action plans. Critical risks are entities and other third parties. escalated through the usual reporting lines and decision-making is the responsibility of managers. Ternium has appointed a Business Conduct Compliance Officer reporting to the CEO of the The CRC focuses on risks considered critical to the Company, who has responsibility for identifying and company’s assets, operations or reputation. Ternium mitigating corruption risks and fostering a culture of has categorized risks according to the potential area ethical and transparent conduct, and for designing, impacted, the likelihood of their occurrence and the implementing and supervising the Compliance Program severity of an eventual impact. The main identified aligned with the requirement of applicable national and risks include major accidents impacting our operations, international laws against corruption and bribery, such cybercrime and environmental accidents. Recently, the as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Code of Conduct for Suppliers. Ensuring that governance standards are in place, including ethics, health, safety, human rights and environmental stewardship commitments. 82. Ternium All members of Ternium's Board of Directors, all of its senior managers and 99.7% of its white collar employees have acknowledged and committed to abide by its Code of Conduct and Policy on Business Conduct as of December 31, 2019. The Business Conduct Compliance team has local Ternium maintains regular communications with its presence in the main locations where the company directors, senior managers and employees in order to has businesses. The Business Conduct Compliance raise their awareness and keep them alert on possible Program is focused on preventive measures like risk corruption risks, and to remind them of the applicable assessment, normative design, communication, principles and regulations. This program includes topadvisory, training, certification, monitoring and down messages, management meetings, newsletters, auditing, including third parties. The function also articles and announcements on the company's intranet. includes disciplinary actions, remediation and benchmarking. Activities are implemented based on a The company encourages active participation of all periodic risk assessment that enables us to identify areas, emphasizing the importance of asking for key factors to be stressed on, particularly at training guidance in case of red flags or ambiguous situations. and risk prevention sessions, based on the employees' likely exposure to conflicting situations. Ternium has defined specific procedures for hiring Consequently, only white collar employees professional services providers that act on behalf of or participate in the program, while hourly employees otherwise represent the company before governmental and their supervisors are excluded. entities, including those retained to assist in obtaining permits or licenses, customs brokers, advisers and law Ternium’s Code of Conduct and Policy on Business firms. These procedures include a due diligence process, Conduct clearly define that any corrupt payment is internal authorizations and contract provisions to strictly prohibited and will not be tolerated; they also ensure third-party’s commitment to Ternium’s antiinclude specific guidelines regarding due diligence when bribery policies. hiring third-parties that act on behalf of Ternium. Charitable and political contributions, as well as Monitoring procedures and audits are carried out hospitality expenses to third parties (meals, gifts and regularly to validate the effective implementation of the business trips) are regulated by internal procedures. Compliance Program and the investigation of any Facilitating payments are forbidden. Communication is conduct contrary to the Policy on Business Conduct or essential to build an ethical culture. its principles. 83. Sustainability Report 2019 Commitment to Integrity Training Program for Third-Party Employees. Ternium's anti bribery training program also reaches third parties that represent or act on behalf of the company. Training on Anti-Bribery Policies and Procedures Code of Conduct for Suppliers Ternium has implemented an extensive training Ternium purchases most of its supplies through Exiros, program on anti-bribery policies and procedures for its a specialized procurement company whose ownership white collar employees. This program enables the we share with Tenaris. Ternium’s suppliers undergo, company's senior management to engage the through Exiros, a rigorous process of selection to organization behind Ternium's ethical commitment, ensure governance standards are in place, in line with with a clear set of guidelines and by sharing their applicable laws and regulations and our Code of values. All white collar employees participate in an onConduct for Suppliers, which includes, among other line mandatory training program and, according to items, ethical behavior, compliance with the law, and their level of exposure, in an on-site training program health, safety, human rights and environmental as well. 98.2% of Ternium's white collar employees stewardship commitments. have completed the mandatory training course on the company's Policy on Business Conduct in e-learning Compliance Line format. In 2019, Ternium delivered 64 on-site training Ternium established and encourages the use of a websessions to 878 employees in Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, based confidential Compliance Line. The company’s Colombia and Guatemala. compliance line serves as a channel for confidential communication and is available to all employees, Our anti-bribery training program also reaches third suppliers, customers and other stakeholders who wish parties that represent or act on behalf of Ternium. 325 to report all types of alleged breaches of the Code of third-party employees have completed Ternium's Conduct and its principles. Ternium's Compliance Line mandatory training program on corruption prevention, is available in Spanish, Portuguese and English. which has been implemented in e-learning format. 84. Ternium COMPLIANCE LINE 46% OF ANALYZED COMPLAINTS ENDED UP IN DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS. 24/7 ON-LINE ACCESS IN SPANISH, PORTUGUESE AND ENGLISH. A Transparency Policy governs the relationships with third parties. Both the identity of the individual who reports an Shareholders' Compliance Line issue as well as the issue itself are treated in a In addition, Ternium has a web-based confidential strictly confidential manner, to the extent channel for investors to communicate their concerns permitted by relevant legislation. Anonymous directly to the company's Audit Committee, which is reporting is also possible. Internal Audit, which is composed of independent directors. All independent from all operational areas, analyzes communications received through the Shareholders' all reports received and is supervised by the Audit Compliance Line are reviewed by our Internal Audit Committee for issues related to financial Director. The status of all concerns received through reporting. the Shareholders' Compliance Line is reported to the company's Audit Committee. Ternium implements the necessary actions to avoid retaliation against those who use the Compliance Line in good faith. In 2019, 46% of analyzed complaints ended up in disciplinary actions, including dismissals and termination of commercial relationships. The reports have also helped to improve the company’s internal control environment. Although complaints can be anonymous, in 52% of cases the complainants have identified themselves. 85. Sustainability Report 2019 Board of Directors and Senior Management Board of Directors Senior Management Chairman Paolo Rocca Chief Executive Officer Máximo Vedoya Vice-Chairman Daniel Novegil Chief Financial Officer Pablo Brizzio Ubaldo Aguirre (*) Ternium Mexico César Alejandro Roberto Bonatti President Jiménez Carlos Condorelli (*) Vincent Decalf Ternium Argentina Martín Berardi (*) Gioia Ghezzi President (*) Adrián Lajous Gianfelice Rocca Ternium Brasil Marcelo Chara President Secretary Arturo Sporleder International Business Unit Héctor Obeso President Zunzunegui Audit Committee Planning and Global Oscar Montero Business Development (*) Chairman Vincent Decalf General Director (*) Ubaldo Aguirre Adrián Lajous (*) Engineering, Industrial Pablo Hernán Bassi Coordination and EHS (*) Independent Directors Director Quality Director Rubén Herrera Chief Information Officer Roberto Demidchuk Human Resources Rodrigo Piña Director 86. Ternium Investor Information Investor Relations and Compliance Director IR Inquiries Sebastián Martí TERNIUM Investor Relations smarti@ternium.com ir@ternium.com Phone: +54 11 4018 8389 U.S. toll free: 866 890 0443 Luxembourg Office ADS Depositary Bank 26, Boulevard Royal 4th floor Bank of New York Mellon L2449 Luxembourg BNY Mellon Shareowner Services Luxembourg P.O. Box 505000 Phone: +352 2668 3152 Louisville, KY 40233-5000 Fax: +352 2659 8349 Stock Information New York Stock Exchange (TX) CUSIP Number: 880890108 Internet www.ternium.com 87. Sustainability Report 2019 88. Ternium GRI and UN Global Compact Information 89. Sustainability Report 2019 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Ternium's Sustainability Report for the year 2019 follows the core option of the reporting levels of the Global Reporting Initiative standard. Materiality Analysis for Ternium's Sustainability Report SIGNIFICANT PARTICIPATION IN TERNIUM'S Ternium's sustainability report’s content was redefined MATERIALITY SURVEY according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) principles of Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality and Completeness. A Materiality Analysis was carried out according to the GRI four-step 1,300 STAKEHOLDERS process that an organization may go through in order SHARED THEIR PRIORITY to define the document’s specific content. PERCEPTIONS ABOUT TERNIUM'S BUSINESS. Key economic, social and environmental topics were identified through a combination of industry research and benchmarking, international standards and priority subjects (Identification), and then prioritized 22 TOPICS through a stakeholder consultation process that compiled a total of 1256 responses from employees, RANKED WITHIN THREE CATEGORIES: suppliers, customers, community organizations, ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND business associations, investors, press, and academic ENVIRONMENTAL. institutions (Prioritization). To conclude the selection of material topics, the results were examined considering the company’s long-term strategy and the programs implemented, resulting in a Materiality Matrix that combines both perspectives (Validation). MATERIALITY MATRIX The Materiality Matrix in the following page presents the economic, environmental and social topics that were defined as a priority to include in our 2019 Sustainability Report. They are informed according to GRI Standard core option of the reporting levels throughout the document and, in order to facilitate access, indexed in the following sections. 90. Ternium –––––––––––––––– • Economic topics • Environmental topics • Social topics 91. Sustainability Report 2019 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI Index Topic GRI Standard GRI Topic Page General Disclosures Organization Profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 3 Activities, brands, products, and services We do not sell products that are banned in certain GRI 102-2 markets or that were the subject of stakeholder 7-13 questions or public debate. Location of headquarters GRI 102-3 87 Principal executive offices GRI 102-4 Location of operations 10-11 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 79-85 GRI 102-6 Markets served 7-13 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization 7-13 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 56-61 GRI 102-9 Supply chain 10-11 22-33 See 20-F 2019 Significant changes to the organization and its supply 10-11 22-33 GRI 102-10 chain See 20-F 2019 GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 4-5 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 4-5 GRI 102-13 Memberships of associations 22-33 Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 15-17 34-37 Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 79-85 Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure 79-85 98-100 Stakeholder GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 90 engagement GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 97 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 19-21 90 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 90-91 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 90-91 Entities included in the consolidated financial Reporting Practices GRI 102-45 See 20-F 2019 statements GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 4-5 GRI 102-47 List of material topics 90-91 92-94 92. Ternium GRI Index (cont.) Topic GRI Standard GRI Topic Page GRI 102-48 Restatements of information See 20-F 2019 GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 4-5 GRI 102-50 Reporting period 4-5 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report: 2019-03-19 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle: Annual GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 87 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI GRI 102-54 90-91 Standards GRI 102-55 GRI content index 92-94 External assurance GRI 102-56 At the time of the report, external assurance is not mandatory Material Topic Economic Performance GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed* 19-21 Proportion of senior management hired from the GRI 202-2 56-61 local community GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 22-33 46-55 Communication and training about anticorruption Ethics and integrity GRI 205-2 79-85 policies and procedures Environmental topics GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used 46-55 95-96 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 46-55 95-96 GRI 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 46-55 GRI 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 46-55 GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused 46-55 95-96 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 46-55 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 46-55 95-96 Non-compliance with environmental laws and GRI 307-1 46-55 regulations Benefits provided to fulltime employees that are not Social topics GRI 401-2 56-61 provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 38-45 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident GRI 403-2 38-45 investigation 93. Sustainability Report 2019 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI Index (cont.) Topic GRI Standard GRI Topic Page GRI 403-3 Occupational health services 38-45 Worker participation, consultation, and GRI 403-4 38-45 communication on occupational health and safety GRI 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 38-45 GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health 38-45 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and GRI 403-7 38-45 safety impacts directly linked by business Workers covered by an occupational health and safety GRI 403-8 100 management system GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 100 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition GRI 404-2 56-61 assistance programs. Percentage of employees receiving regular GRI 404-3 100-101 performance and career development reviews GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 97-100 Operations with local community engagement, GRI 413-1 70-77 impact assessments, and development programs *“Direct Economic Value Generated” equals net sales plus interest income, proceeds from the sale of property, plant & equipment, other operating income, equity in earnings of associated companies and inflation adjustment results, less other financial losses. “Employees” equals labor costs. “Taxes” equals current income tax expense plus cost of sales and SG&A taxes, less the effect of changes in tax law. “Suppliers” equals cost of sales plus SG&A, less labor costs, depreciation of property, plant and equipment, amortization of intangible assets, allowance for obsolescence, cost of sales and SG&A taxes, R&D expenditures and community investments ($6.6 million). “Capital Providers” equals dividends paid in cash to company's shareholders and non-controlling interest, plus interest expense. 94. Ternium Historical Data In this section, Ternium compiled the historical data matrix. Historical data related to the selected economic and additional information related to the selected topics has been compiled in the table on page 33. Also, environmental and social topics for its 2019 the company compiled in this section additional data Sustainability Report, according to the materiality that it deemed relevant to disclose. Environmental Topics 2017 2018 2019 Environmental and Energy Management Systems % of Employees and Contractors Working in Registered % 74.5% 97.4% 97.9% Production Facilities % of steel produced under ISO 14001 certificated % 58% 100% 100% facilities % of steel produced under ISO 50001 certificated % 42% 42% 63% facilities Mining operations certified with ISO 14001 % operations 50% 50% 100% Investment in Environment and Energy $ million 70.8 73.1 69.5 Energy and Emissions [GJ/ton crude Energy intensity steel] 21.8 21.1 21.7 [t CO2/ton crude Emission intensity steel] 1.8 1.7 1.8 [t CO2/ton crude Direct Emission scope 1 steel] 1.7 1.6 1.6 [t CO2/ton crude Energy upstream emissions scope 2 steel] 0.0 0.0 0.1 [t CO2/ton crude Other upstream emissions scope 3 steel] 0.1 0.1 0.1 Water and Effluents* thousand cubic Subsurface water intake meters 10,742 10,040 9,439 thousand cubic Provision from third parties treated water meters 3,683 4,357 4,229 thousand cubic Provision from municipality meters 59 62 41 thousand cubic Provision from municipal sewage meters 3,142 3,422 3,093 95. Sustainability Report 2019 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Environmental Topics (cont.) 2017 2018 2019 thousand cubic Internal recycled water meters 1,740 1,682 1,390 [m3/ ton crude Water withdrawal intensity for Mexican steel shops steel] 4.4 4.3 4.3 Fresh water millions m3 8.6 9.5 8.8 Other water millions m3 10.7 10.0 9.4 *The information regarding water and effluents is only reported for the production facilities in Mexico placed in areas of water-scarce Materials and waste Material Efficiency % 99.7% 99.6% 99.6% Steel scrap recycled million tons 2.5 2.9 2.8 Co Products* million tons 2.8 5.0 4.8 Recycled input materials used (steel scrap/new steel)* % 33% 27% 27% Blast Furnace slag to cement industry* million tons 1.2 1.9 1.7 MixRock® to cement industry thousands tons 89.8 94.4 86.0 Annual weight of tailings waste (mining) million tons 4.1 4.6 4.5 Accumulated total weight of tailings waste (mining) million tons 61.2 75.4 79.9 Hazardous and Non hazardous Waste sent to Landfill thousands tons 34.5 68.3 60.3 Hazardous and Non hazardous Waste sent to co-processing thousands tons 0.1 0.1 0.1 *Blast furnace from Rio de Janeiro unit was incorporated in September 2017 Waste by type and disposal method The disclosure between hazardous and non hazardous wastes, was not available for all Ternium operations. It will be included in the 2020 Sustainability Report. 96. Ternium Social Topics 2017 2018 2019 Headcount Management # of People 466 478 494 Salaried # of People 3,508 3,478 3,402 Hourly # of People 15,977 15,377 14,808 Supervisors # of People 1,402 1,327 1,357 Total # of People 21,353 20,660 20,061 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements* % 70% 70% 68% *Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements for the year 2017 does not consider headcount from Brazil's facility Diversity of governance bodies and employees Management by gender, age and nationality Male % 92% 92% 92% Female % 8% 8% 8% 30-50 years old % 60% 61% 62% over 50 years old % 40% 39% 38% Argentine % 30% 29% 29% Mexican % 45% 48% 49% Brazilian % 16% 14% 14% Colombian % 4% 4% 3% Other Nationality % 5% 5% 5% Salaried by gender, age and nationality Male % 69% 69% 69% Female % 31% 31% 31% under 30 years old % 19% 19% 18% 97. Sustainability Report 2019 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Social Topics (cont.) 2017 2018 2019 30-50 years old % 63% 62% 63% over 50 years old % 18% 19% 19% Argentine % 19% 20% 18% Mexican % 45% 47% 49% Brazilian % 21% 20% 19% Colombian % 9% 8% 7% Other Nationality % 6% 6% 6% Hourly by gender, age and nationality Male % 98% 98% 98% Female % 2% 2% 2% under 30 years old % 25% 24% 22% 30-50 years old % 58% 60% 61% over 50 years old % 16% 17% 17% Argentine % 29% 28% 27% Mexican % 43% 44% 43% Brazilian % 20% 19% 19% Colombian % 7% 7% 8% Other Nationality % 2% 2% 2% Supervisors by gender, age and nationality Male % 98% 98% 98% Female % 2% 2% 2% under 30 years old % 6% 7% 6% 30-50 years old % 62% 60% 62% 98. Ternium Social Topics (cont.) 2017 2018 2019 over 50 years old % 32% 33% 32% Argentine % 28% 29% 26% Mexican % 50% 53% 54% Brazilian % 15% 9% 11% Colombian % 5% 6% 6% Other Nationality % 3% 3% 3% As of the date of this report, the Board of Directors has 9 members, one of them is a woman. Regarding distribution by age, all of them are over 50 years old. The distribution by nationality is the following: 4 of them are Italian citizens, 3 of them are Argentine citizens, 1 is a French and Luxembourg citizen and 1 is a Mexican citizen. The Senior Management is composed by 11 members, all of them are male. The distribution by age is the following: 3 of them are in the range of 30-50 years old and 8 of them are over 50 years old. The composition by nationality is the following: 9 of them are Argentine citizens and 2 of them are Mexican citizens. Proportion of top management hired from the local community Country Mexico % 44% 42% 41% Brazil % 40% 64% 62% Argentina % 100% 100% 100% Colombia % 50% 50% 50% Average hours of training per year per employee Management Hs/per year 37 53 36 Salaried Hs/per year 35 53 36 Hourly Hs/per year 86 105 74 Supervisors Hs/per year 101 90 7 Total Hs/per year 78 94 62 Male Hs/per year 81 97 64 Female Hs/per year 37 51 40 Performance and career development reviews Management & Salaried (M&S) % 97% 93% 97% Hourly % 42% 47% 54% 99. Sustainability Report 2019 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Social Topics (cont.) 2017 2018 2019 Supervisors % 97% 97% 98% Upwardfeedback (M&S) % 94% 91% 94% Client-Customer opinion (M&S) % 87% 87% 82% Health and Safety day-loss injuries/ Lost time injuries frequency rate per million hours 0.7 0.7 0.8 worked quantity/million Injuries frequency rate hours worked 3.4 3.0 2.7 Safety training hours # hours per year 586,240 564,341 487,649 # of employees Safety training hours participation and contractors 12,116 18,609 15,666 Safety hours program walks # of sessions 128,463 116,347 147,093 # of employees Safety hours program participation and contractors 842 1,016 1,632 Ten Life-Saving Rules compliance audits # per year 17,409 29,907 42,788 Health and Safety audits # per year 132,246 171,410 199,772 Positive approaches* # per year 43,193 57,024 106,704 % of employees H&S System Coverage and contractors 100% 100% 100% % of employees H&S System Coverage (internally audited) and contractors 100% 100% 100% % of employees H&S System Coverage (externally certified) and contractors 66% 67% 67% Investment in Health and Safety $ million 35 49 50 *Positive approach is used with employees to identify safe behaviors to be reinforced Promotion of worker health Most of Ternium's employees and their families have access to private health care systems managed by their respective unions, affiliate companies or companies controlled by Ternium. The health care systems are funded through employees' and Ternium's mandatory contributions together with, in certain cases, Ternium's voluntary contributions. In addition, the company funds and manages health care programs for the broader communities, such as health fairs, clinical examinations, and disease and addiction prevention campaigns, aimed at increasing the community’s awareness and gaining of a basic understanding of how to prevent and take care of various health issues. The company supports and funds a basic health care unit in Aquila, Mexico, and funds improvements in health care infrastructure in different countries. For more information see Helping our communities thrive Support to the Public Health Care System elsewhere in this annual report. 100. Ternium Social Topics (cont.) 2017 2018 2019 Community Internship Hours hours/Per year 27,600 34,600 63,800 Community Investments $ million 12.6 9.5 6.6 Education Investments $ million 10.0 6.2 4.6 Community Budget for cultural activities % 11 % 28 % 21% Technical Gene program Teachers # of Participants 156 152 148 Technical Gene program Students # of Participants 2,059 1,426 1,929 After school program participation # of Students 252 266 270 Merit Awards Program # of Scholarships 546 712 759 Roberto Rocca Education Program (undergraduate) # of Scholarships 239 276 305 Roberto Rocca Education Program (PhDs) # of Scholarships 18 12 15 Volunteering Program # of volunteers 1,257 1,644 1,878 Volunteering Program hours / per year 9,709 9,996 16,611 Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Program (ProPymes) Small and medium-sized enterprises participation # SMEs 1,500 1,600 1,800 Sponsored training courses # attendants 4,264 4,700 5,300 hours in class /per Sponsored training courses year 86,047 92,000 87,400 Propymes sponsored technical schools # of Schools 24 32 41 Propymes sponsored industrial projects # of Projects 376 408 451 Finance assistance $ million 6.4 6.6 6.0 Integrity Training sessions on Ternium's policy on business conduct (on-site) # sessions 83 79 64 Training sessions on Ternium's policy on business conduct (on-site) # participants 916 1,603 878 Acknowledgment and commitment to abide Ternium's % white-collar Code of Conduct and Policy on Business Conduct employees 99.4% 99.7% 99.7% Training course on the company's Policy on Business % white-collar Conduct (e-learning) employees 98.7% 97.0% 98.2% Compliance Line's substantiation rate % 31% 40% 46% 101. Sustainability Report 2019 UN Sustainable Development Goals Index Ternium's Contribution to UN Sustainable Development Goals SD Goal Topics Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Topics • • 38, 70 1 Delivering Ternium's • • • 56, 66, 70 Business Strategy ––– 2 • 56 Improving Our Safety Performance ––– • 46 3 Minimizing Ternium's • • • • 22, 38, 56, 7O Environmental Footprint ––– 4 • • • 22, 66, 70 Realizing People's Full Potential ––– • • • 56, 66, 70 5 Strengthening Ternium's Value Chain • 70 ––– 6 Helping Our • 46 Communities Thrive ––– 7 • 46 Commitment to Integrity • 46 • 46 • • 38, 79 • • • 22, 66, 70 102. Ternium www.ternium.com
