COP 2019 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Table of Contents UNGC PRINCIPLES AND OTHER UN INITIATIVES 4 MESSAGE OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 6 ABOUT MAS HOLDINGS – THE LOCAL-GLOBAL CONGLOMERATE 8 OUR SUSTAINABILITY STORY 10 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT 12 PRODUCTS MADE BETTER 14 CHAMPION CLIMATE ACTION 21 SAFEGUARD WATER 27 RESPONSIBLE CHEMICAL USE 29 TRANSFORM WASTE 32 SUPPORT A THRIVING PLANET 37 LIVES MADE BETTER 48 EMPOWER WOMEN 52 MEANINGFUL EMPLOYMENT 72 A WORKPLACE BEYOND COMPLIANCE 84 THRIVING COMMUNITIES 91 ALIGNMENT TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES 100 4 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 UNGC PRINCIPLES By incorporating the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) into strategies, policies and procedures, corporates can establish a culture of integrity, upholding responsibilities to people and the planet, and set the stage for long-term success. HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT P1 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the P7 Principle 7: protection of internationally proclaimed human Businesses should support a precautionary rights; and approach to environmental challenges; P2 Principle 2: P8 Principle 8: Make sure that they are not complicit in human undertake initiatives to promote greater rights abuses. environmental responsibility; and LABOUR P9 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of P3 Principle 3: environmentally friendly technologies. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Anti-Corruption right to collective bargaining; P10 Principle 10: P4 Principle 4: Businesses should work against corruption in the elimination of all forms of forced and all its forms, including extortion and bribery. compulsory labour; P5 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and P6 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 5 OTHER UN INITIATIVES Caring for Climate Women’s Empowerment Principles Business for Peace Having taken part in the Caring for Climate The Women’s Empowerment Principles are the end result of collaboration After a decade of researching the role initiative since August 2008, MAS is one of between UNGC and the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality (UN Women). of business and its contribution to 453 companies from over 65 countries to be The principles offer guidance to companies on how to empower women in peace, in September 2013, UN Global a part of this movement. The world’s largest the workplace, marketplace and community. Compact launched the Business global coalition, Caring for Climate is led by UN for Peace initiative. The platform Global Compact, UNEP and UNFCCC. Based on The seven principles are as follows: assists companies in implementing the consensus that climate change will affect responsible business practices in 1. Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality. business and society in vital ways, consultants conflict-affected and high-risk areas. from UNGC, UNEP and WBCSD prepared 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work, respecting and supporting human a statement titled “Caring for Climate: The MAS endorsed the initiative in rights and non-discrimination. Business Leadership Platform”, which offers September 2013, and is proud to participants an opportunity to demonstrate 3. Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all female and male employees. be one of its founding participants. climate leadership. 4. Promote education, training and professional development for women. MAS chose to endorse and implement the Caring for Climate initiative through CEO 5. Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing practices support, tactical changes within the organization that empower women. and ongoing public communication. 6. Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy. 7. Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality. 6 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 MESSAGE OF CONTINUED SUPPORT MAS is pleased to present its 16th Communication on Progress We also continue our commitment to restoring habitat, to the United Nations Global Compact. completing 41 restoration projects across Sri Lanka by the end of the year. The year 2019 was always going to be an exciting time for MAS. Having formulated our MAS 2025 Strategy in 2018, our MAS has looked beyond our own boundaries in furthering our organization was newly focused on strengthening our core sustainability efforts and advocacy, which is clearly reflected in business, furthering new adjacencies and identifying exciting the work we do with the Sustainable Apparel Coalition. MAS opportunities for future growth. We had also challenged ourselves colleagues contribute through roles in the Facility Advisory with a turnaround journey to build a more financially resilient Council, Product Advisory Council, Brand and Retail Advisory organization. A significant step in this process was aligning our Council and Transparency Council, and within teams upgrading Sustainability Strategy to MAS’ 2025 game-plan. Of course, Sri the Higg Tools. Lanka faced immense challenges during the year due to the devastating Easter Sunday terror attacks on the 21st of April. For social sustainability, 2019 proved to be an year of consolidation During this time, MAS rose up to support those most directly with the development and deployment of the new social affected whilst helping the nation move forward by delivering sustainability scoring tool. This tool will rate our leadership on our promises to our customers and employees. based on how the Business Units they lead perform on social indicators and parameters such as diversity, work-life balance, Suren Fernando Throughout this journey, we remained true to our core values health and safety and community engagement. Group Chief Executive Officer and continued our efforts to enhance environmental and social MAS Holdings sustainability, as outlined in this report. We were honoured when our colleague Roshan Weerasinghe was recognized by the Global Compact Local Network as On the environmental front, we continue to invest into renewable the Young SDG Pioneer for Sri Lanka for his work educating energy, while safeguarding water, responsibly managing our communities on the Sustainable Development Goals. chemical usage and transforming our waste to value. We continue our support for the Local Network through the We successfully manufactured the official uniforms worn by roles we play on its Board and Steering Committee. our National cricket team during the ICC Cricket World Cup in 2019, using 100% recycled yarn made of PET bottles collected MAS remains committed to the United Nations Global Compact from the coasts of Sri Lanka. and its guiding principles, and will strive to be a sustainable business, staying relevant and committed to all stakeholders. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 7 8 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 MAS HOLDINGS: THE LOCAL-GLOBAL CONGLOMERATE A leader in apparel and textile manufacturing in South Asia, MAS Holdings was founded under the visionary leadership by Mahesh Amalean, supported by his brothers Sharad and Ajay. The local-global conglomerate has today grown to mammoth proportions, with its apparel division alone evolving into a USD 2 billion business with a continuously growing global eco-system. Widely commended by customers for its commitment to value creation, product innovation, and sustainable and ethical business practices, the company continues to drive its initiatives aligned under the UN Sustainable Development Goals through its sustainability strategy. The company’s expansion approach of pursuing mutually beneficial partnerships with global leaders has ensured a worldwide integrated supply chain that is growing continuously. Headquartered in 9 Sri Lanka, MAS Holdings enjoys a global presence across MAS Holdings’ Swimwear division is most noteworthy innovation arm, the company has introduced several 16 countries, including India, Bangladesh, Hong Kong, for the production of competitive swimwear for Speedo revolutionary products to the local and global markets, Vietnam, Indonesia, Australia, Jordan, Italy, Germany, at the 2004 Olympics and the 2006 Melbourne World such as Spryng and Firefly. United Kingdom, USA, Haiti, China, Honduras and Championships, with continued operations via a stateMexico. Its supply chain includes 53 state-of-the-art of-the-art manufacturing facility in Vietnam. MAS Holdings is also an equal opportunity employer, manufacturing facilities in 9 countries and design houses with a stringent focus on creating an ethical and inclusive in 4 countries, in addition to an IT industry presence in Adding to its value proposition for clients, MAS has work environment, and contributing to the communities 9 and brand presence in 4 countries. continued to expand its supply chain over the years, in which it operates. In partnership with its people, MAS with manufacturing operations ranging from fabric strives to drive economic and social growth, empower The company’s apparel business is broadly categorized to printing, from elastics to lace, from hooks to other individuals and contribute towards a more sustainable into three divisions: Intimate wear, Sports & Activewear accessories and embellishments through joint ventures future for the next generation. and Swimwear. The largest of the three, Intimate wear is with global industry leaders such as Stretchline, Noyon renowned for its partnerships with global fashion labels Dentelles and Prym Intimates, Textprint and Trischel. In lieu of this, sustainability is a core pillar at MAS including Victoria’s Secret, VSX, Pink, La Senza, Calvin Holdings, with a clear commitment to drive sustainable Klein, GAP, H&M and Marks & Spencer, among others. In addition to its global partnerships, several companymanufacturing for the industry as well as its people. owned brands enjoy market leadership positions around This founding principle has been mapped into the MAS The Activewear division specializes in products engineered the world, including Amanté, Attune, Become and GT Nexus. Sustainability Strategy, with an overarching objective of for high performance and improved results. A subsidiary In 2013, a strategic business unit, Twinery (Innovations achieving its set sustainability goals for 2025. of the division, MAS Kreeda is the company’s dedicated by MAS) was established to innovate and re-engineer arm to produce high-performance sportswear for Nike. garments through an organic process. Through this 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Our sustainability journey is the outcome of our drive innovation and a sustainable business model, which we OUR SUSTAINABILITY to continuously do more. From early days, we were believe will be key levers of growth for MAS. STORY known for our best-in-class working conditions within These efforts have enabled us to re-define sustainability the industry and treating our team members with dignity When our founders, Mahesh, Ajay and Sharad Amalean, and respect. For decades, we have worked tirelessly to within our business. The transformation of our sustainable started MAS Holdings (Pvt) Ltd in 1987, they may not strengthen our female workforce, giving them every business strategy was the result of this thinking. We have anticipated the immense impact the company opportunity to achieve more, at work and in life. We are have now consolidated our social and environmental would have on the apparel industry. Entering the known for re-thinking our strategies and re-evaluating sustainability efforts into one central sustainability intimate apparel manufacturing space as a pioneer the impacts of our business to ensure a positive impact structure, combining the strengths of our teams and and expanding the business to include sportswear, on our world. aligning our goals to achieve greater consistency and performance wear and swimwear, MAS is proud to be impact. In a time of uncertainty, we have embraced a acknowledged as a globally renowned design-to-delivery Transforming ourselves with the times to strengthen our new purpose of ‘inspiring sustainable change’ to help apparel and textile solutions provider. business, we appointed a new Chief Executive Officer our people find meaning during an incredibly challenging Suren Fernando, the first non-family CEO to lead the time. Over 33 years, we have embarked on a journey of business, signaling our transition to the next level of growth, innovation, and transformation together with leaders entrusted with the task of taking the company This report examines our work in 2019 and reflects our our 99,000-strong family, whom we have always placed into the future. Looking ahead, we have aligned the vision for 2025 in creating sustainable products while at the heart of our business. This journey of continuous strategy with our key areas of focus, such as people, contributing positively to our people, communities and improvement has kept us questioning, how and what environment. can we do better? The result of this has been our sustainability story. 11 OUR VISION FOR 2025 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT PRODUCTS MADE BETTER LIVES MADE BETTER • Generate 50% of revenue through Transform Waste Empowering Women sustainable products • Value enhance 100% of non-hazardous • Empower 100% of women on the shop waste floor Responsible Chemical Use • Achieve 1:1 gender parity in management • Be zero toxic in our products and Empowered by the driving force within MAS and Meaningful Employment processes spearheaded by its Board and the Central Sustainability • Accelerate employee wellbeing and team, the company’s sustainability vision for 2025 is driven Safeguard Water work-life balance by the Sustainability Advisory Council. This decision• Achieve zero impact to MAS operations • Ensure and elevate sustainable making body will provide overall guidance and make and mitigate negative impact to the compensation for all our employees decisions on behalf of the board for all areas covered community • Foster diversity and inclusion, with within product, environment, and social sustainability. Limit Emissions freedom of expression and identity for all Reporting to the Sustainability Advisory Council is the • Reduce our emissions footprint to Head of Sustainable Business, whose overarching achieve 20% absolute reduction A workplace beyond compliance responsibility will be to drive the main pillars of the Champion Biodiversity • Be first-in-class for working conditions group’s sustainability strategy. Together with the in our industry company’s business and sustainability teams, the Head • Enhance eco-system services in 100X of Sustainable Business will oversee all sustainability the space we occupy Thriving communities initiatives, enable sustainable product, deploy strategy, conduct brand storytelling, ensure transparency and • Be an enabler for positive impact in all manage partnerships. communities that we work in In addition, the Sustainability Advisory Council, the We hope that this improved structure will help better Head of Sustainable Business, and heads of each align our many initiatives into one cohesive effort to division, business unit and manufacturing facility are create an enduring business. However, at the heart of responsible to ensure that the group’s sustainability this strategy is our unchanged commitment to create strategy and policies are respected and implemented a better world for our customers, our people, our across the organization. communities and the planet at large. 12 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 13 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT Looking ahead to 2025, we understand that the only way to build a truly sustainable business model is by integrating sustainability into everything we make. This is why we are focusing our attention on generating a steady pipeline of sustainable products to generate at least 50% of revenue by 2025. We believe that this is a commitment that will not only challenge us, but also create a meaningful impact within our value chains. With this, we move forward with a renewed focus on our strategy and targets to promote sustainable products and innovation, branding and positioning, while maintaining corporate structure and upholding the MAS culture. 14 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 15 PRODUCTS MADE BETTER The year 2019 proved to be a remarkable year for MAS with regards to driving new strategic plans and actions that significantly deepened our commitment to sustainability across our manufacturing processes, innovation, operations and infrastructure, ecological spaces and the communities in which we operate. To achieve these ambitious plans, our focus was on strengthening our investments in waste, energy and chemical management, while delivering on our biodiversity promises across Sri Lanka. While a bulk of our work is currently limited to Sri Lanka, with measurements initiated in India, Haiti, Indonesia, Jordan, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Honduras and the US, we are confident of pushing the agenda for adoption across our global footprint in the near future. Throughout the year, we strived to make net positive contributions to the environment and human systems, which meant always working to educate our communities and implement our best practices across MAS. We also took these initiatives outside our own facilities to collaborators and peers for projects that can advance shared goals such as developing a zero-waste nation that retains its rich biodiversity well into the future. In 2019, we found the perfect partners to implement this shared vision. Despite facing significant economic challenges, we are proud of our achievements throughout the year in creating positive ecological impact for all. 16 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 FAST FACTS 2019 RENEWABLE ENERGY AND EMISSIONS 52% of MAS runs on renewable energy 50,000 solar panels across 1 million square feet Helped develop the Food and Agriculture generate 21.85 MWh of electricity, enough to power Organization’s (FAO) sustainable fuel wood 22,000 homes. standard for Sri Lanka SAFEGUARD WATER WATER Textiles, knitting and elastics manufacturing Over 5% of our water used is from rainwater achieved an over 37% reduction in water usage harvesting and recycled from sewage treatment per kilo of product plants TRANSFORM WASTE WASTE 98% of our waste was diverted from landfills Waste to wearable World Cup Jersey made 36,000 PET bottles from our own ocean from Ocean Plastic waste turned into 35,000 yards of recycled polyester TOXIC TACKLE CHEMICALS 73% of MAS chemicals are at ZDHC Level 1 All MAS wet processing plants aligned with Over 50% of our subcontractors have ZDHC status ZDHC wastewater guidelines Chemical Gateway Level 1 products or above. RESTORING WILD SPACES BIODIVERSITY 41 habitat restoration projects across Sri 1,703 acres of restored habitats 2nd Aerial Reforestation completed using Lanka 67,000 seed bombs across 60 acres. 17 TRANSFORMING PARTNERSHIPS GLOBAL INDUSTRY We actively continued our collaboration with the single tool to alleviate audit fatigue across the industry, • MAS represents the ZDHC MRSL Advisory Council Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), of which MAS while driving it towards a more ethical sustainable future. (MAC) and contributed to develop the ZDHC MRSL became a founding member in 2011. We contributed Version 2.0, which was released in November to the SAC’s agenda to create a global benchmark for NON-TOXIC BY NATURE 2019. The ZDHC MRSL is key to the sustainable sustainable apparel manufacture and have garnered chemical management, and MAS outlined practical MAS became the first support for the adoption of the Higg Index by other challenges of implementation in the revision manufacturer to join the Zero organizations. update, which will be beneficial for manufacturers. Discharge of Hazardous • Furthermore, MAS contributed to update the The Higg Index is an apparel and Chemicals (ZDHC) as value chain affiliates in 2017. The ZDHC Wastewater Guideline and is a part of the footwear industry self-assessment partnership has grown with our chemical team being ZDHC Sludge task team. standard introduced by the invited to become members of the MRSL Committee, • MAS participated in two panel discussions during Sustainable Apparel Coalition for which influences the global standards for ZDHC members. the ZDHC annual meeting in 2019, and highlighted assessing environmental and social • MAS has been an active member of the ZDHC challenges and best practices in the implementation sustainability throughout the supply chain. Our engagement foundation since 2017 and contributes to task of the ZDHC framework. with the SAC has continued since 2011, and we have teams of the ZDHC to implement sustainable supported the SAC in its work to help converge to a chemical management best practices. 18 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 MAS partnered with ADEC Innovations in 2016 and was TRACKING OUR PROGRESS the first manufacturer to implement the CleanChain Chemical Management system in 2016. In 2019, MAS Since 2010, MAS’ environmental teams have used an internally built data collection continued to represent the CleanChain Customer Advisory Council and support tool called the Eco Tracker to collect environmental data. Every year, we set key ADEC to develop systems for improvements in sustainable chemical management performance indicators for sustainability targets, which cascade down to the divisions practices of manufacturers. and the facilities through a formal goal-setting structure known as “Hoshin Kanri”. Each facility is given a long-term target and an annual reduction target to align their Waste to Wearables activities with the overarching goal. Our Sustainability Management Framework enables us to embed our strategy into corporate practice by providing systematic, In 2019, MAS launched a World Cup step-by-step guidance. A dedicated team of sustainability champions representing jersey for the Sri Lankan Cricket team each division is in charge of the relevant business units, who in turn manage data made by the island’s own ocean plastic entry on a quarterly, semi-annual and annual basis of the Group’s sustainability waste. It was a milestone in the Group’s performance. 3-year Oceans Project, which saw MAS bring together its key recycling partner Function Energy intensity measurement Water intensity measurement Eco-Spindles, the Sri Lanka Navy and Sri Numerator Denominator Numerator Denominator Lanka Cricket for a lesson in turning a Sri Lanka Total energy Total water per 10 hour Standard hours Apparel purchased (MJ) withdrawn (L) shift per person waste project into a product innovation Fabric Total energy Total water story. KG produced KG produced Processing purchased (MJ) withdrawn (L) Apparel Total energy Total water per 10 hour Standard hours Component purchased (MJ) withdrawn (L) shift per person Battling for Biodiversity Seamless Total energy Total water knitted KG produced KG produced purchased (MJ) withdrawn (L) In 2019, MAS teams expanded and continued our habitat restoration work. Together Garments with the Forest and Wildlife Departments and the Sri Lanka Air Force, we also launched Garment Total energy Total water Turnover (USD) KG produced Accessories purchased (MJ) withdrawn (L) a second aerial reforestation drive using 67,000 seed balls strewn across 60 acres Total water per 10 hour in the east. The collaboration Knitting Under fabric production withdrawn (L) shift per person has seen our teams work closely with forestry officials to achieve habitat restoration across 495 acres in 2019 and initiate wider conversations about how businesses should intervene in biodiversity crises. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 19 TOOLS OF CHANGE Standards & Certification Sustaining the work being done inside our growing eco-system requires a multitude MAS has also adopted the following external standards and certifications within of processes, partnerships and tools. Over time, we have invested in these tools our facilities. and systems, which have helped us standardize and improve our environmental ISO OHSAS ISO 9001 WRAP ISO ISO Oeko Tex SMETA performance with consistency over the years. 14001 18001 14064 50001 100 38 22 14 12 41 5 11 4 As we grow our operation, these tools have become primary weapons in our battle to instill best practices as habits and opportunities across MAS. We have also evolved these same tools to standards that we can openly share with the rest of the industry. MAS Calibration Tool Sustainable Apparel Coalition & Higg Index We continued to implement our internal MAS Calibration Tool V 2.0 with the new modifications added in 2018. The tool acts as a guide for all our manufacturing SAC – In 2019, MAS devoted time to support SAC, playing key roles within the Facility facilities to assess, benchmark rate and improve their operations by implementing Advisory Council, Product Advisory Council, Brand and Retail Advisory Council and minimum requirements and additional recommended actions. Audits were carried Transparency Council, the teams associated with launching and upgrading SAC out at over 50% of our facilities throughout 2019. Higg Tools. The Calibration Tool has evolved to the next level with updates to its lighting, Higg Index – A total of 36 MAS facilities have submitted the scores via Higg FEM electrical, compressed air, boiler sections with the support of internal resources. The and 7 facilities verified scores with external third parties. The 36 facilities covered changes are openly debated and finalized with all energy managers and sustainability MAS’ operations in Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Honduras and the champions within the group. United States. MAS will next converge other tools to the Calibration Tool, and it will be the sole MAS used the Higg FEM tool to closely monitor our subcontractor compliance and improvement and minimum baseline for environmental-friendly practices inside requested parts of its supply chain to report FEM scores through the Higg platform. all facilities. More than 50% of our supply chain partners are now connected with us on the Higg. 20 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 MAS was also recognized for its contribution to ocean conservation and protection at the Galle Dialogue International Maritime Conference 2019 organized by the Sri Lanka Navy under the auspices of the Ministry of Defense. Held under the theme ‘Refining Mindset to Address Transnational Maritime Threats; A Review of the Decade’, the event hosted maritime partners from 55 countries, 12 international organizations and 3 defense industries. Eranthi Premaratne, Director of Sustainable Business at MAS KREEDA, was recognized as one of Asia’s Top Sustainability Superwomen. In 2019, 27 outstanding women leaders AWARDS AND RECOGNITION from 11 countries were selected as Asia’s Top Sustainability Superwomen, The year 2019 was one of appreciation for most of our divisions, with MAS being an annual listing of exceptional female recognized at many public forums and national awards ceremonies for its contributions sustainability leaders in the region. They to sustainability. were chosen out of 126 nominations from 20 countries across Asia. At the Presidential Environmental Awards 2019, MAS received 7 awards for its outstanding commitment to compliance and environmental sustainability. The Presidential Environment Awards is organized by the Central Environmental Authority (CEA) to reward the unique contribution made to the field of environmental conservation and protection. MAS Active Asialine was presented a Gold Award, MAS Kreeda Shadeline a Silver Award, Methliya a Bronze Award, Linea AITC a Bronze Award, and MAS Kreeda Synergy a Merit Award in the apparel industries category. In addition, Textprint was presented a Silver Award and Noyon Lanka a Bronze Award in the textile and textile processing category. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 21 CHAMPION CLIMATE ACTION Throughout 2019, MAS continued on a path of generating more renewable energy than we consume by supplying the Sri Lankan national grid and actively seeking to power our own operations with renewable alternatives. Through MAS Photon, we established Sri Lanka largest multi-site rooftop solar installation with over 18 MWp of capacity installed on 25 rooftops. MAS generated over 19 Gigawatt hours (GWh) of solar energy in 2019 and supplied over 16.7 Million kilowatt-hours (kWh) of electricity to the national grid throughout the year. RENEWABLE RUN 2025 TARGET 2025 GOAL: Generate more renewable energy than we consume Generate more renewable energy than we consume Achieved For years, MAS has pursued its goal to generate more renewable energy than we consume in the belief that it is a more authentic purpose to try and create balance given our large energy footprint. In 2019, we raised this level of ambition to start looking at our emissions footprint more closely and with greater urgency. Our solar run has seen 57,000 solar panels installed across 1 million square feet across 25 52% of MAS runs 57,000 solar Helped develop sites that now generate enough electricity to power over 22,000 Sri Lankan homes. on renewable panels across 1 the Food and Approximately 52% of MAS currently runs on renewable energy and we are over energy million square feet Agriculture the halfway mark of achieving our 2025 goal of generating more renewable energy with 18.1 MWp Organization’s than we consume in our operations. capacity, enough (FAO) sustainable to power over fuel wood 22,000 homes. standard for Sri Lanka 22 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Sri Lanka’s Largest Solar Rooftop Project In 2017, we set out a roadmap to tackle our emissions footprint by installing and Summary Stats about Rooftop Solar Energy generating more renewable energy than our operations consume. To this end, MAS Total Roofs insatlled: 25 looked at our own extensive built space and considered using the acres of rooftops Total Installed Capacity: 18.1 MWp Total Energy Produced in 2019: 19.1 GWh on our manufacturing facilities as solar fields. Panels Used (Approx): 57,000 Our solar journey started in 2008, by equipping MAS Intimates Thurulie with 25.6 Area Covered (Approx): 125,000 m2 MWp of solar. In 2014, MAS commissioned 1 MWp at MAS Fabrics Matrix, Thulhiriya, which became South Asia’s largest rooftop installation at the time. With the introduction of the Net Plus Scheme in 2017, MAS Photon was created to boost the development of solar PV on rooftops. By the end of 2019, the teams were able to complete all Phase-1 facilities with just two pending grid connections. By 2019, MAS was able to use 25 of their rooftops either fully or partially to convert solar energy to electricity. to be on the list of pioneering facilities with solar rooftops. Due to the complexity and scale of the project, MAS decided to break the project into two phases. Considering that most of our facilities have been operating for over 20 years, MAS had to repair most of the roofs to accommodate the fixing of the solar panels. There were several sites that had to be abandoned after structural evaluations regarding the extra loading of solar PV systems. Since MAS entered the Net Plus race from the beginning, some of the facilities were the first of its kind to be commissioned by the regulator of the system. Hence, there was additional scrutiny from both the regulator and the Photon team to ensure the best results. There were several challenges faced by the Photon team during the execution of the project. First, during site selection, there was huge demand from MAS facilities UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 23 Figure: Solar Capacity Ramp Up through MAS Photon # Plant Name DC Country Project Scheme Capacity (kWp) 1 Thurulie 26 Sri Lanka Net Metering 2 Linea Aqua -Hanwella 375 Sri Lanka Net Metering 3 Linea Aqua -Naiwala 5 Sri Lanka Net Metering 4 Matrix 995 Sri Lanka Net Metering 5 MDS 328 Sri Lanka Net Metering 6 LIFI-1 100 India Net Metering 7 IFI-1 300 India Net Metering 8 Bodyline I 1,957 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 9 Bodyline II 351 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 10 Asialine 393 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 11 Nirmaana 375 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 12 UPL Panadura 1,582 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 13 Shadowline 824 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 14 Slimline 1,097 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 15 Slimtex 575 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 16 Casualline 1,070 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 17 Linea Clothing* 606 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 18 Linea Intimates 369 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 19 Linea Intimo 933 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 20 Synergy 690 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 21 Vidiyal 937 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 22 Vaanavil 1,847 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 23 UPL Koggala 989 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 24 Noyon 991 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus 25 Sleekline 351 Sri Lanka Photon Phase 1 Net Plus TOTAL 18,064 Table : All rooftop Solar PV installations of MAS 24 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 As MAS has been investing in supply chain integration, OVERALL EMISSIONS 2018 | ISO 14064:2006 we are currently measuring the energy intensity ratio Measured in CO2e Metric Tons Snapshot of Schneider Energy based on production activity. The following methodologies SCOPE 1 | Direct 15,409.00 Management System are used for each type of production: SCOPE 2 | Purchased Electricity 106,928.00 No. of sites connectd: 45 TOTAL 122,337.00 Gateways connected: 70 Energy KPI BY ACTIVITY % Reduction Measurement No. of metering points connected: 794 method Activity 2010 2018 2019 2010/2019 2018/2019 No. of routinely subscribed reports: 160 Our greenhouse gas emissions were independently Apparel 10.08 7.53 7.84 22% -4% Energy (MJ)/ Standard verified by TÜV Nord as per the ISO 14064-3 standard hours for 2018. The company boundary encompasses Scope Fabric processing 110.42 80.16 78.89 29% 2% Energy (MJ)/Kg produced 1 and 2 of MAS Capital business operations in Sri Lanka Thanks to the EMS, MAS engineers have access to Apparel 81.42 35.56 43.27 47% -22% Energy (MJ)/ but excludes all Scope 3 emissions. energy-related information in real time. Standard component hours • Dashboards of comparative energy usage Apparel 2.79 2.54 0% 9% Energy (MJ)/ 46 of our facilities in Sri Lanka received ISO 14064-3:2006 • Logical Meter View and Instantaneous Parameter Accessory Turnover Seamless 145.44 136.29 117.72 19% 14% Energy (MJ)/Kg certification with a ‘Reasonable’ level of assurance for view knitting produced 2018. MAS continued to measure its emissions footprint • Logging of any trend parameters for a short time in 2019. including power quality • Energy statistics for the last 5 years at 5 min or SAVING ENERGY Activity Denominator Description of product 15 min intervals. Apparel Standard hours Cutting and sewing of 2025 GOAL: reduce our energy intensities by 50% • • Custom reports on Time of Use, Shift, Cost, garments Power usage, etc. Textile Kg produced Fabric mills with a range • Alarm view of outputs: Fabric, ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (EMS) The most useful aspect of the system is the subscribed Printed fabric, Lace, Elastic reports, which allows users to generate reports at any Since 2011, MAS has been deploying the Schneider Apparel Turnover Fabric accessories such given time and automatically forward them to their Energy Management System, which has been accessories as hook and eye, bows, email. An example of this use would be the running of connected to measure major electricity usage edging, underwire the Cost Report on the 1st day of every month. MAS’ Apparel Standard hours Internal components of points stored in a centralised server. The EMS can energy managers usually generate weekly reports, components garments be addressed through the internet to check the department-wise, to see that the departments operate facilities’ energy consumption from home for all within the budgeted costs. energy managers who have a valid username and Seamless Kg produced Yarn to knitted garment password. The system currently has the capability to In 2019, we connected MAS Intimates Sumbiri facility as garment production measure electricity and water, and will be extended knitting a foreign facility. MAS was also able to capture ultrasonic to steam measurement. water meters into the system. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 25 Textile sector: Textile, knitting and elastic manufacturing made a combined reduction ENERGY PURCHASED (MJ): SRI LANKA of 24.7% from the base year, already achieving the 2020 target. 0.34% MFP HFO 2025 TARGET 0.01% Petrol Reduction of energy intensity by 50% (from 2010 baseline) 25.02% MFP Biomass Electricity 39.65% The textile divisions have reduced their usage to 86.7 26.34% Purchased Biomass MJ/kg from the base year energy intensity of 115 MJ Diesel 2.90% used to produce a kilogram of product. 0.71% Solar Electricity 0.94% 0.31% LPG Waste 3.36% Apparel sector: Apparel and apparel component 0.42% 0.00% HFO Kerosene Blogas manufacturing made a combined reduction of 19.4% from the base year. ENERGY PURCHASED (MJ): MAS GLOBAL FOOTPRINT Apparels have reduced their usage from 11.4 MJ/Standard hours to 9.2 MJ/Standard 0.66% Solar Electricity Energy 44.32% hours from the base year. 43.97% Biomass 0.86% In Sri Lanka, our purchased electricity accounted for 39.65% of our total energy mix. LPG Purchased heat and steam are produced by MAS Fabric Park, and are therefore 0.27% Waste HFO 4.01% accounted for under non-renewable and renewable fuel as MFP Biomass and MFP HFO. 2.20% Natural Gass Kerosene 0.38% Our global electricity footprint is only measured in 0.00% Blogas 3.33% India, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Vietnam, Haiti and the Diesel Honduras. Approx. 44.32% of this mix was purchased 0.00% Petrol electricity from their respective national grids in 2019. Achieved Note: All fuel data is based on fuel purchased. Heating and steam purchases from MAS-owned BOI zones are excluded and calculated as part of fuel consumption. All 2025 TARGET non-manufacturing sites outside of Sri Lanka are excluded in energy calculations. Reduction of energy Waste to energy factors are based on an average of published factors. Energy sold intensity by 50% (2010 to the grid through the Net Plus program is excluded since it is a carbon credit baseline project. Source for conversion factors: https://ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools 26 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Sustainable Biomass Biomass is a significant source of energy for MAS textile facilities. Biomass is used in In spite of this, MAS has taken a proactive initiative to record and measure our boilers to generate energy and steam. and is a clean alternative to coal, which the biomass purchases based on wood type, which was used to determine the level is still used widely in the industry globally. of sustainability and traceability within our supply chain. Higher priority was given to utilize invasive fuel wood species, designated fuel wood species such as Gliricidea and The biomass industry in Sri Lanka has always been an informal sector with little sustainably sourced rubberwood with replanting commitments from suppliers. regulation. In 2019, MAS was a key proponent of sustainable biomass and drove initiatives to actively engage with our suppliers to incorporate sustainability and The use of invasive as a fuel food was a particularly interesting initiative, as the transparency within our supply chains. invasive plants growing out of control in our national parks were causing a significant negative impact to the biodiversity of the area, and careful removal of these plants MAS was one of the industry stakeholders that were consulted by Sri Lanka Standards ensured a safer habitat with food security for the wildlife residing within the parks. Institute (SLSI), with the support of Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) and United Nations Development Plan (UNDP), to develop a sustainable fuel wood In 2019, MAS successfully introduced Prosophis juliflora (locally known as “Kalapu standard for Sri Lanka. This was done in the hope that this standard may be adopted Andara”), an invasive species that has spread across the southern coastline of Sri by all vendors. As a result, Sri Lanka’s first-ever sustainable fuel wood standard “SLS Lanka including in key national parks, to be used as a sustainable biomass source 1551: 2016 Principle criteria and indicator for sustainably produced fuel wood” was in Stretchline’s boilers. An unforeseen, but highly welcome, benefit of lower energy formulated in 2016, and prioritized environmental sustainability as well as the health intensities was also observed during this period. This was due to the lower moisture and safety of workers in the fuel wood industry, which is in alignment with MAS content of the wood type, which contributed to better energy efficiencies. policies. While establishing this voluntary standard is a first step in formalizing the fuel wood industry in Sri Lanka, to-date, this industry remains without any formal MAS is committed to increase the percentage of verified sustainable biomass sources directive from the government. and explore more environmentally friendly fuel wood alternatives in the immediate future. MAS will continue to be a key stakeholder in government, non-governmental and private sector initiatives that strive towards formalizing and ensuring the sustainability of the local fuel wood industry. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 27 SAFEGUARD WATER From using 300 L/kg produced, they have reduced their water usage to 186.7 L/ kg produced. Activity Water Intensity % Reduction Measurement method 2011 2018 2019 BY/2019 2018/2019 Fabric processing 259.1 176.2 170.5 34.20% 3.26% Liters/Kg Produced Apparel Accessory 384.3 282.0 251.7 34.49% 10.72% Liters/Kg Produced Seamless knitting 475.9 306.3 242.5 49.05% 20.84% Liters/Kg Produced 2025 GOAL: Reduce our water intensities by 75% GOAL: Reduce our water intensities to 40 L per head per shift in the apparel sector. Efficient water usage, building greater resilience in the face of increased drought periods and floods, and effective management of heavy rainfall Apparel sector: From the 30 MAS Apparel facilities, 18 have achieved events, as well as responsible wastewater disposal, are important goals an intensity below 55 L/per head per shift. Water remains a challenge for MAS. All divisions and SBUs within MAS continuously collaborate to Achieved for our apparel divisions who have not yet achieved a water intensity address these issues through the development of new and better tools for below 50 L per head per shift. metering and analyzing consumption, and improving the efficiency of our usage in manufacturing and for our people. Activity Water Intensity % Reduction Measurement method Using Water Wisely 2013 2018 2019 BY/2019 2018/2019 Apparel 59.7 57.4 58.7 1.76% -2.24% Liters/person per 10 hour shift GOAL: Reduce our water intensities by 75% Knitting 0.0 171.1 206.5 14.13% -20.65% Liters/person per 10 hour shift in the Textile sector Apparel 135.3 78.5 78.5 42.00% -0.03% Liters/person per 10 hour shift Achieved component Textile sector: Textile, seamless knitting Approx. 68% of MAS’ total water was used for textile processing, while 32% was used for and elastic manufacturing made a combined human consumption. Almost one-third of this supply comes from inside our own water intensity reduction of 37.7% from the base treatment plant at the MAS Fabric Park in Thulhiriya. year of 2011. 28 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 WATER BY SOURCE IN MAS’ SRI LANKAN MAS WATER WITHDRAWAL 1. Water Used for Our Processes such as Dyeing OPERATIONS IN 2019 BY SOURCE IN 2019 and Embellishment 53.78% Water MAS 28.20% main line Fabric Park Process wastewater or industrial wastewater discharged 4.61% 7.72% is pre-treated within our facilities as per BOI standards Recycled Tube Well and then sent to a central effluent treatment plant for 3.63% 0.04% secondary treatment, which is managed by the Industrial Bowser Despenser Processing Zones (IPZs). Pre-treated wastewater is 1.95% Dug Well Rain Water Harvested 0.06% regularly tested by facilities and meet the regulations specified by the industrial zone. After central effluent plant treatment, the water is discharged as per local environmental guidelines and regularly tested by the Approx. 53% of water withdrawn for our manufacturing industrial zone. facilities is supplied by the Sri Lanka Water Board’s 2. Water Used for Human Consumption central line. WATER DISCHARGED Wastewater resulting from human consumption (domestic There are 6 MAS facilities that are supplied with water wastewater) is directly discharged to central effluent from MAS Fabric Park in Thulhiriya, which has its own All MAS facilities are required to align with the Board treatment plants managed by the Industrial Zone. in-house water treatment plant. This water is extracted of Investment (BOI) or Central Environmental Authority Central effluent treatment plants meet the regulatory from the Maha Oya River and is treated internally, and (CEA) tolerance limits for effluent wastewater discharge requirement of Sri Lanka before being released to accounts for 28% of our total water supply. at a minimum, and regular testing is carried out at facility flowing water. level as per BOI or CEA recommendations to ensure Similarly, 10% of our water is directly extracted from compliance. Wet processing (dyeing and printing) facilities In some areas, domestic wastewater is discharged to tube wells and dug wells usually in areas that do not of MAS conduct bi-annual wastewater testing against an in-house sewage treatment plant in the facility and have access to a main line or has low water supply. the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) recycled for gardening and toilet flushing, with the Wastewater Guidelines (WWG), and all facilities are Over 5% of the water used by MAS is from rainwater remainder being discharged as per local regulatory compliant to the standard. The ZDHC WWG is a tough harvesting and recycled from our sewage treatment requirements. At MAS, domestic wastewater discharge and rigorous guideline that requires much innovation plants. Over the years, we have sought to raise the is tested regularly as per Sri Lankan legislations. and hard work by our teams to comply with. volume of water we recycle back into our system. Thanks to continuous innovations by our teams, MAS also reuses water used in our air conditioning systems, which is currently only measured and managed at facility level. 29 RESPONSIBLE CHEMICAL USE The year 2019 proved to be a critical year where we expanded our chemical management strategy to our supply chain. Our framework is based on three critical focus areas (Input, Process and Output), and we are implementing this same framework to benchmark and support our supply chain partners in detoxifying ourselves from the inside. Our zero -toxic mission has gathered momentum over the years thanks to continuing collaboration with ZDHC group. In 2019, we continued to work closely with brands, peers and suppliers to bring the global industry into one cohesive standard on zero toxicity. Through our Input stream management, we ensure safer chemicals are used in all our operations. The aim is to ensure that we have a safer environment, people and product. Our Process pillar makes the connection between Input 2025 GOAL: Become zero-toxic in our products and processes. and Output, where we ensure safer inputs are used in a correct way within our facilities. In the Output focus area, Around the world, major brands are increasingly under pressure to adopt policies and procedures that we measure our water and air quality to validate our input limit the use of hazardous chemicals in their products, processes and global supply chains. MAS had a and process management practices. Inside MAS, we use head start in tackling toxicity thanks to the establishment of our chemical workstream in 2013. Scientific the globally recognised ZDHC Chemical Gateway, our own evidence continues to implicate products and packaging as a daily source of human exposure to toxic MAS Environmental Calibration Tool or SAC’s Higg Facility chemicals that are linked to chronic disease, disability and cancer, as well as early death. These have been Environmental Module (FEM), and the ZDHC Wastewater considerations we take seriously in our Chemical Management Policy that keeps evolving over the years. Guideline to benchmark Input, Process and Output. 30 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 In 2019, MAS achieved many milestones in each of these areas at our facilities and In 2019, we implemented the Scivera system at MAS. Scivera is a platform to create supply chain as well. better products via better chemical management. MAS will use the Scivera platform to move beyond the compliance framework and to achieve our 2025 vision of being 73% of MAS chemicals All MAS wet processing Over 50% of our ‘zero-toxic in our products and processes’. are at ZDHC Level 1 plants aligned with subcontractors Process status ZDHC wastewater have ZDHC Chemical guidelines Gateway Level 1 In 2019, we conducted chemical assessments in all local facilities as per the MAS products or above. Environmental Calibration Tool and have ensured that we have the correct chemical management processes in place. Input Stream Management We have conducted two awareness sessions to all chemical suppliers to update our We have worked incredibly hard to bring chemical management strategy and best practices. more than 70% of our process chemicals to We have also conducted chemical innovative projects in our facilities to replace comply with ZDHC Manufacturing Restricted chemicals with the ZDHC Chemical Gateway Level 0 rating. Substances List (MRSL). Over 70% our chemicals are registered in the ZDHC Chemical Gateway Some of our facilities completed the Higg Index FEM assessment in 2019, and have Level 1 or above. This ensures that MAS is achieved ‘Aspirational’ limits in the Chemical Management section. using safer chemicals in the operation, and we hope to raise this achievement to 100% Output compliance in 2020 for chemicals used in our dye houses. Outputs of our manufacturing processes include finished No. of SBUs products, as well as wastewater and air emissions. Managing We have introduced safer commodity chemicals meeting these outputs is a foundational component of reducing the to dye house operations (caustic soda, acetic ZDHC WWG discharge of hazardous chemicals within all our facilities. We acid, etc.) Many research studies show that have systematically increased the number of facilities that meet 2014 – 6 SBUs commodity chemicals could have chemicals that are banned by the ZDHC MRSL. the ZDHC Wastewater Guidelines over the years. The WWG is 2015 – 7 SBUs Therefore, MAS collaboratively worked with suppliers to introduce safer commodity a tough and rigorous guideline that requires much innovation 2016 – 9 SBUs chemicals in 2019 to dye house operations. and hard work by our teams to comply with. In 2019, all our 2017 – 9 SBUs wet processing facilities aligned with the ZDHC guideline, which We have continued to introduce safer non2018 – 11 SBUs validates that MAS facilities don’t discharge any hazardous production chemicals in 2019, especially 2019 – 10 SBUs chemicals to the environment. to janitorial chemicals, spot cleaning and embellishment operations. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 31 Supply Chain Engagement and Conversion Our subcontractors remain the most vital yet challenging link in our supply chain as they meet market demands of many players and are yet accountable to a few. Over the course of 2019, the MAS chemical team concentrated much of its energies on onboarding all our subcontractors to the ZDHC Gateway by educating them on the dangers and consequences of non-compliance and the ethical responsibility of manufacturing, while doing no harm to the environment or the people involved in that process. ZDHC MRSL COMPLIANCE OF SUBCONTRACTORS We implemented the ZDHC Level 1 or Chemical Gateway for all our embellishment subcontractors, and they have achieved an average of 50% ZDHC Chemical Gateway Level 1 or above products. We have conducted awareness Level 0, sessions for subcontractors on Higg FEM implementation and maintained regular follow-ups Level 0 Level 1 or above to support them. We have implemented Higg FEM in 2019 for all our embellishment subcontractors and completed on-site verifications internally. In 2020, all our subcontractors are required to meet the Level 1 score for the Chemical Management module in the Higg FEM. All our embellishment subcontractors completed ZDHC Wastewater testing in 2019. In 2019, MAS implemented Higg FEM at the top 10 RM suppliers of each division. About 67% of our suppliers have registered to the Higg FEM platform and have completed the self-assessment. 32 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 TRANSFORM WASTE Types of Waste In 2019, we diverted 98% of our waste from landfills and continued our mission to reuse, recycle and upcycle as much of our waste as we can. We also won recognition for our innovations in waste, with MAS being applauded for its cleaner production methods by the National Cleaner Production Center of Sri Lanka. Over the years, we have created a meticulous categorization of our waste with 35 different types Achieved of waste that we 2025 GOAL: Value enhance all our waste have broken into 15 types MAS revamped its waste management policy in 2019, with a single-use plastic policy that aims to eliminate singleof hazardous use plastic from our operations by 2025. We also diverted 98% of our waste from landfills and continued to find waste and 20 ways to recycle, reuse and upcycle all our materials as often and as in more volumes as we can. Our Oceans non-hazardous Project manifested itself in the form of a World Cup jersey for the Sri Lanka Cricket team made completely from types. Approx. 98% of all our non-hazardous waste is recycled ocean plastic from our beaches. We also set ourselves a vision to help Sri Lanka become a zero-waste diverted from landfills and 47% of our waste is already island with the launch of a new project to take our waste management approach to the outside world. value enhanced by way of recycling, reusing, upcycling or being turned into a new resource. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 33 HAZARDOUS WASTE BY TYPE WASTE PRODUCED BY MAS’ SRI LANKAN OPERATIONS IN 2019 Solid Chemical 50.8% Fabric Polythene 2.0% 93.38% ETP Sludge waste 0.05% 0.1% Plastic Cardboard tubes 3.2% Plastic and cones 0.97% Hazardous E-waste 0.06% containers 0.6% Metal Cardboard 10.9% 4.98% Contaminated Tubelights 0.00% materials 1.7% Ash Paper 2.1% Mixed Waste Mixed Waste 0.52% Silicon glue Ink Cartriges 0.04% 0.1% Production 7.6% Municipal 7.9% Food Foam Waste 12.9% 0.0% Threadcone 0.0% 0.0% Wood/Pallets Jigg Board Plastics Approx. 98% of all our hazardous waste goes to energy recovery, while 2% such as cans are reused. TOTAL NON HAZARDOUS WASTE BY DISPOSAL METHOD IN SRI LANKAN OPERATIONS Refer Chemicals and Water for more details on how we tackle our hazardous waste as per ZDHC WWG and local regulations. Energy / Material 51.28% Recovery Incineration 0.09% 28.54% Recycle 0.61% 17.89% Reuse 1.59% 34 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Oceans Project: A World Cup Jersey from Ocean Plastic Plastic is taking a toll on our oceans and we all know it. In 2019, we took our 4-year Oceans Project into the spotlight by launching the World Cup Cricket Jersey for the Sri Lankan team made from our island’s own ocean waste. Repurposing the PET plastic that pollutes miles and miles of our beaches was a goal we set ourselves in 2015. We opened a dialogue with the Sri Lanka Navy and our recycling partner Eco Spindles for an alliance that brought tonnes of waste plastic into the recycling process and then in turn into our manufacturing process. The result was that, in the first 3 quarters of 2019, MAS along with Eco Spindles turned 36,000 PET bottles from our own ocean plastic into 35,000 yards of recycled polyester. “The MAS-SL Navy Oceans Project is one that will positively impact our coastline, marine life and coastal communities. The navy has a unique perspective on the impacts of plastic, and we see the potential that this project and other public-private partnerships have to preserve our nation for future generations,” Navy Commander The Oceans Project was launched in 2015 when MAS began a dialogue with the Sri Piyal de Silva commented. Lanka Navy who were already clearing up to 800kg of coastal waste each week through an especially established Marine Conservation and Monitoring Unit (MCMU). Our intention was to find partners to produce a closed loop solution for the ocean plastic problem on our island’s beaches. This led to the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in 2016 between MAS and the Sri Lanka Navy to upgrade the existing project to a comprehensive waste collection and segregation initiative. As a part of its initial involvement, MAS donated three plastic crusher machines to the Sri Lanka Navy, for installation at selected waste collection sites. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 35 Pirisidu Lanka (Clean Lanka) MAS identified waste management as a key problem in Sri Lanka. In 2019, we launched “Pirisidu Lanka” (Clean Lanka) as a platform for efficient control of waste in all parts of Sri Lanka with an ultimate vision to create a “Waste Free Sri Lanka by 2030”. Through this project, we hope to convert our own facilities into model facilities that follow the best waste management processes, as well as create awareness on waste management and support such endeavors within communities located around our facilities. The focus of the overall project will be to assist the community in training and developing a central and provincial body of planners and trainers who will be in charge of implementing ambitious national waste goals through the 7R strategy, contributing to effective management of the consumption of limited resources. In addition, the project will particularly look into ways to create networks to manage waste and contribute to achieve financial growth. ENTER SRI LANKA CRICKET: The MAS–Sri Lanka Cricket partnership is over 10 years old and focused heavily on elevating performance characteristics of apparel CLEAN CORES to support the national cricket team in optimizing their on-field execution of the Implement Pirisidu Lanka inside all MAS facilities. game. The Ocean Plastics project gave MAS a different perspective of sustainably Create model facilities that send zero waste to landfill and adopt 7R principles while innovating to advancing both the process and product with already mastered technologies such value enhance all waste. as moisture management and 4 years of deep research into waste management. CLEAN SPACES MAS designers chose the sea turtle as an important part of Sri Lanka’s coastal Implement Pirisidu Lanka across key locations ecosystem, as our shores provide abundant nesting for 5 of the 7 existing species within a 5 km radius from MAS SBUs. Focus on of sea turtles in the world. Jellyfish and seaweed make up a large share of their diet, increasing litter-free spaces and help to establish so it came as no surprise that sea turtles were falling victim to Sri Lanka’s marine business models and economies of waste while pollution, vulnerable to waste at all stages of life from eggs to hatchlings, and from inspiring behavioural change. juvenile turtles to adults. The Ocean’s Plastic project contributes to reducing the CLEAN FUTURES pollution caused by waste plastic in our coastal waters, and to mark this, the design Replicate Pirisidu Lanka with other stakeholders element of the jersey represents sea turtles. (including apparel industry, FMCGs etc) and increase the areas of impact across Sri Lanka while influencing national legislation and policy change. 36 Our vision: A zero-waste island by 2030 and a country with people who respect and actively care for their environment. • We will consistently work on our own zero waste goals & inspire innovation within MAS • We will intervene in improving waste infrastructure and education in and around our facilities • We will build a movement on how we perceive and treat waste to change behaviour at a higher scale Pirisidu Lanka Community Project: Kilinochchi Madya Maha Vidyalaya MAS chose Kilinochchi as one of the primary key areas after careful consideration as there are two MAS facilities located in this area. While improving the waste management practices within our facilities, MAS wished to extend this support to the surrounding community, starting with an awareness and school clean-up program at Kilinochchi Madya Maha Vidyalaya. We invited more schools in the surrounding area to participate, in order to create a community that would collectively work towards achieving our zero-waste goals. • We facilitated workshops for knowledge enhancement by explaining efficient waste management mechanisms and good hygiene habits, with a few other schools being invited to participate for this workshop and the activities. • We conducted school clean-ups with the support of the school children, MAS and other volunteers. • We distributed 93 waste bins to be placed at strategic locations in the school. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 37 SUPPORT A THRIVING PLANET Conservative estimates say Sri Lanka is losing 8,000 hectares of forest cover each year, and more critically, we are losing our precious endemic species of flora and fauna at alarming rates. Knowing that growing trees alone wouldn’t help the problem of biodiversity loss, MAS picked 6 models to engage and deploy habitat creation from all fronts: Restoration, Afforestation, Invasive Removal and Enrichment, Analog Forestry/Social Forestry, Forest Gardens, and Conservation. MAKING SPACE FOR NATURE Wildlife habitats and growth of natural forests are critically challenged on small islands like Sri Lanka where agricultural and human land use, as well as illegal clearing of forest lands, are rapidly depleting our natural and wild spaces. This was the primary reason we made biodiversity one of our key ambitions in 2017, despite it having no link to the business directly except for the vital fact that without a balanced ecosystem no business or community could thrive in the long term. 41 projects across 1,703 acres of 2nd aerial Sri Lanka habitat restoration reforestation. RESTORING WILD SPACES 2025 GOAL: Restore habitats in 100 times the space we occupy Around 3 years ago, we asked ourselves ‘How can we help restore the biodiversity we may have either displaced or destroyed by our physical presence?’ This simple question grew into a more ambitious vision – and in 2017, MAS made a pledge to take radical climate action to continuously manage the footprint of its business and to directly support biodiversity by creating habitats in 100 times the area it occupies by 2025. This meant restoring habitats across 25,000 acres by 2025. 38 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Journey to 25,000 Acres Hiniduma forest Restoration 3 Restoration Linea Aqua Horakantheliya forest Restoration 12.41 Restoration Linea Aqua,MAS Capital Since 2017, our biodiversity Kandy Roadside Tree Planting project 4.5 Restoration Noyon Lanka goal was to create or maintain Kanthale Afforestation project 8.6 Afforestation Prym Intimates Koggala Mangroves Restoration 20 Restoration MAS Intimates wild spaces for nature to Koskale forest Restoration 1 Restoration MAS Fabrics thrive and help develop better Linea Forest Conservation project 2 Conservation MAS Intimates communication and linkages Mawaragala EXPAlikandura Restoration 24.7 Restoration MAS KREEDA between communities and Mawaragala EXPUdayaya Restoration 24.7 Restoration MAS KREEDA their eco-systems so people Mawaragala/Mahiyanganaya Restoration 25.7 Restoration MAS KREEDA themselves learn to protect Melsiripura Restoration Project 25 Restoration MFP these habitats. In 2019, we MFP Giriulla Forest Garden 4.8 Forest Garden MFP continued expanding over 41 MFP Thulhiriya Forest Garden 13 Forest Garden MFP Naugala restoration project 1 Restoration Matrix of our projects across Sri Lanka Poonaryn mangrove Restoration 26 Restoration MAS Intimates to restore habitats across Puttalama Invasive Removal 123.5 Invasive Removal MAS KREEDA 495 acres, which helped us Rakwana Restoration 14 Restoration MAS Intimates completed this critical work Singharaja Invasive Removal 21.36 Invasive Removal MAS KREEDA across 1,703 acres as part of Thuru viyana Analog Forest 1.5 Analog Forest Bodyline our goal. Thuruwadula Analog Forest 12 Analog Forest MFP Udakiruwawe Conservation 5 Conservation MAS Intimates Udawalawe Invasive Removal 567 Invasive Removal MAS Active,MAS Intimates Uggalwala osu uyana 5 Forest Garden MAS Intimates Project Sum of Project Type Division/s Wakrei Restoration 5 Restoration MAS Active Acres Wanagomuwa Analog Forest 1 Analog Forest Bodyline Aerial ReforestationAmpara 60 Restoration MAS Capital Wanaspspathi Restoration project 1.6 Restoration MAS Active Aerial ReforestationNochiyagama 5.5 Restoration MAS Capital Warakapola Technical college plantation 1 Restoration Matrix Alawwa Restoration 0.5 Restoration MAS Fabrics project Attidiya Restoration 3 Restoration MAS Intimates Wilpattu lake restoration and invasive 54 Invasive Removal MAS Capital,MAS KREEDA removal project Badagamuwa forest Restoration 29 Invasive Removal MAS Fabrics Yagirala forest Restoration 42 Restoration Stretchline Bundala Invasive Removal 460.96 Invasive Removal Bodyline, Linea Aqua,MAS Capital,MAS Fabrics Yagirala Herbal Garden 5 Forest Garden MAS Active Dellawa/Sinharaja Analog Forest 20 Analog Forest MAS Intimates Yakgahakanda forest Restoration 37.05 Restoration MAS KREEDA Galgamuwa roadside planting project 5 Restoration Matrix Yatiyanthota Restoration project 20 Restoration Treschel Highway Tree planting project 7.02 Restoration MAS Intimates Grand Total 1703.4 39 The fragmentation of natural habitats, habitat destruction, Approx. 5,000 plants were propagated at the initial stage introduction of exotic or invasive species, and overwithin 10 months, with seeds collected from all climate exploitation of forest resources are some direct threats zones. The nursery is currently home to more than to the endemic and native plants in Sri Lanka. Currently, 6,000 plants from over 150 species including endemic some reforestation projects do address these issues. and endangered species. However, the plant stocks available at current nurseries have not been sufficient to provide demand of native Biodiversity Research and Conservation Center plants for those projects. Location Sinharaja Morning Side In 2019, MAS funded the construction of a Research and The MAS Forest Nursery Conservation Center on land adjoining the Morningside Location Wildlife Conservation Society – Hiyare Proposed Forest Reserve and the Sinharaja Forest Reserve. Rainforest, Galle The Center, which is 80% complete, will comprise an A nursery to home and propagate endemic, threatened and native plants Despite its small size, Sri Lanka is endowed with a rich biodiversity with high species density of both fauna and flora, and is considered one of the 34 biodiversity hotspots in the world owing to the high degree of endemism in fauna and flora. There are 4143 plant species recorded from Sri Lanka distributed within 214 families, and 1,025 In 2019, we expanded a growing nursery for our species (24.7 %) out of the total number are endemic. forest seedlings and plants as a place where plants are propagated and grown to a usable size for our Most endemic species are found restricted to the wet projects across Sri Lanka. Its key purpose is to provide and intermediate zones, and it is observed that 163 our teams with the plants required for reforestation species (15.9% of the total number of endemics) are rare projects, and to build a healthy collection of endemic and another 86 species (i.e. 8.3%) are threatened or on and threatened species. the verge of extinction. Endemic plants are those that accommodation facility, library, research area, and weather are found growing only in Sri Lanka and nowhere else The plants (endemic, threatened and selected native monitoring and recording facility. Once completed, it in the world. Some plant species may become extinct species) are mainly propagated by seeds, while tissue will host local and foreign researchers and university in the near future as their numbers have come down culture technology will be used for some species that students looking to gain a better understanding of to critically low levels, restricted to small geographical cannot be propagated by seeds or vegetative methods. Sri Lanka’s unique biodiversity. areas or are thinly scattered over a more extensive area. 40 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Data gathered through the weather monitoring and recording facility will be used to track climate change patterns, as well as be shared in the National Database in the Department of Meteorology. Forestry data will be used in the management of the Eastern Sinharaja forest, as well as shared with the Department of Forestry and other relevant government bodies. Ecological research programs will be conducted on point endemic and/or endangered species of the area to build better, more involved and aware communities looking to conserve the ecosystem and species that live within them for future generations. Yagirala Forest Reserve – Reforestation Location: Yagirala | MAS Active | Stretchline (MAS Active 5 acres | Stretchline 42 acres) Yagirala Forest Reserve is a lowland tropical wet evergreen forest located in Walallawita in the Kalutara District. The University of Sri Jayewardenepura has been managing a 100-acre block of the Yagirala Forest Reserve since 1984, predominantly for research and education purposes. Habitat loss and forest degradation due to encroachment by villagers and illegal logging of commercially valuable trees have been identified as major conservation issues at Yagirala. In addition, poaching of wild animals for local consumption has affected the faunal diversity of the forest to a great extent. 41 In 2017, MAS joined forces with the University to mitigate this massive destruction Each volunteer appreciated the effort and found it an enriching experience, and happening at the Yagirala reserve through a forest restoration program. This the campaign saw increased interest in volunteering for such projects in the future. project was led by Stretchline, MAS Active and recently, by MAS Capital. Since 2017, Stretchline has sponsored the restoration of approximately 17 acres of degraded forest lands within the University-managed forest with native species, while MAS Active has sponsored developing 5 acres of herbal garden in the forest reserve and MAS Capital supporting both divisions through monitoring and evaluation. In 2019, we wanted to provide our colleagues an opportunity to get more involved in our biodiversity initiatives and to fully understand and immerse themselves in the benefits of our unique forest ecosystems. World Environment Day 2019 provided the ideal opportunity to do so, especially since this year’s theme was ““Beat Air Pollution”, with forests being considered the lungs of the world that purify the air. On June 5th, MAS Capital, MAS Active and Stretchline jointly conducted a successful tree planting program at Yagirala Forest Reserve with over 75 volunteers from across MAS. The volunteers, coming from different departments from the three combined divisions, planted over 3,500 trees in a single day. 42 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Water Hyacinth invasive removal – Wilpattu Location: Hunuwila Tank, Wilpattu National Park (MAS Capital 19 acres | MAS KREEDA 35 acres) Water Hyacinth Invasive Removal – Wilpattu The plant can affect water resources by obstructing navigation routes and water-flow, which can cause Location: Hunuwila Tank, Wilpattu National Park (MAS flooding and degrade water quality for domestic and Capital 19 acres | MAS KREEDA 35 acres) recreational use. Due to its rapid growth rate, the plant can easily overtake the habitat of native species that Tasked with the job of removing an invasive water plant support the local eco-system. inside the Wilpattu National Park, MAS sustainability teams rounded up the support of the Sri Lanka Navy The Wilpattu sanctuary was declared as a national park and the neighbouring community to clear a local tank in 1938 and is home to many villus or natural lakes that of water hyacinth or Eichhornia crassipes, which is a dot the landscape. Wilpattu National Park’s varying water plant that has an island-wide distribution in Sri natural habitats [coastal belt, natural lakes (villus), Lanka and inhabits fresh water bodies such as tanks, rocky outcrops, scrublands, open grasslands and dense canals, marshes, ponds and lakes. forest] provide homes and food for numerous species of animals, including 31 species of mammals and countless species of birds, while menacing crocodiles top the list of reptiles. The biggest draws to Wilpattu are its leopards, sloth bears and Asian elephants. The Hunuwila tank lies near the Wilpattu-Hunuwila entrance covering an area of roughly 22 hectares (50 acres). When MAS teams scouted the site, water hyacinth had spread over more than 50% of the whole 43 area and was threatening to choke the tank completely Koggala Mangrove Restoration MAS Intimates joined hands with Thuruliya Arana in a short time. Grassroots organization to restore the mangroves in Location: Koggala Lagoon (MAS Intimates 20 acres) one of the small islands inside the Koggala Lagoon. In August 2019, MAS volunteers and more than 75 This project aims to restore and maintain an area of villagers were joined by the Wilpattu Park warden, the Watch the story here https://www.youtube.com/ 10 acres with mangroves, and associate mangroves Divisional Secretary of Nochchiyagama and several watch?v=i1IRy4rlIn4&t=3s along the shore of the island and some native species government officers of the area for a 4-day operation to completely restore the ecosystem. The establishment that used some heavy machinery to remove water of a mangroves nursery is already done, and around hyacinth from 54 acres of the tank. 100-200 mangroves plants have already been planted along the shore. Since water hyacinth is a rich nitrogen source that can be used as both mulch and compost for agriculture, all the removed plants were taken away by neighbouring Mangroves are among the most productive ecosystems farmers for mulching their crops and building soil. in the world. In Sri Lanka, mangroves occur along the In the future, the community will continue to maintain sheltered inertial coastlines associated with estuaries the cleared areas of the tank with support from the and lagoons. Koggala Lagoon is dotted with small islands Department of Wildlife who will continue the removal and bordered with thick mangrove vegetation. Recent of water hyacinth. MAS will support this project as and development and construction of hotels, salt production, when required. shrimp farms, expanding human settlement and other tourism activities in the Koggala area have destroyed this mangroves ecosystem. 44 Udawalawe Invasive Removal Location: Udawalawe National Park (MAS Intimates 400 acres | MAS Active 167 acres) Sri Lanka’s Udawalawa National Park is one of the world’s most famous Asian elephant habitats. The entire park, together with the reservoir, spans across 32,315 hectares in the dry zone of the island. While droughts have caused native grasses and vegetation to die off, Since 2018, MAS Intimates and MAS ACTIVE been removing leaving animals such as deer and elephants suffering these invasive Lantana camera bushes from the park from malnutrition, the slow but steady spread of an with the supervision of Wildlife Department Sri Lanka. invasive plant has worsened the situation for the island’s Currently, under this project, Lantana has been removed already threatened elephants. ‘Lantana camera’, whose from a total area of 567 acres of the park, with continuous roots produce chemicals that act as a natural herbicide, maintenance of the area. While removing Lantana, MAS stop growth of other vegetation around it. This exotic teams concurrently planted native trees to encourage species has been invading the Udawalawe Park over the local vegetation to return faster as the invasive trees an extent of 2,650 hectares. The rapid spreading of were being cut away. In the last year, wildlife officials Lantana camera is causing the degradation of biodiversity, note an increase in the number of elephants foraging reduction of species richness and a drastic reduction in the cleared areas where natural grass and plants of food productivity. have returned to life. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 45 After pioneering Sri Lanka’s first-ever seed bombing in October 2018, MAS and the Sri Lanka Air Force launched a second wave of 67,000 seed balls over 60 acres inside the forests of Lahugala in Ampara in 2019. The first mission of the second wave launched on a rainy evening and dropped 30,000 seed bombs over a 60-acre area inside the forest. The second mission was carried out a few days later, where another 37,000 seed bombs were dropped. The seeds were dropped from SLAF MI-17 helicopters, which departed from SLAF Station in Ampara. The location was chosen by the Sri Lanka Forest Department AERIAL REFORESTATION Sri Lanka Air Force and and is only accessibly by air. Nishantha Edirisinghe, a MAS launch a second round of seed bombing conservator at the Sri Lanka Forest Department, says “We plotted out the land area and supported MAS Location: Lahugala, Ampara (MAS Capital 60 acres) in sourcing the 5 types of seeds that were identified as being the best for this soil and climatic zone. We sourced 100,000 seeds from 5 types of native trees, Aralu (Terminalia chebula), Kon (Schleichera oleosa), Gal Siyambala (Dialium ovoideum), Siyambala (Tamarindus indica), Goda Kirilla (Holoptelea integrifolia) and Maila (Bauhinia racemosa). They are all native trees which are suited for the dry zone, as we are dropping the seed balls in the Ampara district.” 46 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 “The seed bombing attempt of last year was an experiment encourage growth of new forests on a massive scale in aerial reforestation by MAS, and we found the Sri Lanka and build a movement that is exciting for the younger Air Force to be the perfect partner for this project. Our generation to follow. Everyone can make a seed ball; first drop of 5,000 seed bombs in Nochchiyagama gave and if all our children made and planted even one seed us a good indication of the type of soil compositions ball a week, it would make a huge difference.” that worked. Timing and soil composition of the balls matter quite a lot. We had a 15% germination rate on This joint effort will determine if reforestation through the pilot mostly due to poor rains and some damage seed bombing is more efficient and cost effective than from elephants and wildlife in the area. This time, we are sending people into inaccessible terrain for reforestation planting trees that are most suited for the dry zone and work and maintenance of plants. Nishantha added, “We will have a good chance of survival if it rains as expected are not calling this the only solution to deforestation, until January. The soil in the new location is softer but it is something new we are experimenting and and will retain the seed balls for longer,” commented we like the idea and project presented by the MAS Rishan Sampath, an executive from the MAS Central Sustainability team who have taken full responsibility Sustainability team. for the continuation of this effort if we find it to be the most viable method for Sri Lanka. Together with the Sharika Senanayake, the Director of Environmental flying power of the Sri Lanka Air Force, we are glad to Sustainability for MAS Holdings, added, “MAS is currently support this is as a well-timed effort to tackle an urgent running over 20 different habitat restoration projects national need.” to enhance bio-diversity across Sri Lanka. We believe protecting the forests we have is the first defense against deforestation, but also that aerial reforestation can UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 47 • The location scout – 1 July 2019 The MAS Sustainability team, together • Callout for volunteers 21 October 2019 with local Forest Department officials, • Making of seed bombs 23 & 24 October 2019 will continue to monitor the site for • Transport to Sri Lanka Air Force base the germination rate and overall – 26 October 2019 progress of this project throughout • Drop Day 1 – 28th October 2019 2020. • Drop Day 2 – 29th October 2019 48 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 49 LIVES MADE BETTER Looking back on the progress made in MAS’ Lives Made Better vertical over 2019, we are proud to note that social sustainability has grown from strength to strength company-wide. Built on the foundation of treating all people as equal, MAS continues to uphold the highest standards regarding employee well-being, striving to provide the best-in-class working conditions from recruitment to development, compensation & benefits and ensuring work-life balance. The year 2019 provided an ideal opportunity to align to MAS’ corporate strategy with its vision for 2025, and relook at some of our commitments and strategic pillars. 50 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Some of our ambitious targets for 2025 are as follows: Focus Area​ 2025 Target​ Details: Definitions, KPIs, ​ Empowering Women​ Empower 100% of women on the Career advancement for identified pipelines on the factory floor factory floor Every female employee given access to women’s health-related programs All female employee given access to programs on preventing and responding to GBV (100% of women who disclose GBV to MAS report feeling meaningfully supported by the organization) Every female employee given access to skills development outside their job role Mandating that a percentage of women from the team member level reach the executive cadre by 2025 Achieve 1:1 gender parity in management ​ Achieve agreed-upon percentage of women in SM pipeline from 2020 to 2022 (percentage up till 2025 to be set) Completion rates of programmes in the Women in Leadership Framework. (sensitization, mentorship, sponsorship) Meaningful Employment​ Accelerate employee well-being & work-life Every employee given access to flexible work balance​ Every employee given access to non-communicable disease prevention, mental health and reproductive health resources Every employee given access to childcare Every employee given access other identified enablers​ Survey on reach and completeness of these enablers show growth by 50% on the baseline of 2021 Ensure & elevate sustainable compensation Competitive and performance-oriented compensation through for all our employees​ • Ensuring that the earnings within all business units are in line with the competition and the market • Ensure performance recognition mechanisms are in place in all countries of operation Foster diversity & inclusion with freedom of Implement the Employ, Enable, Engage and Empower framework for Persons with Disabilities, expression & identity for all​ based on the UN/ILO guide for employing Persons with Disabilities Aligned with the critical diversity enablers across various geographic locations A Workplace Beyond Be first-in-class for working conditions in our Over 80% achievement on ‘Exceptional’ compliance rating on all audits​ Compliance​ industry​ Achieve Phase 3 Culture of Safety Framework Thriving Communities​ Be an enabler for positive impact in Approx. 85% score on community engagement model in all localities we work in all communities we work in​ 51 In order to gain the best traction, Empowering Women Social Sustainability Data Management System now stands alone as a strategic pillar, while Meaningful Employment, Workplace Beyond Compliance and Thriving A Social Sustainability Data Management System was Communities make up the other 3 strategic focus areas developed internally in 2018 with limited data points for Social Sustainability . (7). In 2019, new data points were introduced on health and safety by defining requirements and standards. • Our Women in Managment 1:1 target is tracking at 21.0% Furthermore, in 2019, all data points were migrated • The diversity, accessibility and respect sensitization to a new system developed in collaboration with the training has been completed for 649 employees group analytics platform. with 40 internal trainers • We proudly work with 331 persons with disabilities Data submission status and its progress is periodically Social Sustainability Scoring Tool and have 10 supported employment officers with reviewed at the social sustainability heads meeting, In 2019, as a result of over six months of verification and specialized training to assist them which comprises divisional representation across the collaborative work, as well as the input and expertise • Our formal community engagement model based company. of the social sustainability heads, HR leadership and on group-wide best practices has been successfully As of 2019, the system included 11 primary data points board members, MAS has approved KPIs on Social piloted and approved for structured adoption with detailed data queries, and supports 172 users for Sustainability parameters, which have been introduced in 2020 data entry and grants access to 72 approvers. Once to individual CEO goal sheets. These are cascaded down The year 2019 proved to be challenging for the people from the chairman to the CEOs, through our Strategy approved, all data is centrally stored and is accessible of Sri Lanka. On the 21st of April (Easter Sunday), three Deployment Tool – the Hoshin Kanri. The tool is an to the Group’s Sustainability Team. churches and three luxury hotels in the commercial aggregated score calculated for each facility. capital, Colombo, were targeted in a series of coordinated terrorist attacks. Over 250 people lost their lives and This tool was developed with the objective of assessing our more than 500 were injured. This led to curfew and a 11 social sustainability performance across the organization. period of high security, which in turn affected business 72 Approvers 172 It is currently an internal assessment tool, comprising and life as usual in our island nation. USERS varying parameters of application based on factors such as geographic location, nature of work and relevance. During this time, MAS stepped forward to assist all All the approved data is processed through a data those affected within our ecosystem and beyond, while analysis tool. The dashboards created with the expertise At the maximum level, it encompass 29 indicators supporting its workforce by providing flexible working of the Group Talent Analytics Team allows divisions and covering the pillars of the Social Sustainability Strategy: arrangements to accommodate the governmentstakeholders to gain a better understand of the trends • Empowering women mandated security measures. and challenges. Dashboards allow for the filtration of • Meaningful employment information periodically, SBU-wise and category-wise. • Beyond compliance and standards This report contains further details of all the above• Thriving communities mentioned efforts. 52 EMPOWERING WOMEN this cause, making a tangible difference in the lives of each and every female associate at MAS, while also indirectly impacting their families and communities, by empowering women in the workplace and thereby at home. The Women Go Beyond program has expanded over the years, adapting to the needs of the company and its employees over its 16 years of journey since its inception in 2003. Today, approximately 70% of MAS’ apparel manufacturing arm are women, and after 16 years, Women Go Beyond has permeated the very DNA of the organization. The WGB program addresses vital life skills such as knowledge sharing, awareness, leadership, attitudinal changes, and the ability to balance one’s work and personal lives. While the focus for many years was on gender sensitization at the factory level, health, prevention of gender-based violence and skills development, over the last two years, MAS set itself an ambitious goal to increase women in management positions in an effort to actively address the gender gap in decision-making Since inception in 1987, MAS has placed intentional roles. emphasis on empowering its majority female workforce, The Women Go Beyond framework is closely aligned with the ultimate goal of ensuring that their employees with 5 of the UN’s Women Empowerment Principles. are well-equipped and geared towards excellence. They are as follows: Gender equality and women’s empowerment are driven by shareholders as a part of the organizational • Principle 1: Establish high-level corporate leadership strategy, after having identified the positive impact for gender equality on business through this. • Principle 2: Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support human rights and MAS’ hallmark women’s empowerment platform nondiscrimination “Women Go Beyond” (WGB) is the driving force behind UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 53 • Principle 3: Ensure the health, safety and well• Goal 16 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies WGB initiatives in 2019 being of all women and men workers for sustainable development, provide access to • Principle 4: Promote education, training and justice for all and build effective, accountable professional development for women and inclusive institutions at all levels • Principle 7: Measure and publicly report on • Goal 17 Strengthen the means of implementation progress to achieve gender equality and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development Accordingly, this COP will showcase policies and practices related to supporting women’s empowerment and Under MAS’ new Social Sustainability Strategy for advancing gender equality in society, in the workplace 2025, where “Empowering Women” was recognized and in the community, supported by sex-disaggregated as a standalone pillar emphasizing its importance to data where relevant. the company, all work carried out by the WGB team in 2019 was categorized into the following two focus The programs carried out under the WGB initiatives are areas: also largely aligned with the Sustainable Development • Women on the factory floor Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations General Assembly. • Women in management While the two most important goals under our agenda are goal 3 and 5, we believe our programs contribute in different degrees towards achieving all of the following 1. WOMEN ON THE FACTORY FLOOR SDGs in our process of achieving a well-rounded and holistic life experience: In line with MAS’ Social Sustainability Strategy for 2025, the five key areas of focus identified were linked to • Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well100% empowerment of women on the factory floor. being for all at all ages • Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality Thereby, over 2019, the Women Go Beyond initiative education and promote lifelong learning opportunities offered 436,268 training and development opportunities for all mainly to the women on the factory floor through • Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all 1,046 programs conducted across the group. These women and girls were promoted through 39 initiatives at individual • Goal 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable plant level, reaching close to 30,000 individuals. The economic growth, full and productive employment following figure shows a snapshot of the programs and decent work for all conducted under the WGB initiative’s 5 focus areas, • Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and among monitored through a centralized dashboard. countries 54 1.1 Career Advancement for Women their career aspirations. With the aim of promoting education, training and The Personal Advancement and Career Enhancement professional development for women (WEP 4) and (P.A.C.E.) life-skills development program conducted to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education to by Gap Inc. to enhance professional and personal promote lifelong learning opportunities for all (SDG capabilities of female team members was another key Goal 4), MAS has provided a wide range of education initiative carried out by MAS Intimates under this pillar. and training opportunities for female workers through While increasing workplace efficiency, P.A.C.E. develops MAS is proud of its role at the forefront of breaking professional trainers and subject specialists during 2019. leadership skills, nurtures the ability to communicate gender stereotypes. Against this backdrop, the company and work within a team, helps with solving problems and has been keen on promoting non-traditional job roles These programs included the following: planning, and gives participants the knowledge and tools for females such as mechanics, cutters, printers, • Leadership development to better navigate their professional and personal lives. technicians, etc. Each division has been training • Team building and encouraging women to take up these job roles The P.A.C.E. program was conducted across 8 MAS traditionally dominated by males through different • English language skills development Intimates facilities in 2019 – namely Slimtex, Casualline, initiatives such as ‘Pragamana’ sponsored by PVH • Communication and public speaking skills Unichela Panadura, Thurulie, Unichela Biyagama, Silueta, and the Iron-lady program. During 2019, a total of 20 development Linea Clothing and Linea Intimates – with the participation cutters, 11 mechanics, 3 printers and 33 technicians • Presentation, computer & IT, positive thinking of 1,167 female team members. The programs were were formally trained and given competencies to skills development conducted through 10 modules over a period of 6 excel in these roles. • Mentorship for identified women on the factory months per cycle. floor A special program in 2019 was a personal coaching These programs were conducted by the Women Go For its contribution, MAS Intimates received two awards session by renowned trainer Manisha Silva for all Beyond initiative, with a focus on team member level at the GAP Inc. P.A.C.E. Partner Meet-Up held in October, the semi-finalists selected from the Active Division female employees, in addition to the regular technical namely the achievers award for achieving the maximum for MAS’ excellence recognition program “Abhimani trainings provided organized by the L&D team. All these pledged scale, and the Goodera Champion award for – Empowered Woman of the Year” conducted by programs are aimed at bridging the gap between the discipline and on-time data management. The division has MAS Active. The program titled “Unleash” focused on current state of MAS’ female associates and their desired had many success stories testifying to the effectiveness realizing their potential and allowed them to discover career objectives. and impact of the programs, which were applauded by their inner capabilities and skills, a giant step towards its participants, their supervisors and business leaders crafting the best version of themselves. The ‘Abhimani For example, MAS intimates and Linea Aqua partnered of MAS. coaching book’ too was introduced during this session with external professional bodies such as IBM Colombo and given out to all the semi-finalists. and Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and Apparel (SLITA) to conduct training programs to increase basic skills in The following table showcases the areas of training, a computer literacy and English among team members, breakdown of gender and hours involved for ‘Career while providing them with guidance and advice to achieve Advancement’ programs. 55 Program Name No. of Programs Participation Hours Impact: Female Impact: Male Abhimani Interviews 16 50.5 114 Abhimani Training & Coaching Sessions 8 16.3 65 Alumni Program Empowered Woman of the Year 4 18.5 397 40 Basic Incentive Process 1 0.5 19 3 Behavioral-based Safety Training 3 3.0 1,104 355 Career Guidance Program 18 385.0 377 86 Communication Skills 2 1.5 26 5 Computer/ IT 15 82.5 244 54 Diploma in English Language (Corporate WGB) 2 3.0 19 2 Disability Inclusion Training 16 36.5 123 133 Education Fair 4 35.0 4,362 1,057 Employee Induction 41 75.0 2,112 525 End Controller Training 2 3.5 126 25 English Language 39 544.9 687 208 Female Cutters Training 4 12.0 18 2 Female End Line Printer Training 4 5.0 4 Female Mechanical Training 13 154.0 111 43 Female Technician Training 1 1.5 9 Education Session Finance Management 10 18.5 5,525 1,016 Leadership Training for Empowered Women 1 6.0 1,200 400 Management Meeting / JCC Meeting / GBC Meeting 2 9.0 16 2 Mentorship 1 3.0 20 Motivational Speech by an External Facilitator 9 14.8 4,498 1,283 Motivational Speech by an Internal Facilitator 7 14.5 234 16 Multiskilled / Jumpers Training 4 31.0 118 5 Out Bound / Leadership / Team Building 15 59.5 910 134 P.A.C.E Life Skill Development Program 8 480.0 1167 Personality Development 1 50.0 8 Presentation Skills 3 6.5 30 10 Soft Skill Development 9 56.0 241 63 Speech Craft Program 1 6.0 5 Total 264 2,183 23,889 5,467 56 1.2 Skills Development Outside Job Roles With the aim of supporting female business owners and women entrepreneurs, while providing economic empowerment for MAS’ Empowered Woman of the Year award winners, the WGB team launched the ‘Entrepreneurship Acceleration Program’ in 2019. This program comprised periodic workshops, skills development and hands-on sessions, and coaching sessions by industry experts and renowned entrepreneurs with the aim of Some programs held in support of female business • Workshops on various cottage industries (E.g. developing these novice entrepreneurs to be successful owners by various SBUs included MAS Linea Aqua batik industry, bakery, bridal dressing, home by redefining and developing their product quality and endorsing their businesses by ordering cakes and gardening, etc) marketability. They were provided with further support other food items for special company occasions such • Financial management training focused on increasing through mentors to identify new market opportunities as International Women’s Day, while others provided the financial literacy carried out in collaboration to sustain their home businesses. makeup and hair-dressing services for all company with banks and other financial institutions The 7 most successful female entrepreneurs out of 22 events. MAS Fabrics Matrix conducted a number of Along these lines, MAS Linea Aqua conducted two programs initial workshop participants were selected based on such workshops on bakery, cake structures and party for men and women – “Diriliya” for women and “Diriwaruna” their entrepreneurial skills. They were further enriched cakes to support employees seeking a secondary for men – with the objective of recognizing and rewarding in areas of business development and canvasing, income. Similarly, MAS Bodyline conducts a year-onthe achievement of personal and entrepreneurial goals costing, financing and bookkeeping, in addition to year sewing class facilitated by a qualified teacher with within 2019. The winners were selected based on several learning to brand their product, to build their story to 18 years of experience in sewing, which was identified interviews and personal visits by a panel of judges. the consumer and to increase their value proposition. as the most value-adding skills development training All these individuals successfully completed the 6-month under WGB by MAS’ employee representation body, MAS Intimates’ Slimtex facility conducted a 3-month program and presented their improved product/service the Joint Consultation Committee (JCC) at MAS Bodyline. workshop on crafting leather footwear led by a local and business plan at the “She Can” grand exhibition and In 2019, this comprehensive sewing training program female entrepreneur. The workshop was attended by award ceremony later in December 2019. was held at a diploma level comprising 2 batches – at 51 employees who were looking for creative ways to 6 months each, the company saw the participation of pursue their entrepreneurial passions. In addition to these initiatives, all business divisions more than 50 participants in each batch – with a majority across the group organize workshops, knowledge of participants being women. Some key efforts taken to Apart from the Vidiyal facility, the MAS Intimates Division sharing sessions and training programs in collaboration encourage entrepreneurship were as follows: conducted a session on financial literacy for all team with industry experts and successful entrepreneurs to members (around 1,300), which focused on the importance • Special Award titled ‘The Venturer’ awarded at promote entrepreneurship among its female associates of saving money and planning for the future in order the ‘Abhimani Awards’ in recognition of female and promote the generation of a secondary income. to promote a savings culture at the SBU and within the entrepreneurship team members’ families. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 57 Additionally, with the aim of developing arts and aesthetic MAS believes these efforts will not only help its employees skills among MAS associates and encouraging holistic to strike a balance between their work and personal development, different SBUs continued to provide lives, but also infuse a level of creativity and innovative education and training opportunities for female workers thinking into their day-to-day work and problem solving. in 2019. For example, MAS Fabrics Matrix organized a series of competitions including art, story writing and composing poems in celebration of Women’s Day with the participation of the entire workforce. 58 Table 2 showcases the areas of training, a breakdown of gender and hours involved for ‘Skills Development’ programs. Program Name No. of Programs Participation Impact: Female Impact: Male Hours Art and Craft Exhibition & Sale 2 96.0 1,252 294 Art Competition 12 231.0 4,327 1,509 Arts & Craft Training 5 17.5 132 16 Athletic Meet 4 28.5 15 28 Avurudu Pola 7 70.0 4,311 1,366 Badminton Training 1 3.0 1 9 Batik Workshop 1 6.5 10 Beauty Culture Training 18 124.0 2,028 96 Creative Writing Competition 10 182.5 3,882 1,150 Cricket Tournaments 4 195.0 906 212 Cross Stitch 1 4.0 167 2 Culinary Classes 3 9.0 83 11 Curtain Stitching 4 11.0 254 Dancing Class / Music & Singing 14 33.0 217 92 Dancing/ Singing/ Drama/ Music Competition 3 20.0 20 2 Debating Competition 1 3.0 9 3 Diriya Pola 35 370.0 38,096 10,028 Drama & Theater 3 288.5 114 86 Dress Making / Sewing Course 22 51.0 1,091 1 Driving License 4 13.0 269 92 Entrepreneurship Program 9 20.8 2,506 291 Firefighting Training 2 7.5 58 27 Football Tournament 2 9.0 146 10 Gardening Course 9 49.5 263 24 Handicraft Competition 2 13.0 2,449 535 Netball Tournament 1 8.0 16 Netball Training 3 64.0 35 Paper Quilling Course 4 9.0 70 Ribbon Embroidery Training 1 128.0 16 Saree Dressing / Saree Painting / Saree Blouse Making 4 10.0 181 1 59 Shoe Manufacturing Class 1 3.0 50 1 Soft Toys Exhibition & Sale 2 12.0 1,050 150 Soft Toys Making Class 1 3.0 50 Sports Day 1 3.0 18 12 Tailoring Training 6 16.5 191 3 Training Program Compering 2 1.5 14 3 Volleyball Tournament 2 6.0 18 33 Volleyball Training 2 3.5 17 4 Wedding Cake Workshop 1 2.0 42 18 Total 209 2,125.8 64,374 16,109 1.3 Women’s Health • Non-communicable diseases, breast cancer ‘Aloka’ Breast Cancer Awareness Program was another detection and awareness key initiative carried out by MAS Intimates in this area, In line with the 3rd Women’s Empowerment Principle of • Mental health and stress management where the company works in partnership with the Sri ensuring the health, safety and well-being of all women • Preand post-natal care including the support Lanka Cancer Society to conduct group-wide awareness and men workers, MAS has been working with doctors, for pregnant women and those returning from sessions on breast cancer, symptom detection, performing trained professionals and subject specialists to create maternity leave. For example, MAS Active Asialine self-examinations and treatment options. The program awareness and educate employees at all levels of the partnered with the Katuwana MOH Hospital to aims are as follows: organization. This is achieved through in-depth training conduct a medical clinic titled, Suwa-Nari Clinic, and awareness sessions, in addition to free medical • To fill knowledge and accessibility gaps in a subject with the participation of 40 female employees check-ups across the group with a special focus on area that is still considered taboo in rural areas MAS Intimates continued its partnership with the where some MAS facilities are located gender-specific health and safety issues. College of Community Physicians of Sri Lanka (CCPSL) • To increase awareness and education on early A significant amount of work has also been carried out in for their hallmark NCD prevention program – Super 8. detection methods, risk factors (including food partnership with the International Planned Parenthood This program identifies a set of 8 targets that are critical and environmental), signs and symptoms, access Federation’s (IPPF) Family Planning Association of Sri for healthy lifestyle practices. MAS also extends health to doctors, clinics and screening Lanka (FPASL), with a focus on the following key areas: checks and access to information for their third-party • To reduce morbidity and mortality by shifting service providers such as canteen, cleaning and security diagnosis states from late stages to stages where • Sexual and reproductive health and rights staff. This initiative is launched across all facilities of the disease is more curable (0-II stage), where • Prevention of diseases such as STDs and HIV MAS Intimates. survival rates are higher and treatment costs • Life skills including consent, choice and consequences are lower • General health and nutrition 60 • To promote behavioral changes: for women to To increase community stakeholder engagement For its significant contribution to women around the check their breasts regularly for changes, for while ensuring female beneficiaries, MAS Intimates country, the Aloka program was recognized with a Merit women with possible early signs of breast cancer extended this program to the community though Award at the Chamber of Commerce: Best Corporate to visit clinics, to empower local women to take multiple initiatives in 2019. The company conducted Citizen Sustainability Project Awards 2019. a leading role in delivery of the campaign, to awareness campaigns at girls’ schools, in addition to encourage peer-to-peer messaging and advocacy, partnering with the Board of Investment (BOI) and Many MAS facilities also gave emphasis to mental welland work towards embedding a sustainable Government agents to help mobilize these awareness being during 2019, while undertaking a key initiative to approach to engaging with this audience on sessions. Thus, MAS conducted awareness sessions in provide counselling services to all employees. During the health and lifestyle issues, and the dissemination BOI Zones and distributed awareness-creating material induction of new recruits, counselling was carried out of information and advice at public places where women gather, such as bus as a mandatory session, along with a training session stands, markets, maternity clinics, etc. Through 58 such on the importance of mental well-being. In addition, all MAS Intimates also came up with innovative ways to community engagement programs, MAS was able to divisions conduct various special programs to facilitate take the message and awareness to the grassroot reach 18,725 participants. and enhance the mental well-being of its employees. level in simple ways, such as dramas on breast cancer awareness, eye-catching promotional bookmarks at For example, MAS Kreeda carried out 25 key projects This initiative started by MAS Intimates Division has all libraries of the facilities, wellness corners in the in 8 locations in 2019 targeting different focus areas now been rolled out to most other divisions in the canteens, posters on self-examination in ladies’ toilets at each SBU. In 2019, MAS Linea Aqua also conducted group. For example, MAS Linea Aqua conducted a at SBUs and sessions teaching self-examination using a 4-hour session on creating a healthy mind and a breast cancer awareness session in collaboration with audio-visual aids including an anatomically correct healthy body for 81 of its female Team Leaders and the Aloka program covering all executives and team 3D dummy with typical lumps available at all medical Group Leaders in collaboration with Sri Lankan Family members of the division, followed by a free-of-charge centers. Through 116 general awareness programs such Planning Association. The session discussed topics breast cancer screening clinic facilitated by a reputed as street dramas, they provided awareness to 74,065 such as sexuality, subfertility-related issues, pregnancy/ private sector hospital, which saw the participation of employees. MAS Intimates division also developed teenage pregnancies, family planning methods and more than 60 ladies from all levels of the company. internal competence as the ‘Aloka Team’ trained 132 socially transmitted diseases. employees especially on lump detection. Several awareness programs were carried out at facilities in MAS Intimates and MAS Active focusing on World Mental Health Day. These programs were facilitated by consultants, practitioners and professors in the subject who discussed timely topics such as stress management, present moment awareness and suicide prevention. Several MAS Intimates facilities used music therapy to support the mental wellbeing of pregnant mothers, as well as those who are living alone in hostels. Some of these programs were also coupled with counselling 61 sessions for the expecting mothers’ immediate family The program also focused on art therapy, a creative To ensure female beneficiaries of community programs, members on the support she needs, including advice method of expression used as a therapeutic technique MAS Active initiated several community outreach projects on preparing for the delivery. was infused into this initiative, which helped to achieve such as donating books for the female inmates at the the real outcome of the initiative in a creative manner. Welikada prison with the hope of providing support and MAS Linea Aqua launched an initiative named “Find The sessions were conducted by the in-house counsellor ensuring their mental well-being, and renovating the the Magic in You” with the aim of experimenting a with positive feedback from the participants. With the female ward of the Wathupitiwala Hospital. These was psychological approach to training. The initiative aim of increasing community stakeholder engagement, also seen as sustainable projects to increase community saw the participation of 50 team members, with the this approach for training has been extended to a school stakeholder engagement as the hospital serves a larger objective of creating an opportunity for them to listen in the community, where the “Magic Mirror” session female community including the factory employees. their inner voices and to support them to rise up to was replicated to 30 students. be great leaders in the future. 62 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Program Name No. of Programs Participation Hours Impact: Female Impact: Male Anger / Stress / Mental / Time Management 28 77.6 9,024 1,961 Awareness Program on Dengue Prevention 3 15,003.5 2,035 446 Ayurvedic Clinic / Camp / Check Up 9 56.5 2,467 749 Educational session Balance Diet / Nutrition / Obesity 12 26.5 4,433 1,312 Blood Born Pathogen 1 0.5 10 8 Breast Cancer Awareness 55 352.0 34,596 5,304 Breast Cancer (Aloka By Intimates Division) 30 1,138.5 21,444 5,272 Cancer Check Up 11 41.5 5,666 736 Chickenpox / Sore Eyes 3 2.0 1,150 700 Awareness on Communicable Diseases 3 5.5 2,241 280 Counselling 58 146.8 8,387 1,062 Dental Clinic / Camp / Check Up 4 25.0 699 381 Awareness on Early Marriages & its consequences 2 2.0 4,400 1,200 Eye Clinic / Camp / Check Up 10 86.0 3,129 982 Education session Family Planning/ Reproductive Health 6 41.0 2,775 1,123 First Aid Training 4 11.5 125 46 Awareness on HIV & AIDS 1 1.0 1,150 120 Medical Clinic / Camp / Check Up 33 1,506.0 8,684 1,665 Music Therapy 1 3.0 450 75 Music therapy program for Pregnant mothers 2 5.0 65 Awareness on Non-Communicable Diseases 5 12.5 3,087 305 Awareness on Personal Hygiene, Grooming & Etiquettes 17 449.8 10,720 2,602 Positive Thinking 18 32.8 8,713 2,425 Pregnant Mothers Clinics 34 61.8 1,338 35 Self Defense 3 4.5 69 3 Sensitization 4 15.5 145 55 Skin Clinic / Camp / Check Up 1 2.0 250 Support for Breastfeeding in the Workplace 1 1.0 8 Thalassemia Awareness 1 6.0 680 356 World Mental Health Day Celebrations 3 5.5 1,615 330 Yoga Session 9 11,905.0 1,252 754 Zumba Session 4 6.5 3,760 100 Total 376 31,034.3 144,567 28,847 1.4 Addressing and Prevention of addressing myths and misconceptions about genderwith minimum disruption to work. In line with this, Gender-based Violence based violence and harassment and prevention; and MAS Bodyline made use of its internal PA System to responding to instances of gender-based violence, converse with a subject specialist on domestic violence Violence and harassment have always been considered while promoting mutual respect in a family. and child abuse. MAS Kreeda too conducted similar and handled with utmost seriousness at MAS. With the sessions through its PA system, while also enabling intention of raising awareness and minimizing incidents MAS also worked with lawyers, support organizations private consultation afterwards for those in need. of domestic and gender-based violence and workplace and the Legal Aid Commission of Sri Lanka to create harassment, MAS continued to engage in many initiatives awareness on legal provisions relating to gender-based The Happy Family Life program played a key role in this together with community stakeholder. Divisions and violence and sexual harassment. For example, all facilities regard as it addressed common underlying causes of individual SBUs across the country connected with of MAS Kreeda conduct a legal-aid clinic twice-a-year domestic and gender-based violence such as alcohol regional hospitals, police stations and government under the theme of ‘Talking Taboos’ to create awareness and drug abuse. MAS Bodyline Division conducted a agent offices to get the support and expertise of trained about the legal procedure and offer legal support in series of Happy Family Life programs facilitated by a professionals and subject specialists in this regard. The areas of gender-based violence, financial management medical professional who is also a senior lecturer in programs aimed at creating awareness among MAS and property management. health promotion, which discussed topics such as the employees and the society/communities in a broad prevention of drug abuse and managing relationships way, including creating awareness and educating on MAS factories are always trying to be creative and find with family members, better communication, and money stereotypes and inequalities surrounding gender; better ways to take these messages to a larger crowd management and time management. MAS Bodyline 64 completed 7 such Happy Family Life Programs in 2019 the roles of women and men in society, including their based violence either at home or work. New recruits across its SBUs covering 220 Team Leaders. role in development, and how it affects their relationships. at all MAS locations – mainly comprising women – have Around 18 male employees were trained under this all been sensitized through a focused program that MAS Bodyline also conducted a series of community program to be agents to advocate respect and empathy takes place during their induction at the training school. initiatives specifically targeted at empowering women towards females at the workplace and at home. Topics and girls at a government school in the Balangoda area such as equality, awareness on gender differences, MAS also possesses of a fully structured and robust in the Ratnapura District, which focused on educating power, sensitivity, tools to measure happiness/sadness, grievance-handling mechanism – MAS DNA. This includes school girls and boys about the physical and emotional family life, and awareness on sexual harassment policy an anti-harassment policy, multiple avenues for raising changes they are or will go through leading to increased at MAS were discussed at this program. concerns including code officers at every location and self-awareness, their roles and responsibilities in central/corporate level all of whom are available to society, and the consequences of their choices in the areas of gender and violence. An extension of this program was conducted for the parents and teachers of these students, which created a lot of awareness and experience sharing. Nearly 350 students, around 250 parents, 80 teachers and community stakeholders such as government representatives from the Divisional Secretariat (AG office), Police station – Balangoda, school principals and Balangoda Base Hospital participated in the sessions increasing community stakeholder engagement. During 2019, MAS Intimates has been working with doctors from the Directorate of Mental Health, Ministry of Health, and several counsellors and psychologists to deliver programs for common issues such as stress management, marital issues, cyber-bullying, domestic The internal trainers trained in 2018 in collaboration any employee, an online platform, and a hotline. The violence and work-life-balance. with an UNFPA Gender Specialist continued to roll out group also has a standard grievance investigation sensitization on preventing and responding to genderprocess and a consequence management framework The company also worked with professional trainers based violence at their respective plants during 2019. to ensure equity. to build internal capacity in sensitizing people to this Through these training programs, MAS hopes to create area, as MAS Bodyline conducted a Gender sensitivity a buzz and promote discussion of such incidents as MAS’ efforts are not limited to its local boundaries, Training-of-Trainer (TOT) Program in 2019. This was the trainers provide employees with tools helpful in with Women Go Beyond being launched in many of identified as an initial effort to learn how gender shapes preventing and responding to instances of genderthe company’s foreign locations including Bangladesh. 65 In 2019, Intimates Bangladesh under MAS Intimates Table 4 showcases the areas of training, a breakdown of gender and hours involved for programs addressing Division conducted an awareness session on early ‘Gender-based Violence’. marriages and its consequences, and how to navigate such situations as child marriages was becoming an Program Name No. of Programs Participation Hours Impact: Female Impact: Male alarming problem in Bangladesh. Although legally not Alcohol, Drugs & Tobacco Prevention 5 11.0 2,335 140 allowed, due to a lack of awareness, limited action by Awareness on Child Abuse 1 8.0 1,500 70 local administrative authorities and poverty prevalent Child Care and Development 15 26.0 3,995 1,099 in families, Bangladesh ranks fourth among countries Awareness on Domestic Violence 8 17.3 6,782 1,330 with child marriage (pre-18 years) in the world. With Family Day 7 101.0 7,714 3,166 the special focus on ensuring female beneficiaries of Gender Sensitivity Training 7 34.0 8,841 2,662 community programs, since the effect of child marriages Happy Family Life 12 29.5 10,944 2,817 largely impact women, the programs raised awareness Education session Legal Rights 29 393.5 14,035 1,459 on the legal rights and societal actions that can be Total 84 620.3 56,146 12,743 taken by 2,056 of MAS team members who took part in the program for themselves, their sisters and family 1.5 Creating Role Models For example, through its felicitation program “Liya-shakthi”, members. Linea Aqua hosted the previous year’s Empowered In alignment with the main UNSDG for Women Go Beyond Woman of the Year award winner to address its team (Achieving gender equality and empower all women and members on International Women’s Day 2019, giving girls), MAS realized the importance of profiling, creating the winners also a sense of pride and recognition, while inspirational role models and sharing success stories instilling in their colleagues a sense of inspiration and of women who have broken stereotypes and achieved motivation. In addition, the “Diriliya” and “Diriwaruna” the supposedly “impossible”. award winners for achieving personal and entrepreneurial goals within 2019 were recognized at the International Thus, every year, individual SBUs across the group Women’s Day program in the presence of all employees. make sure to engage their female workforce with such inspirational role models who would show them the way Keeping up with MAS’ tradition of rewarding and and give them the re-assurance to excel in avenues that recognizing the success stories of MAS women at might seem too difficult. International Women’s Day and the group-wide ‘Abhimani Award Ceremony’, which International Mothers’ Day are two key instances when takes place every other year, the 13th celebration of these initiatives take place. In 2019 too, most SBUs had “Empowered Woman of the Year Abhimani Awards” a “women’s week” throughout which they promoted was held ceremoniously on the 4th of November 2019 these inspirational role models and their engagement under the theme “Strength and Inspiration”. More than with the workforce. 1,500 employees, guests, invitees and family members 66 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 of the winners from across the country and overseas gathered to witness the stories of strength and inspiration 2. WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT of MAS’ own empowered women, making it an evening of inspiration. In line with SDG 5.5.2 and WEP principle of establishing The event recognized 44 Empowered Women from different divisions; 9 winners who excelled in special categories high-level corporate leadership commitments for gender of Entrepreneurship, Sports, Community service and Innovation; 12 Frontier Lead Executives, and 14 Leaders equality, MAS has been focusing on increasing the who championed MAS Values. The first and second runners-up from each category were also recognized. Four representation of women in management through a teams from MAS Intimates, Bodyline and Active also got the opportunity to showcase their aesthetic talents at synergized effort across the group. The leadership has the event. committed to a social sustainability goal of 1:1 gender representation in management by 2025. MAS is currently Table 4 showcases the areas of training, a breakdown of gender and hours involved for programs addressing at 21% of women in the management cadre, and the ‘Gender-based Violence’. group companies are working on many interventions to Program Name No. of Programs Participation Hours Impact: Female Impact: Male develop more women in the leadership pipeline. These Alcohol, Drugs & 5 11.0 2,335 140 efforts essentially focus on achieving and maintaining Tobacco Prevention gender equality in middle management and above Awareness on Child 1 8.0 1,500 70 within the organization. Abuse Child Care and 15 26.0 3,995 1,099 Development Awareness on 8 17.3 6,782 1,330 2.1 Creating and Maintaining Workplace Awareness of Domestic Violence Gender Equality, and Inclusion and Non-Discrimination Family Day 7 101.0 7,714 3,166 for All Workers Gender Sensitivity 7 34.0 8,841 2,662 Training To ensure that the senior and middle management Happy Family Life 12 29.5 10,944 2,817 understood the business case for diversity and were Education session 29 393.5 14,035 1,459 onboard with accessibility innovations, MAS launched Legal Rights Diversity, Accessibility and Respect Sensitization Total 84 620.3 56,146 12,743 workshops, which were carried out by MAS’ Gender Equality Advisor from Canada in collaboration with Uniterra Program in 2019. The sensitization process initiated with one-on-one discussions with the senior leadership, while sensitization sessions were held with board members, executive committees and CEOs in customized versions to suit and engage them. These special sessions focused on The company also focused on increasing internal MAS has identified that creating inspirational role models capacity as they trained trainers in-house at different for female employees even at the executive level is an divisions to carry out the sensitizations to the executive important step in order to achieve its sustainability and above carder across the group. goals. Thus, throughout 2019, a significant number of initiatives were aimed at sharing the experiences By the end of 2019, across MAS Group, 649 employees of successful women, discussing common challenges were sensitized with 40 internal trainers equipped to faced and how those were overcome, and motivating understanding their challenges and obtaining their continue to carry out these sensitization workshops. and inspiring young female talent to climb the corporate buy-in so various interventions necessary for change ladder. are supported by senior leaders. Key focus areas for this effort were familiarizing decision makers with the business case for diversity in leadership and communicating with them on how to support more women to take on leadership roles while combatting their unconscious biases. The Diversity, Accessibility and Respect workshop focused on developing an understanding of the link between diversity and innovation in business, how to structure a team environment so everyone has a voice (regardless of gender), and how to manage a healthy and respectful workplace. It also deals with unconscious bias and innovation in relation to the way we work, in order to develop more women to take on management and leadership roles. The intention of these workshops, which were tailored to specific groups, was to create awareness and conversation around these topics in order to create an environment that is more conducive to increasing overall diversity and the proportion of women in management at MAS. Thus, different versions of the workshop were conducted for middle management and executives separately, with the aim of breaking stereotypes and addressing gender biases. 68 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 MAS Active initiated a program titled “Move on Up” with The program started with a keynote address by MAS’ the intention to inspire, motivate and groom its female Gender Equality Advisor Stephanie Shea, followed by executives to enhance their skills. The main objectives a panel discussion with senior leaders from across the of this program were as follows: group – namely Rajitha Jayasuriya, Director of Group Legal; Suranga Nanayakkara, Director of Manufacturing; • To create leaders and understand the value of and Sharika Senanayake, Director of Environmental being in leadership roles Sustainability. Over 60 female executive and above • To instill the value of collaboration and working employees from all MAS Active SBUs took part in the together to build a cohesive work environment session, which received positive feedback. • To build career aspirations, social capital and confidence MAS Bodyline conducted a “Women in Leadership” forum • To increase efficiency and execute effectively in 2019. Two of the leading ladies at MAS, Director of Group Human Resources Dinali Peiris and Chief Executive Officer of MAS Legato Dilini Siriwardana joined the forum to share their experience and give insights about how women are gradually making their leadership presence in all spheres of work. The discussion was followed by a Q&A session and over 140 executive-and-above level employees participated in the program, of which a majority was women. A similar program yet with an expanded reach was organized by the corporate Women Go Beyond Team in 2019 with the aim of inspiring and supporting more women to take on leadership roles. This allowed an opportunity for networking and connecting people from across the group, with the objective of understanding the experiences of women working at MAS. Four inspiring ladies who have reached greater heights both in their work and personal lives, pursuing leadership roles in untraditional areas at MAS, graced the panel, and shared their experiences and success stories with the audience, creating an environment of inspiration. The event saw an enthusiastic participation of over 80 69 people, both men and women, from across MAS including MAS Capital, Innovation, female executives to identify their needs and providing support in building potential KREEDA, Intimates, Active and Linea Aqua. and prosperity, networking & engagement, leadership and inspiration, career advancement, health and wellness, skill development and work-life balance. MAS Active Operations Center celebrated International Mothers’ Day 2019 under the theme #SaferTomorrow to address issues faced by a mother regarding the During 2019, 76.5% of MAS’ group-wide recruitment were females (18,681 in safety of her children. This was also a timely step taken by MAS Active to support number). A sensitization session was also conducted by MAS’ gender equality its employees given the emergency situation prevailing in the country during the advisor on gender smart communication with the aim of contributing positively to post-Easter attack. The panel discussion featred Deputy Inspector General of the gender-sensitive marketing in terms of recruitment, representation and employer Sri Lanka Police Ajith Rohana, Professor Piyanjali de Soyza in Clinical Psychology and branding. The program focused on all communication representatives across MAS, Senior Medical Officer at Nawaloka Hospital Doctor Tissa Peiris. Over 60 employees leading to an interactive and practical discussion on their role in creating a gender from Active Operations Center took part in this discussion, which addressed practical neutral or gender transformative communication culture. aspects of acting responsibly and vigilantly during an emergency situation, useful contact details, and the legal framework to be followed during such an emergency. MAS Active Nirmaana conducted a session for 45 executive-and-above level employees, which included an experience sharing session with MAS’ Head of Eco Go Beyond & Strategic Sustainability Amanthi Perera on success and balancing career and personal life, and how she overcame the challenges that came her way. In line with this focus, MAS Linea Aqua launched such a women’s support network for executive level employees named “She Network” in 2019. The launch saw the participation of around 45 executive-and-above level female employees who discussed with a female coach on personality and career development while balancing their work and family lives. At the end of the session, 16 executives volunteered to be a part of the network’s steering committee, acting as the voice of the company’s 70 2.2 Getting the Commitment of HR Leaders of protégé’s career success and will advocate for them. this initiative. A similar program on assertiveness was the Group as a Form of KPI conducted for MAS Kreeda “EMERGE” mentees, which The year 2019 saw the culmination of a 9-month long saw the participation of 14 employees. As at 2019, MAS had 18% of women in senior management mentorship pilot program launched at MAS Intimates with (GM & Director other than board members), 21% in 7 female mentors and 8 female mentees. This program MAS Bodyline too rolled out the mentorship program middle management (AM to DGM) and 15% in its main was unique because it identified high-performing female developed by MAS’ Gender Equality Advisor from Board of Directors (MCAP & MHOLD Board) Apart from mentees at senior executive, assistant manager and Canada in 2019. The 9-month cycle comprised many all of the above work done to create a supportive and manager levels across a range of departments including one-on-one sessions, followed by a specialized workshop conducive environment, MAS understood that getting finance, marketing, manufacturing and corporate. conducted for all manager and above female leaders the support and commitment from the leadership is at Bodyline focusing on aligning managers to MAS’ crucial to move forward with these numbers closer to diversity goals, exploring the role of unconscious bias its sustainability goal. In 2019, MAS set out a deliverable in promotions and assessment, with the aim of getting for its HR and business leaders to either maintain or female leaders to become mentors for executive and increase their percentage of women in middle and senior executive women. Around 10 mentors were senior management. While the movement in percentage identified through this process and underwent a mentor points was minimal, it was meant to hold leadership training session conducted thereafter. Identifying highSimilarly, MAS Kreeda successfully completed its own pilot accountable and set the right direction for the company. potential mentees at executive and senior executive mentorship program for female executive development, Incorporating gender representation in business strategy level took place after this, followed by careful pairing “EMERGE”, crafted especially to suit the unique needs is key to moving the needle on this agenda. of mentors and mentees. The 10 identified mentees of women related to career advancement that are not too had one-on-one sessions with the Gender Equality 2.3 Mentoring and Sponsorship Opportunities generally discussed in leadership programs in 2019. Advisor and the WGB representative where they assessed for Female Associates Through this program, 12 mentors came onboard to their requirements and identified specific goals to be teach womento get the right kind of mentorship, while achieved through the program. Two structured programs on mentorship and sponsorship providing support in understanding second-generation were launched in multiple divisions across the group to unconscious bias. The year-long program concluded Likewise, MAS Active was the first division to roll out provide support and encouragement to high potential with an award ceremony recognizing the learnings of MAS’ first structured sponsorship program. After the women. The mentorship programs connect highthe participants. initial discussions on the program and its expectations performing women at the executive and senior executive with Active EXCO, high-performing manager-and-DGM levels to female mentors from higher management, An assertiveness training program that targeted the level female associates were identified as protégés, while the sponsorship connects female managers with mentees too was launched in 2019 at MAS Bodyline, while the EXCO was then given the discretion to select sponsors from their EXCO. Sponsorship programs differ which created a dialogue on how to have difficult their protégé to sponsor. One-on-one conversations from mentorship programs, as a mentor will be someone conversations and how to stand your ground without took place with both the sponsors and protégés to who only advises and supports, while a sponsor will being aggressive or submissive in a work setting. Around explain their roles and expectations. Finally, MAS Active’s be a senior level member who will have invested in a 33 employees including the 10 mentees took part in sponsorship program was successfully launched with a 71 tri-partite meeting where 8 sponsors from Active EXCO 2.5 Access to Child and Dependent Care sponsored 10 female protégés in 2019. MAS provides on-site and off-site child-care facilities 2.4 Flexible Working and crèches across the group in 11 locations. These facilities are conducted in collaboration with The centralized group policy on flexible working was authorized, trained and experienced institutions and approved from the board level to be piloted in several staff. divisions from January 2020. The policy included multiple flexible working options such as work from These facilities benefit team members and executive home, work from a different MAS location and flexible cadre, and the organization is currently looking at how time, and aims to promote striking a better balance it can improve and grow these facilities. between the career and personal lives of its associates. The MAS Kreeda division piloted flexible work as the MAS Linea Aqua has taken a very unique initiative in this first division in 2018 and continues to successfully use regard called “Tikiri Campus” to support MAS employees the policy in 2019. with primary child care and education during school vacations. Parents are allowed to bring their children Some flexibility work options offered at the division to a demarcated location in the work premises by the are as follows: same office transport facilities provided and go back • Flexi time – This is where employees are only home with their parents. Children are given educational expected to be present in the office during core training on computer science, english, leadership and work hours and agree with their line managers career counseling through internal employees who are on start and end times. qualified on the subject and volunteered their time for • Flexi location – Here, employees are able to this cause. work from another MAS location that is more convenient to them on certain days. • Work from home – For 2 days maximum in a week, employees may work from home. There is a lot of communication taking place with employees at different levels to help managers and teams understand the mutual responsibility of working with flexibility, making people understand that flexibility can be looked at as a spectrum and must be tailor-made to the job type and nature of work. 72 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 MEANINGFUL EMPLOYMENT Renowned as a company championing an ethical and inclusive work environment, MAS is committed to ensuring the well-being and freedom of expression of its staff at all levels, from the management to the shop floor. As a partner to top global brands, the company prides itself in being inextricably interconnected with its people and communities, driving economic growth and social inclusivity. Since inception, MAS employees have engaged with management every month through Joint Consultative Committees whose members are elected by the employee cadre themselves. This effectively provides collaborative solutions for all concerned. We believe that empowering our employees will, in turn, contribute to the economic development of their communities. Sharing this common value between the company and its people will, in turn, contribute towards creating a sustainable future for both people and industry. Our group-wide employee composition is as follows: Staff grade Total (a) Women (b) % of Women (b/a) Board of Directors (MCAP & MHOLD 13 2 15% Board) Senior Leadership (GM & Directors 249 45 18% other than board members) Middle Management / Managers / 1,952 408 21% Heads of Department (AM-DGM) Executives & Senior Executives 6,194 2,150 35% Staff/Team members 89,652 66,140 74% Total number of employees 98,058 68,744 70% UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 73 Recruitment in 2019 Recruitment at MAS is based on our recruitment policy, complemented by the policy Staff grade Female %Female Male %Male Grand of equal opportunity, employee career development and training requirements Total identified through an annual performance appraisal carried out for all executive Team Member 14,384 78% 3,965 22% 18,349 and above employees. Staff 306 43% 401 57% 707 Executive 223 39% 349 61% 572 We believe MAS’ skillful and talented workforce is a key contributor to its success Senior Executive 19 30% 45 70% 64 over the years. Therefore, with global expansion plans and investments made Assistant Manager 9 53% 8 47% 17 in the IT and brands verticals, which were unchartered territories for MAS at the Manager 9 38% 15 63% 24 time, it was necessary to develop a mechanism to manage the performance of this Deputy General Manager 1 33% 2 67% 3 talent base. In an effort to build a culture that recognizes and rewards outstanding General Manager, Divisional / 1 25% 3 75% 4 performance, MAS uses a performance appraisal process supported by the globally Functional Director renowned solutions provider, Oracle. This platform fosters open communication Grand Total 14,952 76% 4,788 24% 19,740 between employees and their line managers to discuss performance and areas of Since 2018, there has been a noteworthy improvement in the recruitment of women to improvement, establish future goals, define expectations and accomplishments, the position of Assistant Manager and above grades, from 18% in 2018 to 42% in 2019. and obtain overall employee feedback. Performance management continues to be Recruitment of females in the overall Executive and above grade increased from 35% to a crucial part of MAS’ talent management process, as its outcomes contribute to the 38%. betterment of other human resources functions such as learning & development, career management & succession management, and internal recruitment activities. Resignations in 2019 MAS’ performance management cycle starts with the annual goal-setting process to Staff grade Female Female % Male Male % Grand enhance the quality, ownership, accountability and transparency of an individual’s Total goals and deliverables for the year. In 2019, our employee base achieved Team Member 22,515 82% 5,030 18% 27,545 total completion of 98% of the goal-setting cycle due to process and system Staff 420 49% 445 51% 865 enhancements made during the year. The second step is the mid-year review, Executive 228 39% 362 61% 590 which allows employees to have a conversation with their appraisers to assess Senior Executive 71 41% 104 59% 175 the progress made on the achievement of goals and take corrective measures Assistant Manager 21 26% 59 74% 80 if required. The final year-end review ensures that the employees are appraised Manager 27 31% 60 69% 87 based on their performance, and rewarded in a fair and objective manner. Deputy General Manager 6 55% 5 45% 11 General Manager, Divisional / 6 19% 26 81% 32 The ‘Values and 2025 Behaviors’ evaluation in the form of a 180-degree employee Functional Director assessment was introduced in 2019 for the General Manager and above cadre Unused 37 97% 1 3% 38 at MAS. This was necessary as HOW you achieve goals is as equally important as Grand Total 23,331 79% 6,092 21% 29,423 WHAT you achieve. 74 External Engagements and Programmes Skills for Work – Through the Skills for Work program, which COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS was designed to bridge the skill gaps of undergraduates, University Relationships – MAS’ talent attraction strategy our Talent Attraction team has contributed to the As an equal opportunity employer providing sustainable ensures that we attract the best talent and skills to development of undergraduates’ soft skills by conducting compensation for all employees, MAS is committed to meet business challenges of the day, and retain them career development workshops. These include training ensure parity and fairness in pay and benefits. Despite within the organization through the talent management sessions for students of the University of Moratuwa – 2019 being a challenging year, we were able achieve process. In this journey, MAS continues to work closely Fashion Designing and Textile departments, University our set targets owing to the strengths and capabilities with key state and non-state universities across the of Colombo – Science and Management Faculties, of our talent base. country to both enhance the professional capabilities University of Sri Jayewardenepura – Science Faculty, of undergraduates and to attract the best talent from India Salary Survey and University of Kelaniya – MIT and Human Resource these universities to MAS. departments. For the very first time, we embarked on an international In 2019, MAS Platinum sponsored and participated in salary survey during 2019. As India has the most number In 2019, Skills for Work facilitated 60 training sessions several career days organized by universities, including of MAS factories (after Sri Lanka), we chose them as covering a population of more than 500 students across Peradeniya University’s Engineering and Science faculties, the starting point to standardize our compensation 6 departments/faculties in 4 key local universities. The Sri Jayawardenepura’s Management and Science faculties, and benefits practices across different regions. We key focus of these sessions was essential professional and Colombo’s Management and Science faculties. MAS were able to partner with Cerebrus Consultants and skills that are sought after by most organizations today. also sponsored the AGM of the Textile Association at covered designations from Executive to GM including the University of Moratuwa, as well as the launch of Furthermore, in collaboration with the Employer’s 18 job families (Technical & Non-Technical). Exposition Magazine by the University of Kelaniya’s MIT Federation of Ceylon under the Pic Work program, AIA Healthiest Workplace Survey department. In addition, our team has conducted a internal trainers conducted sessions on CV writing and number of internship interviews across 19 universities, maximizing internship opportunities at the Ruhuna, MAS also participated in group-wide employee and which was successful in providing employment and Sabaragamuwa and Kelaniya universities, with a student employer surveys as a part of AIA’s Healthiest Workplace internship opportunities to many students to obtain audience of over 200 students each. A session on Survey 2019. We were successful in winning awards in exposure to many divisions across MAS. CV writing was also conducted at the main career the following categories: day of the University of Colombo, and 2 sessions on In addition to sponsorships, MAS has contributed • • WINNER of Sri Lanka’s Healthiest Workplace assessment centers were conducted at the University of to two special projects conducted by the University 2019 Award in the Medium Category MAS Capital Sri Jayewardenepura. These sessions were conducted of Moratuwa – a fully equipped, airconditioned and • • WINNER of Sri Lanka’s Healthiest Employer 2019 to expose young graduates to the corporate world furnished classroom built for the Fashion Designing Award in the Medium Category MAS Capital and provide guidance to start their careers with the department; and the renovation and expansion of the • • WINNER in the NEW ENTRANT category MAS confidence following their graduation. Design Studio for the Textile department. Capital 75 LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT Identifying people as the key driver of its success, MAS In 2019, the Learning and Development (L&D) team An overview of employees trained at MAS for current believes lifelong learning is necessary for individuals to continued its focus on competency-based development, and future roles: achieve their personal and professional aspirations, while in the areas of Technical, Professional and Leadership In line with MAS’ commitment to develop its people enabling their organization to build a sustainable and competency training, for all team members and senior through continued investments in time and resources, competitive advantage. This is not merely reflected in management. We believe this would assist them in the L&D team remained dedicated to the task of MAS’ vision and mission, but embedded in the values better performing in their current and future roles ensuring continuous improvement and maintaining and building blocks of who we are as an organization. within the organization (note: This does not include a high standard in learning solutions and processes. job/skill based training ie: skill matrix, training school We strive to create a learning environment for all details at the shop floor level. Please see section on As an added advantage, in 2019, the team commenced employees across the organization, as we believe they “Skills development at shop floor level” for these details). the migration of the L&D process to the Oracle platform, can grow, experiment, discover, make mistakes, fail and hope to do the same for all non-executive related and better themselves through this experience. This Competency-based learning focuses on an employee's data in 2020. continues to be our foundation, to ensure that all our individual and specific development areas and encourages employees from needle point on the shop floor, to them to learn and practice a blended learning approach. The Oracle “Learn” Cloud is also available on this system, those sitting in boardrooms, can access training material A key aspect of development encouraged in 2019 was which is used by the L&D team to schedule trainings for and be given the opportunity to further their skills and practicing what they had learnt through “on-the-job” employees as and when required. The learn module is careers, thus nurturing a robust talent pipeline to drive training (also known as “70% intervention”). This is also able to host e-based content to run as self-paced business performance. applicable to all types of focused training in Leadership, programmes. Professional and Technical skills development. In mid-2019, in a bid to upskill our workforce, the 98.053 22.317% 22.7% migration from the T2o system to the Oracle platform Total Number of Total Number of No of Employees Employees Employees receiving focused training received training againstthe total necessitated the training of all talent management HR headcount personnel. During this week-long training program, they WORK LEVEL WISE BREAKDOWN were able to learn how to have effective performance GENDER BREAKDOWN and development related conversations using the Oracle 392 8240 13685 platform. In turn, these individuals were responsible for General Executive to Team Members & Manager and Deputy General Staff training their respective divisional and plant champions Above Managers on the platform. This is directly linked to empowering our teams to manage their employees’ talent life cycles. Gender Breakdown% against the 39.9% 60.1% MALE FEMALE total no of trainedemployees UAT 8890 13427 % against 2019 Headcount 9.06% 13.6% 70+PARTICIPANTS 15 DIVISIONS 09 MODULES 05 UAT SESSIONS 04 KEY TOOLS 76 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 In the L&D Cycle of 2019, the overall completion rate for 1.6 Leadership Development start to communicate more effectively. This is only eligible employees (Executives and above) stood at 86%. possible by enabling an open and safe environment in Similar to 2018, employees and managers continued which to air out issues, address areas of development to work on development in a more holistic manner, and drive employee performance, while remaining 86% 6,594 5,657 by discussing an individual’s performance, career aspirations, succession and development required in focused on achieving business performance through an ethical and values-driven foundation. Overall No of Acknowledged Acknowledged Eligible Headcount one conversation. Rate Employees As evidenced by demand from business units, the Assessing and identifying competencies that need to “Conversations Roadmap” saw upward momentum in The main outcome of the L&D cycle is to identify training be developed continued to be the focus of this curated 2019 through the introduction of “Train-the Trainer” needs for the year. In order to address these key areas, conversation using existing tools and techniques such (TTT) programs. This program was implemented to MAS’ process to evolve the programs commenced in as those obtained through our learning partner, The upskill and certify internal employees to disseminate 2018 and continued into 2019. This process is as follows: Centre for Creative Leadership (CCL). As such, a key knowledge about tools and techniques used in the driver in 2019 was added emphasis not only on enabling above-mentioned programs (such as SBII and LACE MAS Onboarding the “Conversations Roadmap”, but also ensuring that Copyright CCL launched in 2018). Additional trainers it was practiced “on the job” rather than being merely enabled us to impact a greater number of employees In 2019, 9 batches completed the trainings and 432 a theory. at all levels. employees were onboarded to the organization. As part of the “Lead by Example” initiative, these training Professional Development 20% Coaching/ programs took a sandwich approach – for example, Social Learning We continued to develop our future leaders through the ‘Feedback that Works’ focused on the employee and 19% the ‘Better Conversations Every day’ workshop focused MAS Executive Development Program, which comprised 10% Formal Learning 6 batches across the business and upskilled 196 on the line manager/employee relationship. 42% Executives, while the MAS Emerging Leaders Program 70% Experimental upskilled 37 first-time assistant managers to accomplish Learning their new responsibilities of managing people. 39% The following programs on Professional Development commenced in 2018 and continued into 2019: • Decision making & problem solving Programs initiated in previous years such as “Feedback • Communication that Works” workshops, “Better Conversations Every . • Innovation & ingenuity day” and MAS’ coaching journey initiatives (which • Analytical skills incorporated the CCL tools and techniques) are now • Planning & organizing beginning to enable our teams on the ground as they UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 77 Skills Development at Shop Floor Level Apart from leadership, professional and specific technical training as reported in the numbers above, MAS’ training schools provide, on average, 3 days of induction and 10 days of introducing basic skills to all new recruits at GENDER BREAKDOWN GENDER BREAKDOWN the shop floor level. This will amount to approximately 1,908,296 hours of training shop floor employees, considering the training school aspect only. The TL/GL Technical Competency Development Program MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE – The Certificate Level continues to be the foundation 256 745 104 248 to prepare Team Leaders and Group Leaders to be technically and professionally skilled for the future. In 2019, MAS launched diploma courses to further develop Train the Trainer 14 Train the Trainer Better Conversations Everyday 12 these individuals’ technical expertise to be the future Feedback that Works 1001 Better Conversations Everyday 352 leaders of the organization. 78 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Batch Program Start Date Program End Total Graduated Retention Left the Company Promotions Date Participants After During the Quit the Completing Program program Certificate Batch 01 24 May 2017 th 15 December th 41 37 34 3 3 1 2 2017 Certificate Batch 02 08th February 2018 31st August 2018 41 34 29 5 5 2 2 Certificate Batch 03 08 November 2018 th 29 August 2019 th 45 38 38 0 1 6 2 Certificate Batch 04 06 February 2019 th Ongoing 40 Diploma Batch 01 06 February 2019 th Ongoing 19 Summary 186 109 101 8 9 9 6 EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENTS AND PROGRAMMES The 2019 program kicked off in the first quarter of the year with 30 students from the following universities: MAS Awards • University of Moratuwa – Department of Textile The objective of the annual MAS Awards program is to identify all-round, best-performing students from Engineering partnering local universities, conduct training programs to uplift their skills, let them identify and complete • University of Moratuwa – Department of Fashion a project at MAS, and thereby select the overall best student from each faculty. Key goals of this program Design & Product Development are as follows: • University of Moratuwa National Diploma in Technology • University of Kelaniya – Department of Industrial • To elevate the standards of local university students to the expected levels of the industry Management • To make local university students marketable and assist with the transition from student to working • University of Jaffna – Department of Human professional Resources • To attract and foster good relationships with local universities • University of Peradeniya – Department of • To recruit the best talent at local universities to the organization Manufacturing & Industrial Engineering • By Q1 of 2020, 29 students had completed this program. 79 MAS, Dialog & Hemas PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES (PWD) Summer Internship Programme 2019 We at MAS strive to create an equal opportunity working The MAS Holdings, Dialog Axiata and Hemas Holdings environment for all our employees. At present, MAS Summer Internship Program provides undergraduates employs more than 300 persons with disabilities, and fresh graduates a glimpse into world-class career ranging from vision, speech, hearing, cognitive impaired opportunities available in Sri Lanka. The program was to physically impaired. built on the foundation of retaining local talent, and bringing together a highly diverse and talented pool of In 2019, we re-examined our strategies and practices young people in the corporate sector. The program is implemented in the last year and continued our journey in its 16th year of existence, with 15 interns benefiting towards achieving our 2025 strategy of achieving groupin 2019. wide non-discriminatory employment. In addition, we revised all internal facilities to focus more on initiatives that enable, engage and empower our employees with disabilities, which in return creates a PWD-friendly work ambience within all our facilities. SPOTLIGHT – The First Supported-Employment Officers Batch in Sri Lanka This year too, we continued our partnership with the Centre for Disability Studies of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Kelaniya in order to ensure a support Manager of Human Resources and Administration at system for our employees with disabilities. We achieved MAS Intimates and a Certified Supported Employment this by activating the Supported Employment Model Officer from the Northern Ireland Union of Supported introduced by the Northern Ireland Union of Supported Employment. During this 6-week extensive training, the Employment across all MAS facilities. Ten employees participants gained knowledge in the areas of diversity from different divisions were selected for this specialized trends, disability models, legal framework for persons training via a group-wide nomination system. The training with disabilities in Sri Lanka, Supported Employment was conducted by a group of specialized academics Model components, disability etiquette, conducting and professionals from the University of Kelaniya and accessibility audits and tips on conducting one-on-one other relevant external institutions, led by Dr. Shyamani recruitment interviews with persons with disabilities. In Hettiarachchi, Head of the Department and Senior 2020, each trained supported employment officer will Lecturer of the Department of Disability Studies at the be allocated a case study to practically execute learnings University of Kelaniya, and our very own Imalka De Silva, from the training. 80 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Workforce Numbers of Persons with Disabilities, 2019 Upholding the company’s values, our SBUs took the The workshop included a motivational counselling lead in implementing their own initiatives to support session by Harshani Perera, a counselor at Linea Intimo, the employment of persons with disabilities. Initiatives who focused on building the identities by overcoming 246 Speech & Hearing Impairment 5 taken in 2019 are as follows: insecurities. This was followed by an outbound training session conducted by Power of Play, which helped to 76 Physical Impairment MAS Active conducted a spotlight initiative in 2019, “Voice build unified relationships among these employees and of Our Own”, to commemorate the International Week together overcome life’s challenges. 5 Vision Impairment of Sign Language, while the Divisional Compliance and 76 19% Sustainability team organized the annual workshop for On the same day, we conducted a survey in order to 4 Cognitive Impairment persons with disabilities held for the third consecutive depict a more accurate picture of how these individuals year. The main objective of this program was to promote feel about the support they receive from the organization. 246 the engagement of persons with disabilities with The results have provided us with detailed information 4 each other, while focusing on each individual’s career regarding their satisfaction with the services and whether advancement and work-life balance. The “Voice of Our our initiatives conducted for them have been a success. Own” workshop was held on the 6th of October 2019 for the employees with hearing impairments at MAS MAS Intimates’ spotlight initiative, spearheaded through Total 331 Active and MAS Athena. At present, MAS Active employs Marks & Spencer, ‘Marks & Start’ is a work placement a total of 61 persons of disabilities, with 44 of them program that helps people who face barriers in finding participating in this event. work. Active across Sri Lanka, the Marks & Start program focuses on developing the vocational skills of persons with disabilities to take on technical roles in a factory. 81 This project has played a major role in the uplifting the lives of persons with disabilities and their families across the world. In 2004, MAS Intimates Slimline was the first factory in the Asian region to initiate Marks & Start. The partnership formed the learning base, as we expanded our employment of persons with disabilities to other MAS Intimates plants. The annual Marks & Start get-together is held on International Day of Disabled Persons. This year, the event brought together over 600 associates from 15 M&S vendors in Sri Lanka. This is an occasion for persons with disabilities across MAS plants to network and share their experiences. Over 100 associates from the 5 M&S plants of MAS Intimates participated in this informative and motivational day. 82 Upskilling for Leadership – MAS Intimates Slimtex Expanding our Reach MAS Intimates Unichela Linea Aqua, Hanwella initiated “Talking Hands”, a series Koggala of sign language training focused on 15 of their speech Sinhala language writing session conducted by Mr. and hearing impaired employees holding in worker, Kalum Samarawickrama Consultation Session for family members with disabilities staff and executive positions in the production, cutting and behavioral disorders conducted by Dr. Ramani and ISE departments. In recognition of the value these Beneficiaries – 09 hearing impaired team members Rathnaweera (Consultant Psychiatrist Karapitiya individuals provide to the organization, the Talking Hands Teaching Hospital) program was implemented to help them see a better Many of our hearing impaired colleagues have challenges around writing, mainly due to limited formal education tomorrow by giving them proper sign language training Beneficiaries – 25 employees and 11 family members opportunities. However, this is an essential skill for them in order to deal with people both within and outside to progress to become Team Leaders. Therefore, this This awareness session was conducted for employees the organization. By assigning a buddy for each team upskilling program was done in support of their career with family members who have psychological disabilities, member, we believe it will help them to have better aspirations. Following this pilot program, we noted in order to help them better understand the conditions communication to deal with day-to-day problems more significant progress being made by the participants, and needs, while developing their capacity to effectively easily than ever before. This program was conducted with and therefore hope to standardize the program across support these family members. The session was followed the support of all departments directly involved with HR MAS Intimates. by free consultations for each family. (Payroll, Welfare, PRT, Recruitment teams, Counseling, Training centers and T&D teams), Administration and the Medical Center. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 83 MAS KREEDA celebrated the Sinhala & Tamil New Year with employees with disabilities from all SBUs at the Yowun Senankaya Grounds in Katunayake as an engagement initiative. While traditional activities and games were organized and winners were rewarded, the event also included team building and leadership activities through music and dance. 84 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 SPORTS With sports being a key part of the A WORKPLACE MAS culture, we currently employ BEYOND over 1000 sportspersons across 14 sporting disciplines. We are proud to COMPLIANCE note that over 50 of these champions have represented Sri Lanka in the international arena in Cricket, Rugby, While MAS continues to push the boundaries on Boxing, Para Athletics, Netball, Basketball, Fencing, Badminton, Squash, Table Tennis and Triathlon. Owing to the different elements of sustainability, we are their commitment and dedication, we dominated the local mercantile sports arena in 2019 as well. acutely aware that standards maintained within SPORT EVENT & RESULTS the working environment ensure the health, 1 Athletics Mercantile Champions safety and security of its employees, as well as 2 Badminton 2019 Mercantile Team Championships – 3rd Place the confidence of our customers and external 3 Basketball E Division Champions – Boys stakeholders. B Division Runners Up – Girls 4 Chess Mercantile & Government Services International Rated Chess Championship – Champions In line with the founders’ focus from the first day Mercantile & Government Services International Rated Rapid Chess Championship – Champions of operation, we continue to closely monitor and 5 Hockey Mercantile A division 7 A side – Champions (MAS A team) perform beyond expectations in all our internal Mercantile A division Knockout – 3rd Place (MAS A team) and external compliance parameters. Mercantile D division League tournament – Champions (MAS B team) Given below is a summary of our internal and Mercantile D division Knockout – Runner’s Up external audits conducted in 2019. These audits Mercantile D division 7 A side – Champions cover a range of focus areas, from health and Mercantile F division 7 A side tournament – Champions (MAS C team) safety standards, labour, supply chains, security, 6 Table Tennis Mercantile League Tournament – 2019 brand protection and trade. Men: A Division champions Mercantile League Tournament – 2019 We have also given an update on the MAS DNAWomen: A Division champions the Code of Conduct. Mercantile Knock out Tournament -2019 Women: A Division champions Mercantile Open Championships – 2019 Champions 7 Rugby Mercantile Joint Champions – Mens Champions Womens 8 Volleyball Mercantile Super League – Women’s Champions (Casualline) Mercantile A Division – Men’s Champions (Unichela Panadura) 9 Tennis Mercantile Tennis Champions 10 Swimming Mercantile Swimming Champions UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 85 MAS DNA MAS DNA, it was also essential to have a strong Code the Central DNA team, Code Officers and HR teams Officer network equipped with the required knowledge continued to conduct education and awareness sessions As we embarked on the year 2019, the main focus and skills, paired with supportive tools and platforms. within their respective divisions/ SBUs. They also took of the MAS DNA was to strengthen the group-wide Thereby, as a first step, we conducted Code Officer additional steps to strengthen communication through implementation and communication, reaffirm leadership Refresher Trainings for the respective Divisional and one-on-one conversations, e-flyers and posters. buy-in and commitment to the code of conduct, and SBU Code Officers in each division. The session focused reinforce and introduce new policies to the group; whilst on refreshing the Code Officers’ knowledge on the Policy Deployment also effectively managing grievances across the group. investigation process and sharing one another’s best Another important aspect of the MAS DNA is to implement Strengthening Implementation practices. policies which would give a detailed understanding Another primary aspect of focus in the Code Officer about standards of procedure and employee behavior A crucial part of reinforcement was to ensure that the refresher sessions was to train Code officers to use expected. In the year 2019, the focus was to look at organization’s leaders are well aware and fully support EthicsPoint (Navex platform) as a central platform policies which would help employees better balance alignment to the MAS DNA. Thereby, sessions were to manage cases of non-compliance. In addition to their work and personal life. conducted for the senior leadership to refresh their knowledge of and re-emphasize the importance of the functioning as the central platform, EthicsPoint is also Accordingly, as measure to promote work-life balance, Code of Conduct – especially at times of Turnaround. important for the tracking of group-wide governance a Flexible Working Policy was proposed with 3 main and compliance by the central DNA team based at types of flexible working arrangements; Flexi Hours, Flexi The senior leadership was also given an update regarding Group HR; and ensure that all cases across the group Location, and Home Working. A number of divisions across the level of awareness and adherence to the code of are managed uniformly, in alignment with the standard the group have initiated piloting these arrangements conduct, in their respective division. This was determined investigation process and consequence management among their respective teams to check the feasibility through a survey that was conducted by the central framework. and effectiveness of the policy. DNA team, which included questions to understand; their level of engagement with the code of conduct, As another initiative to educate new employees, a Additionally, a group-wide Leave Policy, applicable for perceptions of harassment and discrimination, as well session on the MAS DNA was included in the Group the executive and above cadre, was proposed to be as the amount of trust they place in the systems and Onboarding, which takes place every alternate month. implemented. This leave policy included the regulatory procedures established. The session would focus on the following: leave entitlements, and the entitlements that were • MAS Values and its connection to the MAS DNA especially provided by the organization – with the While these sessions were essential to brief them about • The Importance of the MAS DNA intention to ensure all employees are aware of the types the updates and improvements made to the Code of • Pillars of the MAS DNA of leave granted. Important highlights of the policy are Conduct, it also provided an opportunity to inform them • Policy framework the introduction of Paternity leave and Adoption Leave, about the future DNA strategies and communicate how • Resources available to understand the MAS DNA where employees are encouraged, and are given the they, as the senior leadership of MAS, can support to (related policies, Investigation Process, Consequence opportunity to be more involved and share these special carry out the same. Management Framework, etc.) moments with their families. The policy was approved To further strengthen awareness and adherence to the Further to the DNA Roll Out sessions conducted by to be implemented in 2020. 86 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Factory Floor Roll Out MAS believes that the factory floor employees are the discussions and the development of material; TOT “Pageviews is the total number of pages viewed.” core of the organization; and it was decided to extend sessions are to be conducted with selected individuals the MAS DNA roll out to the factory floor employees in from each division/ SBU (who were named as “DNA Country Percentage 2020, with Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination Champs”). The DNA Champs will then take their learnings Sri Lanka 96.5% being the main focus. Thereby, in addition to the above forward and conduct small group-sessions, covering Bangladesh 0.74% objectives, the pre-work for the factory floor roll out was the factory floor employees cadre. Indonesia 0.68% initiated. As a way to determine the best approach to Jordan 0.54% roll out the Code of Conduct to the factory floor with The above will be supported by other material which United States 0.49% emphasis on anti-harassment and non-discrimination, a will be provided by the Central DNA team, such as India 0.41% number of Focus Group Discussions were conducted at informative brochures, videos, posters, policy prints to Other 0.64% a few SBUs with sets of randomly selected participants. be placed across the factory, articles included in MAS’ These participants were selected from various work newsletter “Diyani”, etc. Furthermore, there were a total of 382 cases of nonlevels of the cadre, ranging among team members, team compliance reported in the years 2017, 2018 and 2019. MAS DNA Website Usage leaders, group leaders, as well as Executives who work Out of these cases, 57 were reported to the Central closely with the factory floor employees. Team directly; where 13 were raised via the MAS DNA The following was analyzed with regards to the usage Helpdesk. The remaining cases were directly brought of the MAS DNA website in the year 2019. The focus group discussion revolved around their up to the relevant Divisional/ SBU Code Officers of the understanding of discrimination and harassment; and Sessions – 10,402 respective company. determining the grievance handling mechanisms that are currently in place. From these discussions, it was “A session can be defined as the material usage by an This indicates a level of trust and acceptance towards evident that they were aware and knowledgeable on the employee where he/she actively peruses and engages the MAS DNA, credibility of the investigation process topic; and their feedback further proved to be extremely with the content of the website.” and manner in which the course of action is decided. valuable to design and develop the material needed for However, continuous wok is being carried out to the factory floor roll out. Out of the total number of sessions stated above, strengthen awareness and acceptance of the process. . it was noted that: Considering the magnitude of the cadre, it was planned • 58% were sessions by New Visitors (first-time to follow a train-the-trainer model for the factory floor users during the year) roll out. Accordingly, subsequent to the focus group • 42% were sessions by Returning Visitors (Users who have initiated at least one session previously) Pageviews – 20,758 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 87 COMPLIANCE UPDATE 37% MAS Active 34% MAS Intimates Areas of audits Labour Health and Supply Security Trade BPU EXTERNAL AUDIT safety chain ASSESSMENT 26% MAS Kreeda There have been 76 audits Number of audits 69 70 16 36 2 2 INFORMATION conducted by and on behalf of 2% Bodyline MAS’ external customers for the period January-December 2019. 1% Fabrics Audits external conducted Number of time audits conducted 42% MAS Active WRAP 8 ETI Audit 9 Nike NCAT HSE 7 36% MAS Kreeda Nike NCAT Labour 7 Security and Supply chain Assessment of Nike 6 INTERNAL AUDIT HBI (Hanes Brand Inc) 8 ASSESSMENT 5% Bodyline FSLM ( SAC)/ SLCP Audit 7 INFORMATION Lululemon Compliance Audit 4 Hanes Follow Up 3 15% MAS Intimates Everlane 2 Fair Trade 2 2% Fabrics GAP 2 Lacoste 2 M&S 2 Ralph Lauren 2 Amazon 1 Inditex 1 Patagonia Social and CEIP assessment 1 SCAN 1 WRAP PCA 1 88 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 We continue to have a stringent internal audit process, which is governed at the The certifications and awards received by MAS in 2019 are as follows: Divisional level by dedicated teams overlooking the audits and enforcement of certifications and standards. MAS conducted 63 Internal Audit Assessments in 2019. Certification name Active Intimates Bodyline Kreeda Linea Matrix Aqua Audit name Audit count ETI 7 1 1 Divisional Compliance and Sustainability Audit – Behavioral 18 ISO 14001 6 6 2 9 3 Divisional Compliance and Sustainability Audit – Bi annual 10 WRAP 4 5 3 Nike NCAT HSE 8 GMP 6 3 1 3 1 Nike NCAT Labour 16 ISO 9001:2015 2 BPU (Process Compliance) 1 BSCI 1 DCAT Audit 10 C-TPAT 1 Total 63 ISO 14064 1 2 ISO 45001:2018 1 Areas of internal Labour Health and Supply Security Trade BPU ISO 9001:2015 1 2 3 1 audits safety chain OHSAS 18001 6 8 1 Number of audits 63 51 23 59 14 11 RCS 1 1 WCA 1 3 We continue to closely monitor and report on our health and safety parameters. ISO 50001 2 1 Responsible Care 5 8 Significant accidents for the period under review are as follows: Zero Waste to Landfill 1 Nike Footwear 1 Division Accidents accreditation Fatal accidents Permanent disability Partial disability / Vision Zero 1 accidents incapacitation of a Fair Trade 2 worker for more than Total 31 25 5 32 23 5 three days Bodyline 0 0 3 In its endeavor to offer best-in-class working conditions and ensure a sustainable Kreeda 0 0 4 future for its business, MAS continues to challenge itself to be the best in the industry. Active 0 0 3 This commitment has been recognized both locally and internationally through its Intimates 0 0 9 achievements in various sustainability standards platforms. Linea Aqua 0 0 6 Other (Metrix & 0 0 0 Noyon) UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 89 Our achievements in 2019 are as follows: Types of recognition Number Division/SBU of awards Sustainable Apparel Coalition Leadership: Higg Facility Environmental Module 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited LBrands Supplier Compliance Ownership 1 MAS Intimates (Private) Limited Presidential Export Awards Overall awards export to the global value chain (Apparel 1 MAS Fabrics (Private) Limited Matrix sector) Presidential Export Awards Overall awards contributor to sustainable development in 1 MAS Fabrics (Private) Limited Matrix exports (Apparel sector) Presidential Environmental Awards Gold (Apparel sector) 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited Asialine Division Presidential Export Awards Merit (Apparel sector) 1 MAS Fabrics (Private) Limited Matrix Presidential Environmental Awards 1 MAS Fabrics (Private) Limited Matrix Textile and Textile processing industries Certificate (Apparel sector) Presidential Environmental Awards Silver (Apparel sector) 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited MAS Shadeline Presidential Environmental Awards Merit (Apparel sector) 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited MAS Synergy Presidential Environmental Awards Bronze (Apparel sector) 2 MAS Active (Private) Limited MAS Linea AITC MAS Fabrics (Private) Limited Methliya Division National Quality Award Gold 1 Linea Aqua (Private) Limited National Quality Award Silver 1 Linea Aqua (Private) Limited National Productivity awards Gold 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited National Productivity Award Certificate (Manufacturing) 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited MAS Vaanavil National Occupational Safety & Health Excellence Award Merit (Apparel sector) 6 MAS Active (Private) LimitedMAS Vaanavil, MAS Leisureline, MAS Linea AITC, MAS Shadeline and MAS Synergy MAS Fabrics (Private) Limited Methliya Division National Occupational Safety & Health Excellence Award Gold (All local industries) 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited MAS Kreeda Intimo National Occupational Safety & Health Award Gold 1 MAS Active (Private) limited MAS Linea Intimo National Convention Productivity Award Quality circle level Gold (Manufacturing) 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited -MAS Kreeda Mihintale National Convention on Quality & Productivity Gold (Apparel sector) 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited Sleekline Division National convention of quality and productivity Award Gold (Manufacturing) 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited MAS Kreeda Intimo National Cleaner Production Awards – Gold (Apparel sector) 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited Asialine Division National Cleaner Production Awards Gold (Manufacturing) 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited Nirmaana Division 90 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Sri Lanka Association for the Advancement of Quality and Productivity “Thoni” Project 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited MAS Vaanavil NCQP Gold (Manufacturing) Sri Lanka Association for the Advancement of Quality and Productivity “Think Safety 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited MAS Vaanavil First” Project NCQP -Gold (Manufacturing) Sri Lanka Association for the Advancement of Quality and Productivity “Turnaround the 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited MAS Vaanavil Embellishment” Project NCQP Gold (Manufacturing) Sri Lanka Association for the Advancement of Quality and Productivity “Goldarn Drops” 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited MAS Vaanavil Project NCQP Gold (Manufacturing) Sri Lanka Association for the Advancement of Quality and Productivity “Beyond the 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited MAS Vaanavil Level” Project NCQP -Gold (Manufacturing) Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards Disaster 1 MAS Intimates (Private) Limited Risk Reduction Best Project Award Gold Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards Aloka 1 MAS Intimates (Private) Limited Breast Cancer Awareness Program – Merit JASTECA Taiki Akimoto 5S Competition 2019 -Cerificate (Manufacturing) 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited MAS Vaanavil JASTECA Best CSR Sustainability Award Winner (Apparel sector) 1 MAS Active Trading (Private) Limited MAS Kreeda Excellence Award in Occupational Safety & Health -Excellence Award (Apparel sector) 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited MAS Al Safi Madaba Asia Best Companies to Work For in Asia 2019 1 MAS Sumbiri 1 (Private) Limited TAIKI AKIMOTO-5S Bronze (Large Category) 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited Asialine Division Social Dialogue Award Poster Competition Merit (Apparel sector) 1 Bodyline (Private) Limited Pimbura Social Dialogue Award Poster Competition Gold (Apparel sector) 1 Bodyline (Private) Limited Social Dialogue Award Large Scale-Silver (Apparel sector) 1 Bodyline (Private) Limited Pimbura Social Dialogue Award Essay Sri Lanka Association for the Advancement of Quality and 1 Bodyline (Private) Limited Agalawatte Productivity Writing -Bronze (Apparel sector) Social Dialogue Award Art Competition Gold (Apparel sector) 1 Bodyline (Private) Limited Social Dialogue Excellence Award – Labor Silver (Apparel sector) 1 MAS Active (Private) Limited -MAS Kreeda Mihintale Department of Agriculture Urban Agriculture Development Programme Competition 1 Unichela (Private) Limited Linea Intimates Division Central Province Winner UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 91 THRIVING COMMUNITIES MAS continues to support all the communities in which it operates in line with its corporate ethos, as we believe they are a rich part of our identity. Corporate citizenship activities are aligned to the SDG’s 92 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 MAS allocated LKR31 million for its Corporate Citizenship MAS’ activities are distributed among Sri Lanka’s 21 Activities in 2019. districts, with the highest intervention in the Kandy, Kegalle and Kurunegala districts. When compared with 2018, MAS has seen a significant 41% Education increase in the number of activities, beneficiaries and Environmental 9% Initiatives volunteers. ACTIVITY Kilinochchi 12% Health 2018 2019 Increment DISTRIBUTION Mullaitivu Number of 29% Local Connect activities 577 786 36% Mannar 3% Number of Nationminded Vavuniya beneficiaries 2,486,507 5,177,006 108% Trincomalee 6% Sports Number of Anuradhapura volunteers 12,581 17,201 37% Puttalam Polonnaruwa Sub-category No. of Activities Batticaloa When implementing its Corporate Citizenship Activities, Capacity Building 253 MAS has focused on quality education (SDG 4), good Disaster Relief 9 Kurunegala Matale health and wellbeing (SDG 3), and sustainable cities and Donation 373 Kandy Ampara Kegalla communities (SDG 11). Infrastructure 115 Gampaha Badulla State-run Programmes 24 Colombo Nuwara Eliya Category of Intervention No. of Activities Monaragala Wellness 114 Education 318 Kalutara Ratnapura Environmental Initiatives 71 Health 96 Capacity 28% Building Local Connect 228 Galle Hambantota Nation-minded 21 Matara 1% Disaster Relief Sports 48 42% Donation ACTIVITY DISTRIBUTION 13% Infrastructure State-run 3% Programmes 13% Wellness UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 93 Recognized as an SDG Pioneer for Sri Lanka Beyond the Borders of Corporate Citizenship SDG Pioneers is a global recognition platform by UN MAS has developed its own community engagement Global Compact to recognize young business leaders model by using current best practices and international from around the world in the field of sustainability, who tool and techniques accepted globally. This model has are positively meeting the United Nations Sustainable helped to maintain systematic community relationships Development Goals (SDGs) through their work catering to ensure continuity. Furthermore, it has helped align the towards the campaign “Making Global Goals Local company to the UN’s Sustainable Developments Goals. Business”. In the local competition in 2019, from amid It allows MAS to identify all stakeholders by mapping several private sector company applicants, Roshan their presence to create strong partnerships. As a result, Weerasinghe of MAS’ Sustainability team emerged the it helps to enlarge the impact across the community. national winner and went on to represent Sri Lanka in After being successfully piloted in Balangoda, it is now the global event. In recognition of this achievement, Roshan also manages MAS’ Eco Go Beyond program, adopted widely by the company. he was invited to attend the UN Leaders Week in New which is a sustainable development education initiative York, USA. He has also been instrumental in aligning that takes SDG-related education to schools in Sri Lanka. MAS’ community development and social sustainability In terms of his leadership and commitment to the work with the UN’s SDGs, while educating the corporate projects, he is an internal resource for this program citizenship and CSR connects across the group on the and has been instrumental in aligning the programme same. content with the UN’s SDGs and better portraying MAS’ community engagement activities. He has also conducted knowledge sharing sessions on SDGs for local education officials from the Ministry of Education in Sri Lanka. 94 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 The implementation of the company-wide community engagement model helped achieve the following outcomes: • To discover concealed stakeholders • To identify potential stakeholders • To create a win-win situation within the community • To expand community engagement • To easily estimate the level of engagement • To ensure a greater impact vs investment The Strategic Approach to Mandate Corporate Citizenship MAS initiated a social sustainability scoring tool focused on the social aspects of the business including women in leadership, work-life balance, health and safety, and community service. It gives a score for each SBU by considering their commitment to the social aspects in their daily business activities. Under community service, each manufacturing plant is mandated to do four Corporate Citizenship activities per quarter, based on which they will receive a final assessment. In addition, out four activities, two different focus areas should be addressed and volunteer participation mandated for one activity. Responding to the Easter Sunday Terror Attack in 2019 In response to the Easter Sunday terror attacks, MAS Holdings mobilized a team to understand the ground reality and support the relief efforts for the victims of the Easter Sunday attack. After carrying out a lot of field work, assessing the needs of the community and consulting various stakeholders, we were provided with an opportunity to support the victims by partnering with Sethsarana, the social service arm of the Archdiocese of Colombo. We initially wanted to provide a community development center, however, this need had already been fulfilled by another organization; therefore, we proposed an alternative project to provide educational scholarship opportunities to child victims of the Easter Sunday attacks. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 95 Once we had analyzed the project scope, the business heads across MAS Holdings reached out to customers and suppliers who were eager to contribute funds toward this cause. We were able to raise $81,000 due to the generosity of gracious donors. We utilized these funds to provide 24 scholarship opportunities for all students from grades 5 and 6 who were affected in Kochchikade and Katuwapitiya. We pledged to support them until they finish their A/Levels examination at the age of 18. The scholarship breakdown is as follows and the balance unutilized funds of $13,089 will be used in the future once we review the project: Eco Go Beyond – Sustainable Schools Programme Stemming from our deep belief that educated and activated young people are Grade No of Students Amount Per Total Amount for the key drivers of sustainable development, the MAS Eco Go Beyond Sustainable Student Student($) Schools program completed its 13th year in 2019 impacting over 60,000 youth from 5 to 13 15 2932 43,980 across more than 90 rural schools. The successful initiative included school-based 6 to 13 9 2659 23,931 workshops using audio visual presentations, guest lectures, playlets and mobile Total 24 67,911 exhibits held at several locations. The final school-based projects are monitored and judged annually, and the program culminated with an exhibitions and awards ceremony recognizing and rewarding the winners. Stepping into its third phase of the 2017-2019 cycle, the initial sensitization meeting for the program was held in February at the Ministry of Education, with the participation of principals and teachers-in-charge representing all 30 participant schools of the 96 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 project. The meeting was used to draw focus to the 13-year successful public-private partnership between MAS Holdings and the Ministry of Education. As the second phase of sensitization, school awareness roll-outs took place in February and March, where new concepts and initiatives for the year were introduced to the schools by the specialist consultants and the central team using a series of interactive presentations and workshops held at each school. The participants of these workshops were not only the students of the target age group, but most often the entire secondary school, teachers, interested parents and even other interested individuals from the local community. Through these 30 workshops, the program impacted 5,593 students, 234 teachers, and 259 parents and community well-wishers. As the monitoring phase of MAS Eco GO Beyond 2019 begins, the first evaluation took place in May and June at each school, with the participation of specialist consultants and the central team. Here, the schools were evaluated based on projects activated by the students under the following 11 environmental and social sustainability-based criteria: • Increasing green cover Growing trees and grass • Composting biodegradable waste • Paper and non-biodegradable waste including plastic elimination • Promoting nutrition: Nutritious crop cultivation • Reduction & management of energy/electricity consumption • Reduction & management of water consumption • Promoting a sustainable lifestyle: Eco-friendly decorations • Promoting multi-culturalism • Increasing productivity through the implementation of 5S • Enhancement of biodiversity • Community engagement activity UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 97 Leadership Activation Sessions While maintaining government directives for students regarding traveling outside Based on their performance at the monitoring and evaluation phase, the star school for residential programs post the Easter Sunday attacks in Sri Lanka, in 2019, performers were awarded at a ceremony held in October 2019 under the patronage we held a series of activation sessions/ workshops at 30 Eco Go Beyond partner of chief guest Dr. Chandra Embuldeniya, the inaugural Vice Chancellor of the Uva schools. Each workshop comprised a series of sessions under topics such as problem Wellassa University of Sri Lanka, officials from the Ministry of Education, principals, solving using lean principles, disaster risk resilience and a practical session on home teachers, students from 30 participant schools and the MAS fraternity. This event gardening techniques conducted by the central Eco Go Beyond team, divisional marked the conclusion of the 2017-2019 cycle of the Sustainable Schools Programme. resource persons and internal lean trainers. Similarly, the teachers of each school took part in a session on effective feedback conducted by the internal MAS trainers. At the event, Godawela Sri Pragnananda Vidyalaya in Thulhiriya emerged as champions, These programs impacted an audience of 900 students and more than 120 teachers. followed by Palannoruwa Central College in Horana and Balabowa Junior School Naiwala being nominated first and second runners-up, respectively. The event also recognized and rewarded the top 12 performers from the schools. 98 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Category ​ 2017​ 2018​ 2019​ Total ​ Trees planted​ 1114​ 1253​ 1317​ 3684​ Grass grown (M2)​ 7484​ 6439​ 8932​ 22855​ Compost (KG)​ 2289​ 11361​ 9993​ 23643​ Plastic recycled (KG)​ 294​ 1228​ 352​ 1874​ Paper recycled (KG)​ 392​ 1327​ 2363​ 4082​ Glass recycled (KG)​ 462​ 598​ 356​ 1416​ Iron recycled (KG)​ 190​ 1196​ 180​ 1566​ 5S productivity incorporated (areas)​ 89​ 261​ 208​ 558​ Awareness programs 59​ 276​ 347​ 682​ UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 99 External Interventions Nation-mindedness: Impacting at Scale MAS also partnered with the Ministry of Education to Donating an ultrasound scan machine for the Gynecology The hospital reached out to MAS, and the two MAS plants host the All Island Agricultural Quiz Competition and and Obstetrics clinic by Vidiyal and Vaanavil in Kilinochchi immediately partnered them to address its final awards ceremony. As a part of the program, this need by providing a state-of-the-art ultrasound scan MAS got the opportunity to conduct a session on SDG The Kilinochchi Teaching Hospital is the only hospital machine for the benefit of the mothers-to-be in the area. alignment of school activities for the winners. in the entire Kilinochchi District that has a dedicated maternity ward, Gynecology & Obstetrics clinic and This initiative was able to provide access to maternal MAS’ Eco GO Beyond and SDG journey was presented mobile clinic that services rural areas. The hospital had health scans for over 500 pregnant ladies per week to the Board of Global Compact Sri Lanka Network by one ultrasound scan machine for all three requirements. internal sustainability resource persons. Approximately 150 pregnant ladies visit the Gynecology & Obstetrics clinic every week, and the hospital was unable to cope with this demand. 100 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Alignment to the 10 Principles Initiatives Policies and Processes UNGC Principle Pages Meaningful Employment 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 72-84 MAS DNA 1, 2, 10 85-86 Persons with Disabilities interventions 6 79-83 Empowering Women 6 52-71 Thriving Communities 1, 2, 8 91-99 Compliance and Certifications 1, 2, 3 and 10 87-90 Compensation and Benefits 2 74 TL/GL Programme 6 77-78 Water, Chemical & Waste Management 7 27-36 Championing Climate Action 7, 9 21-26 Biodiversity Initiatives 8, 9 37-47 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 101
