SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 2 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 3 3 6 About This Report About This Report Our COVID-19 Table of 4 Response Message from our CEO Contents 6 Our COVID-19 Response This is Ocean Network Express’s (ONE) third annual 8 2019 Key Highlights sustainability report and communicates our progress towards implementing our 10 10 28 sustainability commitments. It About ONE • Company Profile About Operational is the second year we follow • Value Chain of our Business ONE Excellence • Scale of Operations the disclosures set out by the • Our Core Values • Memberships, Associations, Global Reporting Initiative Certificates and Awards (GRI) Standards, as the basis 16 of our annual reporting. The Approach to Sustainability • Sustainability at ONE report has been prepared • Materiality Assessment • Stakeholder Engagement with reference to the GRI • Our Commitment to the United • Managing Sulphur Oxides (SOx) Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Emissions Standards. For a full list of and Sustainable Development • Marine Pollution and Conservation • Recycling and Disposal of Materials disclosures referenced in this Goals (SDGs) report, please refer to the GRI 24 28 Environment Operational Excellence Content Index on page 43. • Our Environmental Policy and • Innovation and Digitalization Management System • Customer Experience • Climate Change (including GHG and • Operational Efficiency other emissions) • Cargo and Container Safety SCOPE AND BOUNDARY This report contains information pertaining to the period 1st January 2019 to 31st December 2019, covering our liner network services, provided through 211 local offices in 24 38 106 countries, five Regional Headquarters (RHQs) and our 32 Global Headquarters (GHQ). The performance data included Social Governance in this report does not cover our inland services nor terminal Environment • Taking Care of Our Employees • • Ethical Business Conduct Corporate Governance operations. EXTERNAL ASSURANCE • Human Rights and Labour Practices • Compliance This year, we have sought to provide a deeper understanding • Talent Management into our sustainability context and performance, referencing • Employee Health, Safety and • Risk Management additional GRI disclosures as we work towards reporting in Well-being accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. We have • Supporting Local Communities 43 not sought independent external assurance of the information contained in this report at this time but will explore the GRI Content Index opportunity to do so in the coming years. CONTACT 49 We value your opinion to help us improve and progress in our United Nations Global Compact COP approach to sustainability and sustainability communication. We welcome your comments and feedback which may be directed to: sustainability@one-line.com 4 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 5 Message from our CEO 2019 was our second year of operations since we launched officially in April 2018 and we focused our efforts on integrating sustainability within our wider business strategy and objectives. Dear stakeholders, 2019 was our second year of taking into account the views We also launched several up to respond to this regulation. the shipping sector plays operations since we launched of our valued customers. With initiatives to enhance customer We are committed to prevent in the global economy was I am pleased to present Ocean officially in April 2018 and a constantly evolving external experience, such as our pollution that may result accentuated, as it kept up the Network Express’s (ONE) third we focused our efforts on landscape, we recognize the Live Chat function as well from our ship operations and supply of essential goods to sustainability report. It reflects integrating sustainability need to regularly review both as a global customer continue to enforce the ONE where they are most needed. our continued commitment to within our wider business current and emerging issues satisfaction survey. Vessel Quality Standard on all We will undoubtedly play a role responsible and sustainable strategy and objectives. for any shift in importance and our chartered vessels to ensure in the post-pandemic recovery business amidst these The development of our impact on the business, society We continue to push ahead they meet safety requirements to keep trade moving between unprecedented times, as one sustainability strategy was and environment. Building with several initiatives to for preventing accidents. nations. It is more important of the major container shipping key to this progression in on previous assessments, address climate change, which than ever that we operate in companies in the world. our sustainability journey. We we identified eight material remains a key challenge for Another priority for us is a responsible and sustainable defined what sustainability topics that form the focus our the shipping industry. These looking after the wellbeing manner, to increase resilience means to us through a set of strategy and reporting, and an include measures to improve of our employees and the in a post-COVID-19 world. four clear priorities: additional seven topics that energy efficiency, such as communities in which we are still of importance to our retrofitting our propellers to operate. We not only seek Looking ahead, we will stay 1. Environment; business and stakeholders boost propulsion efficiency, to provide a safe work strongly committed to the 2. Society; to warrant disclosure as and to reduce CO2 emissions, environment but a respectful course, steered by our Core appropriate. We discuss these such as slow steaming and and conducive place where Values, while continuing to 3. Governance; and topics in detail in subsequent route optimization. This has diversity is embraced, and strengthen our position on 4. Operational Excellence. chapters of our report. allowed us to reduce our GHG employees can grow. We key sustainability issues and emission intensity and to stay continue to support local communicating our progress This will guide us in embedding Ensuring high levels of on track with our ambitious communities through our openly and transparently. responsible and sustainable service quality and customer target of 50% reduction of CO2 corporate social responsibility I hope this report provides practices throughout the satisfaction is key to our emissions (in gram/teu-km) by activities, with a focus on you with useful and business and help us work success in this competitive 2050 from a 2018 baseline. environmental, children and relevant information on our towards our vision to be industry. In 2019, we set up a education, as well as disaster sustainability commitments and sustainable and resilient, Digital Strategy Committee to As of end 2019, ONE is fully relief through the provision of activities. We look forward to and a trusted partner for our drive the ONE Digitalization compliant with the MARPOL free vessel transportation. continuing this journey with customers in delivering global roadmap and initiatives, 2020 global sulphur limit set your support and to grow our CO2 emissions shipping solutions. aimed at achieving new levels by the International Maritime This year, the world was future involvement together. reduction of operational and service Organization (IMO), thanks to upended by the COVID-19 Sincerely, target 50% We also reviewed the excellence and efficiency that the active preparation and pandemic, which took a heavy assessment of our most can deliver greater value to our responses by our toll on global supply chains Jeremy Nixon material sustainability topics, customers through innovation. cross-functional taskforce set and trade. The vital role that Chief Executive Officer by 2050 6 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 7 Our COVID-19 Supporting our local communities We continue to support our local communities in the fight against COVID-19, through different ways. Response The COVID-19 pandemic has caused massive disruption to business-as-usual and to people’s lives and livelihoods. As ONE, we managed to adapt relatively seamlessly through our Business Continuity Plan and new ways of working. ONE donated 11 containers to the Red Cross in Italy, one of the hardest-hit countries, for storage and transportation of medical Keeping the from juggling both work and We implemented virtual equipment and medication. business running family priorities. One of the gatherings for ONE colleagues We have set up our Business ways we have tried to address to stay connected to one Continuity Management this is to adopt a combination another at GHQ, RHQ and local System (“BCMS”) since day of remote and on-site working levels. In GHQ, we called it the In Singapore, we donated to The one, and it has enabled the globally. For example, in STAY CONECTed programme Mission to Seafarers to support continuity of our core business Singapore, we ensure “safe and we shared WFH them in caring for the welfare functions during this period. distancing” in the office and experiences during COVID-19 of those at sea during this Our Crisis Management implemented split teams and and brainstormed ideas to ONE donated 1,000 single-use challenging time. Committee has also been staggered working hours, to work efficiently together. masks to a children’s home in activated to implement allow employees the option Gdańsk, Poland. measures to minimize impact of working at the office if In our Global Headquarters to the Company, including they choose to. Employees (GHQ), employees also Our employees at ONE Brazil sharing information about who work from the office received specially prepared banded together to raise funds operational disruption such are required to follow safety care packs consisting ONE France supported Le Chat for buying basic food baskets for as yard congestion, ship measures including mandatory reusable masks, hand sanitizer Bleu Restaurant in Le Havre to slum residents in Sao Paulo. inspection, port control, inland mask wearing, temperature and snacks, as a token of offer free lunches to healthcare traffic situation among relevant self-screening twice daily and appreciation from the company workers in local hospitals. parties across the regions. disinfection of common areas for their hard work to keep the after use. business operations running. With many of our business processes digitalized and standardized across regions, such as booking, Our ONE Uruguay colleagues documentation, customer also donated essential food and service, stowage planning, hygiene products to a local NGO etc., we were able to transition who cares for children at risk. smoothly to working from home (WFH) for the majority of employees. Ensuring our people stay safe and connected But WFH has its downsides We are committed to play our part not only as a business but as a member of society, and we will continue to support too and we are aware that efforts to combat the spread of COVID-19 while delivering essential container shipping service around the world. employees may experience heightened feelings of workplace loneliness or stress We can overcome this crisis together. As ONE, we can! 8 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 9 2019 Key Highlights Protecting the Environment 3% reduction in GHG emissions 100% compliant with MARPOL 2020 intensity from 2018 Global Sulphur Limit Taking Care of Our People Zero significant spills reported by our vessels 14.9 average training hours per employee globally Zero work-related fatalities recorded Supporting Local Community Driving Operational Excellence Launched our Digitalization Roadmap with formation of the Digital Strategy Committee (DSC) Implementation of several digitalization initiatives for customer service enhancement 1,360 employees 22,830 volunteering hours Live Chat function across Customer Relationship volunteered 10 countries to handle Management system e-commerce enquiries 41 ONE’s container vessels “NYK SWAN” and “MOL TRIBUTE” achieved highest productivity records at PSA Singapore, our Terminal Partnership Program partner Achieved community engagement activities EcoVadis for CSR rating Gold Medal 10 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 11 About Our Regional and Global Headquarters ONE RHQ London RHQ Ocean Network Express RHQ Richmond Hong Kong (ONE) is a container GHQ/RHQ Singapore shipping company which offers an extensive liner RHQ Sao Paulo network service portfolio covering more than 120 countries internationally. All vessels are chartered closely with the ship owners to As of end 2019, our fleet size vessels, the majority from our ensure safe operations. stood at 1,593,793 Twentyparent companies, which means foot Equivalent Unit (TEU), that we do not own any of the Scale of Operations making us the 6th largest in vessels. As a ship operator, ONE ONE operates a service the world. Operations are is responsible for the logistics, network covering more than performed through a fleet of including time and route 120 countries. Supported by 224 vessels with a service scheduling, providing access a workforce of approximately network covering over 130 Company Profile owns a 38% holding in ONE Reefer containers capable of to service maps, and ability to 8,000 employees, including services loops around the service Ocean Network Express while MOL and K Line own 31% maintaining the temperature of track cargo. We work closely offshore, we have established world. Our fleet includes 30 network (ONE) is a container shipping each. As a new player in the frozen or chilled cargo, Flat Rack with the vessel owners who are 211 local offices in 106 countries super-large ships, defined covering company which offers an shipping industry, we will ensure containers for heavy lift, overresponsible for the maintenance and five regional headquarters as container-ships with more than extensive liner network service portfolio covering more than 120 countries internationally. the legacy of our three founding companies, who historically prided themselves in process height and/ or over-width cargo and Open Top cargo for overheight and/or lengthy cargo. of vessels and for the crew on board. Our Marine Safety and Quality (MSQ) Department works (RHQ) in Hong Kong, Singapore, United Kingdom, United States of American (USA) and Brazil. 20,000 TEU and 14,000 TEU capacity, one of the largest in the world. 120 countries ONE was established through excellence to deliver customers We ship a wide range of goods, the formal integration of the superior service quality, lives on. with major categories including container shipping services consumer products, machinery, of three Japanese shipping Value Chain of our auto-parts, electrical goods, companies Kawasaki Kisen Business industrial and construction 7,680 Kaisha, Ltd. (K Line), Mitsui Our shipping services goods, chemicals, food products, US$ Fleet of O.S.K. Lines (MOL) and Nippon Yusen Kaisha (NYK) and began operations on 1 April 2018. NYK include capability to transport container types such as Dry containers for general cargo, wood products, agricultural goods, metal products, and pharmaceutical products. 11.7Billion in sales employees 224 vessels ONE’s Value Chain Research & Development Procurement Production Sales Shipping Services Serving more than Utilise resources to determine Obtaining vessels, containers, fuels Managing ocean services and E-commerce platform management, Vessels Documentation, vessel and cargo tracking. 1,593,793 257 14,000 market demand inland services, and Cargo customers in 63 terminal, inland publicity and E-commerce and supply, vessel supply chain and e-commerce outreach, space operation functions, freights TEU capacity vessel port calls different specifications and platforms and market growth IT infrastructure sales agencies confirmation and settlements and countries booking sales support 12 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 13 Our Core Values ONE has eight Core Values, underpinning our vision, which guide the work that we do. These values are embedded in our Business Credo, Code of Conduct and other policies. LEAN & AGILE BEST PRACTICE QUALITY Breaking through conventions Continuing to improve ourselves Pursuing the best quality to make ideas into reality based on the knowledge that always exceeds quickly cultivated internally and externally customer expectations to deliver the best services ONE recognizes our role ONE’s Business Credo in providing safe and reliable services while 1. GOOD FAITH BUSINESS ACTIVITIES meeting our customers’ We respect national competition laws, engage in business practices that expectations and are fair, transparent, freely competitive, and appropriate, and do not tolerate maintaining their trust. bribery or corruption in any form. INNOVATION TEAMWORK CHALLENGE At the helm of our brand, 2. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY INITIATIVES Delivering services that Respect individual diversity Exploiting individual strengths ONE’s Business Credo contribute to the customer’s to build a team that can work and continuing to meet We undertake initiatives to enhance safety and to preserve the marine enshrines eight principles environment and natural ecosystems, and seek to develop and refine safe, business through self innovation together to create new value challenge without fear of failure reflecting how we want to and creativity environment-friendly transportation technologies. do business. 3. ENHANCED SECURITY We have established strong security measures to prevent the disruption and abuse of international logistics networks, prohibiting any type of illegal activity and the unauthorized access and leakage of information. 4. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND ORDINANCES, RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS CUSTOMER We recognize our role in society and act in a manner that is fair and just RELIABILITY SATISFACTION by complying with national laws and ordinances and international norms. Corporate activities should adhere to social mores, respect human rights, Delivering stable, Focus on customer needs well honour local customs and practices, and address the concerns and interests sustainable and and deliver satisfaction that of stakeholders. professional services exceeds expectations 5. EXCLUSION OF ANTISOCIAL ACTIVITIES We resolutely stand against all antisocial forces and organizations that threaten the order and safety of civic life. 6. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION WITH SOCIETY We disclose corporate information in a proactive and fair manner, rigorously protect and manage the privacy and personal information of our customers, employees and everyone involved in our business activities. 7. SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES We proactively contribute to social activities as a good corporate citizen. 8. PRESERVATION OF FAVOURABLE WORK ENVIRONMENTS We respect the diversity, individuality, and humanity of employees and facilitate the activities of a diverse workforce. We make every effort to preserve favourable work environments. 14 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 15 Memberships, Associations, Certificates and Awards At ONE, we recognize that collaboration and working in partnership with other industry players is important in achieving our sustainable and responsible business ambitions. We are proud to take part in initiatives led by the following organizations whom we believe share our objectives and values of a sustainable shipping industry. TREASURY MANAGEMENT INTERNATIONAL (TMI) WORLD SHIPPING COUNCIL: AWARDS FOR INNOVATION AND EXCELLENCE: A trade group representing the This Award recognizes best practices and international shipping industry. As innovations in treasury management. ONE was a member, ONE collaborates with awarded “Best Digital Project” for its transformation other companies and governments to CLEAN CARGO: GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK LLOYD’S LIST ASIA of three individual treasury departments into a single develop actionable solutions for global A business-to business SINGAPORE (GCNS): PACIFIC AWARDS: efficient structure in just 9 months, as well as ONE’s transportation issues and promote leadership initiative that involves The local chapter of the United This award recognizes determination to employ the latest technologies. environmental stewardship. major brands, cargo carriers, Nations Global Compact containerships owners or and freight forwarders dedicated (UNGC). As a member, ONE operators that have best to reducing the environmental endorses the ten UNGC responded to the changing impacts of global goods Principles in the areas of commercial and regulatory transportation and promoting Human Rights; Labour; landscape through new ocean responsible shipping. Environment; and shipping configurations and Anti-corruption. port pairings, simplified booking and documentation processes, action to reduce ship pollution and other innovations that have made the supply chain more efficient. ONE emerged as winner of the prestigious Lloyd’s List “Excellence in Container DIGITAL CONTAINER SHIPPING Shipping” Asia Pacific award. ASSOCIATION (DCSA): A non-profit organization established to further GLOBAL MARITIME FORUM: digitalization of container An international non-profit shipping through technology organization committed to standards. ONE, A.P.Moller– promoting the shipping industry. Maersk, Hapag-Lloyd and MSC ONE is a signatory to the are founding members. Global Maritime Forum’s Call for Action on the decarbonization SINGAPORE SHIPPING of shipping in line with ASSOCIATION (SSA): the International Maritime Singapore’s national trade Organization’s (IMO) strategy. association to serve and promote the interests of its members and to enhance the competitiveness of Singapore as an International Maritime ECOVADIS: Centre. As a member, ONE A trusted provider of business actively participates in forums, sustainability ratings, intelligence feedback and dialogue and collaborative performance ISO14001 (ENVIRONMENT sessions with key regulatory improvement tools for global supply MANAGEMENT SYSTEM): agencies and international chains. ECOVADIS awarded ONE An international EMS standard maritime organizations. with a Gold medal for CSR rating set by the International in November 2019, measuring Organization for Standardization the quality of a company’s CSR (ISO). We have received our management system – through its ISO14001:2015 certificate in 2018 policies, actions, and results. from ClassNK. 16 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 17 Approach to Our Sustainability Strategy Sustainability To be sustainable and resilient, and a trusted partner for our customers in delivering global shipping solutions. As the sixth largest OUR SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES container carrier in the world by fleet size, we are proud of our unique role in connecting people with new experiences, cultures and ideas from around the world. Operational Sustainability at ONE As the sixth largest container These priorities are based Environment Social Governance Excellence Shipping is the moving force carrier in the world by fleet on the material sustainability behind the global economy, size, we are proud of our role topics that drive long-term making intercontinental trade, as a globally essential service value for our business and our the bulk transport of raw in connecting people with stakeholders. Underpinning materials, and the import/ new experiences, cultures our priorities, is our Business We protect the We nurture and empower We uphold the highest We drive operational export of affordable food and and ideas from around the Credo, which forms the environment and people in our business standards of ethical excellence through manufactured goods possible. world through our network. core of ONE’s commitment ecosystems we all and the communities we business conduct and digitalization, to enhance The international shipping This is why we have made it to embedding responsible depend on by taking operate in, by managing corporate governance, customer experience and industry is responsible for the our vision to be sustainable business practices. action on climate change, our talent, protecting in compliance with ensure safe operations. carriage of around 90% of and resilient, and a trusted preventing marine their health and safety, regulation and our own world trade.1 partner for our customers in pollution and using respecting their human internal policies. delivering shipping solutions. Four areas of priority resources responsibly. rights and supporting ONE recognizes that local communities. sustainable transport is one We have focused our efforts of the major challenges of in integrating sustainability 1 Environment our times. While shipping is within our wider business considered relatively safe and strategy and objectives. clean, compared with other As part of this process, we 2 Social forms of commercial transport, defined what sustainability Sustainability Governance the industry still has significant means to us through impacts on the environment four areas of priority: 3 Governance Our commitment to sustainability stems from the top. The Board of Directors (the and society that need to be 1. Environment; Board) at Global Headquarters (GHQ), which includes our Managing Director managed. As cargo continues 2. Social; Operational and CEO, drives the company’s sustainability and growth strategy. The Board 4 Excellence to grow, so does the industry’s 3. Governance; and is supported by the Business Planning Team who initiates and coordinates impacts and responsibilities. 4. Operational Excellence sustainability initiatives across the company at GHQ, Regional Headquarters (RHQs) and local offices. 1 https://unctad.org/en/PublicationsLibrary/rmt2019_en.pdf 18 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 19 Materiality Assessment This year, we have prioritized reflected in our results. We Direct Impact: Indirect Impact: In 2020, we worked with specialist sustainability engagement with three key stakeholder groups: followed a four-stage process which included: Our Material Topics ONE can directly influence and manage Topics ONE can indirectly influence and manage, Sustainability Topics consulting firm Corporate Employees, shareholders 1. Context and Topic working with partners including vessel owners Citizenship to conduct an and customers. Since Identification; and other stakeholders assessment of our most customers had not been 2. Surveys; along the value chain material sustainability topics. consulted on materiality in 3. Interviews; and This exercise built on from previous years, we wanted 4. Analysis and Validation Material Topics: Sustainability topics that are of high importance to the business and medium to high importance our previous assessments. to ensure their views were to stakeholders. These form the focus of ONE’s strategy and reporting. Ensuring high-levels of service Customer quality and reliability to maintain Four-stage process Experience customer satisfaction and loyalty. 1 2 3 4 Marine Preventing ocean pollution and protecting marine life through Pollution and the responsible management of Conservation ballast water and the prevention of spills/leakages. Context Analysis and and Topic Surveys Interviews Validation Identification Ensuring the safe operation Container and of ships and the safe handling Cargo Safety of containers. Employee Protecting the health, safety and Health, Safety wellbeing for our employees and Wellbeing and contractors. Conducted deskLaunched an online Conducted a series Analyzed and based research and a survey for internal and of interviews with presented the findings Ensuring adequate systems and benchmarking exercise to external stakeholders customers and and results to the senior processes are in place to uphold Ethical identify relevant industry to prioritize the shortlist shareholders to gather management team at the highest standard of ethical Business business conduct, including trends and sustainabliliy of sustainability topics further insights into the ONE, before finalizing issues, developing a identified in the sustainability context of the list of material Conduct measures to promote antishortlist of sustainablity previous stage. ONE and the industry. sustainability topics. corruption and fair competition. topics to be prioritized. Putting measures in place to reduce energy use and Climate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, Change including SO2 and NOx, across our operations. Building resilience To ensure we remain on the As 2020 has seen against climate change risks. right path, it is key to keep unprecedented changes an eye on the horizon and globally as a result of the Engaging in industry collaboration understand which issues are COVID-19 pandemic, we will and partnerships for innovation current and which ones are be reviewing our priorities for Innovation and in marine technology and arising. Going forward, we the next reporting cycle, to Digitalization streamlining our operations are committed to conducting determine whether any new through digitalization. a light-touch review of our material topics have emerged, material topics every year, as well whether we have Attracting highly-skilled with more comprehensive seen a shift in the importance individuals, providing training and assessments undertaken and impact of the topics COVID-19 pandemic Talent development opportunities and every few years. currently identified. Management promoting a diverse and inclusive workplace, to build a highperforming shipping company. 20 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 21 Direct Impact: Indirect Impact: Stakeholder Our stakeholders have been Throughout the year, we Topics ONE can directly Topics ONE can indirectly Engagement identified and prioritized make a conscious effort to influence and manage influence and manage, An important tenet of our based on the impact our engage with our stakeholders working with partners sustainability strategy is activities have on them, their through a variety of channels. including vessel owners and being accountable and knowledge of the sector and ONE material topic owners other stakeholders along the value chain responding to stakeholders’ ONE, as well their importance formally and informally expectations in a timely and to the success of our business. engage with external Relevant Topics: Sustainability topics that are of medium importance to the business and of sufficient interest to transparent manner. We They include: stakeholders from each of stakeholders to warrant disclosure as relevant. also value stakeholders’ y Customers these groups as part of their opinion and feedback to y Employees daily work. The table below Mitigating the environmental, ensure we are continuously y Local Community summarizes some of the key social and governance risks improving our practices y Shareholders engagements that took place Supply Chain and performance. y Suppliers during 2019: in our supply chain through Management responsible procurement practices. Stakeholder Engagement Method and Topics and ONE’s Supporting communities in Group Frequency Concerns Raised Response need, through education • Materiality survey and interviews • Cargo and data • Shared ONE’s policy on Supporting Local programmes, logistical support (every 2-3 years) security data security Communities during natural disasters, and • Customer feedback forms • CO2 Emissions • Disclosed CO2 emissions environmental awareness. (annually) • Traceability, track and and reduction strategy Customers • One-on-one communication trace, and just-in-time • Implemented end-to-end Respecting human rights and from sales team through emails, shipment cargo tracking system having zero tolerance for all meetings, etc. (regularly) with customer visibility. Human Rights and • Sustainability Report (annually) forms of child labour, forced Labour Practices labour or other forms of • Materiality survey and interviews • Equal opportunities • Reiterated fair appraisal exploitation. (every 2-3 years) • Training and process • ONE’s internal online portal development • Conducted a wider Minimizing the amount of (ongoing) and richer variety of waste generated and ensuring Recycling and • Facebook Workplace platform educational and training the safe disposal of hazardous Employee Disposal of materials, including during the internal social network (ongoing) courses Materials • ONE Townhall session (annually) dismantling of ships at the end • Employee appraisals (annually) of their lifecycle. • Training and development programmes (ongoing) Managing increasingly Responsible complex tax laws and ensuring • Partnerships with Non-Profit • Promote education • Continued to participate Organizations (ongoing) • Create environmental in community Tax Practices transparency on our approach to tax payments. • Community engagement and CSR awareness engagement activities Local programmes (regularly) • Requests for free freight (Details can be found community transportation and on the ONE CSR fundraising support homepage). Combatting human trafficking and the illegal trafficking of Illicit Trade goods such as narcotics and endangered wildlife. • Materiality survey and interviews • Timely information on • Provided timely (every 2-3 years) business performance, and comprehensive • Sustainability Report (annually) strategy, operating information as requested Adopting proper measures Shareholders • Updates through email and landscape and to prevent attacks and the meetings (as needed) business outlook Piracy and hijacking of our commercial Security vessels as well as protecting our business systems through • Corresponding email exchange • Operational matters • Communicated cyber security. with major suppliers (ongoing) and business issues ONE’s Supply Chain • Sustainability Report (annually) Management Guidelines Supplier to suppliers and encouraged them to adopt them 22 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 23 Our Commitment to the incorporating the ten principles agreed roadmap to build a United Nations Global in the way we do business. better and more sustainable SDG Material Topics Example of activities and initiatives Compact (UNGC) and As an active participant of the future by 2030. ONE believes Sustainable Development UNGC, this report also serves that businesses play an 10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of outcome, including through We work to ensure fair personnel treatment in Goals (SDGs) as our Communication on important role in contributing eliminating discriminatory laws, policies • Talent employment, personnel administration, wages, The UNGC calls on all companies Progress Report (COP). Please to and achieving the SDGs. and practices and promoting appropriate management training and promotion. to align their practices with ten refer to the UNGC reference We have mapped our material legislation, policies and actions in this regard universally accepted principles in table for our implementation of sustainability topics in the table the areas of human rights, labour, the ten principles of UNGC on below against all 17 goals. In 12.4 By 2020, achieve environmentally sound ONE works closely with owners of the vessels management of chemicals and all wastes we charter to ensure relevant regulations are environment and anti-corruption, page 49. addition, we have also mapped throughout their life cycle in accordance complied with we arrange for MARPOL (IMO) and to take action in support our business activities and • Supply chain with agreed international frameworks and compliance checks on waste management to be of the SDGs. Progressively, we Adopted in 2015, the SDGs initiatives against the goals and significantly reduce their release to air, water management conducted on board our chartered vessels. continue to support the UNGC by provide an internationallytheir underlying targets. and soil to minimize their adverse impacts on • Recycling and Recycling bins are provided at our office buildings human health and the environment disposal of and e-waste such as batteries and laptops are 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste materials disposed through licensed recycling companies. generation through prevention, reduction, For more details, please see the Environment SDG Material Topics Example of activities and initiatives recycling, and reuse chapter on page 27. 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive ONE conducts educational activities as part of our capacity to climate related hazards and • Climate 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the CSR and community engagement initiatives, such change As part of our CSR programmes, we hold natural disasters in all countries number of youth and adults who have • Supporting as hosting student groups to understand more environmental-related activities such as beach about the container shipping business, Adopt-a13.3 Improve education, awareness raising • Supporting and park cleaning, collection of recyclables and relevant skills, including technical and local and human and institutional capacity on vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs School programme. local planting to raise awareness on environmental communities climate change mitigation, adaptation, and entrepreneurship For more details, please see the Social chapter, communities issues among our employees. impact reduction, and early warning on page 32. 14.1 By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce Vessels chartered by ONE will undergo a periodic marine pollution of all kinds, particularly from Vessel Quality Standard (VQS) inspection to We have anti-discrimination and harassment land-based activities, including marine debris 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all • Talent ensure their Safety Management System (SMS) policies in place, as well as a 24/7 whistleblowing and nutrient pollution meets our requirements to prevent accidental women and girls everywhere management hotline to report any incident of discrimination. 14.2 By 2020, sustainably manage and protect spills and operational discharge. marine and coastal ecosystems to avoid • Marine ONE has committed to medium and long-term significant adverse impacts, including by Pollution and reduction targets for CO2 emissions. To improve our energy efficiency and reduce our strengthening their resilience, and take action Conservation CO2 emissions, we have implemented measures for their restoration, to achieve healthy and ONE has implemented measures to be fully such as: productive oceans compliant with IMO’s latest regulation on sulphur limit in fuel oil, which will limit SOx emissions. • Ensuring optimum scheduling and shorter port 14.3 Minimize and address the impacts stay times to increase trip efficiency of ocean acidification, including through For more details, please see the Environment 7.3 double the global rate of improvement in • Climate • Slow steaming enhanced scientific cooperation at all levels chapter, on page 24-26. energy efficiency by 2030 Change • Retrofitting vessels with propellers that improve propulsion efficiency ONE’s Code of Conduct and other policies For more details, please see the Environment including our Basic Anti-Bribery Policy and chapter, on page 24. Procurement Policy hold all employees to the highest standards of ethical business conduct in all our activities. • Ethical Our Supply Chain Management Guidelines call on all suppliers to comply with local and international 8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to 16.3 Promote the rule of law at the national business secure the prohibition and elimination of the Respect for human rights, including elimination codes of practice, covering the areas of corporate • Human Rights and international levels and ensure equal conduct governance including issues of anti-competition, worst forms of child labor, eradicate forced of forced and child labour, is incorporated into and Labour access to justice for all • Responsible anti-bribery and prevention of money laundering. labor, and by 2025 end child labor in all its our Supply Chain Management Guidelines, which 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and tax practices forms including recruitment and use of child practices all our business partners, including suppliers are ONE’s Global Tax Policy sets out the guiding bribery in all their forms soldiers • Employee requested, to adhere to. • Illicit Trade principles and process protocols to being a responsible taxpayer. 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe health, safety We implement OHS policies and procedures and secure working environments for all in accordance with all applicable laws and ONE has a cargo screening process as part of and wellbeing workers, including migrant workers, in regulations in the jurisdictions in which we our booking system to conduct due diligence and particular women migrants, and those in operate. detect questionable goods. precarious employment For more details, please see the Responsible Business chapter, on page 38-42. 9.5 Enhance scientific research, upgrade the 17.16 Enhance the global partnership for ONE has joined a number of industry and • Innovation and technological capabilities of industrial sectors ONE invests in implementing digitalization sustainable development, complemented by sustainability initiatives, including the Global in all countries, in particular developing Digitalization Compact Network Singapore (GCNS) to enhance to deliver new value for the market and our multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilize countries, including, by 2030, encouraging • Piracy and customers. and share knowledge, expertise, technology our collaboration with like-minded stakeholders innovation and substantially increasing security For more details, please see the Operational and financial resources, to support the and work towards a more sustainable shipping the number of research and development achievement of the sustainable development industry. workers per 1 million people and public and • Customer Excellence chapter, on page 28. goals in all countries, in particular developing For more details, please see the About ONE private research and development spending experience countries chapter, on page 14-15. 24 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 25 Environment Medium-term target: • Use of larger vessels for the transport of more containers • Replacement with highefficiency propellers 25% per trip • Modification of bulbous bow • Use of shore electric power to reduce resistance made reduction of CO2 through an Alternative Marine by waves emissions Power (AMP) system when Ocean shipping is an (in gram/teu-km) berthing, reducing the need for the use of onboard diesel To monitor the energy efficiency performance of our by 2030 from efficient and cost-effective 2018 baseline generators at specified ports which have the facilities vessels, ONE has developed an in-house system that means for transporting • Management of engine room collects voyage data from each vessel and feeds it into Long-term vision: goods internationally, machinery (i.e. boiler and a monthly fleet performance 50% generator) through monthly report. These performance evaluation for performance accounting for 90% of reduction of CO2 improvement reports analyze the monthly fuel oil consumption in the main global trade in 2019. emissions • Occasional inspection and engine, generator engines and (in gram/teu-km) maintenance of hulls and auxiliary boiler. We also identify by 2050 from propellers which reduces the best practices amongst our friction caused by build-up of fleet and share this information 2018 baseline marine fouling, thus optimizing with vessels and vessel owners. operational performance and As a result of our energy *The reduction targets apply to reducing fuel consumption. efficiency initiatives, our CO2 our direct shipping fleet and does emissions intensity reduced by However, with issues such ONE’s environmental implementation and execution not include emissions from other Initiatives completed in 2019 for 3% from 2018. as climate change, loss of policy encompasses: of the environmental operations such as our office buildings selected vessels: and those from our supply chain such biodiversity and impacts from management systems. The Our Global Vessel Operations • The protection of the as terminal operations. • Upgraded the autopilot system waste threatening the health of EMS Top Management and and Fleet Management environment including to an advanced-control system the environment we live in, as Project Teams meet at least Department will continue to roll prevention of pollution To improve our energy efficiency to minimize vessel resistance, out initiatives for fuel efficiency well as the lives and livelihoods once a year to discuss issues • Environmental objectives and reduce our CO2 emissions, optimizing routing and fuel which include the management of people, it is crucial that the and areas for improvement. consumption that are compatible with the we have implemented measures of vessel speed and schedule, shipping industry continues strategic direction and the Climate Change and new initiatives, some • Downsized the Cooling Sea monitoring of navigational to implement and improve context of the company of which involved working Water Pump Motor, which uses and technical performance, on its sustainable practices. (including GHG and with vessel owners and less energy marine weather analysis and Environmental impacts from • The integration of the other emissions) manufacturers. These measures close ship-shore coordination. the shipping industry include environmental management Based on the third International • Installed special fins for and initiatives include: propellers to improve We will also be exploring the air pollution, sea pollution and system requirements into Maritime Organization (IMO) the company’s business • Ensuring optimum scheduling propulsion efficiency and use of biofuels through a trial other effects on marine life. As a report, shipping contributes to and shorter port stay times to reduce fuel consumption project in 2020. Use of biofuels responsible container shipping processes about three percent of global increase trip efficiency can improve combustion business, we aim to ensure, to • The use of the process anthropogenic carbon dioxide Initiatives to be undertaken efficiency as well as reduce the best of our ability, that our approach and risk-based emissions and may continue • Slow steaming, which is the pollutant emissions. operations are handled in a way in 2020: thinking to grow by 50% to 250% reduction of the operational that minimizes environmental • The resources needed by 2050. In 2018, the IMO speed of the vessel, thus • Attachment of special impact. We also comply with for the environmental announced a target to reduce saving fuel and reducing CO2 propeller boss cap, an the relevant international the total annual greenhouse and other air emissions energy saving device management system are industry regulations. available gas (GHG) emissions from the shipping sector by at least 50% Our Environmental • Ensuring that the Fuel Consumption from non-renewable sources (TJ) by 2050 compared to a 2008 Policy and Management environmental management baseline. This is to meet the System system achieves its intended Oil Type 2018 2019 Paris Agreement goals, which outcomes As stated in our Environmental aims to keep global warming to Fuel Oil 119,229 157,715 Responsibility Policy, ONE is In October 2018, we achieved less than 2 degrees Celsius. committed to incorporating the ISO14001 certification Gas Oil 12,056 17,230 leading environmental for our operations. Our As part of our commitment to practices into our business Environmental Management reduce our emissions and to Total 131,285 174,945 strategy and operations, and System (EMS) Team, which meet the IMO’s objective, we to fostering environmental includes top management, have developed mediumand Fuel Oil consists of Heavy Fuel Oil and Very-Low Sulphur Fuel Oil. awareness and responsibility is responsible for policy long-term carbon dioxide (CO2) ONE did not consume fuel from renewable sources in 2019 among our stakeholders. and objectives setting, reduction targets*. Conversion from fuel quantity to TJ is based on conversion factors provided in CDP Technical Note: Conversion of fuel data to MWh, CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2020 26 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 27 Scope 1 emissions from consumption of fuels (tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent, tCO2) Marine Pollution and Quarterly feedback sessions Recycling and Disposal Conservation are carried out between ONE of Materials Oil Type 2018 2019 Accidental spills and operational and the third-party companies At ONE, we aim to reuse and discharges can have an adverse involved in carrying out VQS recycle the waste generated Fuel Oil 9,191,451 12,163,491 impact on marine life. While inspection of the ships to identify by our operations where ONE does not own any vessels areas of improvement. opportunities exist. Recycling Gas Oil 898,882 1,284,634 currently, we work very closely bins are provided at our office Total 10,090,333 13,448,125 with the owners of the vessels All incidents involving any sort of buildings and e-waste such we charter to ensure that best spillage is investigated, analyzed as batteries and laptops are Note: As ONE only began operations in April 2018, the emissions data only cover April to December 2018, whereas the 2019 data covers the full practices are implemented, and dealt with utmost importance. disposed through licensed year. and all relevant regulations are Procedures are modified if recycling companies. We also The operational control approach is used for the consolidation of data based on the GHG protocol. complied with. necessary, to prevent recurrence. arrange for MARPOL (IMO) Emission factors are referenced from the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) and only CO2 is included. Based on CCWG, “Given that all relevant Employees can report any compliance checks on waste energy consumption from ocean container transportation stems from fuel combustion on vessel engines, CO2 emissions is an appropriate Vessels chartered by ONE observed negligent actions that management to be conducted approximation of total GHG emissions.” will undergo a periodic could result in damage to the onboard our chartered vessels. Vessel Quality Standard (VQS) environment via ONE’s Hotline In 2019, our energy consumption CO2 Emissions Intensity (g/TEU-km) inspection to ensure their Safety system. There were no significant Ship recycling at global headquarters in Management System (SMS) spills* reported in 2019 by our In 2009, the IMO adopted the 50 48.35 Singapore was 376,837.39 kwh, meets our requirements. These vessels in 2019. Ship Recycling Convention. 46.79 a decrease of about 2% from inspections are carried out by ONE does not currently own 2018 at 384,286.88kwh. Our 45 third-party survey companies, As part of our CSR activities, any vessels and will comply Scope 2 emissions* was in close collaboration with we organize beach cleaning with the Convention if we do therefore 157.82 tCO2, down from 40 our Marine Safety and Quality events, for example, the one have ownership in the future. 161.10 tCO2 in 2018. 36.26 Department. Checks are conducted by ONE Mexico at For the scraping of ship hulls, conducted on the vessel’s Manzanillo port to remove trash we carry out preliminary surveys 35 Our total energy consumption equipment, compliance with the and prevent them from entering on dismantling yards to ensure in 2019 including fuel use on ship management company’s the ocean. A total of fifteen that proper practices are in 30 vessels and purchased electricity Safety Management System employees took part in the event place to reduce impact on the 2018 2019 for our global headquarters (SMS), compliance with the in 2019. Two waste drums which environment and workers in Singapore was 174,946 TJ Performance 2030 Target MARPOL requirements through were recovered from the port before they can be engaged by in 2019. certification checks and whether and repurposed as trash bins ship owners. Note: proper records are kept for were also placed on the beach *Based on the Electricity Grid The emissions intensity data only includes Scope 1 emissions from the use of fuel on vessels Emissions Factors provided by the waste and effluents treatment/ to encourage proper waste *A significant spill is defined as more than Emission factors are referenced from Clean Cargo Working Group and the Global Logistics Emissions Singapore Energy Market Authority discharge. disposal habits. 150 litres overboard/case Council Framework. Managing Sulphur Oxides functional task force to evaluate installation, but long installation (SOx) Emissions the technical requirements and times make it possible only as a plan actionable responses. Several later phase approach. We are also The combustion of crude oil in the options have been evaluated to looking to charter vessels with ship’s engine results in the release scrubber systems to expand the identify the best and most costof SOx, which are harmful to human number of compliant ships. efficient method to comply with the health and can lead to acid rain. regulation. This includes: • Using Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) The limitation of SOx emissions will therefore improve air quality and • Using low-sulphur compliant LNG is another category of protect the environment. The IMO hybrid oil Hybrid oil is one of compliant oil but the lack of LNG the compliant oils and ONE’s powered engines on ONE’s ships has been regulating SOx emissions container vessels are equipped and limitations on the availability of from ships under the International to adopt low-sulphur content LNG bunkering facilities makes this Convention for the Prevention of hybrid oil without requiring special option one that requires further Pollution from Ships (known as the modification, making this the most evaluation for implementation. MARPOL Convention). With effect from January 2020, the IMO has further viable way to meet the regulations As of end 2019, 100% of vessels in the short-term. chartered by ONE are compliant with tightened regulations to limit sulphur content in fuel oil to less than 0.5%. • Installing a scrubber system the new regulation. More details on on vessels There are several how we are complying with this In response to this new requirement, existing ONE ships that meet the new regulation can be found on ONE has established a crossrequirements for scrubber system ONE’s website. 28 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 29 Operational ONE’s Digitalization Model experience and renamed it ROOT. ROOT is literally the part of the plant attached to the ground or Excellence support (typically underground) Value that conveys water and nutrients Bundle Stage 3 to the rest of the plant through Digital business numerous branches and fibres. Convergence It is such named that it will sprout Being one of the newest and produce large flowers in the future. players in the industry, Stage 2 We will commence the first stage within a competitive climate of our roadmap in December Digital enabled new services Stage 1 2020 with digitalizing our dictated by low unit costs Channel digitalization channels, operations and assets. Integration of our e-commerce and economies of scale, we Stage 1 Asset platforms will provide an end-toend customer experience within see customer service and digitalization Stage 1 a single digital environment from quotation to e-invoice. operational excellence as Operation Digitalizing our core operations digitalization Capability will enable greater efficiency the key drivers for us Bundle through automation and using predictive analytics for operational to differentiate and stake Business as usual optimization, as well as better risk management with increased our place in a future A Digital Strategy Committee which seeks to provide a supply chain visibility through real(DSC) has been set up in common frame of reference time data exchange. container market. 2019 as the steering body for for both business and IT to ONE’s digitalization efforts and align on what and how ONE We believe that evolving into a to coordinate the business will be building for the future, digital organization will not only and technology capabilities setting a firm foundation to allow us to serve our customers needed to achieve our vision. move forward on. We have better, it will improve our agility since refined the scope of and decision-making abilities, and Innovation and digital Innovation and We established the ONE One of the first initiatives under the Enterprise Architecture serve to attract the right talent to solutions offer a way to Digitalization Digitalization roadmap to the roadmap is the Enterprise Blueprint Project to focus on help keep the business growing reimagine new levels of Digitalization is no longer guide us in building a robust Architecture Blueprint Project, achieving a superior customer and running more effectively. operational and service just a nice-to-have but the internal digital foundation, excellence and efficiency, key to long-term survival enhance existing business enabling us to capture and success in the container models and services, develop Digitalization Roadmap new opportunities and shipping industry. At ONE, we new ones through digital deliver more benefits to believe in delivering value technologies, and ultimately customers. through big data analytics to create new value for and superior digital capability. the market. Data analytics Digital commerce model build platforms micro service North Star integration architecture start 2021 2023 As ONE, we deliver value through big data analytics and digital capability to achieve excellent customer experience. Expectation Ambition Capabilities Timely, accurate and transparent Most data-driven & digitally savvy in High expertise, high commitment services with digital technologies industry and big data as assets 2020 2022 Underpinned by our values Excellent customer experience Sales strength by competitive Operational excellence in cost, New service Continuous through digitalized platform salesforce and customer accuracy, efficiency and governance model & data apps build intelligence with digitised process and analytics platform build expand big data 30 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 31 Customer Experience of our customer support and It is fundamental to delivering Focusing on our customer sales activities met customer on our customer promise needs to deliver beyond expectations and which areas and building trust with them. expectations and drive could be improved. Beyond that, we also have customer satisfaction is one a responsibility towards our ONE VESSEL QUALITY STANDARD of our core values. Ensuring While the implementation of employees to ensure safety (ONE-VQS) high levels of service reliability digital solutions improves our across our operations. for customers and optimizing quality of service, it also brings the performance of our an increased responsibility Vessel Safety customer service platforms, to protect both customer Our approach to vessel safety such as the speed at which and corporate data from is anchored in ONE’s stringent we can turn around customer digital security threats. Our Vessel Quality Standard (VQS). bookings, form the focus of Marine Safety Inspection Owner / Ship Vessel digitalization is governed by a The VQS ensure high safety & Quality company Manager our efforts to drive superior well-designed IT infrastructure standards are maintained on customer experience. and our Security Information ships, based on requirements Policy, to ensure IT security and for ship safety and quality to shipowners and ship information allows us to share In 2019, we launched a number data protection. There were management systems that are management companies. information with all our global of initiatives to improve lead no substantiated complaints in line with industry standards. offices and establish optimal time of quotation, rate filing concerning breaches of Safe Ship Operation and safety procedures. and booking process, to further customer privacy and losses of ONE’s Marine Safety & Transportation enhance customer service. customer data in 2019. Quality Department (MSQ) is ONE is committed to ensuring In addition, the MSQ responsible for managing and the safe operation of ships. We department publishes a We implemented the Live Chat Operational Efficiency monitoring vessel safety. They developed and implemented monthly newsletter to update function across 10 countries ONE also strives to achieve the carry out ship inspections in an Operational Standard to on safety information and share to handle e-commerce best operational efficiency, not accordance with ONE’s VQS. In provide guidance to ship lessons from accident cases enquiries, to enhance direct only at sea but also on land and 2019, a total of 99 inspections crews on how to manage and with onshore and offshore communications with our shore, such as terminal, inland were carried out. A target has respond to issues such as personnel, all operational customers and improve transport, barge and container been set to ensure a minimum cargo damage, heavy weather, vessels, shipowners and ship productivity. We plan to roll depot operations. communicate more closely of 100 vessels are inspected accidents and fires, as well as management companies. this out to 8 more countries by with the terminals, which will every year. provide instructions on safely the end of 2020 and develop We are deepening partnerships improve our service reliability navigating areas at high-risk We use the hours of downtime a chatbot application that with service providers along and benefit our customers The Fleet Management of piracy and conflict zones. of vessels due to accidents can handle a greater volume the whole value chain and through better service levels. Department ensures that the Issues such as robbery and or problems as a means of of enquiries. implementing various shipowners of our chartered theft, unauthorised stowaways, measuring the degree to initiatives globally to improve In January 2019, ONE and vessels comply with ONE’s and the smuggling of firearms, which we have achieved safe We developed a Customer our operational efficiency end PSA Singapore (PSA) jointly safety policies and processes. drugs, and other illegal ship operation. For the year Relationship Management to end. celebrated the highest If ships and ship owners are contraband are also addressed 2019, the average downtime (CRM) system where customer productivity record achieved found to be in violation of any in the Operational Standard. per vessel was 19.94 hours feedback can be systematically A good example of such by ONE’s container vessel ONE safety standards, remedial and we are working towards captured to allow improvement initiatives is our Terminal “NYK SWAN” at PSA actions will be taken as a The Global Vessel Operations bringing it below 14 hours, in our service quality. The Partnership Program (TPP), Singapore’s Pasir Panjang priority. ONE will work together department conducts daily with the ultimate target of CRM system makes sharing originally launched in 2018 Terminal, one of the terminals with the ship owners to build monitoring of our vessels’ ‘zero’ downtime. of information among global with 9 terminals in the world. under the TPP. In February capacity and operational position together with the and regional offices, different This program was expanded 2019, another of ONE’s controls, to ensure that risks current weather condition to Maintaining high vessel safety departments and between in 2019 to more terminals, vessels “MOL TRIBUTE” also are addressed and minimized. ensure timely response to any standards and ensuring the loading and discharging ports with the objective of reducing achieved productivity record One incident of violation of navigation risks. They are also safe transportation of cargo easier and more seamless. vessel port stay and improving with 19,190 TEUs (including ONE’s safety standards was in charge of stowage planning remains a top priority for The timely information updates productivity, which is mutually 38 TEUs void space) loaded. found during VQS inspection to ensure cargo safety. ONE. Annually, our senior improve communication beneficial to both carrier and These achievements were in 2019. We terminated the management also takes part in lead-time and customer terminal. Schedule integrity and made possible by the strong contract for the vessel and Our ‘Marine Accident Report a Safety Management Review engagement. We are further vessel speed optimization are customer support, cooperation replaced it with one that met System’ (MARS) was launched to evaluate our policies and implementing and reinforcing improved for the carrier, which between the terminal operator, our safety standards. with the aim of both processing performance and implement use of the CRM system. also reduces environmental ONE’s stowage planners and accident cases swiftly and any changes if necessary. footprint during navigation, shipping crew. Safety campaigns are carried analyzing accident trends. This We also conduct an annual In the third quarter of 2019, while the terminal can boost out periodically to foster a allows us to better understand large-scale accident drill to we also launched a customer the efficiency and utilization Cargo and safety awareness culture in the root causes of accidents maintain our preparedness satisfaction survey to global key of their berths and equipment. Container Safety the company and ensure that and formulate effective and response capability in accounts in each region. This Another benefit of this program Safe transportation of cargo ONE’s safety standards are preventative measures. the unfortunate event of helped us understand which is being able to work and is of utmost priority for ONE. communicated with importance The database of accident an accident. 32 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 33 Social Talent Management All employees undergo and developmental needs. The success of our business an annual performance Training and development depends on hiring, retaining review to determine programmes on a range and developing a talented promotion opportunities, of development topics are and engaged workforce. ONE rewards, bonuses and available for employees embraces the diversity of our salary increments. It is also to attend for upskilling, At ONE, we believe we employees and recognizes the importance of building a a feedback channel for employees on their level of such as leadership and management, technical have the responsibility team that works together to create new value by tapping work satisfaction. Employees can also have a dialogue training on dangerous goods management, customer to support and empower into a wide range of talents. about their career aspirations service and e-commerce, etc. Average our people and our training hours Average Non-Executive & Junior Middle/Senior per employee 14.9 Board communities, wherever we training hours Management Management by employee 12.1 19.0 10.7 operate. This is enshrined category hours Note: the figures exclude our South Africa office in our Business Credo, Our CEO Jeremy Nixon race, creed, religion, gender, local offices have access to which guides our day-tohighlighted the importance of embracing all employees national or regional origin, age, disability, or disease, ONE’s whistleblowing hotline (run by a third-party service day business conduct. as ONE from the beginning, irrespective of our diverse and strive to create a fair and inclusive work environment provider), to report any incidence of discrimination backgrounds. Under our Code in which each employee is or harassment that they of Conduct, all directors and able to work with a sense of experience or observe, along employees are expected to satisfaction and fulfilment. with other issues. This service treat one another with respect The Human Resources is available 24/7, 365 days and dignity, and to respect Department is responsible a year in all languages used We commit to respecting Global Employee Figures 2019 the cultures and customs of at ONE. for managing the antithe diversity, individuality, countries and regions in which discrimination and harassment There was an incident of Male Female 3rd Gender Total we conduct business. and humanity of employees, policies and procedures of grievance reported in 2019 and contributing proactively We have zero tolerance for our company and addressing which was duly investigated Permanent Full-Time 3,552 3,740 0 7,292 to society as a good any form of discrimination or any incidences that arise. All and resolved with no further corporate citizen. harassment on the basis of employees at GHQ, RHQ and action required. Contract/Part-time 29 172 1 202 Taking Care of Our Employees per employee category by gender (percentage) Employees We are dedicated to ensuring rights and labour standards. Guidelines, which we Non-Executive & Junior Middle/Senior Board This commitment is inline request all our business Management Management our employees have a with our Code of Conduct partners, including Male 53.3 71.8 93.3 conducive, respectful and safe and we work to ensure that suppliers, to adhere to work environment and are Female 46.7 28.2 6.7 we do not contribute to when providing products supported in their professional human rights violations as a and services to ONE. They 3rd Gender 1.0 0 0 and personal development. result of our global business are required to formally At the end of 2019, our global activities. We comply with all acknowledge and ratify workforce consisted of 7,494 Employees per employee category by age group (percentage) applicable labour agreements these guidelines before employees in 46 entities and regulations relating to entering into a formal Non-Executive & Junior Middle/Senior across 49 countries. Turnover Board the protection of the rights of contract with ONE. Management Management rate for the year was 7.92%. workers in the countries and < 30 years 22.1 0.4 0 So far, regions in which we operate. We also seek to ensure more than 92% Human Rights and equal opportunity in 30-50 years 61.0 61.0 27.7 Labour Practices Respect for human rights, employment, personnel > 50 years 16.6 27.7 72.3 As a member of Global including elimination of administration, wages, Compact Network Singapore, forced and child labour, is training and promotion as of employees we support universal also incorporated into our part of our commitment to In 2019, e-learning modules employees. The courses and provides guidelines in our global principles regarding human Supply Chain Management fair personnel treatment. on workplace harassment cover actions and scenarios on how to prevent such offices have and discrimination were that constitute workplace incidences from occurring. completed this implemented for all harassment and discrimination e-learning 34 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 35 Employee Health, workplace to ensure a safe workshops and trainings. Supporting Local Communities Safety and Well-being working environment. OHS trainings provided to ONE believes in back to society as a good transportation and larger Providing a safe and healthy employees include workplace contributing positively to corporate citizen. cash donations through work environment for our The Human Resources (HR) first aid, administering CPR the communities in which the GHQ Planning & employees is of utmost Department and General and AED, and safety and Our support is predominantly we work and live. Whether Administration department. importance. ONE is fully Affairs (GA) Department at each hygiene practices. channelled towards compliant with all applicable ONE entity are responsible for it is through cash donations, Smaller contributions can be environmental activities, laws and regulations on managing their respective OHS Employees are also covered employee volunteering or children’s causes, education, approved at local or regional occupational health and safety systems. They conduct OHS under group medical/ leveraging on our container disaster relief and other levels with each office having in the jurisdictions in which risk assessments on a regular healthcare insurance, personal shipping services for free fundraising events. ONE the autonomy to decide we operate. basis which are reviewed and accident and group term life transportation, these are ways manages requests for inthe type of local community endorsed by board members. insurance, as an employment in which we actively contribute kind donation of free freight initiative they wish to sponsor. Occupational health & Employees must report any benefit. To promote employee safety (OHS) is managed accident, injury or workwellbeing and engagement, in compliance with the related hazard to the HR or GA the ONE Recreation Committee Free Transportation legal requirements of the Department who will follow up (ORC) plans various events In 2019, ONE contributed 31 TEUs of free container shipping over 8 trips to transport donated items respective countries in which to investigate and review for at discounted prices for as well as humanitarian and disaster relief goods to communities in need in Africa, South-East Asia, we operate, with reference measures that should be put employees, such as movie Japan and China. to the Global HR policy of in place to prevent recurrence night, racing night, prawn providing a safe and healthy and minimize risks. As part fishing, jogging, cooking, etc. environment for employees. of OHS policy, employees Social spaces are provided The respective countries’ can stop work due to safety in the offices for employees OHS policies and procedures reasons without reprisals. to interact and to hold events incorporate the ONE Code and informal gatherings. of Conduct and local labour An occupational health services For example, in GHQ, the regulations or guidelines, function exists in majority of Ocean Café provides coffee, 8 covering all workers, activities the offices to support risk snacks and fruits during and workplaces. For example, and safety management, office hours. On Fridays, a Used wheelchairs in Thailand, it is required encourage safe working complementary lunch buffet is trips for disadvantaged 31 by law to establish an OHS practices and healthy work catered for people to socialise children in Paraguay policy and an OHS committee habits among employees. OHS over a meal. TEUS of free comprising employer and information is disseminated container shipping employees to oversee and through online channels such ONE consistently monitors the evaluate the implementation as email and website, as well number of work-related injuries of safety measures in the as through town hall sessions, and fatalities that may occur. 0 Number of 0 Number of high-consequence 9 Number of recordable English books to Africa for SAPESI (South African Primary Education Ambulances and medical equipment to Cambodia Initiative) Occupational fatalities work-related injury work-related injury Health & Safety Performance for 2019 Lost-time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Singapore GHQ 1.19 Global LTIFR figure is currently unavailable but we are working towards providing this information in the coming years. In 2019, across our various global offices, we contributed The recordable work-related the purview of the shipowners & Quality department also injury sustained by our / ship management companies. conduct a pre-embarkation 22,830 1,360 41 employees include accidental We are nevertheless committed briefing for captains to explain tripping and injuries sustained to ensuring high level of safety safety policies and procedures. standards at sea. Our Fleet More information how we By Over in traffic accident during Management Department ensure safe ship operations and volunteering hours employees CSR activities commute to work. ensures that the shipowners of the safe transportation of cargo Occupational Health and Safety our chartered vessels comply can be found in the Innovation management system onboard with ONE’s safety policies and Operational Excellence our chartered vessels are under and processes. Marine Safety chapter. 36 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 37 CSR and Community Engagement Activities Donation to “Target 1 Million Saplings” Each of our global office is environmental-related such with children charities and The region of Izmir suffered a fire that destroyed 500 given the autonomy to decide as beach and park cleaning, promoting education, or hectares of forest. 9 NGOs in the city, together with the on the local community causes collection of recyclables donation and fundraising Aegean Forest Foundation launched the “Target 1 million they would like to support and and planting, social impactcampaigns. Saplings” campaign. to initiate CSR activities, be it related, such as volunteering ONE Turkey donated to this campaign to raise funds for new saplings to be planted that would help to ensure the re-greening of forest areas darkened with fire. United States India China Collection of food Donation to school for Donation of clothes Seedling planting and repainting at NGO donations for local rural community and stationery to 12 employee volunteers from ONE Sao Paulo office charity FeedMore children in need painted walls and planted seedlings at NGO “Gotas de Flor com Amor”, which supports street children Empowering under-privileged Litter picking and orphans in Brazil. The office also donated organic Volunteering at Foodbank children through rugby at parks compost for the plants. This has benefited the quality of life and welfare of around 130 children who stay Tree planting there. It was also a great and meaningful experience Mexico event Japan for the employees. United Arab Beach cleaning Brazil Emirates Fundraising activities Adopt-a-School Programme for Typhoon Hagibis SMK Pulau Carey (Carey Island High School) is an victims underprivileged school where 35% of student population Seedling planting and Green Box is made up of aborigines from the “Mah Meri” tribe. Due to Collection of repainting at NGO Collection of Waste recyclables to fundraise Paper to save Educating elementary the school’s location on an island and its close proximity for terminally ill children Environment school students about to sea water, it is exposed to harsh weather and in quite Letter writing to Santa container shipping a deplorable condition. School teachers are known to Claus activity for industry disadvantaged multitask as general workers e.g. gardener, carpenter, etc. to children make ends meet. Bangladesh Indonesia ONE is keen to make positive changes by committing Peru Donation to NGO Visiting elderly at to undertake small projects each year. In half a day, 29 nursing home volunteers from ONE Malaysia office managed to rebuild helping young girls separated from their its Reading Corner and fish pond, renew its outdoor garden families Australia Fundraising through marathon Thailand furniture, repair and repaint the decayed walkway pillars and for local schools create a foot reflexology area for the teachers and students. Fundraiser for deaf children: Blood donation drive Vietnam Loud Shirt Day Cleaning up park Hosting overseas students to learn about containership Malaysia Singapore business Adopt-a-School cum Volunteering at Care Corner Volunteerism project senior activity centre Cleaning of old folks’ Cooking event for home underprivileged children LEGEND ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION Volunteering with SOCIAL DONATION Children’s Protection Society fundraiser 38 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 39 Governance Individuals have the option to use ONE’s internal hotline to report issues directly to our legal department. RHQs are situated in Hong Kong, Singapore, the United Kingdom (UK), the United States of America (USA) and responsible for overseeing the company’s sustainability strategy. To support the Board, the Corporate Alternatively, we have Brazil. RHQs oversee over 160 & Innovation division appointed SAFECALL Ltd. as local representative offices takes the lead on internal To maintain the trust an independent third-party to run our external hotline. that handle cargo coming into the local ports. governance issues, issues involving or relating to the and confidence of Contact details are made available to all employees The Board has overall Board of Directors, budget planning and developing our stakeholders, it is through posters in the office, ONE’s internal online portal responsibility for performing the duties of strategic the company’s approach to sustainability, working paramount that we act and compulsory e-learning. All employees can make planning and providing oversight. As part of their closely with the Compliance Committee and Business responsibly and conduct use of this service, which is available in all languages mandate, the Board is also Strategy Committee. our business activities used at ONE. If a concern is raised, senior management with integrity. will carefully examine issues and contact the whistleblower Corporate Governance chart to determine the best HOLDING COMPANY next step. Depending on (HoldCO) the severity of the issue, they will either conduct an investigation or escalate • Improvement of service Whistleblowing and • Audit-Supervisory This involves fostering a the issue to the Compliance HoldCo Shareholder Board Member culture of ethical business quality, pursuit of safety, Raising Concerns Committee headed by our meeting Board of Directors • External Auditor conduct and implementing an and preservation of the Employees have access to Chief Compliance Officer effective governance structure. natural environment a Hotline System as a safe for further review. Once the Representative Internal Audit It also requires having in place • Fair business activities avenue to raise, without the fear issue has been resolved, Directors (HoldCo) a proper risk management • Prohibition of conflict of of reprisal, any improprieties or ONE will ensure disciplinary system, and addressing key interest non-compliances with regulation actions against the offender risks associated with tax • Respect for human rights or our policies. Issues raised are taken if required and transparency, supply chain and diversity of cultures may relate to: preventative measures are management, piracy and • Violation of any applicable implemented. OPERATING COMPANY • Relationship with society security, and illicit trade. laws and regulations, (OpCO) • Assurance of a safe and violation of any legal or Corporate Governance healthy work environment Ethical Business professional obligation; ONE’s Holding Company Conduct • Treatment of information • Conduct that is inconsistent (Hold Co) in Japan oversees ONE is committed to • Responsibility of top with any of ONE’s internal the governance of our upholding the highest management policies and procedures; Global Headquarters (GHQ) OpCo Shareholder meeting Board of Directors standard of ethical business • Report and consultation • Bribery, corruption, conflict in Singapore. As a company External conduct in all our activities, of suspicious behaviour of interest, anti-competitive registered in Japan, Hold Co Auditor as set out in our Business practices, breach of is held to comply with the Compliance Risk Management CEO Credo. We have implemented The Business Credo and sanction regulations; Companies Act, Corporate Committee Committee a number of policies and other compliance-related • Financial fraud or Governance code which practices that helps us do policies are provided to mismanagement; includes the need for an this. Primarily, the company’s all employees via ONE’s • Discrimination or audit by external auditors GLOBAL HEADQUARTER Corporate strategy Code of Conduct, which all internal online portal. As part victimization; harassment; for internal control systems. (GHQ) meeting unethical behaviour; Internal Audit directors and employees of the onboarding process, ONE’s presence through (GHQ) are expected to adhere to, new joiners are required • Abuse or theft of ONE’s regional offices, branches, Divisions of GHQ sets out the principles that to complete a mandatory resources and assets; subsidiaries and jointguide the behaviours and e-learning module which • Danger to health and safety, ventures span the globe, decisions we take in our dayincludes a quiz to ensure they criminal activity, damage to and ONE GHQ oversees the to-day business activities. The have understood and are the environment; and/or governance with delegation Code of Conduct covers the able to apply these policies in • Deliberate concealment of to Regional Headquarters Corporate & Innovation Product & Network Marketing & Commercial following: everyday situations. any of the above. (RHQs). 40 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 41 Compliance Our Approach to Compliance Risk Management The GHQ Compliance As a global shipping company, Committee – headed by the Compliance Committee ONE is exposed to various Chief Compliance Officer Board risks, including market volatility, Annual top message (CCO) and comprises the CEO, Legal compliance, vessel operations, for compliance Managing Directors as well as Department Head disasters and emergencies, GHQ department heads – has geographic specific risks, responsibility for governing information security and ONE’s compliance programme. Reporting Line environmental risks. To Taking a risk-based approach, manage the company’s the committee approves Business side approach to risk, we have in and monitors compliance place a Risk Management initiatives. Respective GHQ GHQ Legal GHQ Committee (RMC), tasked with departments are responsible evaluating the business impact for the implementation of Compliance of risks. The RMC reports such initiatives at GHQ, RHQs RHQ Legal RHQs Declaration to ONE’s Board of Directors Responsible and frontline offices in each and is made up of company tax practices country, following business Directors, with the Business reporting lines. On-going Planning Team acting as a Local Legal Local Offices communication between secretariat for the group. The RHQ and frontline offices, as RMC reports to ONE’s Board promotes risk and control products and services from a well as collaboration across supports of Directors. Responsibilities of awareness within the company. range of companies. Critical departments is essential the RMC include: to our operations are terminal e-Learning (Foundation) to ensure our compliance • Sustainability Responsible tax practices operators, inland and coastal initiatives are consistently • Stipulation, evaluation and As tax laws and regulations transportation companies, applied and remain practical classification of risks and around the world are ships and container owners, for each market. HR teams, depending on the Bribery and Corruption regular review constantly evolving and bunker suppliers and IT nature of the issue. Bribery, anti-corruption and • Initiating and minimizing loss becoming more complex, vendors, without whom our Some of the key initiatives compliance with legislation risks in terms of amount and the risk of unintentional core business activities cannot that have been rolled out as A number of training sessions is also an important part of frequency compliance breaches is take place. a result of cross department have been conducted on ONE’s Code of Conduct. The • Initiate recovery plan significantly increasing. ONE collaboration include the key compliance topics, some provision or acceptance of with related division and is committed to being a To ensure our high standards integration of complianceonline and others face-tobribes, whether at home or committee responsible taxpayer, working of sustainability and business related topics in our Sales face. For example, a number abroad, directly or indirectly, • Control various risk towards tax transparency and conduct are upheld along our Managers’ training, the creation of e-learning modules have is strictly prohibited. In management activities disclosure. In line with our supply chain, ONE launched of anti-fraud e-learning, the been rolled out on topics that addition, the ONE Basic across the Organization values, we do not condone our Supply Chain Management creation of a workplace include but are not limited Anti-Bribery Policy sets out the behaviour of profit shifting Guidelines. The guidelines call a total of harassment e-learning module, to our Business Credo and that no employee of ONE, In 2019, we reviewed our risks with a tax avoidance intent on all suppliers to: the implementation of an Code of Conduct, competition whether directly or through 39,214 at a group level, creating a for the purpose of minimizing • Respect human rights, annual compliance declaration law, anti-bribery, economic third-parties, are to engage in courses heat map which categorises our tax obligation. Our Global particularly around and a compliance/anti-fraud sanctions, conflicts of interest, any form of corrupt practices, completed the various risks and organizes Tax Policy (GTP) sets out the employee health and safety workshop. anti-fraud, IT and Information including bribery and extortion. globally counter-measures according guiding principles and process and labour rights. Security. During 2019, an to “Prevention Plans”, protocols for the in-scope • Comply with local and To set the tone from the average of five e-learning “Minimization Plans” and tax processes. international codes of top, the Board reinforced courses were taken by each “Recovery Plans”. We have also practice, covering the areas ONE’s commitment to employee, with a total of checked to ensure each risk is ONE’s Tax Team is responsible of corporate governance ethical business conduct 39,214 courses completed covered by a relevant policy. for ensuring the appropriate and compliance to all GHQ globally. In 2019, we also tax filings and tax obligations including issues of antiemployees via an annual held a seminar, conducted The internal Audit Team are met. competition, anti-bribery video message. In response, by external experts, attended reviews and evaluates the and prevention of money all GHQ employees submitted by 24 members of the Board overall risk management Supply Chain laundering. a compliance declaration and Senior Management process, providing independent Management • Provide safe and trusted of adherence to ONE’s covering key compliance assurance and advice on ONE’s ONE recognizes that in order services, training employees Credo, Code of Conduct and issues that are relevant to risk management, corporate to achieve our sustainability to undertake activities such other applicable policies. them. Eight compliance and governance and internal ambitions, we must bring as operation of machinery Any concerns raised by the anti-fraud workshops were control processes to ensure on-board our suppliers safely and have established employees shall be followed also conducted, with a total of Bribery we are operating as effectively and business partners. As emergency response up by our legal, compliance or 91 employees attending. as possible. The team also a business, we purchase capabilities. 42 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 43 • Improve environmental practices including the reduction of resource and through cyber security and to prevent attacks and hijacking of our commercial vehicles is Defence Force and navies of various countries as much as possible but cannot rely solely GRI Content Index energy consumption. important to ONE. on this type of defence. On • Manage and protect our side, we aim to ensure the intellectual property and Our Security Information Policy safety of crew is a top priority. information responsibly. has been developed to protect We seek to avoid high-risk areas, ONE’s information assets – use high-pressure water nozzle Procurement staff are both in digital and non-digital encouraged to share these format. It details the minimum and install razor wire to prevent This report has been prepared with reference to the GRI Standards. The unauthorized embarkation, as guidelines with potential requirements and responsibilities well as provide bullet-proof vests table below presents our GRI content index, which specifies each of the vendors. Vendors that agree for all our employees to ensure to follow our guidelines can confidentiality and data privacy is and helmets. GRI Standards and disclosures referenced in the report, including where register their name on our maintained, as well how to report There were no information the information can be found. website, in order to recognize data security incidences. We also security breaches, as well as no their efforts in following have an IT Management Policy cases of piracy in 2019. stringent social, environmental which defines the requirements and governance standards. for managing ONE’s information GRI Disclosure Illicit Trade GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Title Page references Since launching this, we are technology assets throughout Number pleased to see that the number the entire lifecycle. We recognize that the sheer volume of trade that is carried General Disclosures of registered companies is steadily increasing, a testament Piracy incidents off the coast of out at sea provides opportunities GRI 102: Organizational Profile to our ability to influence Somalia and the Gulf of Aden for criminals to move illegal and General suppliers and their willingness have dropped in recent years as unethical goods across borders. Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization 10 to join us on this journey. a result of the measures taken Illicit trade – whether in the form by the international community, of arms, narcotics, endangered Activities, brands, products, and 102-2 3, 10 We have also developed an including Japan’s Maritime Selfwildlife and other illicit goods on services internal Procurement Policy Defence Force. The situation still the black markets – damages the global economy and harms 102-3 Location of headquarters Singapore which has been disseminated remains fragile should efforts be to all procurement related dropped. Piracy-related losses in public health worldwide. ONE 102-4 Location of operations 11 divisions. Our Procurement Gulf of Guinea (West Africa) and has zero tolerance towards the trade of illicit goods. We have 102-5 Ownership and legal form 10 Policy encourages employees in Southeast Asia are however to make purchasing decisions still frequent. a cargo screening process as 102-6 Markets served 11 through the following criteria: part of our booking system • Fair and unbiased evaluation to conduct due diligence and 102-7 Scale of the organization 11 We seek to receive protection • Compliance with laws and from Japan’s Maritime Selfdetect questionable goods. Information on employees and other social norms 102-8 32 workers • Responsibility towards respecting human rights, 102-9 Supply chain 41 safety and environmental There were no significant protection optimal quality Significant changes to the organization 102-10 changes to our organization and reasonable cost Piracy and Secrity and its supply chain and supply chain in 2019. Piracy and Security 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 24 The threat of piracy and 102-12 External initiatives 14 hijacking of commercial vehicles at sea has been on 102-13 Membership of associations 14 the agenda of ship operators. An important aspect of this Strategy is that a ship’s onboard 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 information technology and operational technology systems Ethics and Integrity can be hacked just as easily Values, principles, standards, and as systems ashore, potentially 102-16 12, 38 norms of behaviour causing considerable harm to the safety and security of ships, Mechanisms for advice and concerns 102-17 38 ports and marine facilities. about ethics Adopting proper measures to Governance protect our business systems 44 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 45 GRI Disclosure GRI Disclosure GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Title Page references GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Title Page references Number Number 102-18 Governance structure 39 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 25 Emissions 2016 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 102-19 Delegating authority 39 305-2 25 emissions Executive-level responsibility for 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 25 102-20 economic, environmental, and social 39 topics Marine Pollution and Conservation Consulting stakeholders on economic, GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and 102-21 21 103-1 19 environmental, and social topics Management its Boundary Approach 2016 Stakeholder Engagement The management approach and its 103-2 27 components 102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged 21 Evaluation of the management 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 21 103-3 27 approach 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 21 Recycling and Disposal of Materials 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 21 GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 20 Management its Boundary Reporting Practice Approach 2016 The management approach and its Entities included in the consolidated 103-2 27 102-45 3 components financial statements Evaluation of the management Defining report content and topic 103-3 27 102-46 3, 19 approach Boundaries Operational Excellence 102-47 List of material topics 19 Customer Experience No information or data was 102-48 Restatements of information GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and reinstated. 103-1 19 Management its Boundary There were no changes in Approach 2016 102-49 Changes in reporting The management approach and its reporting. 103-2 30 components 102-50 Reporting period 3 Evaluation of the management 102-51 Date of most recent report 3 103-3 30 approach 102-52 Reporting cycle 3 Substantiated complaints concerning GRI 418: Customer Contact point for questions regarding 418-1 breaches of customer privacy and 30 102-53 3 Privacy 2016 the report losses of customer data Claims of reporting in accordance with Innovation and Digitalization 102-54 3 the GRI Standards GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 19 Management its Boundary 102-55 GRI content index 43 Approach 2016 The management approach and its 102-56 External assurance 3 103-2 28 components Material Issues Evaluation of the management 103-3 28 Environment approach Climate Change (including GHG and other emissions) Cargo and Container Safety GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 19 103-1 19 Management its Boundary Management its Boundary Approach 2016 Approach 2016 The management approach and its The management approach and its 103-2 31 103-2 24 components components Evaluation of the management Evaluation of the management 103-3 24 103-3 31 approach approach 46 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 47 GRI Disclosure GRI Disclosure GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Title Page references GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Title Page references Number Number Social GRI 405: Diversity and Diversity of governance bodies and 405-1 33 Employee Health, Safety and Wellbeing Equal Opportunity employees GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 19 GRI 406: Management its Boundary Non-Discrimination Incidents of discrimination and Approach 2016 406-1 33 The management approach and its 2016 corrective actions taken 103-2 34 components Evaluation of the management Supporting Local Communities 103-3 34 approach GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and GRI 403: Occupational health and safety Management 103-1 20 403-1 34 its Boundary Occupational management system Approach 2016 Health and Safety The management approach and its Hazard identification, risk assessment, 103-2 35 2018 403-2 34 components and incident investigation 403-3 Occupational health services 34 Evaluation of the management 103-3 35 approach Worker training on occupational health 403-5 34 and safety GRI 203: Indirect Economic Infrastructure investments and 403-6 Promotion of worker health 34 203-1 35 Impacts 2016 services supported Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety Governance 403-7 34 impacts directly linked by business relationships Ethical Business Conduct 403-9 Work-related injuries 34 GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and Management 103-1 19 Human Rights and Labour Practices its Boundary Approach 2016 GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and The management approach and its 103-1 20 103-2 38 Management its Boundary components Approach 2016 The management approach and its 103-2 32 Evaluation of the management components 103-3 38 approach Evaluation of the management 103-3 32 approach GRI 205: Communication and training Anti-Corruption 205-2 about anti-corruption policies and 40 Talent Management 2016 procedures GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 19 Responsible Tax Practices Management its Boundary Approach 2016 GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and The management approach and its 103-1 20 103-2 33 Management its Boundary components Approach 2016 Evaluation of the management The management approach and its 103-3 33 103-2 41 approach components GRI 404: Average hours of training per year per 404-1 33 Evaluation of the management Training and employee 103-3 41 Education 2016 approach Programs for upgrading employee 404-2 skills and transition assistance 33 programs Piracy and Security 48 OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS (ONE) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 49 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Number GRI Disclosure Title Page references United Nations Global Compact GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 20 Management its Boundary Approach 2016 COP The management approach and its 103-2 42 components Evaluation of the management 103-3 42 approach GRI 418: Substantiated complaints concerning As a corporate member of the Global Compact Network Singapore Customer Privacy 418-1 breaches of customer privacy and 30, 42 (GCNS), the local chapter of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) losses of customer data network, ONE supports the ten UNGC Principles. Please refer to the Illicit Trade UNGC reference table below for coverage of our efforts in relation to the GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 20 ten principles. We will continue to support UNGC by incorporating the its Boundary Approach 2016 ten principles in the sustainable development of our business The management approach and its 103-2 42 components Human Rights Evaluation of the management 103-3 42 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the p. 32, 38, 41 approach protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of p. 32, 33, 38, 41 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary p. 24, 35, 41 approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its p. 38, 40, 41 forms, including extortion and bribery. OCEAN NETWORK EXPRESS PTE. LTD.7 Straits View #16-01 Marina One East Tower Singapore 018936 E. general.inquiry@one-line.com
