SUSTAINABILITY & FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 WELCOME FROM OUR CEO 2019 has been a year As Chief Executive Officer of Vena Energy with new initiatives being carried out on and Chairperson of our Sustainability healthcare, infrastructure, education, to remember for Committee, I am very pleased to welcome and the environment across Australia, Vena Energy, marking you to Vena Energy’s 2019 Sustainability Report. Indonesia, India, Japan, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, and another consecutive Thailand. The cooperation and guidance 2019 has been a year to remember from our local stakeholders were essential year of double-digit for Vena Energy, marking another for the success and effectiveness of our growth in operating consecutive year of double-digit growth corporate social responsibility initiatives. in operating capacity, development For example, in 2019 we successfully capacity, development project conversions, geographical completed our wildlife and natural habitat project conversions, expansion, functional integration, social preservation project at our 70 MW Mingus initiatives, financial performance and Solar Farm in Taiwan. A large number of geographical expansion, talent onboarding in our ever more local and migratory wild birds have made functional integration, diversified regional team. I wish to a permanent home within our 241,000m2 extend my gratitude to all our internal Ecological Conservation Area, including social initiatives, and external stakeholders for their the endangered Black-Faced Spoonbill financial performance invaluable contributions, which enabled which migrates to our site during the us to achieve such remarkable results. winter months. We are already onto and talent onboarding in This success makes us even prouder as the next initiative, ready to open our our ever more diversified it comes from activities entirely aligned with our corporate values, further proving brand-new Mingus Education Centre to schools, NGOs and the general public, regional team. that sustainability is an effective engine to promote education and appreciation for responsible growth. of clean green energy and its integration with the environment and wildlife. A Collaborations with our host great deal of merit goes to the residents communities are stronger than ever, of Chiayi County and all the organisations 4 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 and institutions in Taiwan that have made our business, as we successfully signed Prior to the bond issuance, Vena Energy this project a reality. We extend the same new agreements in Australia and Taiwan also obtained investment grade credit appreciation and gratitude to all our host while preparing to achieve similar success ratings from both Standard and Poor’s communities across the Asia Pacific across our other markets, such as Japan and the Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCR), region, who allowed our many other and the Philippines. a reflection of our diversified and resilient initiatives to be equally effective. cash flows under long-term offtake In 2019 we welcomed some very important arrangements as well as our in-house We became a participant of the United new stakeholders to our family as we operational capabilities that enable us Nations’ Global Compact (UN GC), the launched our newest business activity to control construction and operations world’s largest corporate sustainability of renewables fund management. Our first while managing the associated risks. The initiative. Vena Energy fully supports renewables fund placement saw us partner limited exposure to individual off-takers UN GC’s ten founding principles related with a group of four leading ESG-driven and the associated regulatory and market to human rights, labour standards, institutional investors. We are honoured risks allowed Vena Energy to demonstrate environmental protection and antito have them as partners and are hopeful an impressive resilience to the challenges corruption, and we are pleased to of more collaborations with them and and effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, commit to the communication to our other like-minded, sustainability-focused with minimal disruptions to our stakeholders on our progress and results in investors in the near future. We are proud operations and no material impact on implementing these ten principles and the to have become the partner of reference the company’s budget. UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN for many stakeholders who seek to make a SDG) through an annual Communication positive impact on sustainability and ESG On behalf of all of us at Vena Energy, we on Progress (COP). initiatives across the Asia Pacific region. thank you for your continued interest in our company and we look forward to From an operational perspective, Vena Another notable success in the past another year of successful collaboration Energy commissioned 10 additional year was the preparation of our with you in our joint mission to help renewable energy projects during the year, inaugural green bond issuance. This combat climate change and decarbonize an average of 1 new project every 5 weeks. was a yearlong effort by the entire Vena the economy through the generation of At the same time, our team managed Energy team, encompassing third-party clean renewable energy. to further reduce our Levelised Cost of reviews of all aspects of our business, Energy (LCOE) for another consecutive including our operations, policies, year in a concerted effort among our risks and opportunities, as well as a engineering, procurement, operations thorough description of our portfolio and and asset management teams, as we activities. The culmination of this effort further integrated our business model, was the US$1,000,000,000 guaranteed expanded the reach of our O&M activities euro medium-term note programme Nitin Apte and obtained new construction licenses. established in November 2019. CEO of Vena Energy This virtuous trend paves the way for Subsequently, Vena Energy’s inaugural Chairperson of Vena Energy’s more competitive renewable projects, bond was successfully issued and listed Sustainability Committee enabling Vena Energy to deliver affordable on the Singapore Exchange in February clean energy to our customers and 2020 in compliance with the ICMA Green progressively approach grid parity in all Bond Principles, and it became the first our markets. Commercial corporate PPAs corporate USD Green Bond issuance by also continue to become a bigger part of a Singapore-based company. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 1. Introduction 07 4. Governance 49 1.1. Corporate Overview 07 4.1. Board of Directors and Management 50 Team 1.2. 2019 Highlights 11 4.2. Sustainability Committee 51 1.3. Precautions against COVID-19 17 4.3. Management Framework 51 1.4. Sustainable Business Model 17 4.4. Vena Energy Governance Policies 52 4.5. Overview of ESG Policy 53 2. Environment 19 4.6. Green Financing Framework 55 2.1. Our Commitment to Climate Action 20 2.2. Our Environmental Considerations 21 5. Financials 56 2.3. Our Environmental Strategies 22 5.1. Introduction 57 2.4. Environmental Management System 24 5.2. Financial Highlights 58 2.5. Our Environmental Impact 26 5.3. Financial Results 59 5.4. Capital Management 60 3. Social 30 5.5. Significant Events Post December 2019 62 3.1. Social – Internal 31 3.2. Social – External 38 6. Additional Information 63 3.3. Corporate Social Responsibility 40 Highlights 6.1. Independent Limited Assurance Report 63 6.2. Commitment to the UN Global Compact 66 6.3. Legal Statements 67 6 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1. INTRODUCTION 1.1. CORPORATE OVERVIEW 1.1.1. About Vena Energy Headquartered in Singapore, Vena Energy capacity is contracted with central or projects with superior performance is one of the leading pure renewable energy provincial state-owned utilities with standards, while minimising development Independent Power Producers (IPP) in the strong credit profiles, and the remaining and construction risks and utilising bestAsia Pacific region. We develop, construct, 10% of operating capacity is contracted in-class technology and equipment. The own and operate solar photovoltaic (PV), under long term PPAs, predominantly ability to efficiently self-develop, build and wind and energy storage projects in Japan, with investment grade rated corporate operate assets has enabled us to reduce Australia, India, Indonesia, the Philippines, off-takers. No single asset in Vena Energy’s the Levelised Cost of Energy (LCOE) of South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand, with portfolio contributes to more than 10% our projects. an extensive local presence of over 500 of our total operational capacity, and this employees across eighteen management percentage has continued to decline as Sustainability remains the centrepiece of offices and twenty-nine operational offices. more assets were built and commissioned, Vena Energy’s corporate strategy, as we further reducing project concentration risk. aim to deliver high performance to all our As of December 2019, Vena Energy’s Both the operation & maintenance and stakeholders including employees, host portfolio comprised of: asset management functions are often communities, suppliers, counterparties, contracted to Vena Energy-owned entities partners and investors. Our sustainability • 55 operating assets with a gross on a long-term basis, providing visibility on goals are not only limited to providing clean capacity of 1.7 GW; recurring operational costs. Debt financing renewable energy to our communities, is arranged for each asset on a non-recourse but also sustaining their well-being • 26 construction and shovel-ready basis, with tenors often comparable to the by supporting quality healthcare and projects with a gross capacity of 0.8 duration of the project’s long-term offtake infrastructure for essential services, and GW; contracts. These arrangements, coupled fostering economic growth through job with the statistical predictability of solar creation and quality education. • 86 projects under development with a and wind resources, contribute to a stable gross capacity of 9.0 GW. long-term cash flow profile. From an Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) perspective, Vena Vena Energy’s revenues derive from the Vena Energy is fully integrated across the Energy has in place comprehensive sale of 100% green power, generated entire renewable energy project lifecycle, policies in accordance with local and by utility-scale renewable energy assets from project and site assessment, international standards, including the under long-term offtake arrangements. engineering and permitting, contracting International Finance Corporation (IFC) All operational, construction and shoveland procurement, installation and Performance Standards, International ready assets are fully contracted with commissioning to operations and Labour Organisation Declaration on diversified and creditworthy counterparties maintenance. We have in-house experts Fundamental Principles and Rights at for a period of over 19 years of residual dedicated to solar and wind energy Work and the UN Guiding Principles on average contractual life. Under these and have centralised our intellectual Business and Human Rights. In addition, offtake contracts, Vena Energy’s customers property with respect to resource Vena Energy designed a detailed Green agree to purchase up to 100% of supplied assessment, system design, equipment Financing Framework to enhance the power under take-or-pay arrangements, procurement, construction management transparency of the company’s disclosures thereby significantly mitigating revenueand maintenance services. This in-house to our financial stakeholders, which is related risks. Nearly 90% of our operating capability allows Vena Energy to develop further detailed in Section 4.6. Utility scale solar and wind RGY Asset development in Asia-Pacific NE AS EE I A Focus on tested technologies BL Long term growth focus in Asia W I with proven track record A -PAC Pacific markets with strong NE New technologies in the energy RE FIC sovereign credit storage sector E LIN Well-defined investment mandate Internalization of development, DISCIP with clear criteria construction and operational on key considerations RA D capabilities D TE Systematic investment process IN VE G Target controlling positions in all from origination to project ST ME TE projects IN NT LY management & monitoring FUL VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 11 Gigawatt Total Capacity1 In wind and solar assets across Asia-pacific 18 Management Offices 523 Employees Multinational IPP 29 Operational Offices Across 9 jurisdictions Vena Energy’s Portfolio Overview2 Tsugaru SOUTH KOREA Shichinohe JAPAN • 5 Employees Fukushima • 162 Employees Kasama • 926 MW Seoul Tokyo Karatsu TAIWAN • 44 Employees New Delhi • 98 MW THAILAND Taipei • 15 Employees Taitung INDIA • 92 MW Yunlin • 69 Employees • 776 MW Manila PHILIPPINES Bangkok • 99 Employees • 248 MW Bangalore Singapore SINGAPORE • 45 Employees • Corporate HQ Jeneponto Jakarta INDONESIA Vena Energy offices • 69 Employees • 114 MW Solar Energy Projects Brisbane Wind Energy Projects Battery Energy Storage Systems AUSTRALIA • 15 Employees • 227 MW 1 Includes assets in Operation, Construction, and Shovel Ready (OCSR) stages, and assets in various stages of development. 2 MWs indicate Gross Capacity of all Operational, Construction and Shovel Ready assets as of Dec 2019. 8 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 AUSTRALIA PHILIPPINES TAIWAN Locally headquartered in Brisbane, Vena Locally headquartered in Manila, Vena With offices in Taipei, Yunlin and Energy commissioned our first project, Energy owns and operates 248 MW of solar Taitung, Vena Energy’s portfolio of the 127 MW Tailem Bend Solar Project and wind assets. Despite experiencing operational, construction and shovel located in South Australia, in 2019. extreme weather conditions including ready solar assets has a total capacity some super typhoons in the past couple of 98 MW, with an additional 838 MW in INDIA of years, the Philippines assets have the development pipeline. The 70 MW With offices in Bangalore and New Delhi, maintained reliable energy outputs as a Mingus Solar Project, the largest ground Vena Energy owns and operates 11 solar result of timely responses from the local mount utility scale solar project in Taiwan, and wind assets totalling 776 MW. Vena Vena Energy Operations and Maintenance was commissioned in July 2019. Energy’s Bangalore office is also home to the (“O&M”) team. Vena Energy Control and Diagnostic Centre, THAILAND which tracks the status of all operating SINGAPORE Locally headquartered in Bangkok, Vena assets in the Vena Energy portfolio. As the corporate headquarters of Vena Energy owns a portfolio of 10 solar Energy, the Singapore office oversees the assets totalling 92 MW, which have been INDONESIA development, construction and operation operational since 2013. With offices in Jakarta and Jeneponto, Vena of more than 11 GW of renewable assets Energy completed construction of our first across nine jurisdictions in the Asia Pacific renewable assets in 2019, the 72 MW Tolo region. 1 Wind Project, the 21 MW Minut Solar Project, and three solar projects in Lombok SOUTH KOREA totalling 21 MW. Vena Energy’s portfolio of Vena Energy opened an office in Seoul operating assets totals 114 MW. in 2018 to establish relationships with local stakeholders and make a contribution JAPAN to the collective effort to expand the Vena Energy saw a steady growth of renewable energy sector in South Korea. assets, including two new solar projects totalling 52 MW, bringing the operational solar asset portfolio in Japan to 350 MW. An additional 576 MW of solar and wind assets comprise the growing Japan construction and shovel ready pipeline. 1.1.2. Our History and Key Milestones (2012-2019) 2012 2013 2014 • Vena Energy founded • Entry into India • Entry into Philippines • Entry into Thailand • Entry into Japan • First solar (30MW) and wind • First investment into 10 solar • First investment into 54MW (54MW) investment into the projects (92MW) across Thailand wind project in India Philippines • First investment into four solar assets in Japan totaling 48MW 2017 2016 2015 • Secured tender to develop • Entry into Australia • Entry into Taiwan Taiwan’s largest solar • Commissioned 132MW Project Pollo, • Entry into Indonesia project in Chiayi County SE Asia’s largest single solar facility • First successful bid for 130MW • Signed first 60MW wind PPA in solar project in Telangana, India Indonesia 2018 2019 •Portfolio acquisition by GIP and • Obtained Investment Grade corporate rating its co-investors • Fully commissioned first Indonesia and •Entry into South Korea Australia projects •Started construction on • Fully commissioned Taiwan’s largest ground 127MW solar project in South mounted solar project Australia VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 1.1.3. Corporate Leadership The members of Vena Energy’s senior management oversee the operations of all our assets and bring together strong qualifications and extensive industry experience. Nitin Apte Chief Executive Officer Sam Ong Anna Ho Simone Grasso Chief Chief Human Chief Financial Officer Resources Officer Investment Officer Praveen Jain Rupert Hall XS Koo Sunil Gupta Chief General Group Head, Regional Head, Risk Officer Counsel Procurement Southeast Asia & South Asia Samad Momin Juan Mas Valor Daniel Astbury Group Head, Solar Sector Wind Sector Operations Lead Lead 10 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1.2. 2019 HIGHLIGHTS In 2019, Vena Energy generated and sold over 2.6 TWh of clean as sponsor and general partner of a portfolio of select renewable electricity from renewable energy sources, sufficient to meet the energy assets, investing in and managing the fund on behalf demands of over 2 million households. This generation output of several leading institutional partners. In addition, we provide is equivalent to a reduction of more than 2.1 million tonnes of asset management, operations and maintenance services to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and savings of nearly 2.5 billion the portfolio, leveraging on our strong operational expertise litres of water compared to conventional fossil-fuel based energy. and integrated platform to deliver best-in-class performance In the same year, we commissioned 10 projects totalling over 370 and ESG standards. MW of capacity across solar and wind technologies in Australia, Indonesia, Japan and Taiwan, bringing our total operational In November 2019, we established a US$1,000,000,000 capacity to 1,699 MW across the Asia-Pacific region. These guaranteed Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme. projects created 3,540 jobs during their construction and enabled Subsequently, Vena Energy’s inaugural bond was successfully the addition of 55 full-time employees to Vena Energy. issued and listed on the Singapore Exchange (SGX) in February 2020, in compliance with the ICMA Green Bond Principles, and Over the course of 2019, we obtained a EPC license and expanded it became the first ever corporate USD Green Bond issuance by our O&M team across the region, further enhancing the reach a Singapore-based company. and integration of our construction and operational functions. We continued to successfully convert our development pipeline Prior to the bond issuance, Vena Energy obtained investment to construction stage, with 8 projects totalling 315 MW under grade credit ratings from two independent agencies: Standard construction as of December 2019. Additionally, a total of 466 and Poor’s and the Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCR). We also MW of solar, wind and battery energy storage projects were published an updated Green Financing Framework, which was further developed and are currently next in line for construction. established to enhance our planning and disclosure practices We have also progressed the development of our extensive as well as provide transparency and accountability to all our renewable pipeline totalling approximately 9 GW, which positions stakeholders. Vena Energy’s Green Financing Framework has Vena Energy as one of the leading renewable energy IPPs in the been independently reviewed by Vigeo Eiris and JCR and has Asia-Pacific region. received the highest level of assurance from both agencies. In 2019, we launched a new business activity by successfully placing our first renewable energy fund. Vena Energy now acts 81 2,480 2,603,785 Total Number of Total MW Capacity of Total MWh generated OCSR Assets OCSR Assets and sold in FY19 2,125,485 523 $352.9m Total Tonnes of GHG Emissions Total Number of Total Revenue Reduced based on Operational Employees in FY19 Portfolio Generation VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 1.2.1. Business Highlights Operational and Sustainability Impact Overview Legend GHG Emissions Operational Reduced (Tonnes) Water Saved Construction (million litres) Equivalent Cars Shovel Ready Removed Households Equivalent Powered Trees Planted INDIA Portfolio (MW) Environmental 1,675,945 679 97 1,441,422 Employees 1,530 311,322 57 12 24,023,694 AUSTRALIA JAPAN TAIWAN Portfolio (MW) Environmental Portfolio (MW) Environmental Portfolio (MW) Environmental 34,632 230,507 26,795 127 100 210,348 350 218 358 688,753 90 8 71,254 Employees 195 Employees 1,091 Employees 136 45,432 148,759 15,390 10 5 3,505,799 127 35 11,479,210 29 15 1,187,562 INDONESIA PHILIPPINES THAILAND Portfolio (MW) Environmental Portfolio (MW) Environmental Portfolio (MW) Environmental 235,188 368,766 58,887 114 261,340 248 320,777 92 78,908 Employees 292 Employees 364 Employees 131 56,445 69,282 17,043 50 19 4,355,659 70 29 5,346,290 10 5 1,315,135 12 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1.2.2. 2019 Commissioned Projects In 2019, a total of 10 solar and wind projects totalling 373 MW were commissioned in Australia, Indonesia, Japan and Taiwan. INDONESIA Project Name Tolo 1 Wind Project Technology Wind Turbine Location Jeneponto Regency, Indonesia Capacity 72 MW Commercial Operation Date May 2019 The Tolo 1 Wind Project began construction in June 2017, and at its peak had a workforce of 760 workers, hired from neighbouring communities. Consisting of 20 wind turbines 133-metres tall and each equipped with 64-metre blades, the Tolo 1 Wind Project was commissioned in May 2019. The project can deliver more than 250,000 MWh of renewable energy annually and can power approximately 191,175 households while reducing an estimated 212,432 tonnes of GHG and save around 238 million litres of water every year. TAIWAN Project Name Coltrane Solar Project Technology Photovoltaic Location Yunlin County, Taiwan Capacity 10 MW Commercial Operation Date April 2019 The Coltane Solar Project is located in Kouhu township within Yunlin County in Taiwan. The project consists of 26,780 solar panels, capable of producing over 14,800 MWh annually. Completed in April 2019, the project hired 130 local workers and provides clean energy to around 2,751 households per year. The project is expected to reduce approximately 7,314 tonnes of GHG and save approximately 14 million litres of water per year. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 AUSTRALIA Project Name Tailem Bend Solar Project Technology Photovoltaic Location Adelaide, Australia Capacity 127 MW Commercial Operation Date April 2019 The Tailem Bend Solar Project is Vena Energy’s first Australian project since entering the market in 2016. Consisting of 390,000 solar panels, the project covers an area of approximately 280-hectares. The project is estimated to deliver about 206,000 MWh of renewable energy per year, which provides the annual generation needs of more than 34,000 homes. Completed in 12 months, the project workforce consisted of 251 local workers, contractors and vendors. JAPAN Project Name NEJ Solar Project Technology Photovoltaic Location Aomori Prefecture, Japan Capacity 34 MW Commercial Operation Date May 2019 The 34 MW Solar project was completed in May 2019 and consists of 99,936 solar panels covering an area of approximately 49 hectares in Aomori Prefecture in Japan. Over the course of its construction, the project hired 162 local workers, and is estimated to deliver over 37,000 MWh of clean energy to around 7,400 Japanese households per year. The Project is also expected to reduce 22,099 tonnes of GHG emissions and save an estimated 35 million litres of water annually. 14 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INDONESIA Project Name Lombok Solar Projects Technology Photovoltaic Location Lombok, Indonesia Capacity 21 MW total Commercial Operation Date July 2019 The 21 MW Lombok Solar Projects consists of three individual solar projects each with a capacity of 7 MW, located on the island of Lombok in Indonesia. The projects created 257 local jobs since their construction began in April 2018. Upon their completion in July 2019, the projects are capable of delivering an estimated 34,100 MWh of power and providing 26,000 local households with renewable energy yearly. The projects will also save approximately 32 million litres of water and reduce an estimated 28,892 tonnes of GHG emissions annually. INDONESIA Project Name Minut Solar Project Technology Photovoltaic Location North Sulawesi, Indonesia Capacity 21 MW Commercial Operation Date September 2019 The 21 MW Minut Solar Project is the largest ground-mounted solar project in Indonesia-to-date, and at the peak of its construction hired a workforce of 362 people, many of whom were hired from neighbouring communities. Capable of producing over 34,100 MWh of renewable energy, the project delivers clean energy to around 26,000 local households per year, while reducing approximately 28,866 tonnes of GHG emissions and saving 32 million litres of water annually. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 TAIWAN Project Name Mingus Solar Project Technology Photovoltaic Location Chiayi County, Taiwan Capacity 70 MW Commercial Operation Date July 2019 The Mingus Solar Project is the largest ground mount utility scale solar project in Taiwan, consisting of 200,000 solar panels that span an area of approximately 80-hectres. Nestled in the salt plains of Chiayi County in Taiwan, the project is capable of producing over 106,000 MWh of renewable energy annually. Built by a workforce of 522 local workers, the project will meet the electricity demands of approximately 19,700 households, while reducing around 52,347 tonnes of GHG emissions and saving 100 million litres of water per year. JAPAN Project Name Towada Solar Project Technology Photovoltaic Location Aomori Prefecture, Japan Capacity 18 MW Commercial Operation Date November 2019 The 18-megawatt Towada Solar Project is Vena Energy’s 10th solar project in the Aomori Prefecture, and was completed in November 2019. Capable of producing around 19,615 MWh annually, the Towada Solar Project features 46,424 solar panels of 395-watt peak (Wp) each, covering an area of 28.53-hectares. At the peak of its construction, the Towada Solar Project created 146 jobs in the prefecture, and will supply clean, renewable energy to approximately 3,900 Japanese households per year. The project will reduce 11,674 tonnes of GHG emissions and save about 18 million litres of water annually. 16 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1.3. PRECAUTIONS AGAINST COVID-19 With the recent Coronavirus pandemic, we have taken preventive and meetings, including our regular business continuity plan measures in order to limit the spread of COVID-19 and to protect (“BCP”) meetings, are now conducted remotely. our people. Work-related activities have either been halted or restricted, depending on the nature of the job function. In countries which have adopted limited restrictions, we Apart from our offices in Taiwan and South Korea, which have have supplied additional PPE to and administered frequent deployed stringent sanitation and social distancing measures temperature checks on onsite workers. Whenever possible, while reducing office attendance, the majority of our offices monitoring of our assets is performed remotely to reduce the have implemented a full work-from-home strategy. All travel has site attendance of our O&M staff. been suspended since February 2020 and all communications 1.4. SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODEL Since the development of our first asset in 2012, Vena Energy and practices, with the aim of becoming a model of excellence has grown into one of the leading renewable energy IPPs in the in sustainability and ESG standards. In accordance with our Asia-Pacific region, undertaking a prominent role in decarbonising corporate mission, our business activities align with the United the economy through the generation of clean renewable energy. Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”) as a blueprint Our corporate mission remains focused on the global fight for a better and more sustainable future. We believe that our against climate change and depletion of natural resources, and business model contributes especially to SDG 7, SDG 8, SDG we play our part by accelerating the penetration of wind and 9 and SDG 13, as they embody our strategic objectives for solar generation in the Asia Pacific energy mix. continued sustainable development. Our business model has remained grounded in our sustainability principles. We continue to expand and improve our standards Core to our business is the provision of sustainable energy. Our business contributes to overcoming the barriers to a low carbon and sustainable future. We aim to ensure the affordability of our clean renewable energy projects by constantly striving to be the most cost-effective renewable energy developer and operator in the region, whilst achieving excellence in our sustainability and ESG performance. Vena Energy firmly believes in engaging with our local communities throughout the life cycle of our projects, with the objective of enabling sustainable social and economic development locally. We support local employment by creating job opportunities for the members of our host communities and we then focus on training and empowering our employees through numerous self-development programs. Our projects are often located in rural areas and offer an exciting opportunity to the younger generations to be gainfully employed and build their careers in their birthplaces. This allows them to remain closer to their families and contributes to preventing rural-urban migration with the consequent deterioration of local economies. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 Vena Energy promotes long-term solutions to environmental challenges with renewable energy and invests in technological developments in the storage of renewable energy. We encourage innovation and collaboration in the renewable energy space through our partnerships and look to contribute to the strengthening of the renewable energy industry through knowledge sharing and the development of technical capabilities. Vena Energy works to reduce emissions through the investment and development of cleaner energy technologies. We closely monitor the impact of our operations compared to conventional energy sources. Vena Energy also actively supports the development of carbon pricing schemes in the regions we operate through the sharing of our knowledge and experience. We increasingly look to manage the physical impacts of climate change on our business by incorporating climate resilience considerations into our business activities. To further integrate sustainability into the way we conduct business, we actively support partnerships and initiatives to advance the sustainability agenda: UN GC PARTICIPANT The United Nations Global Compact (UN GC) as a strategic policy initiative for organisations commits to align with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Vena Energy participates in the UN GC global movement to disclose publicly our commitments and progress and to shape the world’s sustainability agenda. TCFD SUPPORTER In 2019, Vena Energy joined over 1,000 companies in publicly expressing our support for the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We acknowledge that the implementation of the TCFDs is a journey, and as a new TCFD supporter, we will discuss the impact of climate change on our business at a Board level and will establish our road map to implementing the recommendations of the TCFDs. CLP MEMBER As a member of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), we share our experience with over 164 businesses from a range of sectors and regions on designing and using carbon pricing, informing successful carbon pricing policy development and the use of carbon pricing in businesses. 18 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT 2. ENVIRONMENT 2.1. OUR COMMITMENT TO CLIMATE ACTION The past five years from 2015 to 2019 have been the warmest a complete transition to renewable energy. We are currently years in history since recordkeeping began in 18803. Global building one of the largest Battery Energy Storage Systems atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide are at a historical (BESS) in Australia and we target to achieve a continuous cost high and almost 800 weather-related natural catastrophes were compression of this technology, while exploring complementary reported in 2019 alone4. storage solutions. The installation of significant energy storage capacity over the next decade is intended to support the power Vena Energy has chosen to play a part in the global action grid systems and provide stability to the intermittent supply of against climate change by contributing to the decarbonisation renewable energy generation. of the energy sector, which is widely considered as one of the necessary steps to unlock the transition to a low carbon economy We are committed to sustainable and environmentally ethical and a climate risk-resilient society. We execute this mission by business practices at every stage of the projects’ lifecycle. increasing the generation of clean renewable energy in the Asia We have integrated these commitments in our sustainability Pacific energy mix, in order to progressively displace thermal strategy and policies, aligning to local and international standards and other non-renewable generation capacity. Over the course including: of 2019, Vena Energy’s solar and wind assets generated more than 2.6 TWh of clean electricity, equivalent to more than 2 • Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations of million tonnes of GHG reductions. our hosting jurisdictions We also aim to act as one of the catalysts for accelerating the • IFC Performance Standards ongoing energy transition. We include in our corporate strategy a disciplined data-driven approach to continuous improvement, • World Bank Group Environmental, Health and Safety aimed at increasing efficiency and compressing the levelised Guidelines cost of renewable energy. This approach is designed to drive the sector towards grid parity, particularly in those markets Our policies provide guidelines on key environment-related where the cost of renewable energy is still above market levels. areas, including the selection of investments in supporting the A successful transition to grid parity is a key step towards the reduction in GHG emissions, assessment of environmental displacement of thermal and non-renewable generation capacity. impacts of projects, and the monitoring, recording and protection of environmental issues. Furthermore, our investment Vena Energy continues to explore and invest in energy storage policy explicitly prohibits activities which result in negative technologies, an area often regarded as the missing link to allow environmental impact. 3 Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) Executive Factbook, Apr 2020. 4 BNEF Executive Factbook, Apr 2020. 20 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2.2. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS We recognise that protecting and preserving biodiversity, Waste Management maintaining ecosystem services and sustainably managing Non-sustainable waste disposal is increasing around the world natural resources are a prerogative of sustainable development. due to rapid industrialisation, population growth and urbanisation. In line with IFC Performance Standard 6, we promote responsible Non-biodegradable waste has been filling our oceans and landfills. behaviour and support conservation efforts to preserve The treatment of landfilled waste often releases dangerous levels environment and biodiversity in the Asia-Pacific region. of carbon dioxide, methane gas and other gaseous by-products, which contribute significantly to global warming and air pollution. GHG Emissions This direct damage to our ecosystems further adversely impacts Human activity has caused a surge in carbon dioxide levels wildlife habitats and human health. resulting in an unprecedented rate of increase in global average surface temperatures, which have resulted in extreme weather Vena Energy promotes the minimisation of waste generation as events and decreased habitable and agricultural areas. In a sustainable practice. In all project sites, our project managers addition to carbon dioxide, fossil fuels can also generate other in consultation with local contractors ensure that our waste air pollutants that are harmful to the health and well-being of management procedures are optimised, while also complying humans, animals and the environment. with country, state, and local regulations. At our offices, we encourage the use of reusable items, discourage single-use Water disposables and provide recycling facilities where reusing is not Reduction of water usage leads to less energy and chemicals possible. We also set up infrastructure and platforms to promote used on the treatment and pumping of water, which further digital viewing and keep printing to a minimum. reduces our carbon footprint. A moderate amount of water is used to clean dust from our solar panels so they can increase the Biodiversity generation of clean energy. However, wind and solar generation Biodiversity is key for the continued productivity of ecosystem assets do not use water to generate power and therefore do services. Vena Energy actively supports the protection and not strain the water supplies needed for agriculture, drinking conservation of the flora and fauna in and around our project or sanitation. sites, and we closely assess and monitor our business activities to ensure we protect and enhance the environment. We undertake Our sewage and stormwater management policies comply extensive environmental reviews and permitting processes for with country, state, and local regulations, and are designed to each of our renewable projects, which include the assessment of minimize the impact to the natural environment surrounding our the impact on air and water quality, wildlife habitat, biodiversity, project sites. Wastewater is not disposed of in the surrounding and other aspects of the natural environment. soil or natural water bodies, but it is carefully collected in tanks and discarded in accordance with the applicable environmental Our robust environmental policies and procedures ensure that regulations. No discharge permits are required, as power our development process for new projects meets or exceeds generation from solar and wind assets does not involve industrial country, state, and local environmental requirements, and that processes which contaminate water. our existing generation facilities operate well within the scope of their permits and regulatory approvals. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 2.3. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGIES 2.3.1. Firming Generation Battery Energy Storage Systems play a pivotal role in the transition Vena Energy supports and invests in energy storage systems from traditional carbon-intensive baseload power to a low-carbon and has recently developed one of the largest BESS in Australia. electricity sector. Renewable energy is naturally intermittent, as We believe that the expansion of energy storage activities will solar and wind resources are not always available for renewable contribute significantly to the complete transition to renewable energy facilities to generate power. The incorporation of energy energy. The ability to store energy when the grid is constrained storage systems into the grid is expected to provide the ultimate and dispatch it when supply is needed will allow us to provide solution to the intermittency of solar and wind facilities, allowing more diversified solutions to our customers and expand our a stable generation profile. capabilities and performance as a pure renewable energy IPP. In addition to energy storage, BESS can also be used efficiently The research and development on economically viable and for fast frequency control and other ancillary services, displacing environmentally friendly energy storage systems is progressing fossil fuel facilities that currently provide these services. at a remarkable rate, rendering obsolete many of the doubts and uncertainties surrounding these technologies. Battery Furthermore, the combination of BESS with solar and wind Energy Storage Systems were considered as an expensive facilities and their increasing integration in the overall energy and uneconomical solution until very recently, but their cost mix are anticipated to contribute to the advancement of BESS plummeted and improved the cost competitiveness of large-scale technologies and further reduction of their environmental renewable energy/BESS integrated facilities vis-à-vis conventional impact and manufacturing cost. This increased efficiency and thermal or nuclear power. Green hydrogen technologies are affordability are expected to further accelerate their penetration advancing at a very fast pace, seemingly heading towards groundand utilisation. breaking economic and technological innovations. 22 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2.3.2. Enabling Technology Vena Energy believes in utilising state-of-the-art, cost-efficient and proven technologies. We pursue innovation by combining advanced and proven technology with optimal engineering and process management techniques, with the objective to increase the performance and reliability of our assets and ensure continuous generation of renewable energy at maximum output. Bifacial Solar Photovoltaic Panels The cost of bifacial solar photovoltaic panels has been reducing significantly and is fast approaching the cost of mono-facial panels. Bifacial panels offer a significant improvement in energy output, estimated in the range of 4-9% in most utility-scale projects, and are now generally considered bankable.5 Vena Energy was one of the precursors and early adopters of this technology in the Asia Pacific renewable energy market. We have installed and tested bifacial panels on our testbeds since 2018 and have since adopted them in our utility-scale development by our engineering team to achieve the lowest LCOE for the projects. The knowledge gained from our testbed research site, which allowed Vena Energy to be successful in one of allowed our engineering team to understand the performance the most competitive renewable energy markets worldwide. of this technology under different circumstances and optimise Our engineers designed the project with precise equipment our designs to deliver higher efficiencies and reduce the LCOE specifications in mind, adopting the latest generation turbines of our projects. available and selecting the optimal rotor diameter and hub height for the site. This resulted in a cost reduction together Best-in-Class Wind Turbines with an improved capacity factor for low-wind, low-turbulence Our wind turbines are sourced from tier-1 equipment suppliers. conditions typical of the Indian market, offering an 8% increase Our projects are usually designed by our in-house engineers, in annual energy production compared to the previous design which allows Vena Energy to pursue a continuous innovation of the site. Additionally, the project was designed to minimise and improvement strategy, while procuring the most optimal its environmental impact. The controller of the turbines utilises equipment for each site. a software algorithm to optimise rotor speeds and pitch angle, which allows noise emissions to be kept below certain For instance, in 2019 we were awarded a competitive wind thresholds for the surrounding fauna without compromising tender in India. Every aspect of our project was optimised on power output. 5 BNEF: Solar trends to watch in 2020 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 2.3.3. Circular Economy Approach towards Project Lifecycle Vena Energy seeks to minimise our procurement and use of raw materials, plan is factored in the original project footprint in terms of generation of carbon manufacturing processes, waste development, the civil and electrical works emissions, waste, and pollution as well management and noise pollution control. needed for repowering the projects are as usage of natural resources. We have likely to be minimised. This far-sighted a three-pronged approach for the entire Active Construction & Asset Management approach creates long-term value for lifecycle of our projects: As an integrated platform with in-house the projects well beyond the originally engineering and operational capabilities, intended project life, while also minimising • Plant design and process efficiency to Vena Energy is fully engaged in and usually their LCOE and environmental impact. minimise input resource requirement leads the construction management process of our sites. Vena Energy’s policies End-of-Life Management • C onstant focus on any reusing, and processes for sustainable project While none of our assets are planned refurbishment, and recycling development are designed to protect and or expected to be decommissioned in opportunities benefit our external stakeholders. the next decade, Vena Energy takes a forward-looking approach towards the • Active management to preserve end-of-life management of our installed the lifespan of our equipment and Following the development and equipment. Our extensive Termination infrastructure construction of the sites, Vena Energy and Decommission Plan covers aspects assumes the asset management and of materials and equipment recovery, Sustainable Procurement operational responsibilities, which allow us land restoration, waste disposal and Vena Energy is committed to incorporating to properly monitor, operate and maintain environment monitoring and remediation. our sustainability mission throughout the our assets, maximising their availability. renewable energy development value As we have full control over the sites, We have designed our sustainable chain, including the procurement process we strive to continuously improve the procurement practices to reuse and of key components and materials, and the environmental impact of our sites with recycle most of the dismantled equipment engagement of construction contractors. the implementation of resource-saving and material. Disposal of excess material is The Vena Energy Procurement Policy and initiatives such as the effective usage of strictly governed, according to regulations environmental strategy forms the basis water for cleaning solar panels. and guidelines, especially for hazardous for decisions around procurement. We waste. We always aim to restore land to ensure that the manufacturing process of Asset Life Extension pre-development state or agriculture equipment, which forms the foundation of Planning for future asset life extension capacity when appropriate. We actively our projects, is conducted in a manner that is a key aspect of our business activities, monitor the potential disturbance to upholds strict environmental standards. as it provides a significant opportunity to adjacent watercourses and natural The screening of counterparties for enhance the output and the economics of features, mitigating such risks through environmental impacts is undertaken our projects by potentially adding up to 20 our Environmental Management and during the investment due diligence years of operations while also increasing Monitoring Plans. process. Guidelines are also specified their efficiency. When the repowering in tenders governing the responsible 2.4. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Vena Energy has a robust framework We apply special measures for projects and serve as a guidepost for our activities. in place to evaluate the potential we identify as sensitive. This category Consideration is given to a wide range of environmental impact of our business includes any projects that hold the factors, including: activities. We align our environmental risk potential for loss of a natural habitat or assessment and management process cultural heritage. We also include projects • Land use compatibility and surrounding with the environmental regulations that affect sensitive communities or land uses of our hosting jurisdictions as well as indigenous groups. For these sensitive international best practices such as the projects, we conduct a full Environmental • Biological resources, including state IFC Performance Standards and World a n d S o c i a l I m p a c t As s e s s m e n t and federally protected plant and Bank Group Environmental, Health (“ESIA”) carried out by independent animal species and Safety Guidelines. We assess the experts and apply comprehensive potential impact of all projects well mitigation measures to ensure our host • H ydrological resources, including before we invest. We identify the areas communities and ecosystems are not jurisdictional wetlands and other water of environmental sensitivity and potential harmed. Our purpose remains to defend bodies improvements, and then monitor the and protect our local stakeholders and projects throughout their lives while the environment, while contributing to • Geological resources, including erosion applying appropriate mitigation and the global action against climate change. considerations optimisation strategies for environmental ESIAs are generally conducted with and operational performance. the aim of minimising impact on the • Flood plain management environment and its natural resources 24 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 The ESIAs enhance our understanding of • Project involving the production or use Vena Energy believes that comprehensive the environmental conditions in which or trade in hazardous materials such training activities are crucial to the success our projects are developed, built and as radioactive materials, unbounded of our corporate objectives, including operated in, representing an important asbestos fibres and products meeting our global environmental tool for our continuous improvement containing polychlorinated biphenyls commitments. Our environmental of the environmental and operational (PCBs) training programmes deliver orientation, efficiency of our sites. education and guidance to new personnel • Project having cross-border trade and ongoing refresher training for all During the lifecycle of our projects, we in waste and waste products unless personnel. All employees and contractors look for opportunities to engage with compliant to the Basel Convention working under the direction of Vena our host communities in a number of and the underlying regulations Energy undergo training to carry out the environmental preservation initiatives, environmental responsibilities associated with the aim of improving the ecosystems • Project using drift net fishing in the with their positions. in and around our sites to an even better marine environment using nets in condition than prior to construction. excess of 2.5 km in length For third-party contractors to be able to work for Vena Energy, they are required Where certain changes to the local sites • Project producing, using or trading to have appropriate training programmes seem necessary for the development of in pharmaceuticals, pesticides/ that assure the compliance of their the projects, our line of action is based on herbicides, chemicals, ozone depleting personnel with all legal environmental the following mitigation hierarchy: substances and other hazardous requirements. In some cases, we share substances subject to international our environmental training programmes • Avoidance; phase-outs or bans with them to elevate and align their • Minimisation; and programmes to our expectations and • Compensation / Offset • Project involving destruction of Critical best practices. Employees and contractors Habitat are required to comply with all applicable However, Vena Energy takes the country, state and local requirements at environmental and social risks very As of December 2019, our internal and all times. seriously, and our corporate policies external resources have cumulatively explicitly prohibit the development of spent close to 100,000 hours conducting projects that would include any of the environmental assessments for our following activities: projects. As a result of our rigorous due diligence process and our compliance • Project trading in wildlife or wildlife with relevant country, state and local products regulated under CITES regulations, we did not experience any (Convention on International Trade unplanned project delays related to nonin Endangered Species of Wild Fauna compliance of environmental regulations and Flora) in 2019. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 2.5. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Environmental Impact Metrics From Inception to 20196 We measure and monitor the sustainability impact of our business activities through detailed metrics and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), which allow us to perform continuous environmental and operational improvements on our projects. Below is a summary of five key indicators that we adopted to measure the sustainability impact of our business activities since inception: Houses GHG Emissions Water Cars Trees Performance Performance Performance Performance Performance 7,307,073 6,653,346 8,032 1,413,695 109,984,452 Households Greenhouse Gas Million litres of Equivalent Equivalent Powered7 Emission Reductions Water Saved9 Cars Removed Trees Planted11 in Tonnes8 from the Road10 Environmental Impact Metrics in 2019 In 2019 the actual energy generation arising from operational assets was 2.6 TWh, whereas the estimated energy generation arising from construction & shovel-ready assets12 was 1.4 TWh. The below metrics illustrate the sustainability impact of our business, arising from the actual and estimated energy generation from our assets in 2019: Houses GHG Emissions Water Cars Trees Performance Performance Performance Performance Performance 2,630,721 3,072,801 3,739 663,672 51,213,349 Households Greenhouse Gas Million litres of Equivalent Equivalent Powered13 Emission Reductions Water Saved9 Cars Removed Trees Planted11 in Tonnes8 from the Road14 % Breakdown % Breakdown % Breakdown % Breakdown % Breakdown 78% 22% 69% 31% 66% 34% 69% 31% 69% 31% O CSR O CSR O CSR O CSR O CSR Legend O: Operational Assets CSR: Construction & Shovel Ready Assets 6 Based on accumulative actual generation from operational assets since inception. 7 H  ouseholds Powered is based on annual household electricity consumption of each operating country derived from Residential Electricity Consumption data obtained from the International Energy Agency (2017) and number of households data obtained from the United Nations and Taiwan Statistical Bureau (2019). This figure represents the cumulative number of Households Powered based on household electricity consumption on an annual basis. The previously reported number of 1,664,289 households powered was based on Vena Energy’s generation of the operating assets since inception divided by the ratio of total electricity consumption of the operating countries (residential, industrial and commercial electricity consumption) to the number of households of the operating countries. 8 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Reduction is calculated assuming that the generation from renewable energy plants replaces an equal quantity of electricity generated using fossil fuels. Respective country generation and emissions data obtained from Bloomberg New Energy Finance (2018). 9 Water Saved is based on water usage factors of solar and wind power plants compared against coal-based power plants using once-through cooling, generic technology. Data obtained from National Renewable Energy Laboratory report (2012), by the national laboratory of the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. 10 This figure represents the cumulative number of Cars Removed from the Road based on GHG emissions per passenger vehicle on an annual basis. 11 Equivalent Trees Planted is based on the amount of GHG sequestered by a medium growth coniferous or deciduous tree, planted in an urban setting and allowed to grow for 10 years, data obtained from the United States Environmental Protection Agency website, last updated: May 27, 2020. 12 Contribution by CSR assets includes pre-commissioning estimations for projects commissioned in 2019. 13 Households Powered is based on annual household electricity consumption of each operating country derived from Residential Electricity Consumption data obtained from the International Energy Agency (2017) and number of households data obtained from the United Nations and Taiwan Statistical Bureau (2019). 14 Equivalent Cars Removed from the Road is based on annual GHG emissions of passenger vehicles obtained from the United States Environmental Protection Agency (2019). 26 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Case Study: Wildlife Conservation At Project Mingus Executive Summary The site is also the breeding ground for a large variety of local and migratory wild birds including the Kentish Plover (Charadrius alexandrines), Black-winged Stilt (Himantopus himantopus), and the Black-Winged Kite (Elanus caeruleus), amongst others. Most importantly, the site is frequented by the Black-Faced Spoonbill (Platalea minor), the rarest of the six spoonbill species in the world, during the winter months. With approximately 1,600 mature adults in the world, the Black-Faced Spoonbill is currently listed as an endangered species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)15. The 70 MW Mingus Solar Project is located in Chiayi County, and is Vena Energy’s fourth renewable energy project in Taiwan. The project consists of 200,000 photovoltaic panels capable of generating more than 106,000 MWh of renewable energy annually and achieved its Commercial Operation Date (COD) in July 2019. The project is the largest operating solar plant in Taiwan, and was built directly by Vena Energy. For its construction, Vena Energy hired 522 workers from our hosting local communities, with the intention of stimulating local employment. Vena Energy partnered with the Chinese Wild Birds Federation (中華民國野鳥學會) and a member of the Kun Shan University The project site includes 80-hectares of a long-abandoned plain, (崑山科技大學) as observers, with the objective of conducting which was previously used for salt production by local farmers frequent on-site surveys prior to and during the construction through evaporation ponds. As part of the environmental phase of the project, and continued to monitor the status conservation plan, Vena Energy successfully restored this and habitat of the wild birds in the purpose-built 24.1-hectare site and created an Ecological Conservation Area for local and Ecological Conservation Area after the completion of the migratory wildlife. Mingus Solar Project. This initiative is aligned with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards — particularly Guidance Note 6: “Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources”16. Vena Energy also engaged an independent environmental consulting company to conduct due diligence and reporting on the reserved areas during the rehabilitation and construction period, as well as to provide guidance on the mitigation of potential disturbance to wildlife prior to the initiation of project construction. The independent environmental consultants were invited to contribute to and participate in several meetings and discussions with the Chinese Wild Birds Federation organised by the Chiayi County Government and Vena Energy, and the findings were published on Vena Energy’s website for public disclosure17. 15 Source: Bird Conservation International: Population trends of the Black-faced Spoonbill Platalea minor: analysis of data from international synchronised censuses 16 Source: Vena Energy Green Financing Framework: ESG Policy 17 Source: Vena Energy: Environmental Protection (環境保護) VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 Findings Another key aspect of environmental and biodiversity The immediate concern for Vena Energy was the conservation preservation was the construction of fences around the Ecological of the natural habitat of both local and migratory wild birds, Conservation Area to prevent pedestrians and vehicles from as well as the fragmentation of the immediate habitat in the interfering with the feeding and breeding of the wild birds. project site. One of the main issues that we identified was Construction of the solar panels was also initiated in the southern the lack of water-flow into the crystallisation and evaporation and northern sections of the salt plain to avoid any impact to ponds, which could have been caused by the lack of rainfall in the wild birds in the Ecological Conservation Area, particularly the Chiayi County, or due to the construction of the project. during the migratory season. This particular issue could have adversely contributed to the loss of food for the birds, such as inland-crabs, fish, shrimp Vena Energy issued guidelines to the local workforce and and mosquito-larvae. In addition, human and vehicular traffic third-party contractors about the ecologically sensitive areas could hinder the breeding and feeding of the wild birds during of the project site and instructed them on how to preserve the construction phase, as well as pose danger to hatchlings animal habitats during the construction activities. Preventive and eggs within the project’s vicinity. procedures and protocols were also put in place in the event of any accidental injuries to animals, with immediate notification to Solutions For The Preservation Of Biodiversity professional wildlife care groups to then proceed with emergency To minimise any potential disturbances to the biodiversity and rehabilitative care. that reside in the vicinity of the Mingus Solar Project, Vena Energy committed a significant amount of resources to shorten In addition, Vena Energy and our contractors devised low-noise the construction period and avoid creating disruptions and construction methods and adaptations to existing machinery noise during the migratory months, while at the same time to avoid alarming or disturbing wildlife from returning to the consulting with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), Ecological Conservation Area. Roads adjacent to the project subject-matter experts and the Chiayi County government site were also sprinkled with water to reduce dust pollution in throughout the process. the air which may have a detrimental effect on the wildlife and the ecosystem. During the construction phase of the project, Vena Energy restored the existing evaporation pools and worked to enhance Together with the additional precautions and mitigation measures some of the crystallisation ponds where the wild birds feed and carried out by Vena Energy and our contractors, the Mingus Solar breed. To do this, Vena Energy ensured that the amount of water Project and the Ecological Conservation Area were completed in the ecological reserve area was maintained by installing a in less than a year and were fully commissioned in July 2019. water gate to control the flow of water into the crystallisation and Further plans were developed in partnership with the NGOs evaporation ponds. This was crucial in maintaining the natural and the Chiayi County government to construct an education habitat as high water levels would destroy suitable breeding centre dedicated to the public education on the Mingus Solar grounds for the wild birds, whereas low water levels would Project, renewable energy and preservation of biodiversity diminish their food supply. This work included the construction of around the site. dikes that surrounded the east and south of the area to prevent the water from evaporating and drying up, and a water pump that regulated the water levels. 28 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Conclusion representing approximately a 90% increase. The Chinese Wild During the construction of the Mingus Solar Project, the median Birds Federation has reported that the number of birds has for the wild birds from January to April in 2019 was 204. Since stabilised, indicating that they have become more comfortable the completion of the project, the median for wild birds in in making the Ecological Conservation Area a permanent home the Ecological Conservation area rose to 385 in early 2020, to breed and feed. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 SOCIAL 3. SOCIAL 3.1. SOCIAL – INTERNAL Our People • Plant design and construction: Our engineering experts in Vena Energy’s most valuable assets are our people. Our staff various jurisdictions collaborate with each other to deliver comprises of more than 500 employees across 9 jurisdictions, consistent standards and best practices in plant design, representing one of the most comprehensive teams in the construction processes and quality control across all assets. Asia-Pacific region that is fully specialised in renewable energy activities. • Centralised procurement: Our team of supply chain experts maximises economies of scale and leverages buying power Vena Energy plays an active role in the wide-ranging action against and relationships through the consolidation of group climate change and for the protection of the environment, and purchasing. offers our employees the opportunity to be an integral part of the overall solution to one of the biggest challenges of our time. • Project financing: Our investment team has built close business relationships with local and international lenders The virtuous relationship with our external stakeholders allows as well as multilateral development financial institutions, our team to feel welcome in the communities that host our allowing Vena Energy to arrange and secure optimal financing operations and projects. Many of Vena Energy’s employees solutions for projects across all of our markets. were born or raised locally where our projects are located, hence further providing them with a vested interest in protecting and • Centralised asset monitoring and data assessment: Our adding value to their home communities. asset management team actively monitors our operational assets 24/7 from Vena Energy’s Control and Diagnostic Our Capabilities Centre​, allowing prompt notification and action to rectify Vena Energy has internalised all the relevant activities for the any operational issues in a timely manner and ensure the development, construction, operation and management of continuous generation and maximum output of our assets. renewable energy assets. Our team is comprised of solar and wind industry leaders, engineers, project developers, investment • Knowledge sharing: One of Vena Energy’s competitive professionals and well-regarded experts in environmental science, strengths lies in sharing resources and intellectual capital local regulations, land development, permitting, interconnection among jurisdictions to bridge the gap in local talent as & transmission, construction management and operations. renewable energy is still an emerging sector in Asia-Pacific. We have local teams residing in close proximity to our projects in each jurisdiction we operate in. These teams take care of the specific aspects of the projects to ensure full compliance with local rules and regulations, as well as maintaining a continuous relationship with our local stakeholders throughout the life of the projects. Additionally, we pool our specialised resources and deploy the most relevant experts across our jurisdictions to supplement our local capabilities. The scale and wide geographical reach of Vena Energy allows us to provide among the best integrated services in the sector while maintaining our cost competitiveness. Some examples of our in-house functions and collaboration among different business units within Vena Energy are listed below: • Resource assessment: Coordination between engineering teams to ensure resource assessments are consistently and accurately undertaken, using the latest technology to maximise resource and site conditions within the existing project specifications. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 3.1.1. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Vena Energy promotes diversity, equity increased productivity, innovation and any form of bullying and harassment and and inclusion, which are our key corporate creativity, as well as attracting talent and we have made available an independent values and an integral part of our success. increasing our onboarding and retention whistle-blower hotline to all employees rates of high-calibre professionals. A to report any related form of grievance We value, embrace and respect the greater variety of backgrounds, talents anonymously. identity, autonomy and legitimacy of all and experiences empowers Vena Energy our team members, and our objective is to have greater adaptability to changing We actively promote cultural diversity to achieve 100% success in ensuring that market conditions. as one of our core values, and we do not we are all given equitable opportunities tolerate any bias or discrimination in our and feel we belong in our working Diversity recruitment process. As a result, our team environment. Vena Energy fully complies with the fair is very well-diversified, with 21 nationalities employment practices and rules of all and a combination of ethnicities, religions, Vena Energy’s continuous emphasis on jurisdictions in which we operate. Our ages, abilities and languages. We believe these core values has also enabled a Code of Conduct and Human Resources our cultural diversity is also one of our key more virtuous workplace, and we have Policy prohibits any form of discrimination, competitive advantages and the main experienced an increasing sense of including those based on gender, sexual driver of our innovation and creative confidence and engagement throughout orientation, race, religion, age, ethnicity, problem-solving. the company. This trend has already citizenship, marital status and physical or produced visible results in terms of mental disability. Our policies also prohibit 2019 Employee breakdown by nationality/region Our Nationalities Japan Philippines India Indonesia Taiwan Nationalities Singapore Thailand Europe Oceania Malaysia South Korea Americas Total 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 We believe it is the duty of every and Mathematics) background. Several Vena Energy’s females-to-males ratio is responsible employer to strive for indices show that women are currently 0.4x as of the end of 2019 and closing this diversity in their own workplace and underrepresented in these fields, gender gap is our next objective. We are combat any potential identity biases. In particularly across the Asia-Pacific region. working towards change by promoting order to achieve the desired diversity in It is estimated that, in the labour market, requalification programmes and our team, we often need to find ways only approximately a quarter of women structuring career paths for talented and to overcome the difficulties of systemic are in STEM fields and only 15% are in ambitious women, shaping an accelerated underrepresentation of certain identities the engineering industry18. The current pathway to become experienced in the current renewable energy job gender gap makes it difficult to readily renewable energy professionals and the market. For instance, a significant portion recruit a balanced number of women and leaders of tomorrow. of jobs in our industry usually requires a men with renewable energy experience STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering in the job market. 18 World Economic Forum Global Gender Gap Report 2020, pg 37. 32 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2019 Employee breakdown by gender 2019 Total Employees Jurisdiction Male Female Total Australia 10 5 15 India 57 12 69 Indonesia 50 19 69 Japan 127 35 162 Philippines 70 29 99 Singapore 23 22 45 South Korea 4 1 5 Taiwan 29 15 44 Thailand 10 5 15 Total 380 143 523 As we continue to place an emphasis on diversity in our team members may face different challenges from time to recruitment process across all our jurisdictions, we have chosen time, requiring more flexibility in their job responsibilities. to cast a spotlight on our female team members in STEM-related Vena Energy seeks to provide all employees with solutions roles. To commemorate International Women’s Day in 2020, to address such needs, be they temporary or permanent. We we have launched the “Women in Power” campaign via social provide market-competitive benefit packages and accommodate media. This year-long campaign aims to provide prospective flexible working arrangements in most of our offices. We arrange jobseekers and students with an insight into Vena Energy’s several townhalls and off-site events each year to encourage successful female team members, including their personal communication among different functions within the company, development within the renewable energy sector and their including interactions between senior and junior members of contributions to the company. the team. We believe our plan will allow us to significantly close this gender Leveraging on our cross-geographical platform and our regional gap by 2025, and completely by 2030. Vena Energy has prepared resource pool, we enable transfers to other jurisdictions and similar tangible and actionable solutions to achieve all our other departments that provide further career experiences and social targets. opportunities, including valuable job rotations to learn new functions or new markets, which are aligned with personal Flexible and Inclusive Workplace development goals and business needs. With a team of over 500 people, we expect that some of our VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 3.1.2. Development and Retention An example is Vena Energy Academy, a bi-weekly knowledge sharing and training event led by functional experts within the organization, which provides our employees with an opportunity to self-develop and learn new skills in different fields. Vena Energy believes that responsible employers should dedicate resources and invest in the development of their teams. A portion of our budget, in the order of 2% of our payroll cost, is dedicated to learning and development initiatives for our employees. Apart from job-specific training, we place a huge emphasis on cross-functional training. Vena Energy aims to nurture allrounded talents and build an integrated platform where cross-functional teams collaborate effectively together. Every team member is given the chance to understand and appreciate the other functions and we promote opportunities for switching careers among different functions and locations. Finally, each employee is provided with mandatory training on corporate-wide matters such as Crisis Management Awareness, Risk Management, Business Vena Energy invests considerable Leadership Development Continuity and Anti-Corruption. resources in acquiring, developing Vena Energy intends to provide everyone and nurturing talent in our team. We with the tools to be a leader, and all team Rewarding performance represent one of the largest and most members are progressively coached to Vena Energy aims to attract, recruit and comprehensive teams in the renewable undertake bigger roles. Our employees retain the best people and talent in the energy sector, with capabilities across usually work in cross-functional and renewable energy sector across the Asia development, engineering, construction, cross-jurisdictional project teams, which Pacific region. We promote long-term operations and asset management and a are empowered for relevant decision career development by recognizing deep knowledge of several key markets making, while senior managers and and rewarding performance. A new within the Asia Pacific region. This is Vena functional experts provide them with Performance Review Framework was Energy’s greatest asset, which we strive appropriate guidance. implemented in 2019 to manage objective to retain and build upon. performance through goalsetting among Vena Energy has established formal team members and their direct managers. Vena Energy has set out targets and executive education programmes as well Annual performance reviews also offer an objectives that guide the hiring, as coaching and mentoring systems, with opportunity to discuss career progression, development and retention initiatives the purpose of facilitating succession training needs and other development across the company: planning and ensuring we always have initiatives. the right resources with the right skillsets • Be an employer that our people are in the right roles. In 2019, Vena Energy underwent a proud of thorough review and benchmarking of Training and Knowledge Sharing our organization design and job sizing • Empower employees by fostering a Vena Energy promotes a culture against the renewable energy industry at productive and enjoyable workplace where our employees are motivated large. We utilised a third-party HR scale to continuously acquire new skills and modelling tool to identify and perform • H elp all Vena Energy employees broaden their scope of knowledge. these adjustments. maximise their potential Our in-house industry and functional experts conduct internal trainings and • Prioritise grooming from within over knowledge sharing sessions through external hires dedicated initiatives. Knowledge sharing also transpires through daily interactions • Develop a progressively larger pool amongst project teams. of talents across our functions and markets 34 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3.1.3. Ensuring Occupational Health and Safety Vena Energy embraces a family-approach time new equipment is purchased, an Training and Education culture and a Zero Accident Vision, where injury occurs, or in any case at least We invest in specialised H&S training no one should be injured at work. Our once a year. All changes are promptly for all our staff, providing them with the workforce comprises more than 500 communicated to all employees. Similar required knowledge and competence full time employees and 3,540 on-site to our environmental policies, our to conduct their work safely. For safety construction workers, all of whom are an contractors and suppliers are also required critical roles within the organisation, integral part of the Vena Energy family. to meet Vena Energy’s H&S standards in Vena Energy requires our team members Human capital is our most important order to conduct business with us. to have appropriate qualifications and asset and the health and safety of our continuous trainings, in line with the people is our number one priority. Vena The Vena Energy Board sets out the company’s standards or local regulatory Energy has adopted strict Health & Safety objectives of the H&S policy and is and legal requirements, whichever is (H&S) policies and procedures, as well responsible for implementing the H&S more stringent. as initiatives for education, awareness, policy. training and regulatory measures. Regular toolbox talks and in-group tutoring The 8 Golden Rules of H&S are constantly conducted to cultivate a Our H&S Mission 1. D emonstrate leadership – lead by culture of safety. In 2019, our employees • To train employees to embrace H&S example collectively underwent over 10,000 hours policies, procedures and practices of H&S related trainings. 2. Identify hazards – control risks • To be recognized as a leader in H&S To ensure the quality and timeliness performance in the renewable energy 3. Define targets – develop programmes of our training efforts, we document sector H&S competency assessments and 4.  A ctively manage contractors – procedures at regional level, covering • To anticipate, identify, assess, control comprehensive coverage the following areas: and review H&S risks across the asset portfolio 5. Ensure a safe and healthy system be • The content of the H&S induction well organised trainings and the methods of • To ensure all contractors and assessment stakeholder activities are carried 6. Safe and healthy work environment out according to our H&S policies, safe plants; safe machinery and • The process to conduct on the job standards and procedures equipment; safe work practices training Our Commitments 7. Improve qualification and training – • Refresher training requirements, Vena Energy is committed to a Zero develop competence including: Accident Vision, which we intend to Induction and practical training topics achieve through the development of 8.  I nvest in people – motivate by New H&S requirements effective a robust safety culture across all our participation since the last training employees, contractors and visitors Lessons learned from past events throughout the organization, and which encompasses: • Zero Fatalities • Zero tolerance towards Health and Safety related incidents • Minimal Lost Time Injuries, Recordable Injuries, First Aid Cases • Comprehensive identification of risks and mitigations to minimum possible level of residual risk • Adequate H&S training, equipment and supervision provided for all activities Our Health & Safety Framework Vena Energy’s H&S Policy defines a common Health & Safety Framework, which involves the identification, assessment and control of workplace hazards and which manages, eliminates or mitigates H&S-related risks. The policy and the framework are reviewed every VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 Lastly, all Vena Energy personnel or operation, to identify and evaluate approval authorities. Specific H&S roles conducting safety critical work are trained problems that may represent risks to and responsibilities have been outlined under specific programmes that include, personnel or equipment. It is used throughout all our plans and procedures. as a minimum, the following areas: to identify anomalies in the working environment and pinpoint their root Our sphere of control extends beyond • Basic operational skills causes. It deals with complex workplace our full-time employees to ensure H&S operations, which in case of a major guidelines and procedures are applied • Specific job task training specific H&S accident could potentially lead to to all our activities. The management risks and procedures and safe work significant injury or loss of life. of contractors is therefore a critical practices applicable to the task requirement for Vena Energy. All our HAZID and HAZOP studies are performed leaders actively engage with contractors • Emergency response and control for all projects during the development and are expected to apply the same duty procedures training covers safe stage and before construction. We also of care to them like they do for our own and prompt shutdown of facilities, complete a Take-5 safety checklist to employees. accounting for personnel, first-aid identify health and safety hazards in the assistance, notification of affected early development stages. Contractors are obliged to submit weekly parties, coordination with the site and and monthly reports to Vena Energy and local emergency response groups, and Changes to the construction or to measure H&S performance together notification of regulatory agencies and operational activities can potentially with event statistics. Site inspections are firefighting organisations invalidate prior risk assessments and conducted at least on a weekly basis, therefore require a risk re-assessment, which ensures that the site condition, Risk Assessment and Control which shall be conducted with the same H&S equipment, Personal Protective Vena Energy conducts detailed H&S rigorous approach that is applied to new Equipment (PPE) and all other equipment risk analysis of all activities executed processes and activities. are functional and safe for use. A throughout the lifecycle of our projects, documented record of these inspections spanning development, construction, Vena Energy has adopted a unified is maintained as an auditable record. operations and decommissioning. This approach to identifying, assessing analysis is used to identify H&S risks and evaluating risks throughout the An audit schedule is developed and and the most effective processes to organisation which is contained within maintained to enable inspections and manage them. the Vena Energy Risk Management audit activities at our sites. Corporate, Procedure. To ensure comprehensive regional and project level H&S Hazard identification (HAZID) studies are H&S management across all our activities, performance is monitored and reported used to detect and reduce any threats that external EPC and O&M Contractors are to evaluate compliance and performance. could cause injuries to our employees, obliged to follow Vena Energy’s risk Verifications by third parties are conducted environmental damages, property loss, management processes. to validate the accuracy of the data in reduction of power generation or other accordance with the audit schedule. In liabilities. HAZID is a general risk analysis Supervision and Inspection addition to third-party audits performed tool designed to alert our responsible Vena Energy has established an under regulatory requirements, a total of teams of threats and hazards as early in organisational structure that provides 887 H&S internal audits were conducted in the process as possible. The studies also a tiered approach to management and 2019 through safety inspections, carried provide a qualitative analysis of a worksite supervision, supporting the effective out at least once a month on unmanned to determine its safety risk level. communication and decision-making sites and once a week on manned sites. processes throughout the organisation. Daily safety walks are carried out on A hazard and operability study (HAZOP) is Each functional level of leadership has construction sites. a structured and systematic examination been authorised to make decisions in of a complex planned or existing process accordance with the risk thresholds and Safety Performance for FY2019 Hours Worked 4,214,864 No. Of First Aid Cases 23 First Aid Cases Rate 1.10 No. of Recordable Cases 7 Recordable Rate 0.33 No. of Lost Time Cases 1 Total Lost Time (days) 7 Lost Time Injury Rate 0.05 36 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 In 2019, there were no fatal workplace accidents that occurred at Vena Energy. The rate of recordable cases of work-related injuries and illnesses (beyond first aid) was 0.33 per 100 equivalent fulltime workers. The rate of lost time cases was 0.05 per 100 equivalent fulltime workers. Recordable Injury Frequency Rate 1.10 0.33 Industry Survey1 FY19 Source: Industry Injury and Illness Data in Electric Power 1 Vena Energy Generation, US Bureau of Labor Statistics (2018) Recordable Injury Frequency Rate. Number of work-related accidents and illnesses per 200,000 worked hours, which approximately equals to the number of hours worked by 100 people in one year. (It includes injuries that occur during work-related travel that result in lost time or no lost time and/or that lead to medical treatment, restricted work, or work at a substitute workstation). Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 0.50 0.05 Industry Survey1 FY19 Source: Industry Injury and Illness Data in Electric Power 1 Vena Energy Generation, US Bureau of Labor Statistics (2018) Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate. Measures work-related accidents resulting in lost time per 200,000 worked hours, which approximately equals to the number of hours worked by 100 people in one year. Vena Energy has a prescribed Incident Reporting and Investigation Procedure embedded within our Code of Conduct which defines roles and methods employed to guarantee prompt communication of incidents and execution of impact assessment, root cause analysis and corrective action plans, as well as their monitoring. We seek to act immediately to reduce risks of injury incidents and fatalities, identify root causes of any potential accidents and take all necessary measures to prevent comparable cases in the future. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 3.2. SOCIAL – EXTERNAL Vena Energy firmly believes in engaging with our host communities We also commit to making community contributions to support a throughout the lifecycle of our projects, with the objective of range of cultural, educational, environmental and social initiatives enabling sustainable social and economic development locally. within our host communities and our jurisdictions. We aim to operate our business in a socially sustainable manner and employ We support local employment by creating job opportunities for clear and transparent standards of corporate governance in the members of our communities. Our projects are often located the selection, execution and management of Corporate Social in rural areas and offer an exciting opportunity to the younger Responsibility (CSR) programmes. Our Sustainability Committee generations to build their careers and be gainfully employed provides oversight of our CSR activities in coordination with our in their birthplaces. This allows them to remain closer to their local country teams and ensures that our CSR initiatives are families and it helps to prevent rural-urban migration with the aligned with Vena Energy’s corporate values. consequent deterioration of local economies. We support local procurement policies and work with local suppliers wherever possible to help the development of the local industrial sector. 3.2.1. Labour and Preserving Human Rights In line with the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles Vena Energy instils the Human Rights principles on the Code on human rights, we firmly believe that every individual should of Conduct and related policies in our employees through our be treated with equality and dignity. Vena Energy is committed regular trainings, both in-person and online. We have made to upholding human rights and eliminating forced labour, child available an independent whistle-blower hotline to all employees labour and discrimination from any business processes and to anonymously report any related form of grievance, and any activities that are conducted in relation to our business. These reported incidents are immediately escalated to Vena Energy’s principles are clearly outlined in our Environmental Social & Audit and Risk Committee. The compliance team is responsible Governance (“ESG”) Policy, which prohibits any direct or indirect for maintaining the records of any reported breaches or incidents, involvement of any type in any activities involving exploitative, managing them appropriately and monitoring their redressal. forced or child labour and human rights violations. As part of our due diligence process, we take appropriate measures to ensure In 2019, Vena Energy did not identify any risk of human rights that our local counterparts, suppliers and contractors comply with abuses, child labour, forced labour or discrimination, and we the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and continue to strengthen these principles by exercising management the United Nations International Labour Standards (“UN ILO”). and monitoring processes over our business practices. 38 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3.2.2. Empowering Communities Our aim is to support our host communities through strategic construction projects in Australia, India, Indonesia, Japan and social investments and thoughtful involvement. We support Taiwan. For the projects completed in 2019 we integrated a local employment through the creation of job opportunities, part of this staff into the projects’ full-time operational teams, with a total of 3,540 local jobs created in 2019 across our creating full-time local employment. Local Job Opportunities in 2019 Peak Number of On-Site Workers Location Project During Construction in 2019 Australia Tailem Bend Solar Project 251 India Amreli Wind Project 85 Tolo Wind Project 760 Minut Solar Project 362 Indonesia Lombok Solar Project 92 Lombok 2 Solar Project 66 Lombok 3 Solar Project 99 NEJ Solar Project 162 Towada Solar Project 146 Hitachiomiya Solar Project 320 Ono Solar Project 270 Shichinohe 9 Solar Project 46 Japan Wakuya 40 Kawakami Solar Project 24 Kawakami 2 Solar Project 25 Aomori 2 Solar Project 3 Shichinohe 6 Ext Solar Project 65 Shichinohe 8 Ext Solar Project 72 Coltrane Solar Project 130 Taiwan Mingus Solar Project 522 Total 3,540 Our local teams work closely with municipalities, state • Infrastructure: Our CSR infrastructure projects aim to improve governments and our host communities to identify ways in access to basic sanitation facilities and potable water, and to which we can contribute and bring about sustainable benefits improve road infrastructure near project sites. Vena Energy to them. Our CSR initiatives are created in collaboration with also provides support for the repair of local schools, hospitals our local stakeholders and focus on the following areas to drive and community buildings. sustainable development: • Access to affordable clean energy: Vena Energy educates • Education: Provision of scholarships, internships and other local communities on the ways affordable clean power can education-related support, such as donating new classrooms, support economic and social development. supplies and IT equipment to schools. In 2019, Vena Energy’s CSR expenditure was close to $400,000 • Healthcare: Access to basic and preventive healthcare is and our employees contributed 3,436 volunteer hours to over a key priority for communities located near some of Vena 60 CSR initiatives, reaching more than 35,000 beneficiaries from Energy’s rural asset sites. Vena Energy has provided both Australia, India, Indonesia, Japan, the Philippines, Singapore, healthcare and healthcare-related services tailored to meet Taiwan and Thailand. the material needs of these communities. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 39 3.3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS 3.3.1. Australia Tailem Bend Solar Project Overview facilitated by Vena Energy. All attendees exchange of information to help prepare In 2019, Vena Energy completed the 127 were practicing building surveyors currently their development teams for the roll out. MW Tailem Bend Solar Project (“TBSP”), employed by the Local Government and and over the course of its construction across several Local Government Areas Education created approximately 250 job (Councils). The opportunity represented Vena Energy facilitated and sponsored the opportunities within our host community. a successful example of a grid scale solar Inaugural Renewables Road Show, which The workforce consisted of 40% locals facility, encouraged and supported by local included funds for accommodation and and 10% identified as Aboriginal or Torres council, within a rural district. travel. The tour was for students of Tension Strait Islander descent. Vena Energy is also Woods College in South Australia, of the currently developing a 100MW Battery In addition, the South Australian Local Tailem Bend Solar Farm to demonstrate Energy Storage System (BESS) in Wandoan Government Professionals Network the physical components and scale of a South in Queensland. is a network of local government grid sized facility. professionals taking part in a Leadership Our operational portfolio in Australia can Programme. The attendees utilised the About 40 students were undertaking a produce 207,284 MWh yearly, which can site tour as an opportunity to include Technical and Further Education (“TAFE”) supply 34,632 Australian households TBSP as a case study in their completion qualification as part of their studies, with clean, renewable energy yearly. In of the Programme. TBSP was highlighted Certificate in Electro Technology, which comparison to thermal-power generation, as a significant development in a rural included a local project on campus our portfolio can reduce approximately community that encourages economic installing a 65 kW system. This was 210,348 tonnes of GHG emissions, while and social positives for the community. compared to TBSP at 95 MW to give the saving 195 million litres of water annually. students perspective on the potential of Local Industry solar. The school used the opportunity to Community Initiatives Vena Energy also hosted and facilitated demonstrate the significance of the wider Local Government a site tour to an industry body that were renewables picture in South Australia as The South Australian Local Government using the opportunity as an investigation well as the range of potential careers Building Surveyor hosted by Coorong into solar. As the industry partners are available within the industry. District Council (Local Government implementing a roll-out of solar assets authority applicable to the TBSP) was across their properties, TBSP provided an 40 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3.3.2. India Overview in the provision of medical treatment via where our 135MW KN Solar Project is Vena Energy currently operates and a mobile clinic in the villages of Dewas located. The school was established maintains 15 solar and wind projects in and Ujjain districts in India since 2017. in the 80s, modelled around Gandhian India, with a total capacity of 679 MW, Working in partnership with local NGO values. It is a non-profit residential school and is currently constructing a 97 MW HelpAge and the Siemens Gamesa (India) that houses 240 students who are taught wind project which is expected to be Foundation, the mobile clinic continues to vocational skills alongside education commissioned in Q4 2020. provide curative and preventive medical curriculum. The initiative addressed advice and treatment to more than 15,000 the critical issue of intermittent power Our operational and construction portfolio villagers every week in 2019. outages that have disrupted the school’s in India produces up to 1,617,649 MWh operation and is aimed at the continuation yearly, which can supply 1,675,945 In addition, we partnered with the Akshaya of essential education amongst the young Indian households with clean, renewable Patra Foundation to provide meals to in the villages. energy yearly. In comparison to thermalpregnant women and young children. power generation, our portfolio reduces Many of these children and women come Social approximately 1,441,422 tonnes of GHG from disadvantaged backgrounds in and In response to community requests, we emissions, while saving up to 1,530 million around the Sangareddy village in the state contributed to a “Sustainable Livelihood litres of water annually. of Telangana, and often cannot afford food for Women” for seven villages within daily. The initiative aims to give back to the the Patan district. The initiative was Community Initiatives host communities living near our 130MW aimed at providing training and income In 2019, Vena Energy has spent over 112 TS Solar Project and to sustain the health generation channels such as tailoring and man-hours participating in community of mothers and their children. handicraft design, to facilitate alternative initiatives that have benefited more than or additional revenue streams for women 9,000 beneficiaries in terms of healthcare, Education who live in poverty and without a formal education and social initiatives amongst Through the Juwi Spandana Trust, we training or basic education. our host communities. installed recycled solar panels and other installation materials to provide reliable and Healthcare renewable energy to the Gandi Grameen Vena Energy has been actively participating Gurukul school in the state of Karnataka, Karnataka (KN) Solar Project VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 41 3.3.3. Indonesia Minut Solar Project Overview community initiatives that have helped Over the course of three days, employees Vena Energy is the largest renewable energy more than 3,200 beneficiaries in terms from both Vena Energy and ING donated IPP in Indonesia, as we commissioned the of education, healthcare, and social stationery, furniture, laptop computers, Minut and Lombok Solar Projects totalling activities, amongst others. washing machines, fridges and medical 42 MW and the 72 MW Tolo Wind Project. equipment to a local school, while also During the construction of these projects, Healthcare spending time with the children, engaging Vena Energy created an estimated 1,379 Vena Energy partnered with global them in activities such as refurbishing their job opportunities amongst our host healthcare NGO LearntoLive to provide library together, and the cultivation of an communities in Jeneponto, Likupang and free dental and medical services to 481 organic farm within the school’s premises. Lombok in Indonesia. villagers in the town of Wineru, near our Minut (pictured above) Solar Project in Social Our operational portfolio in Indonesia South Sulawesi. Vena Energy also conducted a forum is capable of producing up to 308,787 for women in the local communities on MWh yearly, which supplies up to 235,188 Education empowerment and entrepreneurship, Indonesian households with clean, In partnership with ING, Vena Energy aimed at creating opportunities to renewable energy yearly. In comparison to donated critical school supplies and improve family welfare and encourage thermal-power generation, our portfolio conducted general improvements to alternative revenue streams. Through this reduces approximately 261,340 tonnes of the Peduli Anak Foundation, a non-profit forum, a Women’s Business Group was GHG emissions, while saving up to 292 organization dedicated to providing care, formed and plans to cultivate bananas million litres of water annually. education, in-home family care, medical which are indigenous to the area and then and legal support for thousands of produce banana chips. The group will go Community Initiatives underprivileged, neglected or abused on to support the production by providing Vena Energy has established close children who had been placed in the care facilities, as well as assisting in the food relationships with our host communities of Indonesian child social services. certification needed for mainstream sale since 2015. In 2019, the team has and promotion. participated in and contributed to 42 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3.3.4. Japan Overview Community Initiatives Social At the end of 2019, Vena Energy operates In 2019, Vena Energy participated in We donated towards a disaster recovery and maintains 19 operational renewable community initiatives that have benefitted fund for the host communities within energy projects in Japan totalling 350 more than 300 beneficiaries and many the Hyōgo, Miyagi, Tochigi and Ibaraki MW, including two projects that were others in terms of education and social prefectures when Japan was hit by commissioned in the same year. Over initiatives amongst our host communities. two severe typhoons, which caused the course of construction, the two widespread damages. In addition, we also solar projects created an estimated 308 Education donated to Place to Grow, an NGO that job opportunities amongst our host In 2019, Vena Energy donated towards supports, connects and inspires the next communities in Japan. the provision of Internet access to the rising generation of community leaders, as Shichinohe Junior High School. The aim well as contributing to the recovery of the Our operational, construction and shovel of the initiative was to enhance the ITdisaster-stricken Tohoku communities. ready portfolio in Japan is capable of related education to the approximately Vena Energy employees also volunteered producing 1,157,286 MWh yearly, which 161 students. We also donated to the at the annual Christmas event for the can supply 230,507 Japanese households Kami-machi Scholarship, to encourage children of the communities. with clean, renewable energy yearly. In students within Kami-machi to become comparison to thermal-power generation, future leaders of the community and our portfolio can reduce approximately contribute to community development. 688,753 tonnes of GHG emissions, while saving 1,091 million litres of water annually. NEJ Solar Project VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 43 3.3.5. Philippines Overview State University. The scholarship provides Vena Energy also supported the Rizal Vena Energy operates and maintains five financial support to the students who Provincial Health Office through the solar and wind projects totalling 248 MW come from less fortunate families, and donation of medicine to support the in capacity. Capable of producing 386,127 Vena Energy has committed to support medical mission of RPG. The medical MWh yearly, our renewable energy two additional new scholars amongst the mission aims to provide medical attention portfolio in the Philippines can supply incoming freshmen per school year. and services to the poor and far flung 368,766 Filipino households with clean, barangays of the Province of Rizal. renewable energy yearly. In comparison to As part of the School Maintenance Week thermal-power generation, our projects in initiative by the Department of Education, Social the Philippines can reduce approximately Vena Energy donated assorted painting The 54MW Pililla Wind Project in the Rizal 320,777 tonnes of GHG emissions, while and cleaning supplies. In addition, Province continues to draw tourism to the saving 364 million litres of water annually. employee volunteers refurbished the region, with more than 718,000 tourists in Labuagon Elementary School. 2019 visiting the project. The local Visitor Community Initiatives Centre serves as both a venue for tourists Vena Energy has built a strong Healthcare to learn about renewable energy and as relationship with our host communities Vena Energy continues to contribute to an opportunity for local residents to sell and local and federal regulators in the the Zero Hunger Feeding Programme, their arts and crafts. Philippines since 2014. In 2019, Vena which aims to bring down the number Energy spent approximately 500 manof malnourished children in our host Vena Energy has also continued our hours across education, healthcare and communities through a yearlong feeding yearly Christmas Shoe Drive, in which social initiatives that have helped more programme of Mingo, a nutritious instant we purchase shoes for underprivileged than 16,000 beneficiaries amongst the powder mix (of Moringa, Munggo and elementary school children during the host communities where our projects Rice) that turns into rice porridge when Christmas season. are located. mixed with water. The Mingo feeding programme ensures that children get the Education nutrients they need for optimal growth Vena Energy initiated a scholarship for two and development. university freshmen of the Mariano Marcos Ironman Solar Project 44 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3.3.6. Taiwan Mingus Solar Project Overview education, environmental conservation, Infrastructure Vena Energy commissioned the 10 MW infrastructure and social initiatives that We donated NTD$4.5 million to the Coltrane Solar Project and the 70 MW have helped more than 4,500 beneficiaries. Chiayi County Government, for the Mingus Solar Project in 2019, increasing purpose of refurbishing the road near the our operational portfolio in Taiwan to 90 Education 70 MW Mingus Solar Project in Taiwan. MW. During the construction of both To encourage students in the neighbouring The road adjacent to the project is the projects, we hired 652 local workers villages in the Beinan Township, Vena main artery that leads towards the Budai among the host communities in the Chiayi Energy provided a scholarship and support Township, and large cracks have made it and Yunlin counties. for athletic classes to the Zhiben primary difficult for vehicles to travel safely, which and junior high school. hindered the transportation of goods Our operational and shovel ready portfolio and economic growth of the county. The in Taiwan is capable of producing 144,440 Environment donation was received by the mayor of MWh yearly, which can supply 26,795 In partnership with the Taiwan Bird Chiayi County, Mr. Weng Zhangliang (翁章 Taiwanese households with clean, Association and Kun Shan University, Vena 梁), at a ceremony that commemorated renewable energy yearly. In comparison to Energy conducted an extensive study on the donation, as a contribution back to thermal-power generation, our portfolio the habitat, movements and behaviour our host community for their support reduces approximately 71,254 tonnes of of local and migratory birds within the during the journey of construction and GHG emissions, while saving 136 million vicinity of the Mingus Solar Project. The operation of the solar project. litres of water annually. study also monitored the substances in the water and mud throughout the year Social Community Initiatives and the adjacent ecological preservation Vena Energy collaborates with local Vena Energy regularly consults with the area built by Vena Energy as part of the community leaders and governments local village leaders, city and county project. These partnerships have enabled to actively support local festivities and government officials to identify the large numbers of local wildlife as well as events, in addition to providing meals needs of the host communities around the endangered Black-Faced Spoonbills to villagers living under the poverty line. our renewable energy projects. In the to return to the area to breed and feed past year, the team has focused on during the winter months. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 45 3.3.7. Thailand IAC (Tak) Solar Project Overview and long-standing relationship with the Centre in Thamkrataihong and Had Siew In Thailand, Vena Energy currently communities that host our renewable sub-districts. operates and maintains 10 solar projects energy projects. In the past year, Vena with a total capacity of 92 MW, and our Energy has spent over 168 man-hours Social operational portfolio produces around participating in community initiatives that The province of Ubon Ratchathani was 138,611 MWh yearly, which supplies have helped more than 1,450 beneficiaries battered by floods caused by tropical 58,887 Thai households with clean, through education and social initiatives. storms Podul and Kajiki in 2019 causing the renewable energy yearly. In comparison worst flooding in the last 17 years, which to thermal-power generation, our projects Education affected the livelihood and safety of around in Thailand reduce approximately 78,908 Schools in rural Thailand often lack 32,306 families. Vena Energy activated tonnes of GHG emissions, while saving resources compared to the urban areas. our employees to provide assistance to 131 million litres of water annually. Working in partnership with the provincial the flood victims by supplying essentials, authorities, Vena Energy donated bicycles, cleaning supplies and equipment. Community Initiatives sports equipment and stationeries to the As one of our earliest markets since Ban Bak School in the Waring Chamrab 2012, Vena Energy has a built a strong District and to the Child Development 46 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3.3.8. South Korea MOU signing ceremony with Korea Midland Power, a state-owned offtaker Overview In March 2019 Vena Energy opened a permanent office in Korea and started our journey to deliver sustainable energy solutions to our 9th business jurisdiction across the Asia-Pacific region. Our team has already initiated 459 MW of onshore and offshore wind development since then. Vena Energy is also exploring new technologies, including battery and green hydrogen energy storage systems. Community Initiatives A focus area for Vena Energy is offshore wind development which requires strong support from both local government and our host communities. Vena Energy acquired a 384 MW offshore wind business permit in the nearshore of Tongyoung city, southern ocean of the peninsula, and we are collaborating with our strategic offtake partner Korea Midland Power in launching a community support programme for local fisheries associations and residents living in the islands around the project site. The programme aims to conserve and protect marine resources and sustain the livelihood of the local fisheries. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 47 3.3.9. Singapore Overview As the corporate headquarters of Vena Energy, the Singapore office oversees the development, construction and operation of more than 11 GW of renewable assets across nine jurisdictions in the Asia Pacific region. Corporate sustainability frameworks and policies are also established at the headquarters, which drives the initiatives and activities across local offices. Community Initiatives In the past year, Vena Energy helped to raise employee and public awareness on the impact of improper waste disposal along the coastlines of Singapore. Employees embarked on a coastal clean-up initiative and collected more than 80-kilograms of trash that was washed up on-shore and along the common areas frequented by visitors. We also participated in the Gifts of Joy initiative, where monetary donations and presents were given to children with special needs. Coastal clean-up group photo 48 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GOVERNANCE 4. GOVERNANCE 4.1. BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT TEAM Vena Energy is committed to the highest standards of business ethics and integrity. Our Board of Directors has extensive experience in operating and investing in sustainable infrastructure and has established a robust corporate governance framework throughout the entire business. Our senior management team, led by Vena Energy’s CEO, has extensive qualifications and a proven performance track record with an average of approximately 21 years of relevant working experience. We are committed to implementing a robust corporate governance framework through clear investment strategies and detailed due diligence and approval procedures. Our corporate governance structure is overseen by several committees. In addition to the Sustainability Committee, the Board has established three committees to ensure robust, independent and effective oversight of our business: BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MANDATE The Investment Committee oversees the investment, divestment and development activities Investment committee of Vena Energy, including the alignment of investment decisions with our corporate strategy and evaluating the effectiveness of our investment policy. The Audit and Risk Committee, whose members are independent of executive management, provides independent oversight and monitoring of Vena Energy’s audit, compliance, internal controls and risk related functions and processes. The committee meets at least every quarter Audit and Risk Committee to assess and monitor Vena Energy’s risk management practices relating to operational, reputational and financial risks, regulatory compliance, financial reporting practices and the enforcement of business ethics and internal controls. The Remuneration Committee, whose members are independent of executive management, Remuneration Committee assists the Board in relation to remuneration, succession planning and related matters. 50 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 4.2. SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Vena Energy’s Board sets our sustainability strategic direction and provides rigorous oversight through the Sustainability Committee, which drives the promotion, implementation and monitoring of our sustainable business practices. In particular, the Sustainability Committee oversees Vena Energy’s sustainable investment matters including the oversight of environmental and social risk management, corporate responsibility and investment initiatives and implementation of Vena Energy’s Green Financing Framework, which includes the allocation of green financing proceeds towards Eligible Green Projects. The Sustainability Committee further monitors the positive impact of Vena Energy’s business activities, ensuring we are meeting our ambitions. While the responsibility for implementing our ESG Policy lies with all our employees, the Sustainability Committee oversees the implementation of Vena Energy’s sustainability mandate through direct reporting from key individuals across our business as identified below: Sustainability Committee Chairperson: Deputy Members: Chief Chairpersons: Chief Human Resources Officer, General Executive Environmental Counsel, Chief Finance Officer, Head of Officer Lead and Head of Operations, Health & Safety Lead and one Sustainable Finance Country Head (on rotational basis) Environmental Social Governance Health & Human Corporate Social Safety Resources Responsiblity Environmental General Lead Counsel Health & Chief Human Country Safety Lead Resource Officer Heads 4.3. MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Our decision-making and investment processes are guided by our Management Framework encompassing all our business activities. This framework is central to our sustainable business model and is developed in accordance with international standards and industry best practices. Vena Energy continuously seeks to improve and apply relevant international best practice standards to this framework. Established Management Frameworks VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 51 4.4. VENA ENERGY GOVERNANCE POLICIES We operate our business in accordance with comprehensive Vena Energy’s Anti-Corruption Policy prohibits all forms policies and procedures, the foundation of which is our Code of of bribery and corruption and provides a framework for the Conduct. Vena Energy’s Code of Conduct sets out our core values identification and mitigation of risks relating to corruption by and is designed to help our staff and third parties understand requiring thorough due diligence of potential business partners and incorporate our ethical and professional principles into their and intermediaries, incorporation of our values and standards practices, including: into the activities of these third parties and regular education and training for all staff. Our Anti-Corruption Policy and practices • Integrity are benchmarked against international standards, incorporating practices recommended by, among others, the US Department • Business Ethics of Justice, the UK SFO and other governmental authorities. All employees receive training on our Anti-Corruption Policy • Nurturing of People & Teamwork and certify their compliance with it on a regular basis. Our Compliance function monitors the policy’s effectiveness and • Corporate Governance regularly assesses its implementation, suitability and adequacy. The systems and processes underpinning our internal controls • Compliance Culture are subject to regular audits to ensure that they are effective in addressing bribery and corruption. • No Harassment or Conflicts We place the highest expectations on our third party vendors, • Transparency and Fair Dealings who are evaluated based on several criteria, including our policies and procedures. We do not conduct business with vendors who • Corporate Social Responsibility cannot satisfy the highest standards of reliability and integrity and meet our requirements on, among other things, environmental, By upholding the values articulated in the Code of Conduct, Vena labour and health and safety matters. Energy aspires to go beyond conducting business in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and to demonstrate an The effectiveness of our policies and procedures depends on exemplary model of integrity, business ethics and transparency. transparency in communications throughout the organisation, We believe a high standard of personal and professional conduct including reporting of concerns by staff and third parties, whether is a fundamental building block to establish a sustainable and regarding safety, malpractice, bribery, fraud or misconduct. socially responsible business. We expect all internal and external Where employees wish to report concerns anonymously, we stakeholders including directors, employees, contractors and have established a dedicated whistle blower channel where consultants to uphold the Code of Conduct principles in their these concerns can be reported anonymously. everyday dealings to further Vena Energy’s sustainability agenda and establish a collaborative, nurturing and positive work culture. 4.5. OVERVIEW OF ESG POLICY Vena Energy’s ESG Policy is central to upholding our sustainable business model and values. Vena Energy has implemented an ESG Policy across all our activities in accordance with local and international standards that encompass: • Local environment, health and safety laws and regulations • IFC Performance Standards • World Bank Group Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines • International Labour Organisation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights The ESG Policy provides guidelines on key ESG-related areas including the selection of investments and the implementation of appropriate stakeholder engagement processes at each of our projects. Introducing ESG considerations into our decision making is important to ensuring value creation for our stakeholders and the long-term success of our business. 52 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Our ESG objectives include: Making a positive impact on the environment; Encouraging efficient use of natural resources and protecting the environment; Environment Minimising the footprint of our operations by adopting industry best practices; and Providing guidance and setting expectations for upholding Vena Energy’s commitment to sustainability. Treating our employees and contractors fairly, without discrimination and continuously respecting their dignity, well-being and diversity; Social Safeguarding the health and safety of everyone who comes in contact with our business activities; and Ensuring objectivity, consistency and fairness with all stakeholders of Vena Energy’s business and in the local communities where assets are located, through effective engagement and collaboration. Ensuring that Vena Energy and all related entities exhibit honesty, integrity, fairness, diligence and respect Governance in all business dealings, in compliance with legal requirements Vena Energy has developed a robust ESG evaluation system to guide our investment decision-making process. Even when projects do not require full Environmental Social Impact Assessment, we develop an Environmental & Social Management Plan (“ESMP”) and Corrective Action Plan (“CAP”) with the help of external consultants to identify, plan and manage ESG related risks. Based on the ESMP and CAP, a comprehensive Environmental, Social, Management System (“ESMS”) is prepared to provide the framework and guidelines for the effective implementation and management of the sustainability performance of a given project. ESMP, CAP and ESMS PROJECT DEVELOPMENT, INVESTMENT EVALUATION & DECISION CONSTRUCTION & OPERATIONS Environmental & Social Environmental, Social, Management Plan (“ESMP”), Management System Corrective Action Plan (“CAP”) (“ESMS”) Objective – The identification, planning and Objective – Establish the framework for effective management of actions to mitigate impacts in implementation, management and enhancement of accordance with a hierarchical corrective action plan environmental, social, health & safety performance (avoid, minimise, mitigate) Identify mitigation and Establish management organisational measures / actions capacity Identify possible Develop policies emergency incidents & procedures Identify CSR projects Implement mitigation following discussions and management with the local measures community Monitor, report & train Assessment analysis & review Adaptation & improvement The ESMS is developed based on the ESMP to ensure The ESMP is developed with an external consultant that each platform implements actions identified, and incorporates issues identified in the CAP. The has a clear plan to improve ESG performance over ESMP is used to manage environmental and social the investment lifecycle and executes community issues and risks during the investment lifecycle based CSR projects VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 53 The application of the framework prescribes a dedicated plan during each stage of the project lifecycle: ESG Policy Throughout Project Life-Cycle Development Construction Operation Decommission • ESIA as applicable • Implementation and monitoring • Energy and resource efficient • Re-use, recover and recycle • Internal ES Due Diligence of ES Management Plan operation metals and materials of •W  orkers and local community’s • Implementation and monitoring economic value • Land procurement health and safety of ES Management Plan • Proper waste management • Forest permission •W  aste and traffic management • Workers and local community’s • Engagement and consultation • Engagement and consultation health and safety with local community with local community •E  ngagement and consultation with local community • Engagement and consultation with local community Key International Best Practices throughout Investment Cycle IFC Performance Standards Vena assesses ES risks, mitigation and implements management plan in investment cycle in accordance with this 8 standards, as one of the essential industry best practices. Others Guidelines and Standards • World Bank Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines and Sector Guidelines (Wind power) • International Labour Standards ILO Basic Terms & Conditions of Work 54MW TGP 1 Wind Project in India 54 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 4.6. GREEN FINANCING FRAMEWORK Core to our sustainable business model is our Green Financing Framework which was first introduced in 2018 and further revised in 2019. The purpose of this framework is to specify the use of proceeds funded by green bonds or loans to projects that have environmental benefits and provide transparency and accountability on our green and social financing activities to all our stakeholders. The Green Financing Framework has been independently evaluated by Vigeo Eiris and Japan Credit Rating Agency and it is structured to be in line with the following guidelines: • The Green Bond Principles published by the International Capital Markets Association (“ICMA”) in 2018 • The Green Loan Principles published by Loan Market Association (“LMA”), Asia Pacific Loan Market Association and Loan Syndications and Trading Association (“LSTA”) in 2018 The chart below outlines the approach of our Framework: Green Financing Framework • Created to facilitate transparency, and Use of Proceeds Project Selection Management Reporting disclosure and demonstrate the integrity of Vena • Finance/re-finance • Sustainability • A dedicated Green • Allocation and Energy’s green and social new or existing Committee to Finance Account impart reporting financing activities projects evaluate and to the Green annually • Renewable approve in Bonds or Green • An independent • In line with the Green Bond (solar, wind and accordance with Loans auditor to assure Principles 2018 and Green hydropower) the Framework • Deposited until full its amount Loan Principles 2018 • IFC PS compliance allocation Renewable Energy Reference to Taxonomy sector standards • Solar energy: photovoltaic solar electricity, concentrated solar power, • The Eligible Project Categories and Use of Proceeds associated are infrastructure and manufacturing, transmission defined in accordance with the Taxonomy set by the Climate Bond • Wind energy: offshore and onshore wind farms, infrastructure and Initiative in 2019 manufacturing, transmission • Solar and Wind Energy Use of Proceeds are moreover set in the Climate • Hydropower: run of river and small hydro <15MW (CDM defined), existing Bonds Initiative Standards large hydro >20MW in temperate zones, re-powering of existing large • Standards for hydropower assets are still under development hydro system Two second opinion agencies confirmed the alignment with two principles and gave the high rating on the Green Financing Framework • Vigeo Eiris assessed Vena Energy’s sustainability strategy and • Japan Credit Rating Agency evaluated greenness of use of proceeds coherency between sustainability commitments, its potential and management, operation and transparency and rated the highest contribution to sustainability and its alignment with the four for both elements. components of the Green Bond Principles and Green Loan Principles • We obtained their highest level of assurance on commitments and contribution More details about our Green Financing Framework and Second Party Opinions can be found on our corporate website. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 55 FINANCIALS 5. FINANCIALS 5.1. INTRODUCTION In 2019, Vena Energy achieved another consecutive year of energy assets, investing in and managing the fund on behalf double digit growth in Revenue and EBITDA, with 10 solar and of several leading institutional partners. We also provide asset wind projects (373 MW) commissioned during the course of the management, operations and maintenance services to the year. The new assets include Project Mingus, Taiwan’s largest portfolio, leveraging on our strong operational expertise and utility scale solar plant, two Japanese solar assets and our first integrated platform to deliver best-in-class performance and operating projects in Indonesia and Australia, which added ESG standards. diversity to our 2019 financial performance. Several treasury initiatives were undertaken during the year to In 2019, we obtained a new EPC license and expanded our provide the liquidity needed to support our growth activities O&M team across the region, further enhancing the reach and while maintaining a disciplined approach to leverage and capital integration of our construction and operating functions. In management. addition to the 10 projects successfully commissioned during 2019, 8 projects totalling 315 MW were under construction and In November 2019, we also established a US$1,000,000,000 new projects were added to our shovel ready pipeline, which guaranteed EMTN programme. Our inaugural bond was now totals 18 projects expected to begin construction in the near successfully issued and listed on SGX in February 2020 in future. Development activities continued on a healthy trajectory compliance with the ICMA Green Bond Principles, and it became in 2019 with meaningful competitive awards including our first the first ever corporate USD Green Bond issuance by a Singaporeenergy storage project in Australia (100 MW), a 96 MW wind headquartered company. auction in India and a 45MW solar auction in Japan. Our team also continued to grow, with 55 additional team members bringing Prior to the bond issuance, Vena Energy also obtained investment the total number of employees to 523 as of the end of 2019. grade ratings from two credit rating agencies: Standard and Poor’s and the Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCR). We also published an We also launched a new business activity by successfully updated Green Financing Framework, which was independently placing our first renewable energy fund. Vena Energy now acts evaluated by Vigeo Eiris and JCR, receiving the highest level of as sponsor and general partner of a portfolio of select renewable assurance from both agencies. 127MW Tailem Bend Solar Project in Australia VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 57 5.2. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Revenue $352.9 million 15% Y-o-Y 352.9 308.0 USD in millions FY2019 FY2018 Revenue for 2019 was $353 million, an increase of $45 million or 15% from 2018. The increase was mainly due to $65 million of contributions from 10 new projects (373 MW) commissioned during the year and projects placed into service in 2018 which generated a full year of results in 2019, $16 million reduction from the transfer of TK interests and $4m reduction from operational factors and one-off income. EBITDA $261.1 million 26% Y-o-Y 261.1 206.8 USD in millions FY2019 FY2018 EBITDA for 2019 was US$261 million, an increase of $54 million or 26% from 2018. The increase was mainly due to $47 million of contributions from 10 new projects (373 MW) commissioned during the year and other projects placed into service which generated a full year of results in 2019 and $12 million reduction from the transfer of TK interests. Further, following a refinement in capitalisation policy in 2019, shared service costs directly attributable to development or construction activities of $16 million (2018: nil) were capitalised during the year. 58 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5.3. FINANCIAL RESULTS Operating Performance & Capitalisation USD in millions except margin data Proportionate18 For the financial year ended 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Total revenue 352.9 308.0 Operating expenses (91.9) (101.2) EBITDA 261.0 206.8 Depreciation and amortisation (147.8) (124.6) EBIT 113.2 82.2 Net interest costs (118.4) (107.7) Other finance gain (charge) 50.5 (6.8) Other income (expense) 59.8 (2.1) Development expense (4.5) (3.3) Tax (10.5) (1.7) Net income (loss) 90.1 (39.4) EBITDA margin (%) 74% 67% Corporate term loan and RCF 617.3 700.9 Project finance debt 1,286.4 1,571.7 Bank overdrafts 8.9 4.2 Total bank borrowings 1,912.6 2,276.8 Equity 3,354.1 3,266.1 Total capitalisation 5,266.7 5,542.9 Other Financial Data Funds from Operational Assets19 162.7 155.5 Capital expenditures 401.7 437.3 18 F  inancial results prepared based on the proportionate accounting method where like items of assets, liabilities, income and expenses of subsidiaries and equityaccounted investees are proportionally aggregated based on Vena Energy’s economic share and adjusted to remove the accounting effects of International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 12 – Service Concession Arrangements. Reconciliation of key items between the Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information and Proportionate financial results are included in Appendix A. 19 Refer to Appendix A the definition of Funds from Operational Assets (“FFOA”) and breakdown of FFOA by country. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 59 5.4. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CAPITAL STRUCTURE 31 DEC 2019 $617M $1,286M CORPORATE DEBT & RCF PROJECT FINANCE DEBT $5.3B $3,354M EQUITY Vena Energy’s corporate debt and revolving credit facility (RCF) do not have any material short-term maturities. Debt at each project is financed through non-recourse project finance debt, and generally amortise over time with long-term maturities and repayment profiles sculpted on the basis of the projects’ long-term contracted cashflows. In 2019, we raised approximately $200 million project finance debt across various projects in our portfolio and reduced approximately $500 million of project finance debt in conjunction with the transfer of TK agreements. The transfer of TK agreements, mostly related to our new activity of renewable energy fund management, generated a gain of $72 million and cash proceeds of $467 million. Most of this cash has been retained on balance, mainly to fund the upcoming growth related to the construction of new projects. Leverage Ratio (USD in millions except margin data) 2019 2018 Funds from Operational Assets (“FFOA”) 162.7 155.5 Corporate Term Loan 471.0 622.5 Corporate RCF 146.3 78.4 Corporate Gross Debt 617.3 700.9 Less: Corporate’s Cash & Cash Equivalents (348.2) (178.6) Corporate Net Debt 269.1 522.3 Net Debt to FFOA 1.65x 3.36x In 2019, we continued to grow and diversify our operational cashflows, with 10 new projects (373 MW) across four jurisdictions (Australia, Indonesia, Japan and Taiwan) commissioned during the year. These included Project Mingus, Taiwan’s largest utility scale solar plant, and our first operating projects in Indonesia and Australia. 60 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Diversified & Stable FFOA FY2018 FY2019 1% Japan 12% 6% Philippines 3% 13% India 21% $156m 43% $163m 43% Thailand Indonesia 16% Taiwan Austalia 23% 19% We target to mitigate our exposure to foreign exchange volatility in our FFOA, as we adopt a disciplined hedging strategy for certain currencies in our portfolio. Liquidity Position As at As at (USD in millions) 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Available Corporate RCF 155.9 71.6 Corporate’s Cash & Cash Equivalents 348.2 178.6 Liquidity 504.1 250.2 During the course of the year, we further bolstered our liquidity position by expanding our committed corporate RCF facility from $150 million to approximately $300 million. As of 31 Dec 2019, our liquidity position remains robust, with over $500 million of total available liquidity. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 61 5.5. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS POST DECEMBER 2019 5.5.1. Green Bond Issuance and Allocation Summary On 11 February 2020, Vena Energy announced the mandate and Physical meetings and travels were reduced to the strict minimum roadshow for an intermediate-tenor USD Green Bond offering and most of the investor presentations were held remotely under our US$1,000,000,000 guaranteed EMTN programme, through conference calls and videocalls. This investor marketing established in November 2019. ING Bank, Crédit Agricole CIB, strategy allowed Vena Energy’s management to successfully DBS Bank Ltd and MUFG served as Joint Global Coordinators deliver our messages while maintaining social distancing and and Joint Lead Managers. ABN AMRO, Banca IMI, BNP Paribas complying with internal and external Health & Safety policies and SMBC Nikko served as Joint Lead Managers. and guidelines. Through the issuance of our inaugural corporate bond listed On 26 February 2020, Vena Energy successfully issued our inaugural on SGX, Vena Energy contributed to the development of the benchmark US$325 million 5-year Green, Senior Unsecured Asia-Pacific green financing market, becoming the first ever Bond under Regulation S. The green bond proceeds were used Singapore-headquartered issuer of a corporate USD green bond. to refinance existing corporate loans for the development, construction and operation of Eligible Green Projects in accordance Several Health & Safety best practices and guidelines on infection with Vena Energy’s Green Financing Framework, and were fully prevention and control with regards to the COVID-19 outbreak allocated to the jurisdictions illustrated below: were integrated in a comprehensive investor marketing strategy. Green Bond Allocation Summary 142.3m Japan 1.9m Taiwan India 61.5m Thailand 44.3m 70.0m Philippines Indonesia 5.0m 5.5.2. Material transactions post year-end In Q1 2020, we successfully closed new project finance debt project finance debt for the two projects generated financing for two projects commissioned in 2019. These projects were proceeds of $132 million and these proceeds were returned to originally fully funded with equity to bring them to service. The shareholders in March 2020. 62 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 6. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 6.1. INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT on the Green Bond Proceeds Allocation and Sustainability Impact Metrics We were engaged by Vena Energy Pte. assurance on Vena Energy Capital Pte. Ltd. corresponding accompanying Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2019. Responsibilities section of our report, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that: (a) The allocation of the green bond proceeds is not in compliance Financing Framework : Use of Proceeds; Process for Project Evaluation and Selection1; Management of Proceeds; and Reporting 1 W rporate body governing the responsibilities of sustainable investment matters, approval for the use of the green bond proceeds to re-finance existing corporate loans for the development, construction, and operation of eligible green projects as described in the Report had Board of Directors. (b) In all material aspects, the sustainability impact metrics as identified below, have not been derived from supporting evidence underlying the impact metrics, or have not been computed in accordance with the basis of preparation adopted by the Company: Estimated annual energy Actual energy generation in 2019 generation from construction and from operational assets shovel-ready assets Annual Generation 2,603,785 MWh 1,356,398 MWh According to the basis of preparation as described in the footnotes of the Report, the actual and estimated energy generation could collectively: Power 2,630,721 households; Save 3,739 megalitres of water; VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 63 Reduce 3,072,801 tonnes CO2 of GHG emissions, which could be the equivalent of: Annual Generation 2,603,785 MWh 1,356,398 MWh According to the basis of preparation as described in the footnotes of the Report, the actual and estimated energy generation could collectively: Power 2,630,721 households; Save 3,739 megalitres of water; Reduce 3,072,801 tonnes CO2 of GHG emissions, which could be the equivalent of: i) 663,672 passenger cars taken off the road; or 51,213,349 trees planted. Responsibilities of Management The management of the Company is responsible for preparing the subject matter information that is This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls relevant to the preparation and presentation of the subject matter information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. It also includes implementing and effectively operating controls to achieve the stated control objectives; selecting and applying policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances; and maintaining adequate records in relation to the subject matter information. Management is also responsible for preventing and detecting fraud and for identifying and ensuring that the Company complies with laws and regulations applicable to its activities. Management is responsible for ensuring that responsible parties and staff involved with the preparation of the subject matter information are properly trained, systems are properly updated and that any changes in reporting encompass all significant operational sites. Responsibilities Our responsibility is to examine the subject matter information prepared by the Company and to report thereon in the form of an independent limited assurance conclusion based on the evidence obtained. We conducted our engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. That standard requires that we plan and perform our procedures to obtain a meaningful level of assurance about whether the subject matter information is fairly stated, in all material respects, as the basis for our limited assurance conclusion. The firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the subject matter information, and applying analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as appropriate. 64 These VENA procedures included:REPORT 2019 ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY procedures, as appropriate. These procedures included: Inquiries of management to obtain an understanding of the Company's processes and internal controls; Interviews with senior management and relevant staff at the corporate level responsible for the preparation and reporting of the subject matter information; Page 2 Inquiries of the design and implementation of the systems and methods used to collect and report on the subject matter information; Agreeing to supporting bank documents, the amount of green bond proceeds received and allocated to the re-financing of a corporate loan, which was originally raised for the acquisition of Eligible Green Projects in accordance with the Framework; Agreeing, on a sample basis, the reported amounts of actual and estimated energy generation to the underlying supporting documents; and Validation of the reported sustainability impact metrics to the source data and computation in accordance with the basis of preparation adopted by the Company and as described in the footnotes of the Report. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Due to the inherent limitations of any internal control structure it is possible that errors or irregularities in the subject matter information may occur and not be detected. Our engagement is not designed to detect all weaknesses in the internal controls over the preparation and presentation of the subject matter information, as the engagement has not been performed continuously throughout the period and the procedures performed were undertaken on a test basis. Restriction on use Our report has been prepared for the Company for the purpose of providing an assurance conclusion on the subject matter information and may not be suitable for another purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we accept or assume no responsibility and deny any liability to any party other than the Company for our work, for this independent limited assurance report, or for the conclusions we have reached. KPMG LLP Public Accountants and Chartered Accountants Singapore 10 June 2020 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 65 Page 3 6.2. COMMITMENT TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Vena Energy is committed to upholding the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Our commitment includes reporting annually on our progress in implementing the ten principles (Communication on Progress or COP). The table below specifies which sections of the report address which principles. Cross-Reference in this report Guidelines and policies Human Rights • Labour and Preserving Human Rights • Code of Conduct Principle 1: Support and respect • Vena Energy Governance Policies • Environmental Social & Governance internationally proclaimed human • Sustainable Procurement Policy rights Principle 2: Eliminate any participation in human rights abuses Labour • Labour and Preserving Human Rights • Code of Conduct Principle 4: Eliminate all forms of • Vena Energy Governance Policies • Human Resources Policy forced and compulsory labour • Sustainable Procurement • Procurement Policy • Diversity, Equity and Inclusion • Environmental Social & Governance Principle 5: Eliminate child labour Policy Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination • International Labour Organisation in respect of employment and Declaration on Fundamental occupation Principles and Rights at Work Environment • Our Commitment to Climate Change • Environmental Social & Governance Principle 7: Support a precautionary • Our Environmental Considerations Policy approach to environmental • Our Environmental Strategies challenges • Environmental Management System Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption • Vena Energy Governance Policies • Code of Conduct Principle 10: Work against • Anti-corruption Policy corruption in all its forms, including • Procurement Policy extortion and bribery 66 VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 6.3. LEGAL STATEMENTS This report does not constitute or form part of and should not be construed as, an offer to sell or issue or the solicitation of an offer to buy or acquire securities of Vena Energy Capital Pte. Ltd., Vena Energy Holdings Ltd., Vena Energy (Taiwan) Holdings Ltd., Zenith Japan Holdings Ltd. (together, “Vena Energy”) or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates in any jurisdiction or an inducement to enter into investment activity. Any decision to purchase securities in the context of a proposed offering to be undertaken in the future by Vena Energy, if any, should be made on the basis of information contained in the offering document published in relation to such an offering. No part of this document, nor the fact of its distribution, should form the basis of, or be relied on in connection with, any contract or commitment or investment decision whatsoever. No representation, warranty or undertaking, express or implied, is made as to, and no reliance should be placed on, the fairness, accuracy, completeness or correctness of the information or the opinions contained herein. None of Vena Energy or any of their affiliates, advisers or representatives shall have any liability whatsoever (in negligence or otherwise) for any loss howsoever arising from any use of this document or its contents or otherwise arising in connection with the document. This report contains “forward-looking statements”, which include all statements other than statements of historical facts, including, without limitation, any statements preceded by, followed by or that include forward-looking terms such as “targets”, “believes”, “expects”, “plans”, “intends”, “anticipates”, “projects”, “aims”, “seeks”, “may”, “will”, “would”, “should”, “could” or similar expressions or the negative thereof. However, these words are not exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements. Such forwardlooking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors beyond Vena Energy’s control that could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Vena Energy to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including, among others, financial forecasts, profit projections, the achievement of anticipated levels of profitability, growth, cost and synergy of recent acquisitions, the impact of competitive pricing, the ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals and licenses, the impact of developments in the economic, political and legal environment of Singapore and other jurisdictions in which Vena Energy operates, volatility in stock markets or in the price of Vena Energy’s securities, financial risk management and the impact of general business and global economic conditions. You are cautioned not to place any reliance on these forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding Vena Energy’s present and future business strategies and the environment in which Vena Energy will operate in the future. Any opinions expressed in this report are subject to change without notice and may differ, or be contrary to, opinions expressed by other business areas or groups of Vena Energy as a result of using different assumptions and criterion. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. These forward-looking statements speak only as at the date as of which they are made, and Vena Energy expressly disclaims any responsibility, and undertakes no obligation, to update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in Vena Energy’s expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based. Forward-looking statements contained in this report regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future. Neither Vena Energy, nor any of their respective agents, employees or advisers intends or has any responsibility, duty or obligation to supplement, amend, update or revise any of the forward-looking statements contained in this report. This report includes measures of financial performance which are not a measure of financial performance under International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), such as “EBITDA”, “LCOE”, “Proportionate EBITDA”, “Proportionate EBITDA Margins”, “Net Debt” and “Funds from Operational Assets” (together, the “Non-IFRS Measures”). These Non-IFRS Measures are presented because Vena Energy believes they are useful measures to reflect its financial condition and historical ability to provide investment returns. The Non-IFRS Measures and other measures of financial performance presented in this report are supplemental financial measures, and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, a measure of liquidity or an alternative to net profit or indicators of Vena Energy’s operating performance on any other measure of performance derived in accordance with IFRS. Because the Non-IFRS Measures are not IFRS measures they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. The information contained in this report is provided as at the date of this document and is subject to change without notice. This report is for information purposes only and may contain data sourced from and the views of independent third parties. In replicating such data in this report, Vena Energy has not independently verified any of such data and there can be no assurance as to the accuracy or completeness of such data. Accordingly, Vena Energy makes no representation (whether express or implied) as to, and no reliance should be placed on, the accuracy or completeness of such data, information or opinions contained in this report. The replication of any views in this report should be not treated as an indication that Vena Energy agrees with or concurs with such views. It is not Vena Energy’s intention to provide, and you may not rely on these materials as providing, a complete or comprehensive analysis of Vena Energy’s financial or trading position or prospects. VENA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 67 For more information, please visit venaenergy.com, or connect with us on social media: vena-energy venaenergy vena_energy For Investor Relations ir@venaenergy.com Singapore (Corporate Office) Brisbane, Australia enquiries@venaenergy.com au-enquiries@venaenergy.com +65 6950 0530 +61 7 3708 1420 New Delhi, India Bangalore, India in-enquiries@venaenergy.com in-enquiries@venaenergy.com +91 1149 131500 +91 80 6645 4000 Tokyo, Japan Manila, Philippines jp-enquiries@venaenergy.com ph-enquiries@venaenergy.com +81 3 6452 9777 +63 2 683 4444 Jakarta, Indonesia Seoul, South Korea id-enquiries@venaenergy.com kr-enquiries@venaenergy.com +62 21 5084 7830 +82 2 6941 1610 Taipei, Taiwan Bangkok, Thailand tw-enquiries@venaenergy.com th-enquiries@venaenergy.com +886 2 8789 6898 +66 2 654 3771
