ENVIROSCIENCE, INC. 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS New York, New York Date: January 2020 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress TABLE OF CONTENTS 1.0 CHAIRMAN STATEMENT ON THE 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS .................. 2 2.0 ABOUT THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT......................................................... 3 3.0 CORE VALUES .................................................................................................................... 4 4.0 LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS............................................................................................. 5 5.0 ENVIRONMENT ................................................................................................................. 12 6.0 ANTI-CORRUPTION .......................................................................................................... 16 i 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress 1.0 CHAIRMAN STATEMENT ON THE 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Dear Friends and Stakeholders, EnviroScience, Inc. is pleased to prepare and present our seventh annual progress report recapping continued efforts and gains in our elective support and membership in the United Nations Global Compact. The opportunity to present this report allows us to review our progress over the past year, reflect upon our values and the needs of our local communities, and prepare for our future growth. We continually evaluate our own practices and explore ways to improve them. This report reviews areas of change in support of the Global Compact’s ten principles and provides a detailed account of our actions to support these areas over the past 12 months, along with a preview of anticipated activities for 2020. EnviroScience communicates our philanthropy and commitment to sustainability through our Corporate Responsibility Committee. This staff-lead initiative focuses the distribution of our staff’s time and talents to our surrounding community. Additionally, the committee is integral in aligning our company’s internal and external values and messages. The United Nations Global Compact provides a platform for EnviroScience to determine how we can best manage our practices and evaluate how they align with other progressive thinking and socially conscious world citizens by using their business practices to improve the global social, economic, and environmental conditions of the world. The Compact’s ten principles are used to guide our company’s priorities, with the environment being the greatest overall concern for our staff. The 2019 report details our areas of improved practices and support for both the environment and the underserved local communities. Thank you, Martin A. Hilovsky, Founder and Chairman EnviroScience, Inc. 2 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress 2.0 ABOUT THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT The United Nations Global Compact provides guidelines and universally accepted principles by which members can review, define, and plan for long-range strategic goals. EnviroScience is embracing the opportunity to review, redefine, and grow our policies and procedures as they relate to the Global Compact. Presented are the United Nations’ ten defining principles of the Global Compact. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: Businesses should the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: Businesses should the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 3 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress 3.0 CORE VALUES The core values of respect, safety, client advocacy, quality work, accountability, and teamwork are essential to the success of EnviroScience’s staff and future. These values align with the defining principals of the UN Global Compact, and are as follows: EnviroScience Employees • Have a passion for excellence and strong work ethic. • Own our actions and our work; we embrace accountability. • Commit to continuous improvement, challenging the status quo. • Act ethically, treat people with respect, and communicate properly. EnviroScience Employees as Advocates for our Clients • Are responsive to our clients' needs on a proactive basis. • Deliver on our commitments every time. • Constantly seek ways to help our clients succeed. EnviroScience Leaders • Identify and develop the talents of our people. • Recruit and retain exceptional individuals and encourage creative solutions. • Share profits fairly among our people and shareholders. • Remember that family comes first. EnviroScience Team Members • Help others maximize their effectiveness and achieve their goals. • Effectively share opportunities and are open to others’ ideas. • Celebrate the successes and learn from the mistakes of others. EnviroScience Employees as Citizens • Give of our time and talent to better our communities. • Are continuous stewards of our Nation’s natural resources. 4 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress 4.0 LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS Ensuring best labor practices and maintaining respect for human rights are the cornerstone of EnviroScience’s culture. Safety The management philosophy of EnviroScience is to produce superior value for our customers. That management philosophy is also a direct reflection of our environmental health and safety philosophy. Employees of EnviroScience strive to be innovative and cutting-edge in providing systems and services that return economic value while ensuring the safety and protection of all workers from the hazards involved. The safety and health of EnviroScience employees must always be paramount, no matter how urgent the job. A safe and healthy work environment is essential for the success of Safety First during Aquatic surveys requiring HAZWOPER. our business, as well as our families and communities. Employees are encouraged to embrace our philosophy that all incidents are preventable with the proper training, planning, knowledge, and resources necessary to identify and manage risk both at work and at home. As a fundamental part of our labor practices, we respect the importance and the impact quality training has on worker safety; additionally, we empower our staff to recognize the need for a “Stop Work” whenever safety risks occur. These practices help ensure the safety of our staff and others working on a job site. Safety is our commitment, and EnviroScience continues to lead our industry in on-site job safety. Employee and Labor Rights EnviroScience is an equal opportunity employer and makes every effort to reach minority candidates when posting open positions. Despite our involvement and efforts to uplift underserved populations during our 30 years of operation, we have not witnessed a significant increase in minority applicants. EnviroScience, therefore committed to taking a more active role in cultivating and supporting job training for prospective minority employees and students. This effort includes developing teaming programs and opportunities intended to help address the lack of diversity in the socio-economic and racial demographic of applicants. Under the Environment and Education Section, we highlight our gains in 2019 and share our 2020 initiatives. Salaries are based on experience and expertise. All full-time staff We maintain a zero-tolerance are offered an extremely competitive and a generous benefits policy on abusiveness and package. Family comes first in the lives of our leadership and habitual disrespect for staff. EnviroScience works with our employees to help meet the associates and/or the ever-changing and dynamic needs of families today. Any form of environment, which is at the core of our identity. labor violation is intolerable and grounds for dismissal at EnviroScience. Likewise, EnviroScience maintains a zero-tolerance policy on abusiveness and habitual disrespect for associates and/or the environment, which is at the core of our identity. In 2019, EnviroScience established an Employee Assistance Fund (EAF), which is overseen by the EnviroScience Corporate Responsibility Committee to help employees in times of hardship that are not sufficiently covered in other ways. The catalyst for this initiative was the month-long U.S. federal 5 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress government shutdown that ended in the beginning of 2019. EnviroScience noticed that because of the shutdown, some employees, clients, and partner organizations had endured serious hardship without the recourse available to government employees. In response, the EAF was created to be supported via a post-tax payroll deduction of the enrollees’ choosing. With an understanding of the sensitivity of these types of requests, we have devised an anonymous request process emphasizing confidentiality and discretion. Staff members do not have to be members of the EnviroScience Corporate Responsibility Committee or contribute to the fund to be eligible to make requests. As an organization, EnviroScience is a non-union workplace, but maintains no policies (written or oral) against the formation of such a group. Top executives maintain an “open door” policy, encouraging communication between employees and upper management, as well as an ethics committee to which employees may report a situation or possible concern. EnviroScience will direct increased effort toward diversity and inclusion in 2020 as we recognize that a diverse workforce is critical to competitiveness and our future success as an organization. Several members of our leadership staff are active in diversity and inclusion initiatives in our community, and our Chairman and Founder Martin Hilovsky serves on a diversity and inclusion committee of the Greater Akron Chamber’s Board of Directors. During 2020, we plan to step up our efforts to maintain an inclusive workplace and improve our culture. We plan to do this by: • Holding internal training to ensure a collective understanding of what constitutes a diverse and inclusive workplace. • Identifying metrics and key performance indicators to help measure our progress toward stated objectives. • Exploring the creation of employee resource groups to help direct company diversity and inclusion initiatives. Overall, our objective will be to make diversity and inclusion a core business performance issue (as opposed to an isolated human resource program). Everyone in the organization will be expected to make commitments around diversity. Underserved Populations By choice, the staff at EnviroScience work hard to enhance the lives of the disabled, underserved, and homeless. Staff regularly collect school supplies, toiletries, clothing, food, towels, shoes, and boots for any shelter or assistance group that distributes them. These items are donated throughout the year to organizations serving local communities in need. We have now added a depository space that is organized by donation type to streamline the donation process. Several community groups received items from our donation depository this year. Organization Donations Kent Family Services Food and Kitchen Supplies Hope and Healing Survivor Resource Center Women and children’s clothing Miller Community House of Kent Food North Coast Community Housing supports safe and stable housing for those suffering with physical, mental, and cogitative disabilities. We continue to support their missions in Summit County by doubling the gift card each resident receives at Christmas and responding to other needs and requests the agency may have. 6 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress Akron-Canton Food Bank We support the Akron-Canton Regional Food Bank with our Annual Chili Cook-off where the proceeds are donated on their “Double Dollar Days” to match our donations. Since 2015, these donations have totaled more than $7,000 of impact. Additionally, we participate in the Food Bank’s Operation Orange, a 24-hour event open to the public which helps package food into portion sizes for individuals and families. Potluck Dollar Impacts 9,000.00 8,289.00 Max Koran wins the Chili Cookoff out of 12 participants who donated a variety of chili. 8,000.00 7,000.00 Donation amounts 6,000.00 Outside Matching/Additional Impact 5,000.00 CRC fund matching 4,000.00 3,000.00 2,601.80 Potluck total 2,379.00 2,000.00 1,500.00 1,526.00 Total Final Donation Impact 1,000.00 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Year Cuyahoga Valley Scenic Railroad’s Polar Express Our staff are always encouraged to develop their own charitable passions. One of our staff members has set up their own program that benefits families who might not otherwise afford an experience aboard Cuyahoga Valley Scenic Railroads Polar Express. Families are nominated by submitting emails to ElfHollie@gmail.com. Not only is this program supported by volunteering hours onboard the train as Elf Hollie, but the tickets are purchased for the family’s trip, new pajamas are provided for the children as well as spending money for the concession Coco the Elf (CEO Jamie Krejsa) & Elf Hollie car the night of their trip. Last year, a Polar Express (Joanne Pem) deliver the items to the package was raffled off to raise more than $5,000 for the families, along with Santa Claus. Streetsboro Shop with a Cop program, where Elf Hollie also spends her time during the Christmas season. 7 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress Combating Bias and Discrimination through Education EnviroScience has always recognized the importance of education, and we pride ourselves on having a business where 90% our staff are degreed scientists. We consider education to be the cornerstone to all basic human rights and a means to ending the cycle of poverty. We believe in supporting our region’s school science programs in multiple ways. Our staff are working to create a “Lab in a Bag” by collecting and using the various materials sponsored by not-for-profits with an environmental mission. The materials sourced are collected, a laboratory day lesson plan is written, and a point of contact is assigned to help ensure the educators understand the lab. The topics most requested are those that meet Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS). Our scientists frequently participate in science fairs for elementary and high schools, as well as hosting high school interns. We sponsor college students, a graduate level lecture series, college interns, and we frequently mentor others looking for career guidance and advice. The company has opened our labs for use by high school and college students working on their independent studies and have donated equipment and raw materials for these same studies. Glenville Community Garden Project In 2018, we began a partnership designed to help create a sustainable green initiative through education, mentorship, and employment. Glenville is a neighborhood in Cleveland, Ohio and one of the most historic (and underserved) areas in the region. We led the formation of a team that includes the neighborhood Famicos Community Development Center, Western Reserve Land Conservancy, Cleveland Museum of Natural History, Holden Arboretum, Student Corps, Glenville Community Garden project volunteers residents, and the neighborhood elementary and junior and participating EnviroScience staff. high schools. In Phase 1 of the program, we identified two plots of vacant and uncared for land behind the elementary school that the students use to walk to school from the neighborhood. A series of classes were held to teach arboretum skills such as proper tree planting, watering and long-term grooming and care. Four previously girdled trees were removed, and six natives were planted by the students after their classes. An old existing path in the lot across the street was cleared and fresh gravel was laid along the entire path. The few plants in the front of the previous path were removed and given to neighbors for their yards. A total of 145 native plants, shrubs, and trees were planted on both sides of the path. The trees lining the students’ newly revived path were cleared or groomed, allowing the school to be seen from the street. Two dumpsters of trash and debris were removed from the lots, and new and improved lighting was requested from the City of Cleveland. The path is now visible, safe, inviting, and has created a living lab for the schools located in its vicinity. An open tilled area was left for students to plant milkweed and other species, which attract pollinators. Staff from EnviroScience continue to provide the teachers with the supplies and educational support necessary to help them and their students sustain the native plant path and pollinator garden. In 2019, we provided students lessons in botany, soil ecology, and urban ecosystem processes that occur in these restored habitats. The students helped remove weeds, propagate more native plants, and they created painted rocks for labeling the plants to aid in interpretation for all who take the path. EnviroScience staff continue to support grant writing and identifying local support for their science training and classrooms. An application for Wildlife Habitat Council certification for this site and education efforts is currently being prepared. 8 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress Additional Outreach with Local Organizations and Schools EnviroScience’s Corporate Responsibility Committee continues our support of the Cleveland Museum of Natural History’s Women in Science day. Not only do we provide a yearly contribution to the Museum in support, but EnviroScience staff set up a table during the evening program and share the work our various female scientists do. Whether it is bat acoustics, aquatic ecosystems, or terrestrial animals, Ann Gilmore engages elementary schoolers, sharing her experience in we invited students of every kind to come and learn about the biological science. possibilities. EnviroScience also takes part in various sustainability conferences and various green outreach programs. We have developed a long-term relationship with government and not-for-profit regional leaders to develop an educational training program emphasizing green infrastructure and associated career paths. We are currently pursuing inquiries to assist local schools with projects such as building a green roof. These teaming opportunities allow schools to pursue grant money designed to reduce their carbon footprint, as well as allowing students the opportunity to explore future careers in the green energy or environmental sectors. For our first “Bug Badge” day with the Girl Scouts of Northeast Ohio, Brownie troops spent a day at EnviroScience learning about the life cycles of important insects, the differences between beneficial and nuisance insects, they built their own bug houses, and collected some bugs of their own to explore the diversity of insects present in the garden and stream nearby. Every student Girl Scouts exploring insects with earned their own bug badge. We have received many inquiries EnviroScience biologists to earn for these badge events and expect to hold more of them in the their “Bug Badge.” future. Learn more: https://blog.girlscouts.org/2017/11/closing-stem-gender-gap-one-girl-scout.html Greater Cleveland STEM Speed Mentor Session at Buchtel High School EnviroScience biologists have been volunteering with the Greater Cleveland STEM Foundation, an organization that coordinates activities designed to inform and educate the community in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) fields. The Foundation’s mission is to “generate interest in STEM by making it accessible and approachable to people of all ages and backgrounds,” with the goal of providing resources that support and provide greater access to, and foster enthusiasm for, STEM fields. EnviroScience biologists attended two Women in STEM speed mentoring programs in 2019 at Buchtel High School in Akron, Ohio. The event was focused on exposing young women from underserved populations to a variety of career options in STEM fields. Additionally, EnviroScience biologists are also participating in the initial mentoring program, which was born out of the speed mentoring event. Mentors have participated in one-on-one mentoring and are reading and discussing the book “Women in Science – 50 Fearless Pioneers Who Changed the World,” with their mentees. Additionally, EnviroScience hosted a booth at the Greater Cleveland STEM Festival at Baldwin Wallace College, a festival open to all ages with the purpose of celebrating STEM in the greater Cleveland community by inspiring, discovering education, advocating, and sharing ideas. 9 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress Workforce Development Pilot Program To respond to the growing need for training and education within our local workforce to design, install, and maintain green infrastructure systems throughout Cuyahoga County, a working partnership with EnviroScience and the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD) was established. The purpose of this partnership is to provide a platform to work collaboratively with other local agencies and organizations to develop a Green Infrastructure Maintenance Training Program in Northeast Ohio. The basis of this workforce development project is to incorporate the Water Education Federation’s (WEF) National Green Infrastructure Certificate Program (NGICP) as nationally recognized credentials along with others that serve to further promote knowledge and understanding within this labor force. As a result, NEORSD engaged in a partnership with WEF and allocated $30,000 for acquiring two training licenses (trainers) and NGICP certifications for 20 individuals over the next two years. The goal of this proposed green infrastructure program is to offer the requisite education and training for entry level positions earning average median wage serving both the public and private sector markets. This green infrastructure program consists of the following three phases. Workforce Development Pilot Program Timeline Recruitment Phase I • Target: 8-10 people, through Good Neighbor Ambassadors or CMSD (high-school educated or GED) who have an expressed interest in green infrastructure or community-based projects • Field experience as part of recruitment process • Assessment: interest & aptitude Skill Building Phase II • Soft skills development: project management, leadership, mentorship • NGICP training • Other certificates and relevant training (stormwater inspection, invasive species, etc.) • Field experience • College credit through PLA Field Experience Phase III • Rotational three-month internship with various partner organizations to host • Partners: NEORSD, EnviroScience, Cleveland Metroparks, SWCD, local hospitals, and others Outcomes • Employability, direct to job • Living wage ($32,000) • Diversity in experiences (green infrastructure, stormwater, invasive species) 10 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress In 2019, a pilot project included the NEORSD Good Neighbor Ambassadors, where Tri-C provided soft-skill training. The NEORSD hosted the student interns, who acquired NGICP certificates, with most of the graduates being hired by the NEORSD green infrastructure and/or SWIM programs. In 2020, EnviroScience and other private consulting firms will join this effort by hosting the summer interns identified in this green infrastructure training program by the NEORSD recruitment process. 2019 Community Donations Recipients • Open Arms Adoptions • Ignite Africa (Installation of solar microgrids, mobile powerplants, training programs, etc.) • Go-Fund Me campaign to provide biomass cookstoves in the Philippines • Ohio Environmental Education Council • Access 24/7 women’s & children’s center • Bulldog Bags – Stow Local Schools • Portage County Coats for Kids • Firestone Robotics Club Boosters • Limitless Ambition • Cuyahoga Valley National Park 2019 Donations $200.00 $1,200.00 Community (Stow) $1,139.27 Community (Summit/Portage/Cuyahoga Counties) $1,111.13 Community (Global) Environmental $400.00 Education $5,060.99 Health 11 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress 5.0 ENVIRONMENT EnviroScience is an environmental and ecological In 2019, EnviroScience restored consulting company, celebrating 30 years of improving 6,821 linear feet of stream and 19.13 surface water quality in water quality. This year marks 50 acres of wetland or floodplain habitat. years since the final burning of the Cuyahoga River, a seminal event that helped spark the modern environmental movement and directly led to passage of the Clean Water Act in 1972. Ohio has led the Nation in the use of biological criteria in surface water quality standards, and the forward thinking of founder Martin Hilovsky and President Jamie Krejsa has allowed EnviroScience to transfer this experience to other states and regions. Our awardwinning stream and wetland restoration work helps to improve the overall water quality and aquatic habitats for native flora and fauna throughout the United States. As an environmental company, one of our main areas of business is to help enhance and restore damaged and failing ecosystems. In 2019, EnviroScience restored 6,821 linear feet of stream and 19.13 acres of wetland or floodplain habitat. According to the EPA’s Reducing Urban Heat Islands Compendium of Strategies Trees and Vegetation, these types of restoration projects will help reduce peak air temperatures with a process referred to as evapotranspiration. As part of our services, EnviroScience also treated approximately 300 acres of habitat for the responsible removal of invasive species. Recycling Programs EnviroScience maintains reuse, recycling, and composting programs to divert waste from landfills wherever possible. Undamaged packaging materials and boxes are saved for re-use where practicable. Empty plant containers are returned to the seller and pallet wood is saved for projects like pollinator boxes. Bulk cardboard and approved plastics are directed to our single-stream recycling cans, and all non-meat and non-dairy food scraps are directed to our on-site compost bins. All our coffee grounds and filters for 2019 have been composted in these bins. Our first batch of finished compost should be available for company and/or employee use beginning in early 2020. Any recycling efforts discovered by employees are encouraged. In May 2019, EnviroScience collected forty bottles of old, used, and unwanted nail polish. These bottles were sent to Zoya, an entity of the Art of Beauty Company, located in Bedford, Ohio, where they were responsibly cleaned and recycled: https://www.zoya.com/content/category/Earth-Day-Nail-Polish-Exchange-Zoya.html Pollinator Initiatives We have continued our commitment to improving pollinator habitat in our community. EnviroScience has partnered with the City of Stow Department of Parks and Recreation on a long-term program to increase the number and health of pollinators in the area and encourage the creation of high-quality pollinator habitat. The City of Stow designated two initial spaces to serve as habitat enhancement sites: Adell Durbin Park and a section of the Stow Community Garden. Signage has been posted indicating the garden locations at these sites, which are open to the public for viewing. Residents will eventually see many interesting species of bees, butterflies, and other insects interacting with the newly created habitat, which is now starting to germinate and grow. To create the variety needed to support diverse types of pollinators, EnviroScience augmented a commercially prepared pollinator seed mix with additional milkweed seed to provide special support for monarch butterflies, an insect that has declined rapidly in North America. Future activities will center on the care of these gardens, with a focus on increasing the species diversity and promoting education in the community. 12 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress Our beehive had two productive years and we learned valuable lessons about their care. Unfortunately, the original colony did not survive our most recent winter with inconsistent temperatures, but we plan to start again with a two-hive model going forward. We expanded our efforts with other pollinators, by holding our first bug hotel building party after work hours. Employees had the option of keeping or donating their bug hotels. Three of the largest were placed around the community and pollinator gardens to help increase the wild pollinator populations. In 2019, EnviroScience held its first native plant swap to encourage interested employees in planting sustainable EnviroScience volunteer beekeeper tending the hive. landscaping. Anyone with an excess of native or non-invasive exotic plants was invited to bring their plants. Any employee without plants to swap could make a monetary donation instead, with funds supporting our pollinator initiatives. Many species brought to the Michael Liptak and Teal swap were plants that are considered beneficial for pollination, further Richards-Dimitrie increasing our pollinator impact. Any appropriate plants that were not taken display their bug hotel. by employees were planted in one of our pollinator gardens to augment the populations there. In 2020, we hope to hold more of these swaps, with extra plants further augmenting the Stow pollinator gardens. For many years, we have maintained planters in downtown Kent, Ohio, and our focus this year will be on planting native pollinators. Transportation Initiatives We continue to review and evaluate our own best management practices and find additional areas for improvement. Our fleet of vehicles is one of our largest sources of greenhouse gasses, with 646,324 miles driven last year in the course of our work. To mitigate this, we purchase the most fuelefficient cars possible that still meet our needs. The fleet includes several hybrids, and we evaluate the feasibility of hybrid vehicles whenever we purchase a new vehicle. We maintain tire pressure and automotive performance to maximize mileage as much as possible. Our laboratory also works with their clients’ schedules and couriers to determine the most efficient sample pick-up routes. Over the past couple of years, we have committed to mitigating our carbon footprint and improving the health of our employees by advocating cycling as a sustainable mode of transportation and recreation. Since 2017, EnviroScience has been a “Silver Bicycle Friendly Business” through the League of American Bicyclists and is one of only 20 businesses in Ohio to achieve such a designation. As part of the Silver designation, we maintain bike racks, fixing stations, and hold annual bike safety training and potlucks to celebrate National Bike Month. Additionally, we have maintained a BikeShare program since 2018, where employees can enjoy a quick ride on the local Bike and Hike Trail providing easy access to nature areas or quick lunch stops. In 2019, our riders collectively logged over 11,422 miles, exceeding our 2018 mileage by 773 miles. In the future, we hope to continue our current efforts and further increase cycling advocacy in the community. Ultimately, we would like to EnviroScience Bicyclists achieve “Gold” status through the League of American Bicyclists. 13 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress Semi-Annual River Cleanup Finally, EnviroScience continues to lead the way in what is now a 20-year tradition of holding semiannual river cleanups. EnviroScience and our teaming partners have hosted and participated in cleaning the Little Cuyahoga River just downstream of the City of Akron, removing more than 75 tons of trash over the years before it is washed downstream, entering the Cuyahoga Valley National Park. With a new volunteer sign-up platform for 2020, EnviroScience hopes to further expand the community involvement in these cleanups. The site location has become one of the most used areas for living and commerce in a once nearly abandoned region of the city, and we believe that our semiannual efforts have helped revitalize this area. Animal Advocacy As part of our portfolio of environmental services, EnviroScience routinely works to address concerns about threatened and endangered species. We have many biologists on staff who hold permits for the collection and relocation of these species. We continue to assist clients with biological assessments, surveys and translocations, plant inventories, and conservation plans. Threatened or Endangered Species Projects in 2019 Eastern Hellbender Salamander Blanding’s Turtle Indiana Bat Northern Long-Eared Bat Spotted Turtle Clubshell Mussel Snuffbox Mussel Northern Riffleshell Mussel Rabbits Foot Mussel Sheepnose Mussel Rayed Bean Mussel Fanshell Mussel Desert Tortoise Eastern Massasauga Rattlesnake Big Sandy Crayfish Guyandotte River Crayfish* *Photo Credit C. Michael Stinson, WV Metro News 14 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress Since 2016, EnviroScience has donated over $2,500 to the Cuyahoga County Animal Shelter to benefit their animal enrichment and behavior modification programs. The funds directly support behavioral programs that have significantly reduced the average shelter stay and increased the average adoption rate. These programs have been instrumental in reducing kennel stress, which has in turn reduced the number of dangerous encounters with volunteers, county kennel employees, and the public. For 2020, we plan to institute a volunteer day to responsibly remove nuisance brush and invasive species around the perimeter of the animal shelter. This new project will benefit dogs and volunteers alike by removing dangerous weeds like poison ivy, while allowing the shelter to make increased use of the property, without damaging the surrounding ecosystem. On June 1, 2019, we provided biological expertise to Geauga Park District’s 2019 BioBlitz. The inventory event was held at Wicked Woods, a 180+ acre former golf course that is actively being restored. EnviroScience biologists helped survey for birds, insects, and freshwater mussels. Kent Torch Fest and Cuyahoga Falls Burning River Anniversary Events June 22, 2019 marked the 50th anniversary of the final and most famous burning of the Cuyahoga River, an event credited with spurring the American environmental movement. To highlight the progress made on water quality in the region and promote discussions of the future of the river, a full year of events took place along the entire length of the river. EnviroScience attended several of the anniversary events in local communities, including the Kent Xtinguish Torch Fest and Cuyahoga Falls Burning River event, and staff members shared their expertise and experiences with the public on projects that have contributed Jennifer Vydra explains EnviroScience’s to the overall health of the river. EnviroScience provided many water-related capabilities, such as aquatic organisms and technical equipment to show the diving, at the Kent Xtinguish Torch Fest. importance of functional habitats for the health of the river and downstream water quality. 2019 Conservation Donations Recipients • Ohio Partners in Amphibian & Reptile Conservation • Portage Parks Environmental Conservation Awards Dinner • Stow Farmers Market • Cuyahoga Valley National Park • Cleveland Museum of Natural History Natural Areas 15 2019 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress 6.0 ANTI-CORRUPTION EnviroScience maintains its zero-tolerance policy for corrupt and unscrupulous activities and makes it clear that this type of behavior is grounds for immediate dismissal. Although most of our revenue is generated representing corporate clients, we pride ourselves in working equally well for various state and federal agencies, including USEPA. We provide high quality, science driven, biomonitoring and agency coordination services, with a team of recognized ethical experts from a broad range of biological and ecological backgrounds. The company has an ethics committee and has a secure email box to allow for anonymous reporting of ethical issues or concerns a staff member may have. Our principle executives and Human Resource professionals keep an “open door” policy and are always available and willing to stop and meet with staff members who have concerns. Two of our core values are client advocacy and accountability. Two of our core values are client Many of our projects involve helping companies adhere to advocacy and accountability. environmental guidelines established by various levels of government. We have several employees with legal experience and/or a history of interacting with government agencies, who provide oversight to projects involving potential liability for clients. EnviroScience strives to prevent or address any potential conflict of interest, and communication is encouraged to ensure that projects are completed both ethically and in a legally defensible manner. In order to promote greater understanding between employees, EnviroScience holds monthly operations meetings. These meetings allow each group to share its upcoming projects, staffing and equipment needs, and schedules. The meetings also enable each employee to keep abreast of all aspects of the company and allows each group to more effectively communicate with each other. In 2019, our CEO Jamie Kresja voluntarily underwent a 360 review to better understand the strengths and weaknesses he brings as a company leader. The process was led by an independent human resources consultant, who interviewed 17 employees on an anonymous basis. The employees were comprised of a random cross-section of the company, and were asked questions focusing on the CEO’s strengths, weakness, and areas for improvement. As a result, Mr. Kresja has shared new goals, both personal and corporate, to continually improve his leadership at EnviroScience. We proudly display our United Nations Global Compact Membership on our website. EnviroScience uses our annual Communication on Progress as our sustainability report. Currently, we have not yet modified our contract language to incorporate the ten principles. However, we are pleased to see that several of the companies we do business with are including such changes. 16
