AGL Energy Limited T 02 9921 2999 Level 24, 200 George St F 02 9921 2552 Sydney NSW 2000 agl.com.au Locked Bag 1837 ABN: 74 115 061 375 St Leonards NSW 2065 United Nations Global Compact – CEO Statement of Support I am pleased to affirm my support for the ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact covering the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Since becoming a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2016, AGL is proud to be one of over 9,500 business signatories to the UNGC across 160 countries, including over 150 actively participating organisations in Australia. Brett Redman Managing Director & CEO, AGL Energy Limited 13 August 2020 2020 Communication on Progress Below, you will find our 2020 UNGC Content Index, designed to provide our stakeholders with an overview of how we are meeting or implementing the UNGC principles through links to relevant sections of AGL’s 2020 reporting suite. Area Principle Response or link to 2020 Reporting Suite Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and During FY20, AGL released its Human Rights Policy. This respect the protection of Policy applies to all our businesses and transactions in internationally proclaimed all countries within which we operate, and covers: AGL human rights and all subsidiary and affiliate entities over which we exercise control; and all directors, officers and employees of AGL. Behaviour of AGL's directors, employees and 2 Make sure that they are not contractors is guided by the AGL Values and the AGL complicit in human rights Code of Conduct. abuses AGL operates in Australia only in accordance with the laws of Australia. AGL's Annual Report and ESG data centre cover many issues that relate to human rights, including corporate governance, employee health and safety, and employee experiences and behaviours. Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the AGL upholds the freedom of association and the right to freedom of association and the collective bargaining, as set out in AGL’s Human Rights effective recognition of the Policy. As at end of FY20, more than 44% of AGL's right to collective bargaining workforce was covered by collective bargaining agreements. 4 The elimination of all forms of AGL operates in Australia only in accordance with the forced and compulsory labour labour laws of Australia and AGL’s Code of Conduct which is underpinned by the Company Values. AGL's Supplier Code of Conduct, which was updated during FY20, prohibits our suppliers from engaging in any form of child, forced or involuntary labour, and requires them to adhere to all international standards and domestic regulations relating to the employment of 5 The effective abolition of child children. labour The Supplier Code of Conduct also makes clear that AGL expects its suppliers to comply with modern slavery laws and regulations, and identify, address and report on risks of modern slavery practices in their business operations and supply chains. AGL will be reporting its first Modern Slavery Statement in accordance with the Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act 2018 in December 2020. 6 The elimination of The People scorecard within AGL's Annual Report discrimination in respect of describes our approach to diversity and inclusion, and employment and occupation the removal of discrimination, and how these attributes are promoted and embedded throughout our business. Further information on our approach to diversity and inclusion is also available on our website. Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires our suppliers to promote an inclusive workplace free of discrimination, harassment, bullying and other unlawful behaviour on discriminatory grounds. Environment 7 Businesses should support a AGL’s Health, Safety and Environment Policy, which was precautionary approach to revised in FY20, sets out our commitment to conduct environmental challenges our business in a way that minimises our impact on the environment. Our approach to climate change is reflected in AGL’s Climate Statement, released in FY20, which confirms AGL’s target of net zero emissions by 2050. We expand on our approach to climate change in the Environment scorecard in our FY20 Annual Report, and in our supplementary FY20 ‘Pathways to 2050’ Report, which is prepared in accordance with the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures (TCFD) voluntary disclosure framework. 8 Undertake initiatives to We are committed to playing our part as Australia promote greater environmental transitions toward full decarbonisation by 2050, responsibility including through the five commitments we have made through the AGL Climate Statement. 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of Our Annual Report covers issues that relate to environmentally friendly environmentally responsible initiatives and technologies technologies. These can be found in the Environment and Infrastructure scorecards. Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against AGL has embedded risk-based anti-bribery and corruption in all its forms, corruption controls throughout our processes and including extortion and bribery policies, including within the AGL Code of Conduct and the Anti-Bribery Corruption and Fraud (ABCF) Policy. Work is currently underway to identify areas of opportunity for aligning AGL’s ABCF strategy with the best practices recommended by the standards ISO 37001 Anti-bribery Management Systems and AS 8001 Fraud and Corruption Controls. We also have a comprehensive Anti-Money Laundering / Counter-Terrorism Financing Compliance Program and an Australian Financial Services Licence Compliance Program within our wholesale markets (energy trading) areas. In this regard we conduct regular risk assessments to determine the adequacy of the controls that are in place.
