REPORT 2020 CORPORATE — FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2020— FY20 HIGHLIGHTS TRAFFIC IMPACTED BY COVID-19 Group ADT (M) 5.5M Customers Up to 68% $4.7M 2.5 customers 2.0 in Australia 1.5 safer driving on in toll credits to frontline 3.3M 1.0 0.5 Transurban ’s workers and customers 0.0 road users in Australian roads impacted by COVID-19 07 Jun 14 Jun 21 Jun USA/CA than like roads 01 Mar 08 Mar 15 Mar 22 Mar 29 Mar 05 Apr 12 Apr 19 Apr 26 Apr 03 May 10 May 17 May 24 May 31 May March 2020 April 2020 May 2020 June 2020 Week commencing Scope 1, 2 and 3 Community More than ESG ~30K leader greenhouse gas reduction targets $3.3M interactions with in global of social investment, communities on sustainability validated by the Science Based including bushfire and projects in delivery benchmarks Targets initiative COVID-19 response Our people 95% More than 89% 95% Jobs maintained 83% of our people worked from home during for direct and of employees would the COVID-19 crisis, with 89% stating they indirect workforce recommend Transurban already had the ﬂexibility they needed through COVID-19 as a great place to work prior to the crisis Government NeuRA North American Engaging partnership 2 Advisory Board with and industry extended for a further US Department established to support growth government and industry three years of Transportation opportunities on infrastructure projects innovation grants to support economic recovery Supporting Business partners Up to Safest 80% 80% year small business and suppliers of electricity needs for Brisbane and for contractors Sydney operations from renewable with a Recordable through COVID-19 with sources from 2021/2022 Injury Frequency new 14-day paymentRate of 3.60 term program Strong Continued Investors Acquisition of remaining Liquidity cost to meet 34.62% control to pay distributions capital requirements minority interest of M5 West with underlying and debt refinancing cost growth of with $1.3 billion paid to obligations to end 2.1% excl. foreign security holders for FY20 of FY21 exchange impact 1 TRANSURBAN JULY Infrastructure we’ve delivered in FY20 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Opened July 2019 Motorists bypassing up to 22 traﬃc lights Recognised by the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia NEW M4 TUNNELS Completed August 2019 Motorway performing strongly through COVID-19 LOGAN Supported by high proportion of freight and logistics traﬃc ENHANCEMENT PROJECT Completed November 2019 On schedule and on budget Extends the 95 Express Lanes to the Washington DC border 395 EXPRESS LANES OPEN $19B Infrastructure we’re creating 2020 Stage 2 WestConnex project pipeline of The M8’s twin motorway tunnels * double the capacity of the M5 corridor. Assumed operatorship critical infrastructure of the M5 East across Australia and NorthConnex North America Twin 9km dual-lane tunnel linking Sydney’s north to the * including the West Gate Tunnel Project, where we orbital network and allowing are working to resolve commercial and technical issues motorists to bypass up to which have led to a delay in tunnelling 21 traﬃc lights Reporting suite—all available at transurban.com/investor-centre FY20 Corporate Report—this report FY20 Sustainability Supplement The holistic performance of Transurban in Supplement to the Corporate Report FY20 including our Financial Statements. including information related to our assessment and management of climateFY20 Results Presentation related impacts as well as a report on Management presentation of financial our progress against the UN Sustainable and non-financial results including nonDevelopment Goals. statutory analysis. Tax Transparency Report Corporate Governance Statement Overview of our corporate structure, Corporate Governance Statement made approach to tax and tax position for in accordance with the ASX Council’s FY19—available late August 2020. Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations (4th Edition). —FEATURE— Lighting up innovation Our NorthConnex tunnels will light up with birds, starry skies and a blue gum forest when they open in Sydney later in 2020. The innovative lighting displays, which aim to keep drivers alert and focused, are just one example of how we consistently challenge ourselves to do things better. This applies to every part of our business from designing and operating our roads, bridges and tunnels and ensuring we are giving our diverse workforce the best opportunities to excel. Thousands of people worked on the project to create one of Australia’s longest tunnels and a critical link in Sydney’s orbital network. On the cover: Lighting feature at the St Peters Interchange delivered as part of the WestConnex M8 project in July 2020 3 TRANSURBAN 1 INTRODUCTION 3 GOVERNANCE AND OVERVIEW AND RISK 4 60 About this report 4 Governance 61 2020 CORPORATE REPORT About Transurban—what we do 6 Board of directors 66 Chair and CEO letter 10 Risk management 68 Executive committee 13 Business strategy 14 4 DIRECTORS’ REPORT 75 2 BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 19 5 REMUNERATION COVID-19—how we are responding 20 REPORT 79 Project updates 22 Customers 29 6 FINANCIAL Community 35 STATEMENTS 102 Our people 41 Government and industry 45 Business partners and suppliers 49 7 SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION Investors 53 204 CONTENTS 4 COMMITMENT TO INTEGRATED REPORTING Our 2020 Corporate Report provides an overview of our ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial performance and details how we create value for our customers and communities; our people; business partners and suppliers; government and industry; and investors. In preparing this report, we have been guided by the Global Reporting Index (GRI) and International Integrated Reporting Framework (IIRF). We are committed to the GRI and IIRF principles and recognise their alignment with the long-term value we create for all our stakeholder groups as a provider of critical transport infrastructure. ABOUT THIS REPORT Scope and content assurance statement by KPMG, is available in the FY20 Sustainability Supplement. Select non-ﬁnancial This report covers Transurban’s operations data points within the report are estimates informed worldwide with all information referring to the by part-year data and trend analysis of previous years. year ended 30 June 2020 unless otherwise stated. This estimated data is identiﬁed by an asterisk (*). It includes the key disclosures required under The remaining information in this report has Australian legislation and provides a holistic been through an internal review process. overview of our business. This publication contains certain forward-looking In addition to the GRI and IIRF principles, statements. See page 207, which contains a notice in the content in the Corporate Reporting suite has respect of these statements. been shaped by recommendations from other frameworks including the Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures and Sustainability Environmental, social and Accounting Standards Board, and the United governance issues Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Our Directors’ Report from page 75 has been A key stage in the development of this report is prepared in accordance with the Corporations Act our annual materiality review which is informed by 2001. Our Financial Statements from page 102 have feedback from stakeholders (more information about been prepared in accordance with the Corporations how we engage our stakeholders is on page 16). Act 2001 and Australian accounting standards. The review identiﬁes the environmental, social Detailed information on the basis of preparation of and governance risks and opportunities from the our Financial Statements is available on page 111. year that have the most potential to impact our PricewaterhouseCoopers has conducted an ability to create value for our stakeholders. These independent audit of the Financial Statements and issues may change year-on-year reﬂecting changes Remuneration Report. Detailed information on the to the external environment we operate in and our audit is available on pages 101 and 195. strategic focus. We draw on the materiality review Information on the methodology used for to help guide the content of this report, and the sustainability data in this report, including a limited Sustainability Supplement. 5 OUR RECOGNITIONS TRANSURBAN Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark— 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Infrastructure (2019) 2nd highest rated motorway infrastructure company globally Dow Jones Sustainability Index (2019) 4th highest rated transport company globally FTSE4Good Member of Global Index since 2004 Ethibel Socially Responsible Investment Register —1— Excellence label in the INTRODUCTION register since 2017 Workplace Gender AND OVERVIEW Equality Agency (Australia) Employer of Choice Citation since 2015 —2— BUSINESS MSCI AAA ESG Rating PERFORMANCE since 2015 OUR AFFILIATIONS —3— Global Reporting GOVERNANCE Sustainability recognitions Initiative (GRI) and aﬃliations AND RISK Used for our sustainability reporting since 2006 Transurban is recognised as a global Task Force on sustainability leader in the infrastructure and Climate-related —4— transport sectors and is increasingly integrating Financial Disclosures DIRECTORS’ sustainability into all aspects of business strategy All recommendations planning and operations. addressed Our sustainability strategy is aligned to the nine REPORT United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Carbon Disclosure Project most relevant to our business. Detailed analysis of Participant in 2019 our performance against these goals is available in —5— our Sustainability Supplement. UN Global Compact Participant since 2009 REMUNERATION REPORT IS and Envision Sustainability ratings THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS for major projects MOST RELEVANT TO OUR BUSINESS —6— Sustainability FINANCIAL Accounting Standards Board Implementing reporting STATEMENTS recommendations Science Based Targets —7— initiative (SBTi) SECURITY HOLDER Validated greenhouse gas emission reduction targets INFORMATION 6 20 7 8.8M 9K+ 1996 operating major projects customers and total workforce listed on the Australian assets1 underway road users globally Securities Exchange ABOUT TRANSURBAN— WHAT WE DO As one of the world’s largest toll-road developers and operators, our business is to keep cities moving and get people where they want go as quickly and safely as possible. W e’ve been doing this since 1999 when we We also continuously challenge ourselves in the opened CityLink in Melbourne, Australia, way we respond to social and environmental issues, and today we have 20 toll roads in and invest in both to create social inclusion and Australia, the United States and Canada. We have manage our environmental impacts. 5.5 million customers in Australia, while in North Success for us means we achieve our purpose America over 3.3 million drivers choose to use our and create real and lasting beneﬁts for all our roads for faster, safer and more reliable trips. stakeholders. In addition to our operating assets, we have seven major projects scheduled for completion which will provide vital alternatives to busy and FIGURE 1: PROPORTIONAL TOLL REVENUE BY MARKET often congested city roads and remove truck traﬃc IN FY20 from local neighbourhoods (see page 59 for our y 43% project pipeline). dne Sy % Our purpose—to strengthen communities e 30 ourn b 6% through transport—underpins all that we do. el e1 an sb M From our traﬃc control room operators who 11% ica B North Am ri monitor our roads 24/7 to our traﬃc planners who are forecasting where congestion hot spots could be er in a decade’s time, our team is focused on making travel easier now and in the future. The way we go about our work, how we treat each other and all of the people we come into contact with, reﬂect our values of integrity, respect, accountability, collaboration and ingenuity. OUR VALUES Integrity Collaboration Ingenuity Accountability Respect 7 Our roads and projects TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT AUSTRALIA N E W S O U T H W A L E S NorthConnex M2 M7 Lane Cove Tunnel Hills M2 Military Road E-ramp —1— SYDNEY HARBOUR BRIDGE INTRODUCTION SYDNEY HARBOUR TUNNEL New M4 SYDNEY CBD Cross City Westlink M7 WestConnex Tunnel AND OVERVIEW M5 East Eastern Sydney Distributor M5 West M8 Airport —2— BUSINESS Moorebank Port Intermodal Terminal Botany PERFORMANCE —3— GOVERNANCE Sydney, New South Wales AND RISK M5 WEST2 HILLS M2 LANE COVE TUNNEL 100% ownership 100% ownership 100% ownership 22 kilometres 21 kilometres —4— 3.8 kilometres Concession end 2060 Concession end 2048 DIRECTORS’ Concession end 2048 CROSS CITY TUNNEL EASTERN DISTRIBUTOR WESTLINK M7 REPORT 100% ownership 75.1% ownership 50% ownership 2.1 kilometres 6 kilometres 40 kilometres Concession end 2035 Concession end 2048 Concession end 2048 —5— REMUNERATION M8 M4 M5 EAST REPORT 25.5% ownership 25.5% ownership 25.5% ownership 11 kilometres 14 kilometres 10 kilometres Concession end 2060 Concession end 2060 Concession end 2060 —6— PROJECTS FINANCIAL NORTHCONNEX WESTCONNEX WESTCONNEX 50% ownership M4–M5 LINK ROZELLE INTERCHANGE3 STATEMENTS 9 kilometres 25.5% ownership 25.5% ownership Concession end 2048 7.5 kilometres 5 kilometres Concession end 2060 Concession end 2060 —7— SECURITY HOLDER 1 Including the M8 which was opened on 5 July 2020 and M5 East on which tolling commenced on the same day INFORMATION 2 Transurban currently owns 100% of M5 West, when the current concession expires in December 2026 the M5 West will form part of the WestConnex M5 concession through to December 2060, and Transurban’s ownership will be 25.5% 3 Rozelle Interchange is being delivered and funded by Transport for NSW 8 AUSTRALIA Melbourne Airport Essendon V I C T O R I A Airport CityLink Western Link M2 West Gate Melbourne, Victoria Tunnel Swanson Dock Project BOLTE MELBOURNE CBD BRIDGE CITYLINK BURNLEY TUNNEL WEST GATE DOMAIN 100% ownership BRIDGE TUNNEL 22 kilometres Webb Concession end 2045 Dock CityLink Southern Link PROJECT M1 WEST GATE TUNNEL PROJECT 100% ownership 17 kilometres Concession end 2045 Brisbane Brisbane, Queensland AirportlinkM7 Airport Port of Brisbane Australia INNER CITY TradeCoast GATEWAY MOTORWAY LOGAN MOTORWAY BYPASS Legacy Way SIR LEO HIELSCHER BRIDGES 62.5% ownership 62.5% ownership BRISBANE CBD 23.1 kilometres 39.5 kilometres Clem7 Gateway Concession end 2051 Concession end 2051 GO BETWEEN BRIDGE Motorway M1 LEGACY WAY AIRPORTLINKM7 62.5% ownership 62.5% ownership 5.7 kilometres 6.7 kilometres Q U E E N S L A N D Concession end 2065 Concession end 2053 CLEM7 GO BETWEEN BRIDGE Logan 62.5% ownership Motorway 62.5% ownership 6.8 kilometres 0.3 kilometres M2 Concession end 2051 Concession end 2063 9 NORTH AMERICA TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT OLIVIERMontreal, Canada CHARBONNEAU BRIDGE A25 Montréal Gateway A25 Terminals Partnership 100% ownership (Port of Montréal) 7.2 kilometres Concession end 2042 Termont Montréal (Port of Montréal) Q U E B E C LOUIS-HIPPOLYTE LA FONTAINE TUNNEL JACQUES-CARTIER BRIDGE Montréal Saint-Hubert VILLE-MARIE TUNNEL Longueuil Airport DOWNTOWN VICTORIA BRIDGE —1— CHAMPLAIN BRIDGE INTRODUCTION Capital AND OVERVIEW Beltway Accord 495 Express Lanes —2— Northern Extension BUSINESS PERFORMANCE V I R G I N I A WASHINGTON DC Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport —3— 495 Express Lanes GOVERNANCE 395 Express Lanes AND RISK 95 Express Lanes M A R Y L A N D —4— DIRECTORS’ To Fredericksburg and Fredericksburg REPORT Extension —5— Virginia, USA REMUNERATION REPORT 495 EXPRESS LANES1 95 EXPRESS LANES2 395 EXPRESS LANES 100% ownership 100% ownership 100% ownership 22 kilometres 50 kilometres 13 kilometres Concession end 2087 Concession end 2087 Concession end 2087 —6— PROJECTS FINANCIAL FREDERICKSBURG 495 EXPRESS LANES CAPITAL BELTWAY STATEMENTS EXTENSION NORTHERN EXTENSION ACCORD 100% ownership 3.2 kilometres 4.2 kilometres 16 kilometres —7— SECURITY HOLDER Concession end 2087 INFORMATION 1 495 Express Lanes concession includes the 495 Express Lanes Northern Extension Project, for which a development framework agreement with the Virginia government has been established, and the Capital Beltway Accord, for which discussions are underway with the Virginia government to progress to a development framework agreement 2 95 Express Lanes concession includes the 395 Express Lanes and the Fredericksburg Extension 10 Lindsay Maxsted CHAIR Scott Charlton AND CEO LETTER T he emergence of COVID-19 in early The key ﬁnancial metrics of the While we all continue to face 2020 has been the deﬁning event period ended 30 June 2020 included a uncertain times, Transurban is clear of the past year and presented 13.2% decrease in statutory revenue to about our long-term strategy to challenges for nations across the world. $3,616 million and a 190.1% decrease provide transport solutions that oﬀer While, above all, this is a global in statutory net proﬁt to a loss of real and lasting beneﬁts to cities and health crisis, the economic fallout has $153 million. Proportional EBITDA communities. We are closely monitoring been swift and severe as governments of $1,888 million was achieved, with our customers’ views on transport and introduce measures to control the a continued focus on cost control. mobility in light of COVID-19 and have spread of the virus. Our business has Despite the impacts of lower traﬃc on recently released a research report, not been immune to the impacts, which our performance in FY20, Transurban Urban Mobility Trends from COVID-19, are evident in the sharp fall in traﬃc, and is ready to navigate this environment available at transurban.com/transportconsequently, revenue, in the latter part with a strong balance sheet and industry-report. The report highlights the of FY20. liquidity position. way our customers expect to work and Transurban’s purpose is to travel in the future and the implications strengthen communities through that may have on transport networks transport and that has never been and for transport policy decision makers. more important than now. Since the Our strategy and assets have served outbreak of COVID-19, we have been us well and we believe will continue to do steadfast in our resolve to do all that we so in the future. can to keep our employees, contractors We have opportunities in all our and customers healthy and safe, and existing markets and despite the to ensure that our essential road impacts on revenue, our balance sheet networks are fully operational. We have is strong. In addition, we are well placed maintained our workforce and continued to support the recovery of economies construction on all our major projects through infrastructure developments with procedures in place to safeguard that will ultimately improve liveability and workers on site. productivity in these cities. Governments We have introduced measures to have ﬂagged the importance of support vulnerable customers, small construction projects—both minor and businesses and other members of the major—in stimulating economic recovery community including frontline personnel and creating jobs. We look forward to who play such a critical role at a time playing our role to support their agendas. “While we all continue such as this. Between April and June 2020 we granted more than $4.7 million to face uncertain of tolling credits under a new toll-credit Major project developments times, Transurban program to assist customers most in need, as well as frontline workers. In FY20, we completed three projects, is clear about our Support for those in need and on the the New M4 tunnels in Sydney, the Logan frontline in Melbourne has subsequently Enhancement Project in Brisbane and long-term strategy been extended into FY21. the 395 Express Lanes in Virginia. All of to provide transport We also expanded a number these projects oﬀer valuable travel-time of community initiatives and social savings as well as improved safety and solutions that oﬀer investment to direct our support in reliability for motorists. the most meaningful ways, making In early July 2020 we opened the M8 real and lasting $1.5 million of additional targeted social and commenced tolling on the M5 East, beneﬁts to cities and investment. More details about our with this improved corridor representing response to COVID-19 are on pages 20 the second stage of the WestConnex communities.” and 21. motorway network in Sydney. The M8’s nine kilometre tunnels double the 11 capacity of the heavily congested M5 East TRANSURBAN motorway. In the ﬁrst half of FY21 we will open another nine kilometre tunnel “The success of project, NorthConnex, linking Sydney’s Transurban ultimately 2020 CORPORATE REPORT north to the orbital network and creating a traﬃc-light free route from Newcastle depends on our to Melbourne as part of the National Highway network. capacity to create With the completion of NorthConnex, value for all our we will have opened almost 25 kilometres of underground motorways in just stakeholder groups.” over a year and transformed the way Sydneysiders can move around their city with unprecedented travel-time savings and reliability. In Melbourne, almost 18 million construction hours have been completed We took a major step towards excluding Capital Releases and ensures on the West Gate Tunnel Project, which achieving our new reduction targets that we preserve robust liquidity and is a critical project that gives motorists by agreeing to transition to renewable strong investment credit ratings while an alternative to the West Gate Bridge. energy and purchase 80% of the maximising the amount we pay to our —1— We have encountered a number of electricity needs of our Sydney and security holders. INTRODUCTION technical and commercial challenges on Brisbane operations from regional wind the project this year which have led to a farms from 2021/2022. AND OVERVIEW delay in tunnelling, and we now expect In FY20 we recorded our best-ever FY21 outlook the project to be completed in 2023. We results in terms of contractor and remain absolutely committed to working customer safety, reﬂecting our ongoing At the time of publishing this letter, with the State and the D&C subcontractor vigilance to ensure we have the safest traﬃc is improving across the portfolio —2— to deliver this important project. possible roads and operations. as a whole, however Melbourne is In North America, we are working on We remain committed to the United subject to renewed restrictions and BUSINESS PERFORMANCE a number of development projects to Nations (UN) Global Compact and the performance of the business expand our Express Lanes networks in continue to improve our sustainability will remain sensitive to government the Greater Washington Area. We have disclosure. This year we have addressed responses and economic conditions in invested in our internal capability and all recommendations of the Task each of our markets. Given the short—3— will consult our recently formed North Force on Climate-related Financial term uncertainty, the Board has issued GOVERNANCE American Advisory Board to maximise Disclosures. Our response is included guidance that it anticipates the FY21 our participation in the pipeline of in our Sustainability Supplement, which distribution will be in line with Free Cash growth opportunities before us. While is available at transurban.com/fy20excluding Capital Releases. AND RISK the USA has been particularly hard hit sustainability-supplement. We are conﬁdent that Transurban by the pandemic, these are long-term is well prepared to navigate the projects that will improve travel in some current operating environment: to —4— Distribution revised DIRECTORS’ of the most congested areas of the leverage its balance sheet strength and country. More detail about all of our organisational capability to support projects is available on pages 22–27. In light of the impacts of the governments through the economic REPORT pandemic and the subsequent recovery, and pursue the large pipeline government responses, the Board of opportunities in front of us. ESG initiatives determined that it was necessary to Finally, the Board would like take —5— revise our ﬁnal distribution for FY20. this opportunity to thank Transurban’s In FY20, we delivered some This is not a decision we took lightly. employees who have been exceptional REMUNERATION important Environmental, Social and However, it is critical that we during this challenging time, as well as Governance (ESG) initiatives that balance the needs of all of our our security holders for your continued REPORT reinforce our long-standing commitment stakeholders to ensure our business support. to sustainable business practices. comes through these challenging times —6— Recognising that climate change and continues to be in a strong position is a global challenge, we adopted new to deliver on our strategy. The success FINANCIAL targets to reduce the greenhouse gas of Transurban ultimately depends on Lindsay Maxsted STATEMENTS emissions we and our supply chain our capacity to create value for all our Chair and independent partners produce and to work towards stakeholder groups. Non-executive Director decarbonising our business. The targets Our annual distribution of 47.0 cents —7— are in line with climate science and per security equated to approximately SECURITY HOLDER externally validated by the Science Based $1.3 billion cash paid out to our security Targets initiative, which is a coalition of holders in FY20. The distribution for the Scott Charlton INFORMATION pre-eminent environmental and social six months ended 30 June 2020 aligns Chief Executive Oﬃcer economic organisations. with Free Cash generated for 2H20 and Executive Director Image rights granted: Lindsay Maxsted by Renee Nowytarger, Scott Charlton by Josh Robenstone 12 Jennifer Aument Andrew Head BSc, MBA BA President, North America Chief Executive Oﬃcer, WestConnex Jennifer has been with Transurban since 2006 Andrew joined Transurban in 2003 and has led the North American market since and was appointed Chief Executive June 2013, in roles as both President and Group Oﬃcer—WestConnex in September General Manager, North America. Before joining 2018. In his role as WestConnex CEO, Transurban as Vice President of Public Aﬀairs, Andrew is responsible for delivering Jennifer worked for Bechtel Infrastructure to Australia’s largest road infrastructure develop a major expansion of the Washington, DC metrorail project. Prior to his current role, Andrew held various system. She has also advanced infrastructure projects roles on the Executive Committee including Group and advised on key policy issues for major international General Manager New South Wales, Group Strategy, corporations such as Suez Energy, HSBC and General Motors. and Group Development. Before joining Transurban, She has served for nearly a decade as a commissioner for Andrew held senior roles at PricewaterhouseCoopers, the Port of Virginia, one of the largest shipping enterprises in and also worked in the New South Wales Government. the United States, and currently sits on advisory boards for a Andrew is Treasurer and a Director of Roads Australia. variety of industry and academic organisations, such as the American Road and Transportation Builders Association, Eno Center for Transportation, the University of Maryland and Michele Huey George Mason University. BCom, MBA Group Executive, New South Wales Henry Byrne Michele joined Transurban in 2015 as Group Executive, Strategy, and BCom, LLB was appointed to the role of Group Group Executive, Victoria, Strategy and Corporate Aﬀairs Executive, NSW Business Operations in Henry joined Transurban in 2007 and was 2017. Michele is responsible for the NSW appointed Group Executive, Corporate Aﬀairs in market (excluding WestConnex). Before July 2017 and Group Executive, Victoria, Strategy joining Transurban, Michele was the Group Head of and Corporate Aﬀairs in February 2020. Henry’s Procurement and Group Head of Transformation portfolio includes responsibility for the Victorian at Lendlease Corporation, and a Principal at Booz market; the Strategy group including strategic & Company (now part of PricewaterhouseCoopers) initiatives, traﬃc forecasting and analysis and sustainability; where she worked with international and national and our corporate aﬀairs and investor relations activities. organisations across the oil and gas, resources, Prior to his Executive Committee appointments, Henry was industrial and ﬁnancial services sectors on strategy General Manager of Corporate Aﬀairs and Investor Relations, development, operational improvement programs, and Commercial and Operations Manager of Airport Motorway. and organisation transformations. Michele serves as Henry has a background in law and ﬁnancial journalism. Deputy Chair of the Roads Australia Transport Reform Network Chapter, and is a member of the Transport Research Board (USA), Congestion Pricing Committee. Suzette Corr BCom, MBA Sue Johnson Group Executive, People and Culture Suzette joined Transurban in 2018 as Group BBus, BSc Executive People and Culture. She has Group Executive, Queensland responsibility for organisational culture and Sue joined Transurban in 2001 and has development, talent and leadership, diversity and held several executive roles in almost inclusion, performance and remuneration, HR two decades with the business. In services and systems, and workplace relations. early 2018, Sue was appointed Group Prior to Transurban, Suzette held roles at ANZ including as Executive, Queensland where she Group General Manager Talent and Culture, General Manager oversees the development, ﬁnancing, HR Australia and General Manager HR Institutional and construction and operations of our South East International and brings substantial experience dealing with a Queensland network. In her previous role as Group diverse and international workforce. Her earlier career spans Executive, Customer and Human Resources, Sue consulting and service in the government and non-proﬁt sectors. transformed Transurban’s global customer-service Suzette has held non-executive and advisory positions including approach. Sue sits on the Committee for Brisbane as a Director of publicly listed AMMB Holdings Ltd Malaysia and Advisory Panel and the Queensland Government’s the Australian Government’s New Colombo Plan Advisory Group. Land Restoration Fund Investment Panel. 13 TRANSURBAN EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 2020 CORPORATE REPORT —1— Scott Charlton Adam Watson BSc, MBA BBus, FCPA INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW Chief Executive Oﬃcer Chief Financial Oﬃcer Scott joined Transurban as Director and Chief Adam joined Transurban in 2014 as Chief Executive Oﬃcer in 2012. Scott has led the Financial Oﬃcer. Adam’s portfolio includes company through signiﬁcant growth during responsibility for Transurban’s ﬁnance, treasury, —2— his tenure as CEO, expanding its position in tax, legal, corporate development, corporate existing markets and leading its entry into ﬁnance, shared services and procurement BUSINESS PERFORMANCE new markets. Scott joined Transurban from activities. Adam was previously CFO and Group Lendlease, where he was Group Chief Operating Oﬃcer Executive Strategy at Australia Paciﬁc Airports Corporation and Group Director of Operations. Prior to this, Scott held Limited, owner and operator of Melbourne and Launceston several senior appointments across a range of infrastructure airports. Adam has held a number of senior executive —3— and ﬁnancial institutions, including CFO of Leighton roles at BlueScope Steel across corporate ﬁnance, mergers GOVERNANCE Holdings Limited and as a Managing Director of Deutsche and acquisitions, joint ventures, and capital investment in Bank in Australia and Hong Kong. Scott is Deputy Chair of Australia, the USA and China. Adam has also served as a nonInfrastructure Partnerships Australia and is a member of the executive member of the Advisory Board of FM Global, based AND RISK Monash Industry Council of Advisors, the Business Council of in the USA, which is one of the world’s largest commercial Australia and Roads Australia. property insurers. —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT CHANGES TO OUR EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Simon Moorﬁeld —5— This year we realigned our leadership operating model to BSc position Transurban for the future. Group Executive, Customer and Technology REMUNERATION This involved the consolidation and expansion of Simon will join Transurban as Group Executive, senior executive positions as well as increasing capability Customer and Technology in Q2 FY21. In this REPORT to take advantage of emerging opportunities. newly created role, Simon will be responsible for Two new roles were established—Group Executive, bringing together the Customer and Technology —6— Customer and Technology and Group Executive, Partners, functions. Before joining Transurban, Simon Delivery and Risk. was EGM Future Business & Technology and FINANCIAL Simon Moorﬁeld will join Transurban as Group Executive, CIO at AGL. Prior to AGL he held several CIO and executive STATEMENTS Customer and Technology in FY21 and the Group Executive, roles in corporate enterprises including at CBA and GE, and Partners, Delivery and Risk role will be ﬁlled and commence he has over 25 years’ experience in technology, innovation during FY21. and transformation across Australia, the USA, Europe and —7— Asia Paciﬁc. Simon was on the Board of Directors at Sunverge SECURITY HOLDER Energy Inc, and is currently on the board of Powering Australian Renewable Fund (PARF). INFORMATION 14 BUSINESS Our company purpose—to strengthen communities through transport—sits at the heart of the value we work to create for our stakeholders. It provides the foundation of our business strategy—to provide sustainable transport solutions STRATEGY that oﬀer choice, reliability, safety, transparency and value. We deliver our business strategy through four pillars—delivery and operations, optimal networks, stakeholder engagement, and disciplined investment—and through these drive the shared economic and social value for our six stakeholder groups. oping close relationships Devel with ly, akeholders allows us t ient our st o ide ﬃc ct vest in projects and n d e je and in prog tify Th an pro atter. ram fely licy, get that m s i op nkin a o t r ne erat g ho g s l, p ha ade in na ns t e bro t i are wor on o list w io io h ﬂo rat olut nd t pr nec k, w f th ic pe y s ds a os To pe ess e in rt he nspo at we keep g a rit ar ro STAKEHOLDE yo tt h an dev tra R f ou tra ts t d ab er jec th an d mo tec elop ﬃc ne re o hno o ENGAGEMENT ly ad ro AL al bro in p grow es. M RKS tw u lo D e st he niti or t o I k. f PT WO IN IS V ve or t mu NE O T ED y f com IN T ring our projects and op PL EN Delive CI STM e ads as safely and eﬃc rating E r ro OUR DELIVERY AN ou ie sible is our core focu ntly STRATEGY as pos s D undamental to our v OPERATION and f To provide sustainable alue S transport solutions that ition over the lo propos oﬀer choice, reliability, ng te safety, transparency rm. and value es riv yd Our six stakeholder groups s teg lder stra CUSTOMERS INVESTORS ess ho Busin ke The millions of people and The institutional, superannuation, sta businesses that use our roads retail and debt investors that provide for and services us with the capital to deliver long-term, value responsible growth COMMUNITIES GOVERNMENT AND INDUSTRY The communities of Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane in Australia and Our partners in federal, state and local Greater Washington and Montreal government and the transport and in North America business community we are active in OUR PEOPLE BUSINESS PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS Our almost 3,000-strong workforce, The 2000+ network of suppliers and our pipeline of emerging talent and the partners that provide the goods and thousands of subcontractors working services we rely on to deliver for our across our major construction projects customers and operations every day 15 TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT CUSTOMERS More productive and liveable cities through: • Safer roads • Faster and more reliable travel times • Choice, convenience, transparency COMMUNITIES and value for customers in the routes they take and the Better connected and way they interact with us more sustainable communities through: • Improved productivity and easier access to goods and services through direct transport connections —1— • Reduced through-traffic in local neighbourhoods • Job creation through construction projects and INTRODUCTION flow-on employment opportunities • Local community benefits AND OVERVIEW through community engagement —2— rs e BUSINESS old OUR PEOPLE h PERFORMANCE OUR Highly capable workforce te for sta ke through: PURPOSE • Focus on safety and employee wellbeing —3— GOVERNANCE • Job creation and skills development • Development of emerging talent To strengthen communities AND RISK through transport cre a —4— we INVESTORS Sustainable investment DIRECTORS’ ue REPORT proposition through: v al • Balanced distribution growth and T he long-term value creation • Disciplined approach to future opportunities —5— • Superior ESG industry REMUNERATION performance GOVERNMENT REPORT AND INDUSTRY Innovative and eﬃcient transport BUSINESS PARTNERS infrastructure to cater for growing urban AND SUPPLIERS populations through: —6— • Capital input freeing up government balance Better community and sheets for other priorities FINANCIAL environmental outcomes through STATEMENTS inﬂuence in our extensive supply • Potential to fast-track projects delivery chain through: and transfer of project and ﬁnancial risk to the private sector • Long-term relationships with lasting economic beneﬁts in employment, • Private sector expertise in goods and services procurement innovative design, —7— construction and SECURITY HOLDER • Risk management within our supply chain operations • Opportunities for innovation and sustainable outcomes within supply chain INFORMATION 16 Working with our stakeholders To meet the expectations of our stakeholders, we engage in a range of activities that allow us to receive regular and timely feedback, identify areas for improvement, and implement programs that respond to these (summarised below). Our willingness to listen and act on stakeholder feedback has improved our projects, operations and services, and, ultimately, made our business better. CUSTOMERS COMMUNITY OUR PEOPLE • “Voice of the customer” continuous • Project and operational community • “Our voice” continuous listening program How we engaged listening program engagement teams who interact including pulse surveys • Changing Gears online customer through information sessions, • Regular employee town hall meetings research panel meetings, digital and hard-copy communications • Internal communication channels • Customer service channels including including intranet, Webex, email and website, app, webchat, email, phone, • Corporate trust survey signage mail and retail outlets • Community liaison groups • Learning event series • Social media • Social media • Quarterly awards and recognition • Qualitative and quantitative research • Partnerships, grant programs program and events • Introduction of regular people leader forums • Ease and convenience of interactions • Direct benefits to the community • Health, safety and wellbeing Key topics we heard • Support for vulnerable customers through projects and operations • Skills and capability development • Fees, charges and infringement • Role of the community in design of • Access to ﬂexible ways of working processes responses to their concerns • Diversity and equity • Transparency of value • Processes and governance • Ongoing career opportunities • On-road experience factors such • Emissions and air quality as congestion • Impacts through project construction • Privacy and data protection and operations • Transparency of project design and delivery processes and decision making • Significant enhancements to digital • Demonstrated positive contributions • Health and Safety Action Plans How we responded platforms, improving experience and to communities through partnerships mandatory for all teams within the functionality and social and environmental business • Expanded Linkt Assist (team, services initiatives • Belonging and Wellbeing program and enhanced support information) • Continued support for Australian supporting mental, physical and financial and commitment to financial inclusion National University’s Next Generation wellbeing • Provided $4.7M of toll credits to Engagement Program to deliver • Flexible ways of working supported support customers through COVID-19 best practice in achieving positive by collaborative technologies and community outcomes capabilities • Increased proactive communications including pre-empting potential • Consulted with community liaison • On-demand access to over 5,000 online account issues groups on major projects’ design learning programs and delivery • Development of online and roadside • Development of online learning tools to assist in choice and value • Invested in communities through pathways for emerging leaders and assessment of our roads partnerships and grants to 94 groups project managers in Australia and 51 in North America • Launched Linkt Customer Rewards, • New Foundation Leadership Program providing additional value to • Facilitated development of parks and for new people leaders customers community spaces including Ismay Reserve and Haberfield Gardens • Women in Leadership program • Use of data analytics to identify through the WestConnex project supporting gender diversity at a mid trends and pain points to guide future and senior management level improvements • Air quality monitored in tunnels and projects with data published publicly • Pay reviews completed annually to • Collaboration with government maintain pay equity gap of no more partners to improve on-road than 1% experience • Additional assurance and root cause review of customer enquiries 17 TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT GOVERNMENT AND INDUSTRY BUSINESS PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS INVESTORS • Submissions to state and federal • Alignment and objective setting • Annual program of institutional and government and government agency with our major long-term partners retail investor engagement including inquiries • Appointed representatives within one-on-one meetings • Industry partnerships and our major partner engagements • Half-year and full-year results memberships and formalised steering committees briefings • Attendance and speaking at industry • Working groups and workshops • Annual investor day conducted events with supply chain members virtually • Meetings with government • Engagement with industry on intended • Quarterly traﬃc releases stakeholders, oﬃcials and regulators pipeline and future scope of works —1— • Asset tours INTRODUCTION • Dedicated relationship managers • Annual General Meeting and check-in meetings • Investor centre website • Bi-annual investor survey AND OVERVIEW • Proxy adviser and ESG engagement —2— • Innovative and sustainable transport • Working with our supply chain • Asset performance BUSINESS solutions to meet needs of growing to deliver better outcomes for all PERFORMANCE • Long-term value creation cities stakeholders, including reducing environmental impact of business • Development opportunities • Future-ready infrastructure activities • Capital strategy and management • Road safety • Managing risks within supply chains, • Project delivery —3— • Supporting communities through including human rights • Current and emerging risks GOVERNANCE COVID-19 • Visibility and confidence of long-term • ESG performance AND RISK pipeline for suppliers • Quality of relationships —4— DIRECTORS’ • Eleven road projects progressed with • Continued to develop our Sustainable • Delivered FY20 distribution of government in FY20 Procurement Program to address risk 47.0 cents per stapled security, and promote greater economic, social, including a 2H20 distribution of REPORT • Worked with government partners and industry on trials of connected environmental and safety outcomes 16.0 cents per security despite transport technologies and road-user • Continued our Social Traders impacts from COVID-19 charging membership to encourage • Advanced major project pipeline —5— • Consultation with government on partnerships with social enterprises with three projects opened to traﬃc REMUNERATION research from Transurban Road Safety both directly and through our and eight advanced Centre extended supply chain • Maintained strong investment grade REPORT • Delivery of initiatives and programs to • Worked with suppliers to ensure credit metrics support customers compliance with Modern Slavery Act • Active management and review of • Worked closely with our business emerging, strategic and operational suppliers to deliver on expected risks —6— pipeline of work FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 18 Global trends inﬂuencing strategy Population growth, Sustainability Zero emission vehicles urbanisation and considerations and impacts Low and zero-emission vehicles, mainly infrastructure demand electric vehicles and hydrogen vehicles, Climate change and its impacts are will help minimise the environmental The eﬃcient movement of people, at the forefront of a public debate, and impacts of road travel. Technology goods and services has become one of are widely recognised as important improvements and increasing the greatest challenges for cities across drivers of opportunity and risk for demand will continue to improve cost the globe, with population growth and businesses and industries. As a road competitiveness and model availability. urbanisation putting unprecedented operator with assets across three demands on already-stretched transport countries and both hemispheres, and Road-user charging infrastructure. The United Nations an average concession of 29 years, Governments and transport sector forecasts that by 2050, roughly twoclimate change will aﬀect the way that experts have acknowledged the need thirds of people will be living in urban we operate our business into the future. to reform the way drivers pay for roads areas1. These themes are playing out in to provide a fair system that generates Transurban’s core markets: Australia, the Our response: a sustainable revenue stream and also Greater Washington Area, and Montreal. We are taking climate change oﬀers ways to get more out of existing We expect that the impacts of seriously and are committed to reducing infrastructure by managing demand. COVID-19 on population growth, our environmental impact and preparing Road-user charging is garnering urbanisation and infrastructure demand our assets to tolerate extreme weather increasing attention from state and will be multi-faceted. Potential changes events. Our response aligns to the federal governments in both Australia to migration policy, more people recommendations from the Task Force and North America, resulting in a higher working from home, shifts away from on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. number of pilot programs and useable public transport to personal travel given Transurban is recognised as a global data to feed into potential solutions. social distancing measures, and more sustainability leader in the infrastructure online retail delivery traﬃc may act as a and transport sectors and is increasingly Smart mobility catalyst for changes in the way people integrating sustainability into all aspects Ride-hailing and ride-sharing services, use transport over the short, medium of business strategy, planning and multi-modal transport platforms and and long term. operations. More information is provided transport-on-demand apps are already on page 73 and 74, and in our FY20 giving people greater certainty, choice Our response: Sustainability Supplement. and convenience in how they travel, We consider the dynamics of and we continue to see the number of population growth and urbanisation proponents in this market increase. will continue to drive strong demand for Transport technology and Although the time frames are unclear, infrastructure over the long term. In the policy trends smart mobility will impact the cost of near term, governments have begun travel and private vehicle ownership. to lay out post COVID-19 economic and Changing social attitudes coupled employment recovery plans in which with favourable economics will result in Our response: infrastructure plays a big role both increased use of new mobility options We are staying on top of these directly (through investment and new oﬀering greater convenience and trends through continual research projects) and indirectly (by facilitating personalised choices. and development (including running this activity). Transurban is delivering pilot programs) as well as partnerships a pipeline of critical projects in our key Connected and automated vehicles with relevant technology providers. markets, while progressing opportunities Most experts agree that the move to Transurban regularly contributes to to enhance networks in these regions connected and automated vehicles transport policy development through to further support growth, employment has the potential to fundamentally participation in state and federal and economic recovery. In parallel, we change the way we move around government inquiries, industry think are exploring long-term technological cities. Low levels of automation such as tanks, and other thought-leadership solutions to manage demand by adaptive cruise control and lane-keep activities. This year we have combined improving the eﬃciency of existing assist are becoming increasingly available our Customer and Technology teams infrastructure. in the standard vehicle ﬂeet. As we move to meet the challenge of technology into the 2030s we expect adoption rates driving the customer experience. We of highly automated vehicles to increase make these investments to improve our signiﬁcantly. understanding and contribute directly to the development of new technologies to ensure our assets are ready to accommodate them as they mature. 1 United Nations, World Urbanization Prospects: The 2018 Revision —1— —2— —3— —4— —5— —6— —7— TRANSURBAN INTRODUCTION BUSINESS GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION FINANCIAL SECURITY HOLDER 19 2020 CORPORATE REPORT AND OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE AND RISK REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION CityLink, Melbourne BUSINESS —SECTION 2— PERFORMANCE 19 COVID-19— 20 HOW WE ARE RESPONDING The COVID-19 pandemic is a global crisis unlike any in recent history and the impact on our business has been the most challenging since we began operations. G overnment-mandated travel restrictions saw the Customer support expanded amount of traﬃc on our roads, and in turn, revenue, decline quickly and substantially from March 2020 A new toll credit program and expanded hardship support (see page 53). service were among initiatives introduced to assist those most However, from the outset, we have been clear on our impacted (see Figure 2). priority to do everything we can to keep our employees, Early in the crisis, we extended our Australian Linkt Assist contractors and customers healthy and safe. services to provide up to three months of toll credits to people Early into the crisis we put in place suﬃcient debt funding to who had lost their jobs or experienced signiﬁcant reduction in ensure the business was in a strong position to withstand the hours directly as a result of COVID-19. The program also applied signiﬁcant impacts to our earnings. Certainty around toll price to eligible health care workers; aged and disability carers as well arrangements was an important element underpinning the as emergency service personnel. support we received from debt markets through this period. After contacting around four million Australian customers This has enabled us to retain our highly skilled workforce outlining our ﬁnancial support initiatives, our Linkt Assist team so that our essential road networks continue to be fully saw a more than 25-fold increase in requests for assistance. operational and safe, and to ensure our business remains in The toll-credit program successfully granted $4.7 million a strong position and ready to take on future opportunities. of goodwill credits between April and June representing an We have been able to do this without accessing any forms of average credit per account of approximately $235. Other Linkt government assistance. Assist support included extended payment terms and fee The crisis has seen unprecedented numbers of customers waivers for customers. experiencing ﬁnancial diﬃculty, and we have made it our As government restrictions progressively ease across parts priority to support those most in need, as well as recognise the of Australia, we have evolved our toll credit program to focus extraordinary eﬀorts of frontline workers. And, along with our on customers who are experiencing ﬁnancial diﬃculty due to construction partners, we have ensured that the more than COVID-19 in FY21. In Melbourne, where Stage 4 restrictions 6,000 workers on site can safely continue to deliver critical apply, frontline workers will be able to receive toll credits. infrastructure projects for our cities. In North America, we paused certain unpaid toll collection activities, and made fee waivers available to all customers in addition to the existing First Time Forgiveness Program. FIGURE 2: TAKE UP OF OUR TOLL CREDIT PROGRAM TO JUNE 2020 58% Maintaining our people’s wellbeing ers ork % and productivity e w s 22 ar job ost 16% He l l ne Keeping our people safe and healthy, engaged and People w on alt rs 4% ho re hc productive has been our focus throughout the COVID-19 crisis. ha With more than 95% of employees working remotely from ncy services ve e erg pe March to June, our well-established ﬂexible working program rs Em nd disability and investment in technology meant our team was able to a ca adapt quickly to the new work environment. d Ag e 21 TRANSURBAN Our people leaders attended a series including strict social distancing have noted that Transurban has several of live online workshops covering topics requirements and increased cleaning levers able to support it in this regard. such as leading in a virtual environment regimes and personal hygiene protocols. We declared a distribution of 2020 CORPORATE REPORT with a focus on productivity and mental Along with other industry bodies, 16.0 cents per security for 2H20, taking health; managing ﬂexibility; managing we have been looking at ways the the full-year distribution to 47.0 cents. performance remotely and transitioning infrastructure sector can enable This represents over 75% of the original, back to the oﬃce. jobs growth and activities that will be pre-COVID-19 guidance and is equivalent In a May survey, 80% of employees important for economic recovery. to $1.3 billion paid in cash to security said they still felt connected to their holders. team and colleagues and 93% said they were clear about expectations and their Assisting suppliers priorities. More than 90% felt supported Community initiatives by their leaders to manage their health To assist our network of more than and wellbeing. 750 small business suppliers, we halved In response to the unique challenges We used a range of channels, our standard payment terms from of the past 10 months, with the bushﬁres including a daily email update, to 30 to 14 days. So far 279 suppliers have in Australia as well as the COVID-19 crisis, communicate with employees and beneﬁtted from the change, which was we wanted to support our communities 91% said the communications were introduced in March and will be reviewed in meaningful ways. A number of our timely and relevant. in September. community investment initiatives have —1— To ensure our employees’ remote Our Procurement Team has worked been expanded or refocused to direct INTRODUCTION work environments were ergonomically closely with suppliers to manage any our support to people when they need safe, our HSE and Facilities teams risks around supply chain shortages and it most. AND OVERVIEW conducted more than 1,000 online disruption particularly from shipping In addition to our ongoing social assessments and supplied equipment and freight companies. In some cases investment program, in response to the where necessary. we have reviewed timelines for delivery bushﬁres in Australia and COVID-19, we For essential workers in our of goods and services and extended have committed $1.5 million to targeted —2— traﬃc control rooms or in incident contracts to give suppliers more certainty. programs and partnerships including an management services, we implemented increase in funding for our community BUSINESS PERFORMANCE protocols around social distancing and grants program as well as further cleaning, allowing them to work safely Focus on investors support for existing partners such as while keeping our roads fully operational. The Salvation Army. We also entered into We applied the same disciplined From March to June, we held a new long-term partnerships with Good —3— approach to planning for a return to the number of brieﬁngs to keep investors Shepherd Australia New Zealand and The GOVERNANCE workplace, establishing a set of principles informed about the impacts of COVID-19 Smith Family, which will receive funding to ensure a phased, controlled and safe on our business. This included our to assist more than 400 disadvantaged return for our people. annual investor event in May, which we young people. AND RISK conducted as a virtual brieﬁng, giving In North America, we pooled our market participants access to our spring grant program to provide a single, Keeping construction Executive Committee and senior leaders more impactful USD50,000 contribution —4— moving DIRECTORS’ for their insights on Transurban. to Northern Virginia Family Services. We acted early in the crisis to ensure In addition, we created a regional Importantly, our major construction the business had suﬃcient liquidity taskforce to harness creative means to REPORT work and critical project pipeline has to meet its capital requirements and support the community. The taskforce continued throughout this period of debt reﬁnancing obligations even in developed content for students learning disruption. the scenario that we did not complete from home, created partnerships with —5— We worked with our construction any further reﬁnancing activity to the local restaurants, and provided meals to partners who ensured we were able to end of FY21. We remain committed to those on the front-lines of the COVID-19 REMUNERATION keep our construction sites operating maintaining strong investment-grade ﬁght among other ideas. by implementing a range of measures credit ratings and the ratings agencies REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our aim through the crisis has been to balance the needs of all our stakeholders, ensuring that the business emerges through this —7— challenging period in a strong position. SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 22 M8 tunnel portal PROJECT UPDATES Traﬃc on the New M4 tunnels M4-M5 Link under construction “[Through WestConnex] we’re building a network which is eﬃcient, which saves time, which is safer and above ground it reduces congestion and pressure.” NSW Premier, The Hon. Gladys Berejiklian FY20 milestones 23 TRANSURBAN WESTCONNEX— New M4 tunnels opened July 2019 Transforming Sydney’s 2020 CORPORATE REPORT M8 opened July 2020 transport network Assumed operational control of the M5 East, one of Sydney’s busiest motorways, May 2020 T Peak tunnelling on M4-M5 Link tunnels he $16.8 billion WestConnex New M4 tunnels—faster, with all 28 roadheaders operating, project is a critical link in Sydney’s safer, more reliable more than any other road project in motorway network and a key Australia’s history. More than 10km of tunnels now excavated component of the NSW Government’s The 5.5km New M4 tunnels have integrated transport plan to futureproof been a game changer for Sydney’s west, the city by easing congestion and providing signiﬁcant travel-time savings connecting communities. for tens of thousands of motorists each With 40% of Sydney’s population day. Opened in July 2019, the New M4 Skills and jobs legacy expected to live within 5kms of tunnels enable motorists to bypass the WestConnex, it will play a crucial role in congested Parramatta Road, avoid up to In June 2020, more than —1— supporting expected population growth 22 sets of traﬃc lights and save up to an 2,000 people were working to deliver INTRODUCTION of 1.6 million in the next 20 years. hour on their journeys each day. the M8 and M4-M5 Link tunnels projects, The 33km motorway network is The tunnels were the ﬁrst stage and to date more than 33,000 workers AND OVERVIEW being delivered in stages and involves of the WestConnex journey with even and subcontractors have been involved. widening and extending the New M4, greater beneﬁts to be realised when the Almost a third of workers are duplicating the M5 East corridor and M4-M5 Link opens in 2023. from Western Sydney, highlighting connecting the two motorways by the opportunities that WestConnex is —2— providing an underground link that will creating for local workers and businesses. create a free-ﬂowing western bypass of Vital upgrade for Sydney’s More than 80% of contracts for the M8 BUSINESS south-west corridor PERFORMANCE the CBD. project were with NSW-based suppliers Once completed, it will cut up and companies. to 40 minutes oﬀ a trip between The $4.3 billion M8 project (formerly WestConnex is also creating Parramatta and Sydney Airport. the New M5) was completed in July 2020, 500 apprenticeships through the project —3— Future connections include the doubling the capacity of the heavily lifespan, upskilling the next generation GOVERNANCE Western Harbour Tunnel and Beaches congested M5 East corridor, used by of workers. Link, the M6 and major international more than 100,000 motorists every day. gateways at Sydney Airport and Port The twin 9km tunnels provide an AND RISK Botany via Sydney Gateway. alternative to the M5 East, which has New recreation spaces for More than just a motorway, it will been operating at capacity since it ﬁrst treasured inner west deliver more than $20 billion in beneﬁts opened almost 20 years ago. Despite the —4— DIRECTORS’ to NSW, create more than 30,000 jobs reduced congestion due to COVID-19 Up to 18 hectares of open space and provide more green space than any drivers are saving up to 30 minutes on and around 23kms of new and improved other urban road project in Australia. a peak-hour trip between Liverpool and cycle-ways and walkways are being REPORT the southern CBD. Transurban assumed constructed as part of the project. operatorship of the M5 East in May and In FY20, two recreational areas commenced tolling on the road in July were completed—the ﬁve-hectare —5— 2020. The M8 is also relieving traﬃc on Haberﬁeld Gardens, and Ismay Reserve the M5 East, with drivers experiencing at Homebush, which transformed an REMUNERATION Artist impression of an Esme Timbery more than a doubling of speed during unused corridor into a popular park. REPORT artwork at the St Peters Interchange ventilation facility to be installed as the peak periods in the ﬁrst week of More green and recreational space part of M4-M5 Link project operations. along with active transport links will progressively open to the community —6— as WestConnex is completed, including around six hectares in and around FINANCIAL the St Peters Interchange which will STATEMENTS progressively open over 1H21. WESTCONNEX.COM.AU —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 24 Design highlights Two lanes each direction (with space for three) Full LED tunnel lighting Straighter, ﬂatter route for more eﬃcient travel Wide breakdown bays to minimise delays from incidents NORTHCONNEX— 5.1m height clearance A critical freight route T he 9km NorthConnex tunnels aware of their surroundings, but not New life for old quarry opening in FY21 will connect the distracted. The lighting is the result M1 Paciﬁc Motorway and the of research into driver behaviours, More than one million cubic meters Hills M2 Motorway in Sydney’s northern conducted in partnership with the of spoil excavated for the tunnel has suburbs, providing a critical missing University of NSW, Austroads and been reused and transferred into the link in the Sydney orbital network and the project sponsors (TfNSW and the site of the old Hornsby quarry as part of national transport route. Construction Australian Government). a rejuvenation project. on NorthConnex started in 2015. NorthConnex is also one of the ﬁrst The quarry site has been handed NorthConnex will improve travel tunnels in NSW to transition to more back to Hornsby Shire Council to create times and productivity for both environmentally eﬃcient, fully LED tunnel recreational parkland for the community commuters and freight transport lighting, using more than 5,500 lights. to enjoy for generations to come. and allow a traﬃc-light-free trip from The project took considerable Newcastle to Melbourne. steps to conserve as many trees as Redirecting around 5,000 trucks and Employment and training possible and was able to save more buses daily from busy Pennant Hills Road, than a hectare of threatened vegetation NorthConnex will reduce congestion and NorthConnex established a compared to the original footprint, return local streets to communities. dedicated training and employment through redesign and changes to facility, known as the NorthConnex the construction area. However, to Hub as part of a $10 million investment compensate for the removal of some Innovative tunnel solutions to deliver training to more than native trees, biodiversity oﬀsets were 300 workers. The Hub is increasing purchased from the NSW Government. In an Australian ﬁrst, NorthConnex— the skills of the existing workforce, and The oﬀsets will go towards supporting one of the country’s longest tunnels—will providing opportunities for young people, Aboriginal conservation and preserving feature innovative lighting displays to disadvantaged and under-represented 76 hectares of Snow Gum native forest at keep drivers alert and focused. groups. More than 12,700 training a property in Oberon in NSW. Each lighting display has been placed sessions have been delivered, equating strategically along the tunnel alignment to over 87,000 hours of training. Over its NORTHCONNEX.COM.AU to ensure drivers remain engaged and lifetime, NorthConnex will create 8,700 jobs for NSW. LOGAN ENHANCEMENT PROJECT— Quicker, safer travel Motorists on the Logan and Gateway new lanes and ramps, is providing up motorways are beneﬁtting from safer and to 20 minutes in travel-time savings quicker trips following the completion for the 170,000 motorists that use of the $512 million Logan Enhancement the Logan Motorway each day1. The Project in Brisbane. The project, which upgrade has also improved safety, with involved building and upgrading 15km of a 65% reduction in crashes in the area. 1 Pre-COVID 19 travel-time savings FY20 milestones 25 TRANSURBAN WEST GATE TUNNEL PROJECT— 17.9 million hours worked A vital alternative to 2020 CORPORATE REPORT 11,000+ personnel inducted the West Gate Bridge Expenditure of $2.3 billion at June 20202 Signiﬁcant progress on The West Gate Tunnel Project will end West Gate Freeway widening and bridge connecting the Melbourne’s reliance on the West Gate tunnel to the port and CityLink Bridge and create new links to the Construction of the southern tunnel portals under way port, CBD and north of the city to help people and goods move around. —1— INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW —2— M ore than 200,000 vehicles use Construction update Key beneﬁts BUSINESS PERFORMANCE the West Gate Bridge each day and Melbourne’s western A signiﬁcant amount of work has Giving drivers a choice—the suburbs are the fastest growing region been under way on the project to add West Gate Bridge or tunnel in Victoria. more lanes to the West Gate Freeway —3— The project adds 70km of new lanes and build an elevated road that will Four new lanes on the West GOVERNANCE including nearly 20kms on the West connect with CityLink, the port and city. Gate Freeway Gate Freeway to support population The project also includes the growth. As part of the project, improved construction of twin tunnels under 9,000 trucks removed from AND RISK technology and more than 30kms Yarraville in Melbourne’s west between local streets in the inner west of new lanes were also added to the the West Gate Freeway and the Enabling 24-hour truck bans on —4— Monash Freeway so that motorists from Maribyrnong River. To build the tunnels, six local roads DIRECTORS’ the south-eastern suburbs can realise about 1.5 million cubic metres of soil will beneﬁts in reliability and travel-time be dug out. Low levels of the group of REPORT More than 14kms of new and savings. chemicals known as PFAS are predicted upgraded walking and cycling by the D&C subcontractor to be found in paths some of the excavated soil. A launching gantry for the elevated To ensure it is managed safely Nearly nine hectares of parks —5— road connecting the new West Gate for workers and the community, a and wetlands REMUNERATION Tunnel and the city is taking shape in Western Melbourne tailored solution that meets all current Environment Protection Authority More than 17,000 trees and REPORT tens of thousands of native Victoria requirements is needed. This has shrubs and grasses led to a delay in the start of tunnelling and the project is now expected to be —6— completed in 2023. There remains a number of FINANCIAL technical and commercial challenges STATEMENTS to work through in order to commence tunnelling and we remain committed to working with the State and the D&C —7— subcontractor to progress the project. WESTGATETUNNELPROJECT. SECURITY HOLDER VIC.GOV.AU 2 Represents Transurban’s proportional INFORMATION expenditure on the project to 30 June 2020 26 395 EXPRESS LANES— Seamless link to Washington DC T he 395 Express Lanes provide traﬃc moving and oﬀer an alternative to FY20 milestones more reliable travel options along the general-purpose lanes. Vehicles with one of the most vibrant economic three-or-more passengers, buses and Opened November 2019 corridors in Virginia, home to large motorcyclists travel for free. military sites including the Pentagon, and Through the project we are investing On schedule and budget Amazon’s east-coast headquarters. USD15 million annually into public The USD475 million project, a transport services in the area. This year Estimated USD1 billion in economic partnership with the Virginia Department that includes new and expanded activity generated of Transportation, extends the 95 Express bus services to move an additional Lanes by 13km, providing a seamless 700 people through the corridor every Estimated 8,700 jobs generated from connection into Washington DC. day and save close to 89,000 hours of economic impact of project Like our other Express Lanes, the travel delay each year. 395 Lanes are dynamically tolled—based Pentagon Transit Center on traﬃc speed and density—to keep EXPRESSLANES.COM/PROJECTS/395 improvements completed FY20 milestones FREDERICKSBURG EXTENSION— Financial close July 2019 Creating 80km Site clearing, earthworks and bridge reconstruction Express Lanes system Project features The Fredericksburg Extension project— the longest reversible Express Lanes 16km extension of the known as “FredEx”—will provide systems in the US—almost 80kms from dynamically tolled 95 Express faster travel in one of the US’s most Washington DC to Fredericksburg. Lanes congested corridors and easier access The project is due to be completed to the 95 Express Lanes for the more in late 2022 and expected to create 66% more capacity during than 28,000 people working at Marine more than 9,000 jobs and generate peak times Base Quantico. over USD1 billion in economic activity. Extending the 95 Express Lanes We reached ﬁnancial close on the New ramps and seven bridges by 16kms, the project will create one of USD553 million project in July 2019. Vehicles with three-or-more passengers, buses and EXPRESSLANES.COM/PROJECTS/FREDERICKSBURG-EXTENSION motorcyclists travel for free 27 TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Project features 495 EXPRESS LANES NORTHERN EXTENSION— —1— Extends the existing Critical connections Express Lanes by 3.2km and improves connections at the INTRODUCTION Dulles Toll Road and George Washington Memorial AND OVERVIEW T Parkway he 495 Northern Extension project will During FY20 we commenced the process extend the 495 Express Lanes 3.2km to select a design and build subcontractor for Estimated 7,300 jobs —2— towards the Maryland border and is the project. The Request for Qualifications generated from economic BUSINESS expected to save motorists up to 25 minutes process concluded in April 2020. Transurban impact of project PERFORMANCE during peak traﬃc times. remains committed to working with the The project will also return local streets Commonwealth of Virginia and advancing USD880 million economic boost projected to local communities by reducing cutthe project. through traﬃc that now plagues residential The project is anticipated to open to —3— neighbourhoods along the Capital Beltway. traﬃc 2024/2025. FY20 milestones GOVERNANCE The project sets the stage for the Capital Beltway Accord project—the future AND RISK Procurement process extension of the Express Lanes north across commenced for a design and the American Legion Bridge into Maryland. EXPRESSLANES.COM/NEXT-PROCUREMENT build subcontractor —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT CAPITAL BELTWAY ACCORD— Projects set industry-best standards for sustainability Transurban, in partnership with the —5— Maryland and Virginia Governments, All of our Australian projects are designed to achieve a rating of “Excellent” REMUNERATION is progressing a project to extend or above under criteria set by the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of the 495 Express Lanes in Virginia by Australia (ISCA)—a comprehensive system for evaluating sustainability REPORT across the planning, design, construction and operational phases of approximately 4.2kms north across infrastructure projects. Our contractors must achieve that same rating for the Potomac River and into Maryland project construction. To achieve the ratings, we set targets and monitor (see page 46). performance across project management, procurement, environmental —6— The project involves upgrading four impact, community wellbeing, stakeholder engagement, and innovation. general-purpose lanes in both directions FINANCIAL ISCA ratings for our projects: and replacing and upgrading the aging • “Leading” As Built rating—New M4 tunnels and Logan Enhancement STATEMENTS American Legion Bridge to add two Project (the ﬁrst ever Leading rating for a road project in Queensland) Express Lanes, alleviating a major pinch point on the Capital Beltway and one • “Leading” Design rating—NorthConnex and M8 tunnels —7— of the worst bottlenecks in the Greater In North America, our project procurement process requires contractors SECURITY HOLDER Washington Region. Transurban will work to achieve a rating using the Envision infrastructure sustainability rating to deliver Virginia’s project components system. We are currently working to achieve an Envision Silver rating for the design and construction of the Fredericksburg Extension project. INFORMATION as part of this historic bi-state eﬀort. — FEATURE— Safety ﬁrst, ﬁrst for safety Driving on a Transurban road in Australia is up to translate to the finding that there are fewer fatality and serious 68% safer than driving on a similar road, independent injury crashes on Transurban-managed roads. With this result research has shown. seen in all three Australian states where Transurban operates, Analysis by Melbourne’s Monash University Accident the strength of this approach is evident,” he said. Research Centre (MUARC) last year found that our roads Road safety is fundamental to the way we design, build had lower crash rates compared to like roads—by 68% in and operate our roads and we consistently look for ways we New South Wales, 42% in Victoria and by 56% in Queensland. can improve, from installing smart on-road technology to “These results are likely to be driven by a combination of reducing our incident response times. reasons, including infrastructure design, pavement surface, Transurban engaged MUARC, a world leader in injury barrier systems, the quality of lane markings, signage and prevention research, to validate our understanding of injury messages to drivers that enable safe decisions to be made, crashes on our roads, provide insights into crash issues and particularly when approaching on and oﬀ-ramps and safety inform our continued eﬀorts in operating the safest network. critical events,” said Associate Professor Michael Fitzharris. In the US, a customer survey in December 2019 found that “Transurban’s implementation of real-time traﬃc fewer people felt unsafe on our Express Lanes compared to management, which when linked to measures to manage the neighbouring general purpose lanes. The top reasons cited traﬃc ﬂow and speed, is a key factor that underpins safety included less merging and lane changing. Respondents also performance of these roads. When combined, these factors said there was less aggressive driving on our lanes. Professor Michael Fitzharris from MUARC overlooking CityLink, Melbourne 5.5M 29 TRANSURBAN customers in Australia and 3.3M road users 2020 CORPORATE REPORT in North America 381K hours saved by customer every workday1 3.7 road injury crash index— best yet result on record —1— Up to INTRODUCTION 30% AND OVERVIEW CUSTOMERS fuel savings on our roads2 —2— BUSINESS PERFORMANCE —3— GOVERNANCE A superior on-road experience that saves customers time and makes AND RISK journeys as reliable and safe as possible supported by world-class products and services is the expectation in our business. —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT W hen customers choose our toll roads, they roads and across the broader road network (see page 53). —5— expect faster, more reliable and safer trips than Our digital platforms provided customers with real-time alternative routes oﬀer, as well as exceptional comparisons of tolled and untolled routes to help them plan REMUNERATION customer experience. their journey. Less traﬃc meant higher speeds on our roads, In the ﬁrst half of FY20, drivers using our roads creating speciﬁc safety issues, which became the focus for our REPORT collectively saved 381,000 hours every work day compared road operations teams. to alternative routes. These time savings reﬂected increasing We also recognised that FY20 was a challenging year for —6— congestion on arterial roads and more eﬃcient travel on our many people, and our customers may have experienced roads, especially during peak periods. ﬁnancial diﬃculty during the period. We responded by FINANCIAL However, since March 2020, the impact of government expanding a number of our services to support them STATEMENTS restrictions in response to COVID-19 reduced traﬃc on our (see page 20). —7— SECURITY HOLDER UN SDGs relevant to this section INFORMATION 1 From July to December 2019 2 compared to the next best available route 30 Road safety Another key component of our value proposition is providing roads that are among the safest in Australia. In keeping with best practice, Transurban’s Road Safety Strategy is based on the Safe System Approach, which recognises road safety as a shared responsibility—from individuals and businesses who use the roads to the On-road experience organisations and agencies that build and manage the network. Our activities align with the World Health Organisation’s targets to address road safety risks. C ustomers make around two million These were recently reinforced in the Our roads are monitored 24/7 trips on our roads every day, UN’s Stockholm Declaration, which has in control rooms such as this one at WestConnex M4 Motorway collectively travelling 6.6 billion set a global goal to reduce fatalities and Control Centre. Our operators kilometres every year. This makes serious injuries by 50% by 2030. watch for incidents such as the safety and eﬃciency of our roads We track the number of serious injury breakdowns, accidents, loose or falling loads. When there is paramount. The eﬀective operation of crashes on our roads through a Road an issue our incident response our roads is supported by our worldInjury Crash Index (RICI) and set ambitious teams are on the scene within class road operations. Our specialist targets to reduce serious injuries. minutes. road operations teams use state-ofSince RICI was established in 2015, the-art smart road technology to keep we have added seven new roads and traﬃc moving. upgraded a number of existing roads with vehicle kilometres travelled (VKT) increasing by around 40%. In anticipation Travel-time savings of further VKT increases as we open new roads, in FY20 we transitioned from ﬁveTravel-time savings are central to year to annual targets to reduce serious our customer value proposition, with injury crashes. customers beneﬁtting from our direct In FY20, the RICI across all and eﬃciently operated motorway Transurban assets was 3.70 injury connections. crashes per 100 million vehicle kilometres FIGURE 3: ROAD INJURY However, with traﬃc reduced travelled, well below our new annual CRASH INDEX across the broader road network due target of 4.25 and our lowest ever result 7 to the impacts of COVID-19 restrictions, (see Figure 3). 6 average workday time savings for FY20 This improved performance is mainly decreased by 9%; although customers due to safety beneﬁts achieved through 5 still collectively saved more than new lanes, ramps and on-road smart 4 339,000 hours on average each workday technology included in the CityLink 4.85 4.82 4.71 4.58 3 across our roads (see Figure 4). This is Tulla Widening and Logan Enhancement 3.70 2 a short-term impact, with travel-time projects completed in 2018 and 2019 savings increasing in line with road use as respectively. Improvement to the 1 government restrictions ease. We provide Hills M2 at the Pennant Hills Road west0 customers with tools to evaluate travel bound interchange and enhanced road FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 time savings in real time to help inform management practices across our assets TOTAL VEHICLE KILOMETRES TRAVELLED ON TRANSURBAN ROADS GLOBALLY (IN BILLION KMS) their choice on when to use our roads. also contributed to the result. FIGURE 4: ANNUALISED BENEFITS ACROSS EACH OF OUR REGIONS Average daily traﬃc Average workday travel-time savings Sydney 761,000 177,000 Melbourne 750,000 74,000 Brisbane 383,000 68,000 North America 132,000 19,000 31 TRANSURBAN — FEATURE— 2020 CORPORATE REPORT It’s not me, it’s you— drivers’ blame game Drivers who think they’re in the right, and others are in the wrong, are far from alone. A survey of around 100 drivers in the Washington DC area Safety smarts for into road safety behaviour has found most are confident in young cyclists their own driving abilities, but not others’. —1— Our US team conducted the research to gain further insight INTRODUCTION When it comes to road safety, it’s into driver attitudes to help inform how we best communicate never too early to start learning the rules. with them. AND OVERVIEW In Queensland, we completed two The findings have prompted a new approach to our cycle parks this year to help our youngest on-road electronic messages to replace traditional reminders road users get up to speed on basic road such as “drive safely” with messages that prompting drivers safety through play. to be alert for others’ unsafe behaviours and ready to react —2— Designed to look and feel like a if necessary. real road, the parks include more than A review of safety-related studies in behavioural economics BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 200m of path, traﬃc signs, line marking and social marketing highlighted the potential benefits of and even mini replica Sir Leo Hielscher on-road signage, marketing campaigns and targeted initiatives Bridges. provided the messages generated an emotional response The parks in Brisbane and Logan from drivers. —3— oﬀer a safe way to learn how to share We are now considering a larger study to confirm if the GOVERNANCE the road, obey road signs and make safe results are consistent in our other regions. decisions, while having fun. The parks are a community legacy of AND RISK the Logan Enhancement Project. —4— HOW DO DRIVERS PERCEIVE DIRECTORS’ Cycle parks in Brisbane are REPORT THEIR OWN DRIVING giving young riders a safe place ABILITIES AND OTHERS? to learn how to share the road 52% 1111% % afe aafefe —5— ys 38% yyss 4% e 2 EExxttrrem af e Extr af REMUNERATION em em e el ell Somewhat Somewhat REPORT s s Driver Others —6— FINANCIAL Traditional messaging Messages should target targets people who think others’ behaviours STATEMENTS they are safe—so the message is irrelevant to them —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 36M 32 inbound interactions1 9/10 Customer experience interactions are digital1 P roviding our millions of customers globally with excellent service is the expectation in our business. Our mandate is to make it easy, show we care 34M and add value for our customers. We are focused on fulﬁlling these promises by providing an exceptional on-road experience and seamless customer service through our three brands—Linkt (Australia), digital sessions Express Lanes (US) and A25 (Canada). (60% of these accessed In FY20, we acquired the remaining stake in M5 West along with its retail tolling via mobile)1 brand—E-way—expanding our customer base in Sydney. Work is underway to transition E-way’s 500,000 customers to Linkt in the ﬁrst half of FY21. Once this is complete, our Australian customer base will have increased by one million accounts 4.6/5 over the past two years. Customer satisfaction How we make it easy rating for call centre1 Listening and acting on customer feedback has helped us to improve customer satisfaction, reduce the number of complaints we receive and enhance our products and services to improve the overall experience on and oﬀ our roads. Through our Voice of the Customer listening program, we analyse around 250,000 pieces of feedback from our Australian customers each year. In January 2020, we expanded our Voice of the Customer program to our North American business with feedback already driving signiﬁcant improvements for customers. Express Lanes customers can now use their licence plate number (LPN) to search for unpaid tolls on the website, displacing the need for an account or invoice number. Since it launched in mid-February, 38% of total website payments use the LPN search feature. Improvements informed by customer feedback In FY20 we used feedback to inform a number of initiatives, including: • increasing self-service functionality on our digital platforms to allow customers to update their details and receive notifications when payment cards are due to expire • providing customers who contact our call centre with an option to receive proactive notifications to help them manage their accounts, including SMS links to our digital platforms to complete self-service transactions • improving webchat on our Linkt website to make it easier for customers to get answers quickly and extra support to complete tasks. With more customers needing help outside of regular business hours due to impacts from COVID-19, this feature was especially valuable. Following customer feedback, in an Australian-first, we installed 930 Bluetooth navigation beacons across the AirportlinkM7, Clem7 and Legacy Way tunnels to support vehicle navigation systems when GPS coverage was not available, helping customers avoid missing their exit 1 Australian customer data only, does not include North America 33 TRANSURBAN Adding value A new customer rewards program launched in 2020 CORPORATE REPORT FY20 aims to build satisfaction and advocacy of the Linkt brand. The ﬁrst initiative in the Linkt Customer Rewards Program, a national fuel discount was oﬀered to all Linkt retail customers from November 2019, allowing them to receive a fuel discount at any Shell Coles Express. Since November 2019, over 41,000 customers redeemed the oﬀer, collectively saving over $412,000 on fuel. We are exploring other reward opportunities to build on the program in FY21. Showing we care This year we continued our work to remove customer pain points and help keep customers —1— out of trouble. Initiatives such as proactively Product innovation INTRODUCTION notifying customers of outstanding toll invoices GoToll mobile app and requesting they update their account We recognise that customers want ﬂexibility developed for our customers in the AND OVERVIEW information have contributed to halving customer and choice in the way they interact with us. In FY20, Greater Washington complaints over the past ﬁve years. we launched two products that streamlined how Area launched in We continued working closely with our customers pay for toll-road travel. FY20 government partners so we can contact customers A new mobile app in North America is making —2— who don’t have tolling accounts if they have travelled it easier for customers without an account to pay Our Linkt Assist BUSINESS team has played on a toll road to help them avoid additional fees. for tolls while travelling on a dozen toll roads in a key role in our PERFORMANCE We also continued our eﬀorts to better Northern Virginia and Hampton Roads, including the program to support understand and work with customers experiencing Express Lanes. customers impacted by COVID-19 social or ﬁnancial diﬃculty. Our dedicated Linkt Recognising that one-in-three Washington DC Assist team is now well established and played a key drivers do not have a tolling transponder, the GoToll —3— role in our program to support customers impacted app represents a step change in how customers can We are providing GOVERNANCE by COVID-19 (see page 20). manage their toll-road travel easily and in real time. tolling as a service on the Toowoomba The eﬀorts of the team combined with the work The app builds on the success of our Australian AND RISK Bypass (opened we have undertaken with our government partners product, LinktGO. September 2019) to streamline toll notices and increase the amount Similarly, our new Linkt Rental product provides for the Queensland Government— of time customers have to pay, are yielding great Australian customers of rental vehicle agencies the first time outcomes for customers. with an automatic, hassle-free way to pay for their Transurban has —4— oﬀered this type DIRECTORS’ We expanded our Linkt Assist program in toll-road travel. Our rental agency partners account of service FY20 with new multi-lingual educational resources for more than half of the rental vehicle market co-designed with The Salvation Army ﬁnancial and we plan to expand the program to additional REPORT counsellors. We also worked with the community partners and car-share operators in the future. This legal and ﬁnancial counselling sectors nationally initiative represents an ongoing commitment to our to design new guidelines to support customers mobility services strategy. —5— experiencing family violence. People with lived experience also had input into the guidelines. REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION —FEATURE— Roads, parks, murals and more More than just motorways, our projects include safe, “We believe in the power of art, and that public art vibrant and high-quality spaces that leave a lasting on a grand scale transforms bland spaces into sources of legacy for local communities. community pride,” Leia said. Ismay Reserve was an unused corridor in Sydney’s west The legacy project has rejuvenated a previously before it was transformed into a popular recreation and inaccessible area, which will be enjoyed by the community green space as part of the WestConnex project (see page 23). for many years to come. Opened in September 2019, almost 6,000 homes are More green space will be delivered through WestConnex within a 10-minute walk of the 2.5 hectare park, which has than any other urban road project in Australia’s history, with a variety of attractions including a colourful mural by local more than 18 hectares of new open space to be created in artists Brendan Lakin, Leia Sidery and Jo Allsop, as well as Sydney’s inner west, much of which has been co-created with sport and recreation facilities. the community. Beautifying the underpass of the New M4, local artists Brendan Lakin, Leia Sidery and Jo Allsop completed a public mural as part of the development of Ismay Reserve in Homebush, Sydney 35 ~30K 61% 30% 145 TRANSURBAN community sentiment score GHG emission savings grants and 2020 CORPORATE REPORT interactions across for WestConnex for customers using partnerships our major projects in New M4 area our roads COMMUNITY Listening to feedback and acting on what’s important to communities allows us to improve the social, economic and environmental outcomes of our projects and operations in ways that contribute to community growth and prosperity. —1— INTRODUCTION O AND OVERVIEW ur roads provide critical transport For example, on the West Gate Tunnel Project, we connections for communities, connecting know that the safe management of tunnel spoil which them with social, employment and contains low levels of a group of chemicals known educational opportunities, while also relieving as PFAS, is of concern to the communities nearby to —2— neighbourhoods of heavy through-traﬃc. We create potential spoil disposal sites. We has been working thousands of jobs through our major construction with the State and the D&C subcontractor as well as BUSINESS PERFORMANCE projects as well as wider economic beneﬁts through Victoria’s Independent Environmental Regulator to the eﬀective operation of our roads. ensure that any spoil disposal facility that is selected The long-term nature of infrastructure means meets all EPA and other regulatory requirements and we operate next to many diverse communities for considers community concerns. The project parties —3— decades. Maintaining positive relationships with will continue to keep communities informed as plans GOVERNANCE these communities is vital to our business purpose to for tunnel spoil disposal are progressed. strengthen communities through transport. The WestConnex project in Sydney provides an example of the way we listen and work to meet the AND RISK unique needs of each community. Engagement through construction The Community Engagement team has directly engaged with around 10,000 people face-to-face, and —4— DIRECTORS’ The scale of our operations and infrastructure tens of thousands of community members through projects means there will be some degree of phone calls, emails and letters. disruption to the community, particularly along Their focus on house-by-house micro engagement REPORT project corridors. We work to minimise these impacts has seen signiﬁcant increases in community and ensure we have the greatest level of engagement sentiment in the project area. Independent research with the community who, in some instances, live conducted in November 2019 showed positive —5— alongside construction sites for some years. sentiment about WestConnex in the New M4 project Each of our major construction projects has a areas increased from 43% to 61% since we became REMUNERATION dedicated team which engages with the community the operator of the project in 2017. through every stage of the project both face-to-face, In acknowledgement of this best-practice REPORT and through digital and printed communications. community-engagement program, as well as Their mandate is to engage with communities the tunnels’ strong environmental performance —6— on issues that matter to them and ensure that in construction and into operations, this year the we achieve positive outcomes wherever possible. New M4 tunnels were awarded a “Leading” rating from FINANCIAL Across our projects, our teams align their interactions the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia. STATEMENTS with our three engagement principles of being inclusive, open and honest, and genuine. —7— SECURITY HOLDER UN SDGs relevant to this section INFORMATION 36 Plant breathing walls installed on the Eastern Distributor, Sydney Addressing air quality concerns P oor air quality can aﬀect the liveability, health and safety of communities so maintaining good air quality on our roads and projects is vital. Air quality is also an area of signiﬁcant community interest and we undertake regular engagement to listen and act on any concerns. For the WestConnex and NorthConnex projects we have established Air Quality Community Consultation Committees to provide a dedicated channel for community representatives to hear more about how we are managing air quality impacts. Tunnels provide air quality beneﬁts by removing heavy vehicles from local streets and moving them underground. The West Gate Tunnel, for example, will remove 9,000 trucks from local roads each day. In a tunnel, vehicle emissions can be controlled and dispersed more eﬀectively than on an open road. We are required to meet stringent air quality measures for tunnel operations, which are reported to and enforced by the ‘Breathing wall’ trial to cut pollution relevant environmental authority in each state. Our air quality monitoring includes in-tunnel conditions, ventilation outlet In addition to designing and operating our roads and emissions, and ambient air quality around tunnel portals. tunnels in ways that protect air quality, we are testing new Generally, the air quality in our tunnels is well within the annual pollution-reducing technologies through two pilot initiatives. limits set by environmental agencies. Across our tunnel projects In Sydney, a group called Junglefy has developed plant we also monitor air quality around the site to understand local breathing walls, which we have tested on the Hills M2 and conditions. This helps us measure changes to local air quality Eastern Distributor to determine their impact on air quality. once a tunnel opens. We regularly publish air quality data from They have performed well with nitrogen dioxide reduced by an our road projects and tunnels publicly on our customer website, average of 53%, ozone by an average of 29% and particulate linkt.com.au. matter—PM2.5—reduced by an average of 23%. The WestConnex tunnel ventilation was designed to meet In Melbourne, we have commenced a trial of air the NSW Government’s rigorous air quality requirements, purifying paint on a CityLink wall panel. The paint has the which are among the highest standards in the world. While the potential to reduce pollutants like nitrogen oxide and nitrogen extensive tunnel network was designed to be wider, ﬂatter and dioxide, and contains self-cleaning properties, which could higher than most other tunnels in Sydney, meaning a smoother reduce maintenance costs and water consumption. journey so vehicles generate fewer emissions from the outset. Trials such as these are business as usual for us as we See the FY20 Sustainability Supplement for more continually seek new ways to do things that create better information about the air quality performance of our assets outcomes for our stakeholders. and projects. Engaging the community through COVID-19 While construction works continued throughout FY20, restrictions implemented by State Governments as part of the COVID-19 pandemic response impacted our usual face-to-face engagement programs. Instead, our teams used digital platforms to keep communities informed about construction activities. These included: • virtual opening of M8 using virtual tunnel tours, a purpose-built online engagement platform (which has seen more than 40,000 visitors), education kits sent to schools and consultative committees run online • NorthConnex community open day planned to run virtually with 360-degree-video tours • West Gate Tunnel Community Liaison Group meeting run digitally, achieving highest ever attendance • increased use of social media to keep community informed and engaged with our projects. NEW GHG EMISSION 37 REDUCTION TARGETS1 TRANSURBAN Minimising our impacts 50% 2020 CORPORATE REPORT absolute reduction in Scope 1 (fuel) and 2 A (electricity) emissions s one of the largest toll-road on the shift to a low-carbon economy operators in the world, we are and reduce the carbon intensity of our committed to playing our part in construction activities. addressing climate change impacts by creating sustainable road infrastructure and minimising the environmental impact Rethinking how we deliver major projects through changes to project speciﬁcations, materials and transport 22% intensity reduction in of our operations. arrangements has already saved 14% of Scope 3 (purchased We have had a climate change the total emissions generated by seven goods and services) strategy in place since 2012 and of our projects to date and our new established a greenhouse gas (GHG) scope 3 targets will reinforce our eﬀorts. 55% reduction target in 2016. We are also Detailed information about our developing a detailed understanding of emissions including individual assets climate-related threats and opportunities is provided in the FY20 Sustainability —1— and their impact on our operations. Supplement. intensity reduction in INTRODUCTION Asset deterioration and life-cycle Scope 3 (capital projects) planning, changes to traﬃc ﬂow in AND OVERVIEW periods of extreme heat or rain and Managing energy use disruption to our operations are the main areas of our focus. With 97% of our scope 1 and 2 GHG In FY20 we increased our emissions a result of our electricity use, —2— commitment to climate change action managing our electricity consumption is Switching to renewable electricity by adopting new GHG reduction targets one of the most important ways we can This year we took a signiﬁcant step BUSINESS PERFORMANCE which focus our eﬀorts on decarbonising decarbonise our business. forward in reducing our GHG emissions our business. Externally validated by the Our energy management program over the long term by transitioning to Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), is focused on achieving our target of renewable energy through entering into our new targets comprehensively cover reducing our consumption by 10% by Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs). —3— scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions in line with 2023 (compared to 2013) through a From 2021/22, these PPAs will ensure that GOVERNANCE climate science. program of 30 energy eﬃciency and 80% of the electricity needs of our Sydney Achieving our scope 1 and 2 targets renewable-energy initiatives. Initiatives and Brisbane operations will be generated will largely be driven through delivery of delivered in FY20 helped reduce energy renewably from regional wind farms. AND RISK our energy management program (see use and GHG emissions across our In addition to driving sustainability page 38 and Figure 5). While our new existing asset base (see next page), outcomes, the PPAs will also help us scope 3 targets signal a strong desire although overall our total energy demand to manage our energy costs over the —4— DIRECTORS’ to work with our supply chain partners increased with the operation of new roads. long term. REPORT FIGURE 5: 50% REDUCTION IN SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS BY 2030 FIGURE 6: GHG INVENTORY (tCO2e) —5— REMUNERATION 240,000 FY18 FY19 FY20 210,000 Scope 1 3,697 3,393 4,391 REPORT 180,000 Emissions (tCO2e) 150,000 Scope 2 117,139 118,953 135,426 120,000 Scope 3 23,274 503,423 634,566 90,000 Customer —6— emissions 993,268 995,571 1,232,842 FINANCIAL 60,000 30,000 0 STATEMENTS FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY27 FY28 FY29 FY30 BAU SCENARIO REDUCTION TARGET —7— SECURITY HOLDER 1 All targets have been validated by the SBTi. The targets in full are: • Reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 50% by FY30 from a FY19 base year INFORMATION • Reduce scope 3 GHG emissions from purchased goods and services associated with road infrastructure maintenance and operation 22% per vehicle kilometre travelled by customers by 2030 from a 2019 base year • Reduce scope 3 GHG emissions from capital goods 55% per $M capital expenditure by FY30 from a FY19 base year 38 Saving energy across our operations Most of the energy we use is for tunnel ventilation, lighting our roads and the operation of our traﬃc management centres, so Energy-eﬃciency initiatives we’re making changes wherever possible that save electricity. Transitioning to low-energy lighting and revising the operation LED LIGHTING UPGRADES of ventilation systems in our tunnels has resulted in savings of 2% of our total energy use compared to a baseline year of 2016. CityLink We have identiﬁed opportunities to save a further 14% through upgrades to tunnel ventilation, lighting and Replacement of 1,000 highpressure sodium and metal 40% light energy roadside equipment. Feasibility studies for many of these halide lights with LEDs on the saving iconic Soundtube and across initiatives are nearing completion, and we plan to implement the Southern Link these in the near term. Logan Motorway Installation of 550 LED lights and 151 high-eﬃciency electronic 10% Customer vehicle emissions asset energy variable speed signs through saving Logan Enhancement Project While customer vehicle emissions are not within our direct control or part of our targets, we track and analyse this Eastern Distributor* information to understand trends and assess the relative First tunnel to be retrofitted with Forecasted performance of our assets. LED lighting in Australia, improving visibility for drivers. Design and 12% Our analysis shows free-ﬂow travel is key to reducing whole-of-asset planning completed energy saving GHG emissions from vehicles as emissions are higher in stopstart conditions. This year on average our customers saved almost 30% of their fuel and GHG emissions by choosing our roads rather TUNNEL VENTILATION than alternate stop-start routes. These savings are mainly due to more direct routes, faster travel times and higher CityLink* travel speeds. Two-week trial realigning tunnel ventilation operations with traﬃc 11% Through our Trip Compare tool on the Linkt website, our whole-of-asset volumes and maintaining air Melbourne and Sydney customers can access real-time energy saving quality levels information about the travel time, fuel consumption and during trial GHG emissions for trips on our tolls roads versus alternate routes. Almost 75,000 people accessed the tool to help plan their journeys in FY20. *Detailed implementation planning underway Social and Through that program we focus our social investment in three areas—safe and accessible ﬁnancial inclusion transport; support for communities directly along our road corridors; and education and training. Signiﬁcant outcomes for FY20 included $330,000 awarded through 65 grants to Australian I n FY20 we continued to support and engage with community groups and the USD1 million milestone communities through our social investment and for the US Express Lanes grant program with more ﬁnancial inclusion programs, focusing on areas than 260 organisations supported since 2008. where we can make the most impact. We extended our partnership with Neuroscience Our relationships with our partners and Research Australia (NeuRA) for a further three years the broader community allowed us to respond with a $1.6 million commitment to continue research quickly to both the bushﬁres in Australia and the into road safety and crash injury prevention at the COVID-19 pandemic and provide support in the purpose-built Transurban Road Safety Centre at most meaningful ways (see page 21), also laying the NeuRA’s headquarters in Sydney. foundation for long-term assistance beyond these In Queensland, we partnered with Kidsafe Qld diﬃcult times. to provide free car seat ﬁttings and safety checks While our $1.5 million targeted response to for more than 300 Linkt customers. Our annual the past year’s challenges ensured our largest-yet Charity Day raised $330,000 for Ronald McDonald commitment to community investment in a single House Charities South East Queensland to provide year, it formed just part of a $3.3 million social emergency accommodation at the Queensland investment program that reﬂects our business Children’s Hospital for families with a child in purpose to strengthen communities through intensive care. Over the past seven years we have transport. raised more than $1 million for this charity. 39 In Melbourne, our annual Run for the Kids was TRANSURBAN staged as a virtual event and raised more than —FEATURE— $670,000 for the Royal Children’s Hospital, including our $100,000 donation. 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Financial inclusion In FY20, we produced our ﬁrst Financial Driver programs Inclusion Action Plan (FIAP) and joined other companies taking practical action towards a more a fast lane to licence ﬁnancially inclusive Australia. Our FIAP contains actions to support our most ﬁnancially vulnerable customers; deliver hardship awareness training for our workforce; provide community partnerships to support the ﬁnancial counselling sector; and increase diversity of underrepresented businesses across our supply chain. We also expanded our support for The Salvation —1— Army by establishing a scholarship program to allow INTRODUCTION their employees to train as ﬁnancial counsellors. Scholarship recipients will be based in areas with AND OVERVIEW customers experiencing higher instances of ﬁnancial hardship. In this way, the scholarship program allows us to support our customers as well as the 10 scholarship recipients and ﬁnancial counselling —2— industry. A new partnership with The Smith Family to BUSINESS PERFORMANCE reduce ﬁnancial barriers to education was also being Having a driver’s licence is a key to investigated when the bushﬁres and pandemic independence for many but it can also hit, allowing us to quickly escalate our level of open up job, education and training commitment to ensure extra support was directed opportunities. —3— to where it was needed most. This will provide That’s why we have partnered with four GOVERNANCE 240 students from disadvantaged backgrounds state-based organisations in learn-to-drive with ﬁnancial assistance for education essentials programs for vulnerable members of the and access to out-of-school learning and mentoring community such as refugee women, indigenous AND RISK programs through their Learning for Life program. youth and disadvantaged youth. An additional 197 students will be supported The programs provide access to a car, and to complete a Certiﬁcate 1 in Financial Services, free lessons from professional and volunteer —4— DIRECTORS’ which will include new information focusing on instructors, while some also cover the cost of the ﬁnancial risks associated with purchasing and driving tests and licencing. owning a vehicle. Our WestConnex driving program, run in REPORT partnership with the KARI Foundation, gives more than 200 Indigenous youth in Western Kay, one of 10 employees at The Salvation Army Sydney access to a mentor, free supervised —5— to receive a scholarship for a Diploma in Financial and professional driving lessons, as well as REMUNERATION Counselling, and her daughter additional education and assistance to gain their licence. Cianni, one of the program participants, REPORT said that achieving her licence would remove barriers to training and employment. “Having —6— a driver’s licence has allowed me to apply for and gain full-time employment. I’m incredibly FINANCIAL grateful to the program and especially my STATEMENTS mentor,” she said. More than 140 participants are currently enrolled in the Learner driver program and —7— almost 100 in the Provisional driver program SECURITY HOLDER with KARI. Cianni achieved her provisional licence INFORMATION through the program — FEATURE— Many eyes on the roads In under a decade, our Traﬃc Team has grown fourfold “We provide support through the whole asset lifecycle to more than 40 specialists with expertise ranging from from consideration of new assets and their value to how traﬃc forecasting, to eﬃcient transport networks, to we can improve on-road performance as well as advising on changing travel behaviours. long-term trends and strategy,’’ Darryn said. “We’ve expanded to meet the growing complexity of The Traﬃc Team works alongside the Traﬃc Revenue the company and the evolving needs of our customers,” Planning and Analysis Team which focuses more on the said Darryn Paterson, who is General Manager Strategy immediate term, comparing forecasts with actual traﬃc and Traﬃc. volumes. This is another highly skilled unit that analyses the “As a dedicated in-house team, we’re based in four company’s revenue performance based on data such as locations and able to provide strategic insights to support vehicle classes, the mix of gantries and price changes. and grow our business in those regions.” Working together, these teams are critical to giving us a The team has skills in strategic modelling; land use and clear picture of how our roads are performing now and what demographics; econometrics and statistics; data analytics; to expect in the future. freight and public transport movements; and traﬃc and operational modelling. Our people at work in our Melbourne headquarters discussing network connections and mobility trends 9,000+ 41 TRANSURBAN workforce1 2020 CORPORATE REPORT 89% of employees say they OUR PEOPLE have enough ﬂexibility to manage work and other commitments 96% Our business success is testimony to our of employees are clear about their role diverse and highly skilled team and a culture in creating a safe that allows our people to excel. —1— and healthy work INTRODUCTION environment AND OVERVIEW T he rapidly changing nature of with the impacts of COVID-19. From during the peak of COVID-19, 89% of —2— the transport and infrastructure the outset, we were committed to employees said they had all they industry has seen Transurban grow retaining our direct and indirect needed to be able to work productively BUSINESS PERFORMANCE into a diverse and highly ﬂexible direct workforce, recognising their critical outside the oﬃce. Almost 90% said workforce of nearly 3,000 people2 that skills and technical expertise in not they continued to be connected to the can readily respond to challenges and only maintaining operations but also purpose of their work. opportunities in our sector. to ensure we continued to be well Despite the signiﬁcantly changed —3— We have worked hard to create a positioned to realise future opportunities. work environment, we continued to GOVERNANCE resilient, adaptive culture—underpinned Our long-term focus on ﬂexible focus on talent retention and leadership by personal accountability and corporate work and investment in the technology development and were able to adapt responsibility—where diversity of required for our employees to work important programs such as our AND RISK thought is valued. remotely meant that we were able to Women in Leadership program to be Like most businesses, we found quickly adapt as the crisis unfolded. delivered virtually. this year challenging as we contended (see page 20). In a pulse survey held —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT FIGURE 7: TOTAL WORKFORCE FIGURE 8: WORKFORCE GENDER Male Female Direct employees Executive Board —5— 69% S (excl. CEO and new (incl. CEO) ubco REMUNERATION nt committee members) ra ajor constructio nm REPORT 2% C n so Direct em pro is organ ations or 17% je 62% 38% 43% 57% 67% 33% ct plo er Contract o ye tn —6— r nsu rban w Tra % rke by 12 FINANCIAL t worke FIGURE 9: EMPLOYEES WHO WOULD RECOMMEND trac ged through es nga rs TRANSURBAN AS A GREAT PLACE TO WORK on e p STATEMENTS rs ectly engage a r d di s FY18 FY19 FY20 ct 82% 82% 83% —7— SECURITY HOLDER UN SDGs relevant 1 Total workforce comprises our direct employees, contract workers, and subcontractors who deliver our to this section major construction projects INFORMATION 2 Direct workforce includes over 1,600 direct employees and over 1,300 workers contracted either directly by Transurban or through our partner organisations (primarily in customer service, technology and business operations). Excludes employees of the A25 and Interlink Roads (following increase to 100% ownership of the M5 West). Interlink employees will be included in FY21 data 42 The KARI Singers performed an Belonging and wellbeing Acknowledgment of Country for Sydney’s WestConnex M8 opening in July 2020 W Evolving operating model e recognise that diverse skills and experience are essential to creating a strong organisational culture. In February 2020, we realigned our operating model to Transurban does not tolerate discrimination of any ensure Transurban continued to be best placed to deliver kind and strives to achieve an inclusive workplace where all our operational excellence as well take advantage of emerging employees have great opportunities to develop and grow. opportunities. Our work to improve gender equality was again recognised Two of our biggest teams, Customer and Technology, by the Australian Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) representing more than 50% of our workforce, were integrated with an Employer of Choice Gender Equality Citation for the to reﬂect the increasing links between the areas and put us at sixth consecutive year. This is reﬂected in our gender pay gap the forefront of the rapidly evolving transport technology space. which continues to be less than 1% and is reviewed annually. To oversee the delivery of our current and future project In North America, our team developed a plan to address pipeline, we consolidated our development, project delivery, diversity, equity, inclusion and anti-racism. The plan includes operational excellence, risk and Heath Safety and Environment both short and long-term actions to promote openness in teams. The new team, which also maintains our key partner tackling racism, bias and discrimination and promoting diversity relationships, will ensure we continue to be a preferred partner in talent, partnerships and our supply chain. for infrastructure projects. In our 2020 Our Voice survey, 93% of employees had Two new Executive Committee positions were created to a positive response in the areas of diversity and inclusion, oversee these areas. See pages 12 and 13 for information on consistent with prior years. our Executive Committee members. Flexible working Continuous learning and development For us, ﬂexibility extends beyond the ability to work from Development of our employees happens at all levels home and we encourage our employees to manage their work of our organisation from our graduate programs to our senior in a productive and healthy way. leadership colloquiums. In this year’s Our Voice survey, 89% of employees said In FY20, we expanded our online learning platform to oﬀer they had the ﬂexibility they needed to manage work and other virtual content across onboarding, induction and a range of commitments, compared to 84% in 2018 and 75% in 2017. leadership and professional development programs. Whether it is working from home or agreeing ﬂexible The digital format meant we were able to continue the working hours, employees can enter into formal ﬂexible work programs for our workforce, most of whom had moved to arrangements for reasons such as transitioning to retirement, remote working from March this year. More than 50% of formal returning to work after parental leave or just to help them learning in FY20 was delivered online. balance their work and personal commitments. During the year, we also introduced a Foundation In FY20, 95% of our employees returned to work Leadership Program to our suite of leadership development following parental leave with one of the key reasons being the activities. The new program, aimed at new and emerging opportunity for a ﬂexible work arrangement (see Figure 10). leaders, is designed to arm participants with an agile and Increasingly, primary carers leave is being taken up by men, disciplined approach to drive results and create value, who made up 15% of people who accessed the leave in FY20. particularly in complex or ambiguous situations. This was up from 11% in FY19. We continue to support emerging talent, especially in Employees also have the option to purchase up to six weeks the areas of technology and engineering. In addition to our additional leave every year through our Lifestyle Leave Policy. Graduate Program, this year we have participated in a range of industry-based learning opportunities and partnerships with universities including the Monash University Industry Team Video conferencing Initiative in Melbourne, the Icarus Program at the University played a vital role of Queensland, as well as Virginia Tech and the University of in connecting employees Maryland in the Greater Washington Area. We host interns across both our Australian and North American businesses, including our Transurban Females Excelling in Engineering and Technology (FEET) program, this year providing mentoring and hands-on experience to 23 undergraduate women. In North America we continued our internships supporting community diversity programs such as Opportunity Network and Genesys Works. 43 TRANSURBAN Health and safety Ensuring our employees’ wellbeing 2020 CORPORATE REPORT is fundamental to the way we go about our business. This year it has been more important than ever and we continue to have a strong focus on the physical and mental wellbeing of our people. All our employees are expected to keep themselves and their colleagues healthy and safe, while also minimising our impacts on the environment. Our employees have Health Safety and Environment (HSE) Action Plans where they report on their activities to ensure a healthy and safe work environment (see Figure 11). They are also encouraged to be proactive in recording HSE observations. —1— Our 1,600 direct employees recorded INTRODUCTION almost 20,000 observations, with 80% being positive. AND OVERVIEW In FY20, there were two employee Social connection Cultural awareness recordable injuries, which required medical treatment for wellbeing and Our employees recognise the During the year, we introduced ergonomic-related factors (see Figure 12). importance of supporting the an online Indigenous Cultural —2— All injuries are investigated with learnings community so we have a well-established Competency program in Australia BUSINESS to give our employees a greater applied to prevent future incidents. program, which allows them to take part understanding of Aboriginal and PERFORMANCE in volunteering opportunities. Torres Strait Islander people and In FY20, one-in-ten employees their culture. Financial wellbeing volunteered for various not-for-proﬁt The program, which has been organisations including Foodbank, which completed by about 30% of —3— We also believe that the ﬁnancial provides food for people in need. Our Australian employees so far, GOVERNANCE wellbeing of our people is important. As employees were also enthusiastic about will assist employees to more part of our wellbeing program, we ran a supporting recovery eﬀorts following the AND RISK confidently work with Indigenous series of sessions to improve employees’ catastrophic bushﬁres in Australia during Australians. ﬁnancial literacy and capability. In the 2019/2020 summer, organising We are committed to addition, employees have access to fundraising and donation drives. reconciliation and in March this Money Assist, which is a service through Transurban matched employees’ —4— year we launched our second DIRECTORS’ our Employee Assistance Program to donations and committed $300,000 Innovate Reconciliation Action help them build skills to manage their to the recovery eﬀorts with a further Plan (RAP) in consultation with ﬁnancial wellbeing. These initiatives $200,000 to the Business Council Reconciliation Australia. REPORT support our Financial Inclusion Action of Australia’s Community Rebuilding Our Innovate RAP is available at Plan, which commits us to increasing Initiative. transurban.com/rap. employees’ awareness of and access to —5— ﬁnancial services. REMUNERATION REPORT FIGURE 10: RETURN TO WORK AFTER PRIMARY CARERS LEAVE FIGURE 11: HSE ACTION PLANS FIGURE 12: EMPLOYEE INJURIES —6— FY18 100% 2016 2017 FINANCIAL Male 100% Female 79% 97% of of o 2 2 STATEMENTS e leaders ha opl 2018 2019 ve pe 0 2 FY19 a ur —7— ns were com Male 98% tio SECURITY HOLDER Female 94% ac p 2020 FY20 ion plan s 2 INFORMATION Male 100% ct ed let Female 87% — FEATURE— Don’t get too comfortable, drivers Road safety researcher Julie Brown has some advice for The study was one of three rounds of research released older drivers who might think that sitting on a cushion in FY20 by NeuRA after crash-test simulations in the state-ofwhile they are driving is a good idea—don’t. the-art Transurban Road Safety Centre, based in Sydney. Associate Professor Brown, who is Co-Director of the Other research tested the eﬀectiveness of child restraints Transurban Road Safety Centre at Neuroscience Research that were beyond their manufacturers’ expiry date. Australia (NeuRA), said results from the centre’s crash-lab Another study assessed whether the shape and height tests showed that comfort accessories such as cushions may of back seat arm rests could reduce the eﬃcacy of child increase the chance of injury in a crash. restraints during side-impact crashes. The research found “Around a quarter of older drivers use an after-market that the position of arm rests could inﬂuence the likelihood accessory to improve their comfort. But these products often of head injuries during a crash, even when a child is correctly have not been tested for safety,” Associate Professor Brown strapped into a car seat. said. “The results show accessories that change the geometry The results of these research projects are available at of a seatbelt or the posture of a driver could increase the transurban.com/neura. chance of chest injuries in a crash.” In May this year, we extended our partnership with NeuRA is developing guidelines for older drivers on how NeuRA for another three years, which will allow for further to both be comfortable and safe when driving. research into how changes to driver behaviour and vehicle design can reduce road trauma. Associate Professor Julie Brown at work at our state-of-the-art research centre in Sydney 45 $19B 2 3 400 TRANSURBAN project pipeline US Department of safety research studies Virginian drivers to join 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Transportation grants for released road-user charging trial future transport research —1— INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW GOVERNMENT AND INDUSTRY —2— BUSINESS PERFORMANCE —3— GOVERNANCE As a partner to governments, we are united in our ambition AND RISK to create well-connected and eﬃcient transport networks that can support growing populations and rapidly shifting —4— transport technologies. DIRECTORS’ REPORT W e recognise that partnering with Governments have indicated that transportation —5— governments on major infrastructure is projects—from shovel-ready minor projects and a privileged position and are proud of our maintenance to major infrastructure—will be REMUNERATION proven track record in operations as well as project important to stimulate economic recovery and design and delivery. create jobs. REPORT Our investment in critical transport Importantly, throughout the height of the infrastructure has allowed governments to direct COVID-19 crisis, we and our partners were able to —6— their spending into other priority areas, which will continue work on our major construction projects, become even more important as they contend with keeping thousands of direct employees and FINANCIAL unforeseen demands created by the COVID-19 crisis. subcontractors in a job. STATEMENTS We look forward to continuing to work with governments and our industry partners to support the recovery of the economies in which we operate. —7— SECURITY HOLDER UN SDGs relevant to this section INFORMATION 46 is expected to grow by another 1.2 million by 2040. More than 40% of the region’s 6.6 million population travels this section of the Capital Beltway. Under the agreement, each state will have a private partner to fund rebuilding of a portion of the bridge. Transurban will fund Virginia’s portion. Maryland’s partner is expected to be announced in 2021 as part of the Maryland Express Lanes Project. The Maryland Department of Transportation is running a multi-step competitive selection process for a developer to enter a PPP to deliver the ﬁrst phase of the project, estimated to cost USD3-4 billion. The phased and collaborative approach to development of the Express Lanes is attractive to Transurban, and we are a bidder for this project. Contributing to transport policy As a leading transport and infrastructure provider we believe it is important to contribute to policy development and thought-leadership activities in the sector. During the year, we contributed to a number of government inquiries in Australia into road Partnering to progress safety to share our expertise in operating roads that have been evaluated as being up to 68% safer government transport than like roads. We highlighted measures that have proven agendas eﬀective in reducing road trauma and improving driver behaviour including average-speed cameras, mobile phone detection cameras, improved vehicle safety and government infrastructure funding and I n FY20, we delivered two major projects for our approval tied to the design and construction of Australian Prime government partners in Australia and another in safe roads. Minister Scott Morrison and NSW Virginia, US and in July 2020 we opened the second We also shared ﬁndings from some of our Premier Gladys stage of Sydney’s WestConnex project, the M8. activities including dynamic speed management Berejiklian outside We are set to open the NorthConnex project, trials and work zone safety initiatives including the NorthConnex tunnel—where a critical missing link in the Sydney orbital network, remotely controlled traﬃc cones. construction in the coming months and are progressing another activities had ﬁve projects to beneﬁt fast-growing cities and been completed regions (see pages 22–27). Sharing learnings In November 2019, we also announced that we would join the Virginian government in a During the year we hosted delegations from Public Private Partnership (PPP) with the Maryland North America to discuss transportation challenges government to replace the ageing American Legion and priorities for our countries. Bridge, which is one of the worst bottlenecks on Transurban sponsored the 2020 Australia the Capital Beltway in the Greater Washington area Canada Economic Leadership Forum, which is and one of the most congested highway corridors in the premier leadership dialogue between the two the US. countries and coordinated locally by the Business Known as the Capital Beltway Accord, the Council of Australia. In Sydney, we also hosted a partnership is one of the ﬁrst bi-state, bipartisan delegation of public and private infrastructure PPPs in the US and sets a precedent for states leaders through the National Governors Association under diﬀerent party leadership to work together (NGA), a bipartisan American public policy to advance solutions to regional issues. By utilising organisation. Led by Maryland Governor Larry private capital, both states will be able to fast-track Hogan, the NGA’s 2019–2020 focus is infrastructure a critical infrastructure project. and the visit gave us the opportunity to showcase The project will widen the 10-lane bridge and our major projects, and highlight to governors extend our 495 Express Lanes across the Potomac across the US the innovative ways Australia has River into Maryland. Daily traﬃc has increased 390% harnessed the private sector to help deliver new since the bridge was built in 1962 and the region and improved infrastructure. 47 Shaping future transport TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT A s vehicles become more fuel eﬃcient or Along with trials over the past few years in our electric, governments around the world Australian markets, we are also partnering with are investigating ways to create a more the Virginia Tech Transportation Institute, Virginia sustainable road-funding mechanism as revenue Department of Transportation and major auto from fuel tax diminishes. manufacturers in the US to trial technology to Transurban has advocated for a user-pays improve communications between CAVs and road road-charging model as a way to use infrastructure infrastructure on the 95 Express Lanes. more eﬃciently, while providing a fairer and more Technology being tested in the trial aims to transparent system for road users. better enable roads to “speak” to CAVs so that they In the US, we continue to advance planning can avoid hazards and adapt to rapidly changing with the Eastern Transportation Coalition, formerly driving environments. the I-95 Corridor Coalition, for a feasibility study of The technology has the potential to greatly road-user charging. This multi-phase, multi-state improve work-zone and ﬁrst responder safety on study is among the largest on the East Coast and free-ﬂowing motorways such as the Express Lanes. has received funding from the US Department of Planning is under way and on-road trials are —1— Transportation. expected to start in 2022. The trial was awarded a INTRODUCTION The feasibility study will leverage the advanced USD7.5 million grant from the US Department of technology of the Virginia Express Lanes and its Transportation in a highly competitive grant program, AND OVERVIEW tolling systems to put 400 drivers on the road with which is awarded to only 10% of applicants. The grant in-vehicle technology to evaluate user-pay systems, recognises the Virginia Express Lanes’ reputation congestion pricing, and various fees and invoicing as a proven testbed for emerging technologies and methods to assess the customer experience with the strength of Transurban’s ongoing industry and —2— user-fees on toll facilities. This phase of the study is academic partnerships in this area. the ﬁrst to integrate tolling and congestion pricing. During the year, we also held a trial in Brisbane BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Our involvement in the study follows our to determine the potential for “speed harmonisation” Melbourne Road Usage Study, which tested diﬀerent in current vehicles and ultimately in CAVs to ease user-pays models as an alternative to fuel excise. congestion and improve safety. Research suggests that a small number of —3— vehicles, particularly carefully controlled automated GOVERNANCE CAV technology testing ground vehicles, can have a signiﬁcant impact on smoothing traﬃc ﬂow and reducing stop/start conditions or With connected and automated vehicles (CAVs) sudden changes in speed. AND RISK oﬀering signiﬁcant potential to improve safety and The initiative complemented the broader traﬃc ﬂow, Transurban has continued to work with CAV trials that we have held in Melbourne, Sydney a network of industry partners to pave the way for and Brisbane. Information about those trials and —4— DIRECTORS’ their safe introduction. results is available at cavs.transurban.com. REPORT American Legion Bridge —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION — FEATURE— Tyres make their mark in innovative recycling project Old truck tyres have found a new lease of life in the “It’s great to see Transurban trialling the use of our gap road—instead of on it—in a trial project on Brisbane’s graded crumbed rubber asphalt. Up to 48 million tyres reach Gateway Motorway. end of life each year in Australia, and they’re better recycled More than 250 tyres have been diverted from landfill than ending up as landfill,’’ said Laszlo Petho, Fulton Hogan and blended with asphalt to resurface an entry ramp to Pavements Engineering Manager. “Gap crumbed rubber the Gateway. asphalt is more durable than the traditional asphalt, meaning Infrastructure construction is resource intensive and less maintenance and less impact on drivers.” this project is one example of how we and our partners This type of initiative reinforces our commitment to continually examine and challenge the way we plan, design, the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goal 12— construct and operate assets to reduce their impact. Responsible Consumption and Production. Transurban worked with contractor QBC and asphalt Over the next year, we will monitor how the asphalt provider Fulton Hogan on the project, which resulted in performs to assess whether it can be used more widely on 68% lower emissions than a standard asphalt mix. resurfacing projects. Fulton Hogan Pavements Engineering Manager Laszlo Petho at the asphalt processing facility in Queensland 2,000+ 49 Working closely with our partners and TRANSURBAN direct suppliers1 suppliers allows us to drive innovation, manage risk and ultimately deliver better, more sustainable results and business 2020 CORPORATE REPORT $3.1B+ practices. annual managed spend2 USD $43M+ spent with certified social enterprises —1— INTRODUCTION BUSINESS PARTNERS AND OVERVIEW AND SUPPLIERS —2— BUSINESS PERFORMANCE —3— A GOVERNANCE s every element of the way we design, build and Modern slavery response operate roads evolves to become more technologically advanced and sustainable, the scale and diversity of In FY20, we continued to work with our suppliers to AND RISK our partners and suppliers—from tier one construction ﬁrms identify and address any possible exposures to modern to small social enterprises—gives us a great platform to lead slavery in our supply chains. Modern slavery is a serious and industry innovation and drive best practice. complex issue that requires a long-term and coordinated —4— DIRECTORS’ In FY20, we partnered on initiatives that ranged from response. As such, we have joined like-minded industry reducing GHG emissions on major construction projects to partners to adopt a united approach to addressing the issue. helping lead an industry coalition to tackle modern slavery. We continued our work with the Modern Slavery Road REPORT While the COVID-19 pandemic presented unique Construction Industry Coalition, which we partnered with the challenges, we remained focused on our sustainable Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia to establish procurement program that takes a hands-on approach in FY19. The coalition, comprising government and private —5— to supplier management to better direct our spending in sector organisations, has focused on raising awareness of the ways that support the social, economic and environmental Modern Slavery Act, industry risks and reporting and, as a REMUNERATION wellbeing of our communities. next step, will undertake pilot exercises with practical actions We were able to take immediate steps to assist our to address high-risk issues. REPORT suppliers and manage any risk of supply chain shortages and Transurban is also a member of the United Nations Global disruption (see page 20). Compact Network Australia’s Modern Slavery Community of —6— Our Supplier Sustainability Code of Practice is available at Practice, which is among peak bodies that advise the Federal transurban.com/suppliers. Government. Our actions on modern slavery address key FINANCIAL government policies and legislative requirements, such as STATEMENTS the Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act and the Virginia Small Business and Supplier Diversity initiative. In line with Australian legislation, we will submit our ﬁrst Modern Slavery —7— Statement to the Federal Government by December 2020. SECURITY HOLDER UN SDGs relevant to this section INFORMATION 1 Up by more than 400 from FY19 primarily due to the integration of WestConnex and M5 West 2 Up by more than $1.25 billion since FY19 primarily due to the integration of WestConnex and M5 West as well as ongoing major construction activity 50 — FEATURE— Supporting small business Working with O ne of the fundamentals of our sustainable procurement program is support for small Indigenous and diverse businesses. In Virginia, US, our construction projects are required to meet goals to assist small businesses and supplier diversity. To date, communities, we have spent more than USD909 million under these programs. businesses Transurban North America has exceeded all goals by engaging certiﬁed Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) and Small Women-owned and Minority-owned (SWaM) businesses. We have DBE and SWaM targets for our ongoing projects—USD84 million for the Fredericksburg Extension Project and USD75 million for the 495 Extension Project. An example of our support for SWaM businesses in FY20 was the winning tender to supply laptops to our US workforce. Advanced Computer Concepts (ACC), a woman-owned small business and new supplier for us, won the USD100,000 contract over a number of larger, more established ﬁrms. After further engagement with ACC we increased the scope to include end-user hardware and network equipment bringing the total contract value to USD1.5 million. “The relationship and contractual opportunities provided by Transurban have been an essential part of ACC’s strategy to deepen our impact in the commercial space. This has resulted in positive ﬁnancial impacts for our employees at ACC including our engineers, logistics team, and salespeople,” said Reza Zarafshar, President, ACC. Respecting and supporting Indigenous communities is an important part of the way we do business. In Australia, our M8 and M4-M5 Link projects, which are part Value of partnerships of WestConnex in Sydney, have spent more than $32 million so far with accredited Aboriginal businesses across the many We know we can achieve more when we work supplier contacts available for tender. together so it is important for us to seek opportunities These include Borger Cranes, Outback Workwear and to exchange ideas on the way we go about business. Aboriginal Employment Strategy. In November 2019, we established a Joint We have also committed to the employment, training and Sustainability Governance Group with Ventia, one development of Aboriginal people and in FY20, 54 Indigenous of the largest infrastructure service providers in people joined the M4-M5 Link project through direct hire. Australia and New Zealand and major supplier of A cultural awareness program is part of the project induction our incident response and maintenance services, to provide context to Indigenous Australia’s background and to identify initiatives to improve social and awareness of complex history and achievements through social environmental practices. change and community empowerment. The Group identiﬁed four areas of focus: vehicle For more details on our commitments to the Indigenous emissions, roadside litter, diversity and modern slavery. communities, see our Reconciliation Action Plan at transurban. As an example, the group is sharing information about com/rap. Transurban’s approach to addressing modern slavery. We hope to replicate collaborative groups such as this with other suppliers in the future. Shawn and Nathan Borger are supplying cranes for the M4-M5 Link project 6 51 major projects TRANSURBAN progressed with 2020 CORPORATE REPORT construction contractors 24M contractor hours worked on major projects ~6,000 subcontractors have completed online HSE inductions —1— INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW —2— BUSINESS Contractor safety PERFORMANCE S afety in our supply chain, For example, this year we have FIGURE 13: CONTRACTOR RIFR —3— including the more than 6,000 worked closely with Lendlease Samsung FY16 GOVERNANCE subcontractors that work on Bouygues Joint Venture, our contractor 7.09 our construction projects, is equally on the M4-M5 Link, which is part of important to us as the safety of our the WestConnex project, to ensure FY17 AND RISK 4.79 direct workforce. we exceed the industry standard on We work closely with our partners compliance with Australian heavy vehicle FY18 as they identify potential hazards and legislation. Above-standard measures 5.03 —4— DIRECTORS’ risks and determine mitigation measures. include weighbridges on all sites, realWe also have well-established processes time monitoring of driver speed and FY19 REPORT 3.66 to analyse our HSE information for fatigue, quarterly driver licence checks common learnings and communicate the and limiting the age of the ﬂeet. Standard FY20 outcomes of any incident investigations actions include maintenance inspections, 3.60 and share lessons learnt. drug and alcohol testing of drivers and —5— load restraint guidelines. In FY20, we recorded a contractor REMUNERATION recordable injury frequency rate (RIFR) of 3.6 per million work hours, our lowest REPORT ever result (see Figure 13). This was below our contractor RIFR target of 4.20 and —6— WestConnex was included in our overall Maintenance workers in the FINANCIAL metrics for the ﬁrst time. Recordable New M4 tunnels injuries include lost-time injuries, STATEMENTS where a person loses one or more full Maintenance contractors shifts from work and medical treatment inspecting the Lane Cove Tunnel injuries where medical treatment (other ventilation fans —7— than ﬁrst aid) is required. SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 52 Environmental leadership W orking with our construction partners, Rethinking carbon-intensive Logan Enhancement we are on track for cumulative savings of materials Project awarded the first Leading more than 400,000 tonnes in greenhouse infrastructure gas emissions from materials compared to base Cement production accounts for about 8% of sustainability rating cases for seven major projects to date. These emissions globally so it is imperative to look at ways in Queensland savings are equivalent to oﬀsetting the carbon to reduce its use and impact. footprint of a $2.2 billion road project. Across seven projects, our contractors have New M4—one Savings such as these demonstrate the reduced the amount of concrete, of which cement is of Australia’s ingenuity and results that can be realised when the key component, by 300,000 tonnes. most sustainably we and our partners challenge the way we design, In FY19, along with Boral, we worked with designed and constructed tunnels construct and operate our assets. leading Australian climate change thinktank, Beyond We require all of our major Australian projects Zero Emissions, which has researched strategies and to be designed to achieve a rating of ‘Excellent’ or set targets to reduce cement-related GHG emissions above according to criteria set by the Infrastructure and we are now engaging with the industry around Sustainability Council of Australia (see page 27). implementing those targets. Contractors are required to achieve that same rating This year we also used a low-carbon concrete for the project’s construction. In North America, to construct the Brisbane cycle park which was part the major project procurement process requires of our Logan Enhancement Project (see page 24). contractors to achieve a rating using the Envision The concrete replaced a portion of the emissionsinfrastructure sustainability rating system. intensive Portland cement with an industrial waste Our eﬀorts in this area are a key enabler product called steel slag, which reduced emissions for us to achieve our science-based target of a by more than 50% compared to Australian averages. 55% intensity reduction in scope 3 (capital project) Our contractors have also achieved signiﬁcant emissions by 2030 (see page 37). reductions in the use of asphalt—around 12% across all projects—mainly by using alternative asphalt products and design improvements to reduce pavement layer depth. On the Logan Enhancement Project, we used a more sustainable alternative to traditional asphalt—312,000 tonnes of ‘EME2’—the ﬁrst project in Australia to do so at a commercial scale. Use of EME2 has resulted in lower carbon emissions (CO2-e) and reduced total asphalt use by approximately 23%. 53 M5 WEST 72.3% $8.6B >75% TRANSURBAN now 100% owned after proportional Group of gross debt refinanced of original FY20 2020 CORPORATE REPORT remaining 34.62% minority EBITDA margin in FY20 or raised in FY20 distribution paid interest acquired INVESTORS —1— We understand that for our business to deliver value over the long term, we need to balance the needs of all stakeholder groups. INTRODUCTION For investors, our focus is on prudent capital management to AND OVERVIEW create long-term security holder value. —2— BUSINESS How we measure performance COVID-19 impacts PERFORMANCE Management consider proportional results as the Consistent with most industries globally, Transurban’s —3— best indicator of business performance. Proportional results revenue streams have been signiﬁcantly impacted as a result GOVERNANCE are a reﬂection of Transurban’s ownership of individual assets of COVID-19. Across our Australian and North American and the contribution they make to the Group’s performance. markets, impacts to Transurban’s business were observable Note B4 to the Group Financial Statements presents from early March 2020 as traﬃc volumes rapidly deteriorated. AND RISK further detail on the proportional results for the Group, These impacts peaked in April with traﬃc across the Group including reconciliations to the statutory result. down almost 50% for the month relative to the prior corresponding period. —4— DIRECTORS’ Proportional EBITDA Despite April representing the most signiﬁcantly impacted Management consider proportional EBITDA to be the best month of traﬃc for the Group, initial improvements were measure of underlying business performance. Proportional seen through the second half of the month. As governmentREPORT EBITDA is the aggregation of the results from each asset imposed restrictions progressively unwound, gradual traﬃc multiplied by Transurban’s percentage ownership as well as improvement continued, as can be see in Figure 14, showing the contribution from central Group functions. Proportional the Group’s average daily traﬃc by week. —5— EBITDA reﬂects the contribution from individual assets to the Group’s operating performance and focuses on elements FIGURE 14: GROUP AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC REMUNERATION of the result that management can inﬂuence to drive BY WEEK (MILLIONS) improvements in short term earnings. REPORT 2.5 2.0 Free Cash —6— Free Cash is the primary measure used to assess the cash 1.5 performance of the Group and represents the cash available 1.0 FINANCIAL for distribution to security holders. The Group seeks to align 0.5 STATEMENTS distributions with Free Cash which is deﬁned in note B10 of 0.0 the Group Financial Statements. 01 Mar 08 Mar 15 Mar 22 Mar 29 Mar 05 Apr 12 Apr 19 Apr 26 Apr 03 May 10 May 17 May 24 May 31 May 07 Jun 14 Jun 21 Jun —7— Week commencing All UN SDGs are relevant in the creation of sustainable value for investors SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 54 FY20 ﬁnancial performance highlights Key metrics The below table is a summary of key ﬁnancial measures which management consider the best representation of underlying business performance. Financial metrics FY20 FY19 % growth Proportional toll revenue $ millions 2,492 2,581 (3.4%) Proportional EBITDA (excl. significant items) $ millions 1,888 2,016 (6.4%) Statutory revenue $ millions 3,616 4,166 (13.2%) Statutory NPAT $ millions (153) 170 (190.1%) Statutory cash ﬂows from operating activities $ millions 1,131 1,197 (5.5%) Free Cash $ millions 1,476 1,527 (3.3%) Gross distributions $ millions 1,284 1,577 (18.6%) Distributions per security cps 47.0 59.0 (20.3%) Proportional drawn debt $ millions 22,118 19,394 14.0% Ratios and rates Proportional Group EBITDA margin % 72.3 75.4 FFO/Debt % 7.0 8.7 Distribution free cash ﬂow coverage % 115.0 96.8 Corporate SICR x 3.8 4.1 Gearing % 35.8 32.0 Weighted average cost of debt AUD debt % 4.4 4.6 USD debt % 4.4 4.4 CAD debt % 5.0 4.9 AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC PROPORTIONAL TOLL REVENUE PROPORTIONAL EBITDA (MILLIONS) ($ MILLIONS) ($ MILLIONS) 73.8% 73.9% 74.9% 75.4% 72.3% 2.2 2.0 2.0 2,581 2,492 2,340 1.9 1.9 2,153 2,016 1,946 1,888 1,796 1,629 1,480 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 EBITDA MARGIN (%) 55 TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Operating performance Free Cash reconciliation (3.3%) (144) 75 1,527 (98) 33 (10.0%) 212 (164) 1,476 1,285 1,284 16 19 (22) 76 (9) (8) (37) 1,156 —1— EBITDA Maintenance PABs premium received Capital Releases FY20 distribution TQ Capital Release NWRG Capital Release FY19 Free Cash excl. Net ﬁnance costs Distribution TQ Capital Release NWRG Capital Release Debt amortisation M5 West FY19 Free Cash Working capital FY20 Free Cash excl. FY20 Free Cash INTRODUCTION Capital Releases 100% owned entities 100% owned entities 100% owned entities 100% owned entities additional ownership Capital Releases AND OVERVIEW non-100% owned entities 100% owned entities (1H20) —2— Key drivers BUSINESS PERFORMANCE EBITDA from 100% owned assets Maintenance from 100% owned assets Working capital Decrease in EBITDA from 100% owned The increase in maintenance costs of The favourable movement in working assets owing to the impact to revenue $22 million was largely driven by the capital compared to FY19 was largely from reduced traﬃc as a result of additional provisions required to support driven by a decrease in accounts —3— COVID-19, combined with a relatively the CityLink concession extension and receivable in line with traﬃc volumes. GOVERNANCE low and stable cost base as expanded the opening of 395 Express Lanes. on below. Other movements Net ﬁnance costs from The key other movement is in relation to AND RISK Revenue 100% owned assets the impact of increased ownership of the Negative revenue growth was driven Net ﬁnance costs grew by $8 million, M5 West in FY20. by the decrease in traﬃc as a result of largely a result of increased borrowing —4— DIRECTORS’ signiﬁcant and prolonged impacts to to fund the development pipeline and to Capital Releases volumes due to COVID-19. Revenue increase liquidity levels to support the Capital Releases were $78 million impacts were mitigated to some business through COVID-19. The Group’s higher in FY20 compared to FY19. REPORT extent by toll price escalation across weighted average cost of AUD decreased Capital Releases were delivered by Transurban’s Australian markets and in FY20 to 4.4%. Hills M2, Lane Cove Tunnel, Transurban on the A25 in Montreal. Transurban’s Queensland and the NorthWestern —5— Express Lanes assets in Virginia are Distributions from Roads Group (in relation to M7). dynamically priced and were severely non-100% owned assets Proceeds from Capital Releases received REMUNERATION impacted by COVID-19 (given the lack Distributions fell in line with Free Cash in 2H20 were retained by Transurban to of congestion on adjacent generalat the individual asset level as a result support credit metrics. REPORT purpose lanes). of negative impacts to traﬃc volumes due to COVID-19, partially mitigated by —6— Costs toll price escalation. While the majority Underlying costs were reduced during of non-100% owned assets paid FINANCIAL the period through cost discipline and distributions in line with their individual STATEMENTS scale beneﬁts as well as reductions Free Cash, some distributions were to volume-related expenses including deferred. transaction costs. Overall growth in costs —7— was driven by higher spend on strategic SECURITY HOLDER growth projects related to potential opportunities, primarily in North America. INFORMATION Transurban has maintained employment for its direct workforce through the crisis. 56 Sydney AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC PROPORTIONAL TOLL REVENUE PROPORTIONAL EBITDA (THOUSANDS) ($ MILLIONS) ($ MILLIONS) 82.0% 82.0% 79.7% 80.3% 80.7% 814 1,042 1,072 761 944 872 856 879 622 644 663 799 763 702 637 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 EBITDA MARGIN (%) FY20 performance1 Portfolio summary • 6.5% decrease in average daily traﬃc driven by weak June quarter as a • Hills M2 result of COVID-19 • M5 West • Toll revenue growth of 2.8% despite traﬃc impact, largely due to • Lane Cove Tunnel opening of New M4 tunnels in July 2019 and the additional ownership interest in the M5 West • Cross City Tunnel • EBITDA margin was ﬂat at 82.0% (from 82.0% in FY19), reﬂecting • Eastern Distributor decreased toll revenue oﬀset by liquidated damages received and new • Westlink M7 assets including the additional ownership of M5 West • New M4 • M8 (opened July 2020) • M5 East • NorthConnex (opening FY21) • M4-M5 Link (under construction) • Rozelle Interchange (under construction) Melbourne AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC PROPORTIONAL TOLL REVENUE PROPORTIONAL EBITDA (THOUSANDS) ($ MILLIONS) ($ MILLIONS) 85.5% 86.5% 88.2% 88.0% 84.8% 820 813 824 851 813 750 780 747 687 688 716 660 634 564 594 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 EBITDA MARGIN (%) FY20 performance1 Portfolio summary • 11.9% decrease in average daily traﬃc driven by weak June quarter as • CityLink a result of COVID-19 • West Gate Tunnel • Toll revenue decreased by 8.1% (under construction) • COVID-19 restrictions in Victoria were more severe and prolonged relative to Sydney and Brisbane, causing a more significant impact to revenue relative to other Australian markets • EBITDA margin decreased to 84.8% (from 88.0% in FY19), reﬂecting decreased toll revenue and the re-basing of the CityLink maintenance provision (non-cash) as a result of the 10-year concession extension 57 Brisbane TRANSURBAN AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC PROPORTIONAL TOLL REVENUE PROPORTIONAL EBITDA 2020 CORPORATE REPORT (THOUSANDS) ($ MILLIONS) ($ MILLIONS) 73.1% 72.6% 69.6% 69.7% 71.0% 383 394 403 405 383 393 402 394 385 313 293 286 268 279 218 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 EBITDA MARGIN (%) FY20 performance1 Portfolio summary • 5.3% decrease in average daily traﬃc driven by weak June quarter as a • Gateway Motorway result of COVID-19 • Logan Motorway • Toll revenue decreased by 1.9% with impacts mitigated to some extent • AirportlinkM7 —1— by increased truck toll multipliers on the Logan and Gateway motorways INTRODUCTION which came into eﬀect during FY20 • Clem7 • EBITDA margin decreased slightly to 72.6% (from 73.1% in FY19), reﬂecting • Legacy Way decreased toll revenue largely oﬀset by favourable revenue uplift post • Go Between Bridge AND OVERVIEW completion of asset enhancement projects and benefits received from recent insourcing of tunnel operations —2— BUSINESS PERFORMANCE —3— GOVERNANCE North America AND RISK AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC PROPORTIONAL TOLL REVENUE PROPORTIONAL EBITDA —4— (THOUSANDS) ($ MILLIONS) ($ MILLIONS) 65.0% DIRECTORS’ 144 147 324 58.6% 55.3% REPORT 132 55.8% 279 49.5% 96 223 85 209 210 174 154 130 —5— 116 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY16 86 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 REMUNERATION REPORT EBITDA MARGIN (%) FY20 performance1 Portfolio summary —6— • 10.3% decrease in average daily traﬃc driven by weak June quarter as • 95 Express Lanes (GWA) FINANCIAL a result of COVID-19 • 495 Express Lanes (GWA) • Toll revenue decrease of 13.9%, impacted by Express Lanes which have STATEMENTS • A25 (Montreal) underperformed through COVID-19 pandemic due to the dynamic, congestion-based tolling mechanism • Fredericksburg Extension (GWA, under construction) • EBITDA margin decreased to 55.3% (from 65.0% in FY19), impacted —7— by decreased toll revenue and the opening of the 395 Express Lanes • 495 Northern Extension SECURITY HOLDER (including the Transit Investment Payment) (GWA, in procurement) • Capital Beltway Accord INFORMATION (GWA, progressing with government) 1 All ﬁgures are proportional 58 Capital management Transurban’s capital strategy is underpinned by fundamental objectives: Maintain strong investment Eﬃciently fund our Distributions for grade credit metrics development pipeline security holders This is enabled by the underlying strength of the Group’s operating cashﬂows which support security holder distributions and allow eﬃcient funding of opportunities through a combination of debt and equity funding. FIGURE 15: DIVERSIFIED Debt overview FUNDING SOURCES (GROUP DEBT AS AT 30 JUNE 2020)1,2 In FY20, Transurban raised $8.6 billion of debt across bank and debt capital GOVERNMENT LETTERS OF CREDIT markets, with $3.7 billion of this raised during March and April as the COVID-19 crisis DEBT BANK DEBT escalated and capital markets reacted with volatility. The business responded quickly USD NOTES (REG S) in securing additional liquidity as the impacts of COVID-19 set in, providing a signiﬁcant USD NOTES buﬀer to protect against any credit market freeze. This response provided the Group (PABS) AMTN with suﬃcient liquidity to meet capital requirements and debt reﬁnancing obligations USD NOTES A$22,118M AUD (144A) PRIVATE PLACEMENT through to June 2021. The Group’s weighted average cost of AUD debt decreased in FY20 to 4.4%, with US PRIVATE CAD NOTES PLACEMENT the tenor increasing to 8.4 years. Owing to the prudent management of the debt NOK NOTES book, only a small proportion of Group debt still requires reﬁnancing in FY21 (refer to CHF NOTES EUR NOTES Figure 16). This is in line with the Group’s funding plan which aims to reduce funding and liquidity risk, maintain high investment grade credit metrics and maintain or grow diversity of funding sources. FIGURE 16: GROUP PROPORTIONAL DEBT MATURITY PROFILE ($ MILLIONS)3,4 4,327 2,806 3,028 2,715 409 1,658 721 1,505 1,091 1,661 538 1,332 963 FY27 827 996 FY28 866 1,269 1,706 1,523 1,314 FY23 1,036 FY31 1,246 281 FY38-42 971 FY24 92 FY33-37 570 FY21 FY22 FY25 FY26 FY29 FY30 FY32 FY43+ CORPORATE NON-RECOURSE Distribution In light of impacts to the business as a result of COVID-19 and response measures implemented by governments, distribution guidance for 2H20 was withdrawn on 1 April 2020. A distribution totaling 16.0 cents per stapled security will be paid for the six months ended 30 June 2020, taking the FY20 distribution to 47.0 cents per stapled security. The Transurban Board expects the FY21 distribution will be in line with Free Cash, excluding Capital Releases. 1 Represents the full available debt facility 2 Proportional drawn debt inclusive of issued letters of credit. CAD, CHF, EUR, NOK and USD debt converted at the hedged rate where cross currency swaps are in place. USD debt is converted at the spot exchange rate (0.6857 at 30 June 2020) where no cross currency swaps are in place. CAD debt is converted at the spot exchange rate (0.9380 at 30 June 2020) where no cross currency swaps are in place 3 The full value of available debt facilities is shown. Debt is shown in the ﬁnancial year in which it matures 4 Debt values are shown in AUD as at 30 June 2020. CAD, EUR, NOK and USD debt converted at the hedged rate where cross currency swaps are in place. USD debt is converted at the spot exchange rate (0.6857 at 30 June 2020) where no cross currency swaps are in place. CAD debt is converted at the spot exchange rate (0.9380 at 30 June 2020) where no cross currency swaps are in place 59 Outlook TRANSURBAN T 2020 CORPORATE REPORT he traﬃc outlook for FY21 is for improvement in line with the easing of government restrictions, which has Near-term priorities been observed in some of our markets. However, the rate and trajectory of that traﬃc performance will remain Doing all that we can to keep sensitive to government responses and economic conditions our employees, contractors and in each of our markets. customers healthy and safe The near-term priorities for the business are consistent through this challenging period with our approach since the onset of the COVID-19 crisis. Keeping our roads fully While COVID-19 and the associated government operational and transporting responses have impacted the business’s operating cashﬂows, people and goods where they both our capital and operational positions remain strong need to go and we are well positioned to participate in the economic Providing additional support to rebuilding in each of our markets, which will undeniably our customers and communities require private-sector involvement. Transurban is engaging through expanded programs and new initiatives with industry and governments on a pipeline of potential infrastructure to support the economy and drive growth. Playing an active role in the economic recovery by maintaining —1— In parallel, we will continue to work with our construction our workforce, continuing work INTRODUCTION partners and other stakeholders to advance seven major on our portfolio of major projects projects across Australia and North America (refer to and pursuing new opportunities AND OVERVIEW Figure 17). We will continue to monitor and analyse changing mobility trends which may be accelerated as a result of COVID-19. As each of our markets emerge from the crisis, —2— motorway capacity may be needed to support commercial traﬃc and modal shifts from public transport and BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Transurban is well positioned to benefit from these trends. Longer term, we consider that the future state of mobility presents substantial opportunities for the business. —3— GOVERNANCE AND RISK FIGURE 17: PROJECT PORTFOLIO EXPECTED COMPLETION TIMELINE5 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 —4— Rozelle Interchange (WCX Stage 3B) Concession expires 2060 DIRECTORS’ 495 Express Lanes Northern Extension Concession expires 2087 REPORT M4-M5 Link (WCX Stage 3A) Concession expires 2060 Fredericksburg Extension Concession expires 2087 West Gate Tunnel 6 Concession expires 2045 —5— NorthConnex Concession expires 2048 M8 and M5 East (WCX Stage 2) Concession expires 2060 REMUNERATION REPORT 395 Express Lanes Concession expires 2087 Logan Enhancement Project Concession expires 2051 New M4 tunnels (WCX Stage 1B) Concession expires 2060 —6— Open Expected project completion FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 Additionally, Transurban is developing the Capital Beltway Accord Project in partnership with the Virginia Government. This project, announced in November 2019 will extend the 495 Express Lanes north by 4.2km 6 Project now expected to be completed in 2023 —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 60 60 Greater Washington Area GOVERNANCE AND RISK —SECTION 3— 61 TRANSURBAN GOVERNANCE 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Transurban is committed to good governance, transparency and accountability. The Board1 believes this is essential for the long-term performance and sustainability of our business, and to protect and enhance the interests of security holders and other stakeholders. —1— Introduction Board composition and structure INTRODUCTION Transurban’s governance framework plays a AND OVERVIEW critical role in helping the business deliver on its The Board is structured to ensure that it is strategy. comprised of individuals with appropriate skills, It provides the structure through which business knowledge, experience and diversity to develop objectives are set, performance is monitored, and and support Transurban’s strategy and enable it to —2— risks are managed. It includes a framework for discharge its responsibilities and decision making across the business and provides add value. BUSINESS PERFORMANCE guidance on the standards of behaviour expected As part of the Board’s succession planning, the of Transurban’s people. Board utilises a skills matrix to assist in assessing Transurban’s governance framework including the range of skills, knowledge, experience and our statement of compliance with the 4th edition of diversity on the Board, and to identify particular —3— the ASX Corporate Governance Council’s Principles competencies and perspectives that will enhance GOVERNANCE and Recommendations, is detailed in our 2020 the Board’s effectiveness and add value. Corporate Governance Statement, which is available The Board appointed Terence Bowen as a on our website together with key governance Non-executive Director on 1 February 2020, and AND RISK documents, including charters and policies Robert Edgar retired as a Non-executive Director (transurban.com). on 10 October 2019. During the year the Board reviewed the —4— DIRECTORS’ interests, positions and relationships of the NonRole of the Board executive Directors and considers each of them to be independent. REPORT The Board is accountable to security holders for the performance of Transurban. The Board’s primary roles are to demonstrate leadership and —5— provide overall strategic guidance for Transurban and effective oversight of management in REMUNERATION implementing Transurban’s strategic objectives and instilling its values. REPORT The Board regularly reviews the charters and policies that underpin Transurban’s corporate —6— governance practices to ensure they remain appropriate, reflect high standards of governance FINANCIAL and meet regulatory requirements. STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER 1 The Boards of Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban International Limited and Transurban Infrastructure Management Limited as responsible entity for INFORMATION Transurban Holding Trust (together, Transurban) have common directors and meet concurrently, and are collectively referred to as the Board TRANSURBAN BOARD 62 FY20 AREAS OF FOCUS During the year, the Board has provided strategic guidance and effective oversight of management in its implementation of Transurban’s strategy—to provide sustainable transport solutions that offer choice, reliability, safety, transparency and value. T he Board has actively exercised its stewardship responsibilities in relation to Transurban’s management of the business during the COVID-19 pandemic, including providing additional support and guidance to management through additional Board meetings and briefings, and overseeing additional trading updates to the market. Key strategic, governance and oversight activities for the year included: Health and safety Asset management and performance Ongoing commitment and oversight of Transurban’s Ongoing oversight of Transurban’s delivery of committed workplace health, safety and wellbeing strategy and projects including the opening of New M4 tunnels, the Logan performance across the business including on major projects. Enhancement Project and the 395 Express Lanes; ongoing major project delivery pipeline including the M8 (Stage 2 of WestConnex), NorthConnex, Fredericksburg Extension Customer and community and the West Gate Tunnel Project; and continuing to assess emerging opportunities in the regions in which we operate. Oversight of customer initiatives and expanded hardship programs including through Linkt Assist (Australia) and First Time Forgiveness (North America), providing Capital management financial support for customers and other members of the community. Oversight and approval of the raising of $8.6 billion in new facilities (bank debt and capital market issuances) including $3.7 billion during March and April 2020 to further People and culture strengthen Transurban’s liquidity position; and approval of $500 million institutional placement and $312 million Supporting and monitoring the realigned Transurban Security Purchase Plan in August and September 2019 leadership model to position Transurban for the future; and to primarily fund the acquisition of the remaining equity oversight of Transurban’s commitment to its Belonging and interests in M5 Motorway. Wellbeing programs. Strategy and risk Sustainability Together with Management, setting the strategic Approved more ambitious greenhouse gas emission direction of the business including: approving the annual reductions through new targets validated by the Science financial budget, and monitoring corporate performance; Based Targets initiative and Power Purchase Agreements for ongoing review of the Risk Appetite Statement (including future supply of up to 80% of electricity needs for Brisbane financial and non-financial risk) and Enterprise Risk and Sydney operations from renewable sources. Management Framework to further enhance the assessment and management of material business risks. Oversight of COVID-19 pandemic response Board succession planning Additional Board meetings and briefings to oversee Transurban’s response to the impact of the pandemic Board succession planning, including the appointment including: health and safety; customers; people; operations; of a new independent Non-executive Director. projects; assets; finance; treasury; capital and liquidity matters; risk management; and additional market updates. 63 TRANSURBAN STAKEHOLDER OPTIMAL DELIVERY AND DISCIPLINED ENGAGEMENT NETWORKS OPERATIONS INVESTMENT Developing close relationships To keep traffic flowing safely Delivering our projects and Thinking holistically about 2020 CORPORATE REPORT with our stakeholders allows and efficiently, we develop operating our roads as safely the operation of the us to identify and invest in operational, policy, project and efficiently as possible is our broader transport network, projects and programs that and technology solutions that core focus and fundamental to we invest in projects that matter get more out of roads and the our value proposition over the are necessary for the broader network long term growth and prosperity of communities The Board possesses the skills, experience and diversity that it considers appropriate having regard to Transurban’s strategic objectives and core capabilities (as set out above). In this regard, the Board collectively has the following key skills and experience: Collective skills and experience of the Board Industry specific Specific experience, knowledge and expertise gained across the broader infrastructure and knowledge and expertise transport industries, including global experience —1— Financing / capital Experience in complex financing and/or capital management including economic drivers and management global business perspectives INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW Project development, project Experience in all aspects of major infrastructure projects, including project engineering management and delivery Government and stakeholder Experience in government and regulatory policy matters (including public policy discourse), relations, public policy and multiple stakeholder relations and community engagement —2— community engagement BUSINESS Technology An understanding of, or experience in, organisations of a significant size having a major PERFORMANCE technology focus, including new technologies and digital disruption, digital customer management, and cyber security Customer experience Knowledge of, or experience in, organisations and operations managing large retail customer bases —3— General corporate, executive Strategic and commercial acumen, health, safety and environment, sustainability, financial acumen, GOVERNANCE and director experience leadership, governance and compliance, risk management and people, culture and remuneration AND RISK The Board meets as often as necessary to discharge its responsibilities. Typically this requires Board members to attend at least eight scheduled meetings each year, the Annual General Meeting, Committee meetings and unscheduled meetings as required. —4— DIRECTORS’ Board meetings are typically held in each of our regions over the course of the year. In addition to these meetings, Directors also attend regional activities, including briefings, asset or project site visits and presentations, and opportunities for employee and stakeholder engagement. The Board also meets with Transurban’s Executive Committee for biannual strategy sessions. REPORT Directors are also invited to participate in asset or project tours outside of the scheduled Board program. These tours are an important element of the Board’s induction and ongoing educational activities and enable Directors to obtain the required deep understanding of the activities and operations within each region. Due to various COVID-19 related Government restrictions —5— imposed during the year, certain regional meetings and activities scheduled for the second half of the year were paused. REMUNERATION FIGURE 18: GOVERNANCE REPORT FRAMEWORK Accountability Board Delegation Assurance and —6— oversight through Reporting FINANCIAL Chief STATEMENTS Executive Board Committees Officer Remuneration Delegation Accountability Independent Audit and Risk Nomination People and —7— Assurance Committee Committee Culture Committee Executive SECURITY HOLDER Committee INFORMATION External Auditor Internal Auditors 64 Board Committees The Board has established three standing Committees, each operating under a separate Charter, approved by the Board, which sets out its responsibilities. Board of Directors Audit and Risk Committee Responsibilities: Areas of focus during FY20 included: To assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate • Review and approval of significant accounting and financial reporting governance and oversight responsibilities disclosures including in relation to: the pro-rata institutional placement relating to the integrity of Transurban’s and security purchase plan; the status of major projects; the acquisition financial reporting, the effectiveness of remaining equity interest in the M5 Motorway; and the impact of of Transurban’s systems of financial government-imposed restrictions relating to COVID-19 on accounting, risk management and internal controls; audit and risk-related matters. internal and external audit functions, • Oversight of the assurance and disclosure processes for the Transurban’s risk profile and risk policy Transurban Corporate Report incorporating the financial statements and the effectiveness of Transurban’s risk and remuneration report; and disclosures relating to the Taskforce on management framework and supporting Climate-related Financial Disclosures. risk management systems. • Continued oversight of risk management activities including annual review of the Risk Appetite Statement and Risk Management Policy and Enterprise Risk Management Framework. • Approval of, and delivery oversight of, the FY20 Internal Audit Plan. Nomination Committee Responsibilities: Areas of focus during FY20 included: To assist the Board in fulfilling its • Ongoing Board succession planning, including selection and responsibilities relating to the composition appointment of new Non-executive Director. and performance of the Board, Board • Overseeing the establishment of the North American Advisory Board appointments, and succession planning. to provide input to the Board and management on North American matters. • Overseeing the process for the annual review of Board, Board Committee and Director performance. Remuneration, People and Culture Committee Responsibilities: Areas of focus during FY20 included: To assist the Board in fulfilling its • Reviewing CEO and Senior Executive fixed, performance-based responsibilities in relation to the and equity-based remuneration, including reviewing appropriate remuneration of the Chairman and other performance measures. Non-executive Directors, performance and • Oversight of Executive development and succession including oversight remuneration of, and incentives for, the of the selection and appointment of new Executive Committee member. CEO and Senior Executives, remuneration • Reviewing Transurban’s Diversity Policy and measurable objectives and strategies, practices and disclosures, and overseeing the Group’s progress against these objectives. management programs to optimise the • See Remuneration Report on pages 79 to 100 for further information. contributions of Transurban’s people and to support and further corporate objectives. 65 TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Governance policies Transurban has a number of governance policies to guide how it does business, including: —1— • Code of Conduct―articulates the behaviour expected of INTRODUCTION Transurban’s Directors and employees, who are expected to align their actions with the code and Transurban’s values AND OVERVIEW whenever they are representing Transurban. • Continuous Disclosure Policy―establishes our procedure for compliance with Transurban’s continuous disclosure obligations and provides guidance for the identification of —2— material information and timely disclosure of Transurban’s BUSINESS activities to the market. • Dealing in Securities Policy―prohibits Transurban Directors, employees, contractors and their related PERFORMANCE parties from dealing in Transurban securities if they are in possession of price-sensitive information and provides for open periods during which Directors and employees may —3— trade, subject to any required approvals being obtained. GOVERNANCE • Ethical Business Practices Policy―defines the standard AND RISK required from employees and third parties when working with Transurban, and confirms Transurban’s commitment to a sound culture of compliance and ethical behaviour. • Health, Safety and Environment Policy―provides —4— Transurban’s commitment to a healthy and safe work environment for all employees, contractors and third parties DIRECTORS’ and to minimise impacts to our environment. REPORT • Risk Management Policy and Enterprise Risk Management Framework―provides guidance and direction on the management of risk in Transurban and states Transurban’s commitment to the effective —5— management of risk. • Whistleblower Policy―encourages Transurban Directors, REMUNERATION REPORT employees, contractors and suppliers who have witnessed, or know about, any misconduct or suspected misconduct to speak up without fear of intimidation, disadvantage or reprisal. —6— FINANCIAL Corporate Governance Statement STATEMENTS For detailed information on the corporate governance framework and main governance practices, policies and —7— charters of Transurban Group for the year ended 30 June 2020, SECURITY HOLDER including details of the Group’s compliance with the 4th edition of the ASX Corporate Governance Council’s Principles INFORMATION and Recommendations, refer to the Group’s 2020 Corporate Governance Statement on the Transurban website. 66 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Lindsay Maxsted financial institutions, including as CFO of background through his earlier service Leighton Holdings Limited and Managing as a Cabinet Minister in Victoria. DipBus, FCA, FAICD—Age 66 Director of Deutsche Bank in Australia Chair and independent Non-executive and Hong Kong. Director since August 2010 and Scott is Deputy Chair of Terence Bowen March 2008 (respectively) Infrastructure Partnerships Australia Chair of the Nomination Committee and is a member of the Monash Industry BAcc, FCPA, MAICD—Age 53 Skills and experience Council of Advisors, the Business Council Independent Non-executive Director Lindsay is a Non-executive of Australia and of Roads Australia. since February 2020 Director of BHP Group Member of the Nomination Committee Limited and BHP Group Skills and experience plc (since 2011). He is also Mark Birrell Terry has over 25 years’ the Managing Director of of extensive financial, Align Capital Pty Limited and Honorary BEc, LLB, HonLLD, FAICD—Age 62 strategic and operational Treasurer of the Baker Heart and Independent Non-executive Director experience across a range Diabetes Institute. since May 2018 of sectors within some of Lindsay was previously Chair Member of the Audit and Risk Committee Australia’s leading companies. (2011–2020) and a Non-executive and the Nomination Committee Terry is currently Chair of the Director of Westpac Banking Corporation Skills and experience Operations Group at BGH Capital, and (2008–2020) and a partner of KPMG Mark is an experienced a Non-executive Director of BHP Group Australia where he was CEO of that firm Director with credentials Limited and BHP Group Plc (since 2017), from 2001 to 2007. His principal area of spanning the private and Navitas Pty Ltd and the West Coast practice prior to this was in the corporate public sectors. He has Eagles Football Club. He previously recovery field managing a number of deep industry knowledge served as Managing Partner and Australia’s largest insolvency/workout/ in the fields of transport, infrastructure Head of the Operations Group at BGH turnaround engagements. and logistics. Mark is Chair of Post Super Capital and prior to this served as an Pty Ltd (since 2013) and past President Executive Director and Finance Director of the Victorian Chamber of Commerce of Wesfarmers Limited (2009–2017), Scott Charlton and Industry. His previous roles include Finance Director of Coles and Managing Chair of Regis Healthcare Limited Director of Wesfarmers Industrial and BSc, MBA—Age 56 (2014–2018), Infrastructure Australia, Safety. Terry was formerly the CFO of Chief Executive Officer and Executive the Port of Melbourne Corporation, Jetstar Airways, and before this held Director since July 2012 Evans & Peck Limited, and Deputy Chair senior finance roles with Tubemakers of Skills and experience of Australia Post. He brings extensive Australia Limited. Scott joined Transurban legal experience and was National Leader He is a former Chair of the West from Lendlease, where he of the Infrastructure Group at Minter Australian Opera Company Incorporated held positions as Group Ellison. and a former Non-executive Director COO and Group Director Mark was the founding Chair of of the Western Australian Institute of of Operations. Previously Infrastructure Partnerships Australia, Medical Research Pty Ltd, Gresham Scott held several senior positions across the nation’s peak infrastructure sector Partners Holdings Limited and Gresham a range of infrastructure entities and body, and has a significant public policy Partners Group Limited. 67 TRANSURBAN Neil Chatfield Limited (2010–2019) and Cover-More He was formally the CEO of MLC and Group Limited (2013–2017). head of National Australia Bank’s Wealth MBus, FCPA, FAICD—Age 66 Sam is a member of the NSW Climate Management Division and held a number 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Independent Non-executive Director Change Council, the advisory boards of senior positions with Lend Lease. since February 2009 of ClimateWorks Australia, a Board Peter is a Non-executive Director Member of the Audit and Risk Committee, member of the GO Foundation and of Centuria Heathley Limited. His the Remuneration, People and Culture of the Centre for Policy Development, probono activities include being Chair Committee, and the Nomination Committee and Chair of the Australian National of Igniting Change Limited, a not-forSkills and experience Research Organisation for Women’s profit organisation, a member of the Neil is an established Safety. She was previously Chair of Prime Minister’s Community Business Executive and NonCarriageworks. Partnership, and a Fellow of the Senate executive Director with of the University of Sydney. He was extensive experience previously Chair and a Non-executive across all facets of Christine O’Reilly Director of Perpetual Equity Investment company management, and with specific Company Limited (2014–2017), Chair expertise in financial management, BBus—Age 59 (2010–2017) and a Non-executive capital markets, mergers and Independent Non-executive Director Director of Perpetual Limited acquisitions, and risk management. since April 2012 (2005–2017) and a Non-executive Neil is the Chair (since 2015) and a Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee and Director of Stockland Corporation —1— Non-executive Director of Costa Group a member of the Nomination Committee Limited (2005–2016). INTRODUCTION Holdings Limited (since 2011) and Skills and experience Chair (since 2019) and a Non-executive Christine has over 30 AND OVERVIEW Director of Aristocrat Leisure Limited years’ experience in the Jane Wilson (since 2018). Neil is also Chair of Launch finance and infrastructure Housing, a not-for-profit organisation. sectors in various roles MBBS, MBA, FAICD—Age 62 He was previously the Chair including as Co-Head Independent Non-executive Director —2— (2012–2018) and a Non-executive of Unlisted Infrastructure at Colonial since January 2017 Director of Seek Limited (2005–2018), First State Global Asset Management Member of the Remuneration, People and BUSINESS PERFORMANCE a Non-executive Director of Atomos and as Chief Executive Officer of the Culture Committee and the Nomination Limited (2018–2019) and a Non-executive GasNet Australia Group. Christine’s early Committee Director of Iron Mountain Incorporated work history includes eight years with Skills and experience (2016–2017). Neil also previously served investment bank, Centaurus Corporate Jane has over 20 years’ —3— as Executive Director and the CFO of Advisory Services, and audit experience experience as a Director of GOVERNANCE Toll Holdings. with PricewaterhouseCoopers where she companies, governmentqualified as a chartered accountant. owned corporations and Christine is a Non-executive not-for-profit organisations. AND RISK Samantha Mostyn Director of CSL Limited (since 2011), She has considerable experience in Medibank Private Limited (since 2014) finance, banking and medicine. BA, LLB—Age 54 and Stockland Corporation Limited Jane is a Guardian of the Future Fund, —4— DIRECTORS’ Independent Non-executive Director (since 2018). She is also a Non-executive Australia’s Sovereign Wealth Fund, a Nonsince December 2010 Director of Baker Heart and Diabetes executive Director of Sonic Healthcare Chair of the Remuneration, People and Institute. She was previously a NonLimited (since 2010) and Costa Group REPORT Culture Committee and a member of the executive Director of Energy Australia Holdings Limited (since 2019). Nomination Committee Holdings Limited. Jane was previously the Deputy Skills and experience Chancellor of the University of —5— Sam has significant Queensland, and previously a Nonexperience in the Peter Scott executive Director of the General Sir John REMUNERATION Australian corporate Monash Foundation, Opal Aged Care sector both in executive BE (Hons), MEngSc, Hon FIEAust, Limited and the Winston Churchill REPORT and non-executive MICE—Age 66 Memorial Trust. capacities, in particular in the areas Independent Non-executive Director —6— of human resources, corporate and since March 2016 government affairs, sustainability Member of the Audit and Risk Committee FINANCIAL management and diversity. and the Nomination Committee STATEMENTS Sam is Chair and a Non-executive Skills and experience Director of Citigroup Pty Limited (since Peter has over 20 years’ 2015) and a Non-executive Director of senior business —7— Mirvac Group Limited (since 2015). She experience in publicly SECURITY HOLDER is also a Director of the Sydney Swans listed companies and a Football Club. breadth of expertise in INFORMATION She was previously a Non-executive the engineering and finance sectors. Director of Virgin Australia Holdings 68 RISK MANAGEMENT A holistic and practical approach to identifying and managing risks is essential for an organisation’s resilience and sustainability. By understanding and anticipating change, Transurban is able to mitigate associated threats, as well as actively exploit business opportunities that appear in the transition. R isk management is embedded into our strategy Appetite Statement spanning financial and nonsetting and decision-making processes as financial measures outlining the level of risk that we well as our daily operations to ensure we are prepared to either accept, tolerate or avoid in continuously deliver value for our stakeholders. the pursuit of our business strategy. The Statement, We proactively implement strategies and which is critical in guiding our attitudes and contingency plans to manage risk, and assess how behaviours towards risk, is reviewed by the effective they are through regular reviews so we can Board annually. make changes where necessary. We have a dedicated ERM software system to The Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) support the iterative management of risks. Every Framework is central to our approach. It provides employee is accountable for actively managing the governing principles and guidance on how to identify, risks within their area of responsibility, and ensuring assess, manage and escalate risks to ensure we compliance with the risk framework. A number of respond appropriately to those with the potential to factors can influence all aspects of risk management, materially impact our business. so it is critical that we monitor and assess the The ERM Framework is overseen by the Board organisation’s risk culture on an annual basis to and the Audit and Risk Committee and is actively ensure a consistent understanding and approach managed by the CEO and Executive Committee across the business. along with senior managers. It includes a Risk FIGURE 19: ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Monitor and review Validate and improve Risk Audit and appetite Plan Identify Assess Manage assurance Confirm the Set the What are Analyse and Address Test and boundaries context the risks evaluate the risks confirm Communicate Share the risks 69 TRANSURBAN Scope of risk management activities Measuring the effectiveness of our activities Transurban’s ERM approach is organisation-wide; 2020 CORPORATE REPORT connecting our business disciplines, projects, operations, The ERM Framework is linked to our assurance and functions and strategic plans. To ensure a broad view of governance processes—with outcomes from our risk risk, it considers both the internal and external operating processes used to define areas of focus for internal environment and reflects financial and non-financial risks audit. These reviews provide independent and objective to the business. Non-financial categories of risk include: assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of our Compliance: deed, legislative, legal and other operating internal control environment and recommendations to requirements. improve efficiency. Commercial: includes contractual requirements, In addition, to determine the current effectiveness procurement processes and subcontractor arrangements. of our risk management capabilities and assess the depth Environmental: impacts to the physical environment of our risk culture, a series of risk-related questions are and/or relating to the physical working environment, included in our annual employee ‘Our Voice Survey’. The including the impacts from climate change. purpose of these questions is to assess the current Safety and health: the safety and health of all parties understanding of risk and risk management practice that we have a duty of care towards when executing within the business and confirm the propensity of our works. employees and the business to take considered risk. Stakeholder and community: risks associated with Annually, the Board requests that Internal Audit —1— internal and external stakeholders including the undertakes a review of Transurban’s ERM framework. INTRODUCTION communities within which we operate. This review is to satisfy the Board that the framework itself We consider a number of consequences related continues to be sound and aligned to the ASX Corporate AND OVERVIEW to these risks. Financial, business disruption, health Governance Council Principles and Recommendations. and safety, environmental, schedule and reputation This review consists of a high-level gap analysis of the consequences are assessed where appropriate for alignment of the Transurban risk management approach each risk. with ASX Corporate Governance Council Principles and —2— From a business resilience perspective, we test our Recommendations and ISO 31000:2018, taking into emergency management, business continuity, and crisis account Transurban’s ERM framework and its application BUSINESS PERFORMANCE management processes through scenario and desktop within the business. exercises. This has enabled us to be agile when testing The detailed results from both the employee and potential operational and business disruption events ERM review are used to identify business areas requiring and to trial alternative approaches to prevent, respond focused risk support and capability development —3— and recover from incidents, disruption or pursue activities. The results and feedback will also form the basis GOVERNANCE opportunities. of future risk management training, education and ERM This approach to risk management is also supported Framework improvement activities. by Key Risk Indicators (KRIs) and Key Performance To support broader Internal Audit assurance activities AND RISK Indicators (KPIs). These both link to our Risk Appetite Transurban utilises a co-sourced approach consisting of Statements. By using these KPIs and KRIs, our an external independent Internal Audit Service Provider performance against financial and non-financial risk (EY) and a core internal team led by the Head of Internal —4— DIRECTORS’ appetite can be tracked and presented to the Board, Audit. This approach enables a balance of independence, providing early warnings of rising risk levels. external experience and internal knowledge. Internal Audit operates under a plan approved annually by REPORT the Audit and Risk Committee and has full access to all functions, records, property and personnel of the Transurban Group. Internal Audit administratively reports —5— to the CFO and has a direct communication line to the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee. The results of REMUNERATION internal audit activities are reported to the Audit and Risk Committee. REPORT FIGURE 20: OUR RISK AND IDENTIFICATION AND REVIEW PROCESS COVERS THE FULL —6— SPECTRUM OF OUR ACTIVITIES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Short and Both current Internal and Across all of our —7— long term and emerging external factors operations and SECURITY HOLDER activities INFORMATION 70 Key risks (opportunities and threats)1 Change in Opportunities opportunity Example management and description within FY202 responses New business opportunities • Focus on the right opportunities aligned to our business strategy in our target markets • Continue to build relationships with partners Entry into new markets has provided Increase • Demonstrate core capabilities and delivery credibility opportunities to further grow the reflects material business and enhance existing assets emerging • Maintain leading understanding of the transport needs of our and operations. opportunities in markets. core markets Harness technology and services to • Horizon scanning and emerging technology review develop new projects and offerings • Technology road map, including identification of suitable Implementation of technology and technology partners and solutions mobile app platforms have presented • Strategic initiatives to test and pilot technology adaptations the opportunity to rapidly respond to changing customer expectations within • Community and customer engagement the market and establish differentiators • Continued investment in digital offerings including apps and against our competitors. features. Leverage capabilities to enhance • Harness knowledge and experience to drive operations and motorway networks maintenance Opportunity to enhance network • Ongoing focus on relationships with stakeholders development, including but not limited • Develop new service offerings utilising existing capabilities to core assets. • Develop network opportunities based off of a deep understanding of transport needs of our markets. Sustainability initiatives to enhance • Customer Hardship Program and Financial Inclusion Action Plan road user and community experience • Managed motorway risks such as pre peak-hour speed limit Opportunity to further pursue reductions to lower risk of rear-end crashes sustainability projects to enhance • Transurban Road Safety Centre at Neuroscience Research social and environmental outcomes Australia(NeuRA) research program for communities and social licence credentials. • Membership with Social Traders to identify opportunities to increase direct and indirect spend with certified social enterprises • Infrastructure sustainability ratings for road assets • Research and pilots of new technologies to reduce environmental impacts of construction materials. Up Down Neutral 1 Transurban’s exposure to financial risks and the policies we have in place for managing that risk can be found in the Derivatives and Financial Risk Management notes—see note B15. This section discusses our hedging policies, credit risk, interest rate risk and liquidity and funding policies Transurban considers the impacts of climate change as a potential contributing factor to many of our threats and opportunities. For more information on our climate change management strategies and our consideration of transition and physical risks refer to Climate risk management on page 73 of this Report and our Sustainability Supplement 2 Directional arrows are a general assessment only of the risk change over the year, detailed risk reviews are undertaken regularly to ensure alignment with our risk appetite statement as outlined on page 68 and 69 71 TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Change Threats and in threat Example management description within FY20 responses Maintaining our social licence to operate • Enhanced customer hardship initiatives and measures to assist Failure to live the Transurban values when frontline workers and address impacts of COVID-19 being felt engaging with our stakeholders or failure Increase reflects across our communities to satisfactorily meet their needs could negative impacts • Continuous stakeholder listening program to enable practical result in a loss of trust in our business, of COVID-19 on business responses with implications for our reputation and the community • Proactive activities to enhance our social licence to operate business operations. • Program of communication activities that engage all stakeholder groups. Unfavourable changes in the market or • Revised traffic models to reflect shift in external environment to operating conditions due to COVID-19 —1— Key assumptions relating to the operating Increase reflects • Scenario analysis reflecting further COVID-19 future outlook INTRODUCTION environment and/or budget forecasts may initial impact of uncertainties prove to be incorrect. COVID-19 and • Strategic and emerging risks and mitigations identified and AND OVERVIEW subsequent managed as part of the overall Risk Management Framework government responses • Ongoing regional and asset traffic analysis supplemented by third party data and/or review. —2— Delivering our major projects to meet • Due diligence throughout procurement and tender processes BUSINESS agreed outcomes • Standard D&C risk allocations including appropriate security Contractor performance or behaviour Increase reflects packages PERFORMANCE could lead to a failure to deliver projects issues around • Project Steering groups, Internal Audit Program and Program on time and within budget resulting in contractor reviews reputational issues which could impact on performance future opportunities. during the period • Enterprise Risk Management Framework incorporating project risk reviews —3— • Ongoing focus on relationship with current and potential suppliers including Senior Executive engagement with major contractors. GOVERNANCE AND RISK Customer and road safety • Australian Road Research Board assessment of the Australian Failure to effectively manage road network to determine International/Australian Road Assessment infrastructure and response to incidents Program safety ratings Decrease due to could impact customer and road safety. implementation • Monash University Accident Research Centre analysis of serious —4— of road injury crashes on Australian roads DIRECTORS’ enhancements • Road Safety Action Plans and Community of Practice and initiatives REPORT • Continued focus on emergency response capabilities and delivery of emergency management exercises • Transurban Road Safety Centre at NeuRA research program. Cyber security and information • Cyber security framework, including data protection management —5— protection and third-party data risk management REMUNERATION Failure of IT security controls or an • Cyber training and awareness programs ineffective response to a cyber incident • Business continuity planning REPORT could result in a disruption to operations, damage to equipment and/ or loss of • Security assessments including penetration and resilience testing. sensitive or personal data. Failure of technical infrastructure • Transurban Asset Management System and associated processes —6— FINANCIAL Failure to adequately maintain or validate • Supplier and Contractor Management Framework outlines activities as required could lead to requirement for regular audits, inspections and quality assurance STATEMENTS breaches of concession, possible safety assessments of contractors and sub-contractors risks and/or reputational damage. • Asset reviews and Internal Audit Program. Changes in government policies or • Contributions to policy discussions through submissions to regulatory interpretations government inquiries and draft strategies —7— SECURITY HOLDER A change in government policy could • Engagement with all levels of government—political and impact on the ability to deliver the bureaucratic—to understanding policy positions and the potential business strategy. implications. INFORMATION 72 Key risks (opportunities and threats) Change Threats and in threat Example management description within FY20 responses Ensuring the safety and wellbeing of • Safety reporting and management systems that enable detailed employees and contractors analytics Due to the nature of some of our work • Contractor management and engagement to ensure activities employees, workers and other implementation of Transurban minimum requirements stakeholders could be exposed to harm or • Ongoing development and enhancement of the Transurban health suffer wellbeing issues if business controls safety and environment (HSE) culture including delivery of mental fail to be adequate or due to third-party health and wellbeing initiatives behaviours. High-risk activities include incident response, construction and • HSE training and awareness including practical exercises. operations and maintenance activities. Dependency on third parties and • Due diligence throughout procurement processes critical suppliers • Environmental scans and industry engagement Loss of a key strategic supplier due • Supplier and Contractor Management Framework which includes to liquidation, legal action, buyout/ requirements for Supplier Performance Management infrastructure and response to incidents competitive takeover, or performance • Ongoing delivery of Sustainable Procurement Program issues could lead to a disruption in supply including preparation for Modern Slavery Act requirements and of a critical service to Transurban. collaboration with suppliers to respond to potential risks within our supply chain. Up Down Neutral — FEATURE— Proactive risk management enabling organisational resilience The ongoing monitoring of national and global events of our existing Pandemic Preparedness plans, which have which may create opportunity or pose a threat to our mitigating strategies to reduce the impact that COVID-19 business enabled us to quickly identify potential areas would have on our operations, services and projects. of exposure when the COVID-19 virus was emerging Our business and strategic risks were also continuously overseas. reviewed and reassessed by the Executive Committee given In January the Business Resilience Team commenced the uncertain environment we and our stakeholders faced. monitoring the initial COVID-19 virus outbreak and began Our COVID-19 Working Group and Emergency Strategy reviewing and updating the Transurban Pandemic Response teams remain in place to continuously review, plan, update Plan. This included working across the business to update and coordinate our business continuity and pandemic and test business continuity plans based on evolving preparedness plans, and response protocols to reflect government guidance. government and agency guidance and our revised risk profile. Scenario risk analysis was undertaken to consider all forms The experience gained through the response to the COVID-19 of disruption risk. This included lack of access to locations, pandemic will be assessed and improvements to our ERM and supply chain disruption and personnel and revenue impacts. Business Resilience Frameworks will be discussed with the These risks are subject to continuous review and are part Executive Committee and implemented where appropriate. 73 TRANSURBAN New M4, Sydney Climate risk management 2020 CORPORATE REPORT W e are committed to managing the impacts of In FY20 we replaced our 2012 Climate Change climate change and supporting the transition Strategy with a revised Climate Change Framework towards a low-carbon economy. We recognise (Figure 21). that climate change will affect our business both directly This framework reflects our current understanding of and indirectly and may influence the way we operate our climate-related risk, and covers priority areas associated business into the future. with the low-carbon transition, emissions reduction, Like all threats and opportunities, risks related climate risk integration and asset and business adaptation. to the climate are managed using our Enterprise Risk Management Framework (see page 68). —1— INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW —2— BUSINESS PERFORMANCE —3— GOVERNANCE AND RISK FIGURE 21: OUR CLIMATE CHANGE FRAMEWORK —4— Our climate change framework aims to support the transition to a net zero future and implement measures DIRECTORS’ that ensure our infrastructure and operations are resilient under potential future conditions. REPORT Towards net zero Resilient infrastructure and operations —5— REMUNERATION REPORT Low-carbon Customer Roadside Climate risk Asset and business TCFD compliance adaptation and reporting —6— Energy supply chain emissions regeneration integration FINANCIAL Low-carbon Customer Embed climate Integration with STATEMENTS Improve Energymaterials engagement risk within financial vegetation Adaptation efficiency on fuel and relevant systems, within plans upgrades Circular emissions processes and processes and our alignments economy reduction systems reporting —7— SECURITY HOLDER Onsite Support the Impact Partnerships renewables uptake of Green Training and assessments Ongoing and Power Purchase zero-emissions infrastructure capacity building and scenario reporting INFORMATION engagement Agreements vehicles analysis Progress towards addressing 74 climate-related risks I n 2018, we committed to address the recommendations • Longer term, the extent to which financial impacts are of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures realised depends on how we respond to the various threats (TCFD), which provides the leading framework for climateand create strategies to capitalise on opportunities. We have prioritised two initial projects to investigate the long-term related financial risk disclosures. possible impacts associated with toll revenue and lifecycle The TCFD’s recommendations cover governance, strategy, and maintenance costs. Case studies are included within the risk management, and metrics and targets. Our full response full disclosure. to the TCFD recommendations is available in our FY20 • Individual risk responses consider multiple climate change Sustainability Supplement. scenarios, emerging trends, and timing of possible impacts. Highlights of our progress are below: Each response summarises existing controls and any priority actions. Governance Risk management TCFD recommended disclosure: Disclose the organisation’s governance around climate-related risks TCFD recommended disclosure: Disclose how the organisation identifies, assesses, and manages climateOur response: related risks • Climate-related risks covering both threats and opportunities are overseen by the Board of Directors via Our response: the Audit and Risk Committee. • The process to identify and manage climate-related risks • The Audit and Risk Committee is updated at least half-yearly aligns with Transurban’s enterprise approach to risk on climate-related risks, emerging themes and areas of management. The ERM Framework provides guidance on progress. the identification, assessment, management and escalation • Responsibility for climate-related risks sits with all areas of of risks to ensure that key risks, including those with the the business, however the strategic response and overall potential to have a material impact on the business, are direction is managed between the Sustainability and Risk escalated appropriately for decision-making and proactive leadership teams and relevant members of the Executive management. Committee. • A number of unique elements characterise climate-risk • A cross-discipline internal governance group provides management, including the use of scenario analysis, a twoadditional oversight of climate-related initiatives, staged assessment process to model and quantify impacts management priorities, and annual reporting. where possible, and documenting the impacts of risks on financial systems and processes. • Climate change risk assessments have been completed for all Australian assets. Strategy • For major projects, our contractors are required to undertake a climate change risk assessment, consider the TCFD recommended disclosure: Disclose the actual and impact of design and construction on the environment, and potential impacts of climate-related risks on the organsation’s achieve sustainability performance ratings. In Australia, all businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such major projects are required to achieve at least an ‘Excellent’ information is material Infrastructure Sustainability rating through design and construction from the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia. Our response: • A revised Climate Change Framework has been developed to set our strategic direction for FY21–23. Metrics and targets • We expect that climate change will affect all areas of Transurban’s organisational strategy to some extent, and TCFD recommended disclosure: Disclose the metrics may influence some of the ways we manage our business. and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related • To address the impacts of climate change we consider risks risks where such information is material associated with the low-carbon transition and the physical impacts of climate change. Our response: • Climate-related threats and opportunities have been identified and consolidated into six high-level risk themes. • A set of performance metrics has been confirmed which Materiality is determined based on the potential long-term aligns with our key climate-related threats and opportunities. impacts, likelihood the risk will be realised, and relationship • Disclosure includes Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions as well as with our organisational strategy and financial systems. customer emissions, related risks and their management. • We do not expect any short or mid-term financial impacts • Our greenhouse gas reduction targets have been updated that would be considered material based on initial risk to include scope 3 emissions and all targets are now verified assessment and internal engagement. by the Science Based Targets initiative. —1— —2— —3— —4— —5— —6— —7— TRANSURBAN INTRODUCTION BUSINESS GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION FINANCIAL SECURITY HOLDER 75 2020 CORPORATE REPORT AND OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE AND RISK REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Eastern Distributor, Sydney DIRECTORS’ 75 REPORT —SECTION 4— 76 DIRECTORS’ REPORT T he Directors of Transurban Holdings Limited (‘the Directors’ details Company’, ‘the Parent’ or ‘THL’) and its controlled entities (‘Transurban’, ‘Transurban Group’ or ‘the Group’), The names of Directors of THL, TIML and TIL have common Transurban International Limited and its controlled entities Directors. The names of Directors who served during or since (‘TIL’), and Transurban Infrastructure Management Limited the end of FY20 are: (‘TIML’), as responsible entity of Transurban Holding Trust and • Lindsay Maxsted (Chairman) its controlled entities (‘THT’), present their Directors’ Report on • Scott Charlton (Chief Executive Officer) the Transurban Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 • Mark Birrell (‘FY20’). • Terence Bowen (appointed 1 February 2020) The controlled entities of THL include the other members • Neil Chatfield of the stapled group, being TIL and THT. The Directors’ Report has been prepared in accordance • Samantha Mostyn with the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 with the • Christine O’Reilly following information forming part of this Directors’ Report: • Peter Scott • Operating and financial review (see reference below) • Jane Wilson • Remuneration Report on pages 79 to 100 • Robert Edgar (retired 10 October 2019) • Directors’ declaration on page 194 Details of each Director’s appointment, qualifications, • Auditor’s independence declaration on page 101 experience and special responsibilities, together with their recent directorships, are also set out on pages 66 to 67. Principal activities Company secretaries The principal activities of the Group during the year were the building and operation of toll roads in Sydney, Melbourne Fiona Last and Julie Galligan are Company Secretaries and Brisbane, in Australia, as well as in the Greater Washington of THL, TIML and TIL. Amanda Street resigned as Company Area and Montreal in North America. There has been no Secretary of THL, TIML and TIL on 11 October 2019. significant change in the nature of these activities during the year. Fiona Last LLB (Hons), BCom, FGIA Fiona joined Transurban as Company Secretary in January 2020. Operating and financial review Fiona is an experienced corporate lawyer and governance adviser with over 20 years relevant professional experience. A review of Group operations and the results of those Prior to joining Transurban, Fiona was Company Secretary operations during the year, including likely developments in at Treasury Wine Estates, and a Senior Corporate Lawyer at future financial years, are on pages 14 to 74 of this report. National Australia Bank. Prior to her in-house work, Fiona Further details of the results of the Group’s operations are worked as a corporate lawyer for legal firms in Australia, Asia provided in the Financial Statements on pages 102 to 203 of and the United Kingdom. this report. Julie Galligan LLB, BA Julie joined Transurban in November 2008 and was appointed as Group General Counsel in February 2012. Julie has over 20 years of legal experience in private practice and in-house roles in both Australia and the United Kingdom. Prior to joining Transurban, Julie worked in-house at Associated British Ports and at law firms, SJ Berwin LLP and Minter Ellison. 77 TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Directors’ meeting attendance The Boards of THL, TIML and TIL have common Directors and meetings are held concurrently. The number of meetings of the Board and each Board Committee held during FY20, and the number of meetings attended by each Director, are set out below. In addition, the Board held regular Board briefings with management during the COVID-19 pandemic in order to keep the Board abreast of the impact on the business of COVID-19 related matters. Remuneration, People and —1— Board of Audit and Risk Culture Nomination Board INTRODUCTION Directors Committee1 Committee2 Committee3 Sub-Committee4 Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Lindsay Maxsted (Chairman) 12 12 6 # 6 # 4 4 5 5 AND OVERVIEW Scott Charlton (CEO) 12 12 6 # 6 # 3 # 5 5 Mark Birrell 12 12 6 6 4 # 4 4 – # —2— Terence Bowen 8 8 2 # 3 # 2 2 – # Neil Chatfield5 11 12 6 6 6 6 4 4 – # BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Samantha Mostyn 12 12 5 # 6 6 4 4 – # Christine O'Reilly 12 12 6 6 5 # 3 4 – # Peter Scott 12 12 6 6 5 # 4 4 – # —3— Jane Wilson 12 12 2 # 6 6 4 4 – # GOVERNANCE Robert Edgar 1 1 2 # 1 1 2 2 – # AND RISK # Not a member of the relevant Committee 1 L Maxsted, S Charlton, T Bowen, S Mostyn and J Wilson were not members of the Audit and Risk Committee but attended meetings as observers during the year 2 L Maxsted, S Charlton, M Birrell, T Bowen, C O’Reilly and P Scott were not members of the Remuneration, People and Culture Committee but attended meetings as observers during the year. S Charlton was excluded from discussions involving his remuneration during meetings that he attended 3 S Charlton was not a member of the Nomination Committee but attended meetings as an observer during the year —4— 4 A number of Board sub-committees were formed during the year for special purposes 5 N Chatfield attended all scheduled Board meetings. This number reflects his absence from one unscheduled Board meeting due to a prior commitment DIRECTORS’ REPORT Distributions Significant changes in the state of affairs A distribution of 16.0 cents per stapled security will be paid The financial position and performance of the Group was —5— for the six months ended 30 June 2020 on 14 August 2020. This particularly affected by the following transactions and events takes the total distribution for FY20 to 47.0 cents per stapled during the reporting period: REMUNERATION security, of which 2.0 cents will be fully franked. Further details REPORT • Coronavirus global pandemic and the related governmentof FY20 distributions are provided in note B10 to the Financial mandated restrictions Statements. • Acquisition of remaining equity interest in the M5 Motorway in October 2019 —6— • Group equity issuances of pro-rata institutional placement and security purchase plan during August and September FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2019 to fund the Group’s investment in the remaining interests in M5 Motorway and for general corporate purposes. —7— Further information is provided in note B2 to the SECURITY HOLDER Financial Statements. INFORMATION 78 Events subsequent to the end Non-audit services and auditor of the financial year independence Details of any events that have arisen from 30 June 2020 to PwC continues in office as the Group’s external auditor the date of signing this report that has significantly affected, or in accordance with section 327 of the Corporations Act. The may significantly affect, the Group’s operations, the results of Group has an External Auditor Independence policy that is those operations, or Group’s state of affairs, in the future years intended to support the independence of the external auditor are provided in note B30 to the Financial Statements. by regulating the provision of services by the external auditor. The external auditor will not be engaged to perform any service that may impair or be perceived to impair the external auditor’s Indemnification and insurance judgment or independence. of Directors and officers The Board has considered the position and, in accordance with advice received from the Audit and Risk Committee, is The Constitutions of the Group provide that the Group satisfied that the provision of the non-audit services during will indemnify each officer (including each Director) of the the reporting period is compatible with the general standard Group, on a full indemnity basis and to the extent permitted of independence for auditors imposed by the Corporations by law, against any liabilities incurred by them in their capacity Act. The Directors are satisfied that the provision of non-audit as an officer of any member of the Group. Each officer is services by PwC did not compromise the auditor independence also indemnified against reasonable costs (whether legal or requirements of the Corporations Act for the following reasons: otherwise) incurred in relation to relevant proceedings in which • The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the non-audit the officer is involved because the officer is or was an officer. services to ensure they did not impact the impartiality and The Group has entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Insurance objectivity of the auditor. and Access (Deed) with each of its Directors and officers of • None of the services undermined the general principles the Group. relating to auditor independence as set out in APES 110 The Group has arranged to pay a premium for a Director’s Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, including and officer’s liability insurance policy to indemnify Directors reviewing or auditing the auditor’s own work, acting in a and officers in accordance with the terms and conditions of the management or a decision-making capacity for the Group, policy. This policy is subject to a confidentiality clause which acting as advocate for the Group or jointly sharing economic prohibits disclosure of the nature of the liability covered, the risk and rewards. name of the insurer, the limit of liability and the premium paid Details of the amounts paid for non-audit services is provided for this policy. in note B34 to the Financial Statements. During FY20 and as at the date of this Report, no indemnity The Group’s external auditor, PwC, has provided an in favour of a current or former Director or officer of the Group independence declaration in accordance with section 307C of or in favour of PwC, the external auditor, has been called on. the Corporations Act, which is set out on page 101 and forms part of this Report. Environmental regulation Rounding of amounts The Group’s operations are subject to environmental regulation under both Commonwealth and State legislation. The Group has applied the Australian Securities and The Group is committed to achieving a high standard of Investments Commission (ASIC) Corporations (Rounding in environmental performance. The Sustainability Strategy— Financial/Directors’ reports) Instrument 2016/191 to this report, available on our website transurban.com—outlines our and amounts in the Financial Statements have been rounded objectives, while our risk management processes provide to the nearest million dollars, unless stated otherwise. regular monitoring of environmental exposure and compliance This Directors’ Report is made in accordance with a with environmental regulations. resolution of the Board of Directors and is signed for and on Based on the results of enquiries made, the Board is not behalf of the Directors: aware of any significant breaches during the reporting period. Proceedings on behalf of the Group Lindsay Maxsted Scott Charlton Director Director No proceedings have been brought or intervened in on behalf of the Group, nor any application made under section Melbourne 237 of the Corporations Act. 12 August 2020 —1— —2— —3— —4— —5— —6— —7— TRANSURBAN INTRODUCTION BUSINESS GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION FINANCIAL SECURITY HOLDER 79 2020 CORPORATE REPORT AND OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE AND RISK REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION AirportlinkM7, Brisbane REMUNERATION REPORT 79 —SECTION 5— 80 THIS REMUNERATION REPORT FORMS PART OF THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT COMMENCING ON PAGE 75. Introduction from the Chair of the Remuneration, People and Culture Committee Dear security holder Within this context, the Board remains committed to On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present an executive remuneration framework designed to attract, Transurban’s Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 motivate and retain the most skilled, experienced and June 2020. This report contains detailed information regarding capable executives by rewarding them for delivering on our the remuneration arrangements for the directors and senior business strategy and creating long-term, sustainable value for executives who were Key Management Personnel (KMP) for stakeholders. Our culture and values underpin this framework Transurban during FY20. We will seek your support for this and are integral to our workforce and how we operate as a report at our 2020 Annual General Meeting, to be held on responsible business. 8 October 2020. The key principles underpinning our remuneration The broad and deep impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic framework remain unchanged and include: over the past six months necessarily mean that Transurban’s • Incentives based on financial measures and strategic remuneration decisions have been made in circumstances objectives that are critical to sustained organisational that are still evolving, and the Board has exercised appropriate growth and success discretion consistent with the uncertainty of these times. • due consideration of business and operational risk and Prior to the impacts experienced by the COVID-19 the Group’s values and culture through the design of pandemic, Transurban was on track to deliver total distributions performance objectives, clawbacks and the exercise of for FY20 of 62.0 cents to our security holders. This was Board discretion supported by strong traffic performance across the majority of • incentives that provide sufficient stretch and motivation and our regions and by focusing on cost discipline throughout the also align the interests of executives to those of security business. The company’s performance in the second half of holders FY20 was significantly impacted by the pandemic resulting in • a suitable balance between fixed, on target and at-risk pay to a reduced FY20 distribution of 47.0 cents. reward outperformance As discussed in the Chair and CEO letter, while traffic fell quickly on Transurban’s assets, the company moved to set clear • vesting periods for deferred incentives and remuneration priorities for action, which it held to over the period, including practices and outcomes that are fair and reasonable, taking the maintenance of our direct and indirect workforce without into account stakeholder expectations. accessing any of the government funded support programs In February 2020, we realigned the leadership operating made available to impacted businesses. model to position Transurban for the future. This involved the Transurban’s response to the crisis has included actions to consolidation and expansion of senior executive positions as support our customers, communities, and our people, which well as increasing capability to take advantage of emerging are described on pages 20 and 21. This included a new toll opportunities. As a result, the executive team was reconfigured, credit program for people who lost their jobs or experienced with two new roles established and global searches undertaken a significant reduction in hours due to COVID-19, as well as for both roles: eligible health care workers, aged carers, disability carers and • Group Executive Partners, Delivery and Risk – combining emergency service personnel. Our actions through the crisis capability to deliver our $19 billion pipeline of projects have been to serve the needs of all our stakeholders, ensuring underway and an enlarged pipeline of future projects, that the company emerges through this challenging period in a ensuring that Transurban is the preferred partner of strong position. tomorrow’s motorways. We anticipate that this role will be In the process of determining the remuneration outcomes filled and will commence during FY21. for FY20, the Board has considered how business performance • Group Executive Customer and Technology – combining was tracking both prior to the impacts of the COVID-19 capability to meet the challenge of technology driving the pandemic and in the subsequent period. customer experience. Simon Moorfield will join Transurban The Board has also undertaken additional governance in this role during FY21. oversight. This included both the Chair of the Remuneration, Despite the challenging conditions created by the COVID-19 People and Culture Committee (Committee) and the Chairman pandemic, our key business achievements in FY20 included: of the Board obtaining appropriate stakeholder feedback, as • FY20 distributions totalling 47.0 cents per stapled security of well as seeking additional advice and input from the Committee’s which 16.0 cents per security is in relation to the second half independent external remuneration adviser. The Committee and of FY20 Board have also sought additional information from management • Maintained a strong balance sheet, successfully raising $8.6 leading up to the Board’s decisions on remuneration. billion of gross debt to refinance existing facilities, fund the In relation to some matters, final Executive remuneration development pipeline and strengthen liquidity outcomes have been significantly impacted as a result of • An average of 2 million trips made on our roads each work COVID-19, and this is evident in both the FY20 Short Term day by an expanded customer base of 5.5 million customers Incentive (STI) outcomes and the Long Term Incentive (LTI) in Australia and 3.3 million road users in North America plan scheduled to vest in August 2020. Further details on the Board’s exercise of discretion to reduce outcomes for FY20 • Delivered Proportional EBITDA (excluding significant items) of are set out below (refer ‘Alignment between performance and $1,888 million with a strong focus on cost discipline (underlying remuneration’). cost growth of 2.1% excluding foreign exchange impact) 81 Alignment between performance Three-year performance to FY20 TRANSURBAN and Executive KMP remuneration The FY17 LTI plan (performance period 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2019) vested on 26 August 2019 with the following results: • TSR: Transurban ranked 12th highest out of 30 companies The Board has discretion over all remuneration outcomes (62.0 percentile) 2020 CORPORATE REPORT for KMP, including the vesting of equity awards. The Board • FCF: 12.5% cumulative average annual growth rate in FCF considers performance against each remuneration element, per security over the performance period. The target and a number of factors are taken into account that may range was 9% to 12% FCF growth per security. result in the exercise of Board discretion for the benefit or the detriment of employees. Executive LTI outcomes (% of performance awards In light of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the that vested) Board has exercised its discretion in determining FY20 TSR = 74.0% remuneration outcomes to ensure they are reasonable FCF = 100% in the context of the remuneration framework and also Total = 87.0% appropriately reflect overall business performance, the The FY18 LTI plan is scheduled to vest in August 2020. external environment as well as stakeholder feedback. Reduced traffic and toll revenue across all regions due to the COVID-19 pandemic have significantly impacted the FCF component of this plan, with calculations indicating Short Term Incentive that whilst the awards under the TSR component will vest FY20 Financial Performance (actuals and % to target) for eligible participants, there will be no vesting of the FCF • Proportional EBITDA of $1,844 million (excludes additional component. items, refer to FY20 Group measures outcomes table), The Board has also considered the setting of resulting in an outcome of zero performance targets for the FY21 LTI plan in the context of • Net Costs of $475m, which was 150% of target, and was —1— the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. There are adjusted to an outcome of 100% significant challenges associated with predicting traffic and INTRODUCTION • HSE of 100.5% of target. toll revenues, and therefore accurately forecasting FCF for The Board has exercised its discretion to ensure an the next three year period. AND OVERVIEW appropriate contextual overlay has been applied to the overall Group STI outcome. This decision was taken As a result, the Board has decided that FCF is not a specifically in relation to balancing the impact of a strong net suitable measure for the FY21 LTI Plan. After considering cost result, and resulted in the reduction of the calculated various alternatives, incorporating independent expert Group STI outcome from 80.1% down to 60.1%. advice as well as feedback from various stakeholders, a —2— decision was made by the Board to retain the relative TSR BUSINESS Executive STI outcomes measure with the existing comparator group as a single • The CEO’s STI outcome of 68% of his target opportunity performance measure. PERFORMANCE (FY19 102.7%) was adjusted to 50%, see comment below. This decision is specific to the FY21 LTI plan and is in • Other Executive KMP received between 60.1% and 92.1% response to the current uncertain climate and does not (FY19 87.3% and 133.4%) necessarily represent ongoing performance measures for As a result of the Board exercising its discretion as described future LTI plans. For the FY22 LTI plan, the Board will take above to reduce the Group STI outcome, no Executive —3— into account the prevailing conditions at that time but its KMP received an outcome of above 100%. In assessing the GOVERNANCE current preference is to revert to including FCF as the second overall performance of the CEO, the Board has taken into measure for the Group’s LTI plan. account the current context and associated challenges that are impacting business performance and determined a AND RISK reduced remuneration outcome for the CEO for the period. Fixed Remuneration With respect to this, the Board concluded that a STI award Fixed remuneration reviews were conducted during FY20, of no higher than 50% of the CEO’s target STI opportunity is with small adjustments made to the fixed remuneration of —4— appropriate for this financial year. two Executive KMP. DIRECTORS’ REPORT There has been no increase in Chairman and NonLong Term Incentive executive Director fees since 1 January 2018. Two performance measures underpin the LTI plan including relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) against a bespoke comparator group and Free Cash Flow (FCF) (each with an —5— equal 50% weighting). REMUNERATION • Acquired the minority interests in the M5 West in New South Our focus as a Board is on balancing the delivery of returns REPORT Wales, supported by a $0.8 billion pro-rata institutional to investors with long-term sustainable business performance placement and security purchase plan and we continue to set targets that reflect this. The Board believes that the remuneration framework remains appropriate —6— • Opened the New M4 tunnels in Sydney, the 395 Express and the outcomes for FY20 are fair and reflect the performance FINANCIAL Lanes in North America, and completion of the Logan Enhancement Project in Queensland of Transurban in the current context. We will continue to review STATEMENTS the remuneration framework to ensure the right outcomes are • Established Power Purchase Agreements to supply up to being delivered and rewarded. 80% of future electricity needs in Queensland and New South Wales from renewable sources. Thank you for your continued support. A general update of the Group’s STI and LTI Plan rules was —7— undertaken during FY20, taking into consideration stakeholder SECURITY HOLDER feedback, market expectations and regulatory developments. Samantha Mostyn As a result improvements were made to provide greater Chair, Remuneration, People and Culture Committee INFORMATION flexibility and enhanced malus and clawback clauses. This report has been prepared and audited in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001 (Corporations Act) 82 Who is covered by the Report T his report covers the KMP of Transurban who have the New KMP authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group either directly or Terence Bowen, Non-executive Director indirectly. This includes both the Executive KMP as well as Terence Bowen joined the Board as a Non-executive Director Non-executive Directors. on 1 February 2020. The following table lists the Group’s KMP during FY20. All KMP held their positions for the duration of FY20 unless Henry Byrne, Group Executive Victoria, Strategy and otherwise stated. Corporate Affairs Henry Byrne (formerly Group Executive Corporate Affairs) was appointed Group Executive, Victoria, Strategy and Corporate Current Non-executive Directors Affairs effective 1 March 2020. Lindsay Maxsted, Chair Mark Birrell Former KMP Terence Bowen (from 1 February 2020) Neil Chatfield Robert Edgar, Non-executive Director Samantha Mostyn Robert Edgar retired from his position as a Non-executive Christine O’Reilly Director on 10 October 2019. Peter Scott Jane Wilson Tony Adams, Group Executive Project Delivery Tony Adams commenced in the role of General Manager Delivery on 1 March 2020 and ceased being a KMP on this date. Former Non-executive Directors Wesley Ballantine, Group Executive Victoria and Strategy Robert Edgar (until 10 October 2019) Wes Ballantine, Group Executive Victoria and Strategy ceased employment with the Group on 28 February 2020. Current Executive KMP Lisa Tobin, Group Executive Technology Lisa Tobin, Group Executive Technology ceased employment Scott Charlton, Executive Director and with the Group on 28 February 2020. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Jennifer Aument, President North America Henry Byrne, Group Executive Victoria, Strategy and KMP Commencing in FY21 Corporate Affairs (from 1 March 2020) Michele Huey, Group Executive New South Wales Simon Moorfield, Group Executive Customer Sue Johnson, Group Executive Queensland and Technology Adam Watson, Chief Financial Officer Simon Moorfield was appointed to the newly created role of Group Executive Customer and Technology and will commence employment with the Group during FY21. Former Executive KMP Group Executive Partners, Delivery and Risk Tony Adams, Group Executive Project Delivery A newly created role which we anticipate will be filled and will (until 29 February 2020) commence during FY21. Wesley Ballantine, Group Executive Victoria and Strategy (until 28 February 2020) Lisa Tobin, Group Executive Technology (until 28 February 2020) 83 TRANSURBAN Our remuneration governance 2020 CORPORATE REPORT framework at a glance BOARD Sets and oversees the implementation of the Remuneration Policy —1— INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW REMUNERATION, PEOPLE AND CULTURE COMMITTEE EXTERNAL ADVISORS Assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to The Committee may seek remuneration, people and culture policies and practices. and consider advice from —2— The Committee is responsible for reviewing, and where appropriate independent remuneration BUSINESS making recommendations to the Board on: consultants where appropriate. Any advice from consultants is • remuneration of Non-executive KMP PERFORMANCE used to guide the Committee and • remuneration for the CEO and other Group Senior Executives the Board, but does not serve • remuneration budgets for all employees as a substitute for thorough • remuneration strategies, policies, practices, and disclosures consideration by Non-executive —3— generally, in relation to the context of the remuneration framework. Directors. GOVERNANCE The Committee comprises Non-executive Directors, all of whom are Protocols are in place for the independent. The current members are Samantha Mostyn (Chair), Neil independent engagement of Chatfield, and Jane Wilson. Further details regarding the Committee are remuneration consultants and AND RISK set on page 77. As a matter of practice, the Chair of the Board (Lindsay the provision of remuneration Maxsted) and the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee (Christine recommendations. O’Reilly) also attend the Committee meetings. During FY20, consultants —4— Committee papers are provided to all members prior to meetings to provided benchmark data only to the Committee. No remuneration DIRECTORS’ enable timely, considered and effective decision making. REPORT recommendations relating to The Committee may request additional information from management KMP were provided. or external advisors where required. The Committee uses a range of inputs when assessing performance and outcomes of Executive KMP, including both what and how results —5— have been achieved. Detailed performance assessments as well as REMUNERATION audited financial results, external remuneration benchmarking and an overarching view to the organisation’s values and risk profile are REPORT taken into account. The Committee and the Board review relevant information and exercise discretion, and may adjust proposed remuneration outcomes, including application of malus and clawback. —6— FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT STATEMENTS Provide management information on financial, customer and risk matters which may impact remuneration. Where appropriate, the CEO and the Group Executive, People and Culture attend Committee meetings, —7— however they do not participate in formal decision making or in discussions involving their own remuneration. SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 84 Our executive remuneration strategy A t Transurban, our remuneration strategy is designed to support and reinforce our business strategy, including sustainable long-term growth. The remuneration components that are at risk reflect the successful execution of that strategy in both the short and long term. Our strategic drivers are reflected in our STI and LTI performance measures so that business performance, security holder outcomes and senior executive remuneration are directly aligned. Our purpose To strengthen communities through transport Our strategy Provide sustainable transport solutions that offer choice, reliability, safety, transparency and value Our focus areas Stakeholder engagement Optimal networks Delivery and operations Disciplined investment Remuneration A total remuneration framework designed to attract, motivate and retain the most skilled, strategy experienced and capable senior executives by rewarding them for delivering on our business strategy and creating long-term, sustainable value for stakeholders Remuneration Aligns the interests Attracts, motivates Balances financial and Pays fairly for operational principles of our people with and retains the best non-financial priorities delivery and longer-term stakeholders people in the market around culture, risk value creation appetite and values Remuneration Fixed remuneration Short Term Incentive (STI) Long Term Incentive (LTI) components Target performance defined by a Long-term business performance (and delivery combination of individual and group measures determine opportunity mechanisms) KPIs has the potential to achieve for security grants a 100% outcome. Opportunity for outperformance exists Salary including statutory STI LTI superannuation Annual incentive awarded 50% in Annual award granted as three-year cash and 50% as two-year deferred performance awards (i.e. rights) Transurban securities Purpose Set competitively in relation to Current year performance Long-term sustainable the external market; designed Designed to reward for performance to attract and retain the most performance against annual, Aligns performance focus with appropriately skilled and year-on-year business objectives longer term business strategy and experienced people in the market and KPIs; deferral provides an security holder returns; the threeadditional retention incentive and year performance period provides clawback optionality an additional retention incentive and clawback optionality Link to Individual key role accountabilities, Provides for differentiation of Motivates the consideration performance responsible for delivering on local pay based on both individual of longer-term implications of priorities aligned to the business contribution and overall business present-day decisions strategy performance Performance Key role accountabilities, size Financial Relative Total measures and complexity weighed up Proportional EBITDA (20%), Shareholder Return (TSR) (50%) against individual responsibilities, Net Costs (20%) Free Cash Flow (FCF) per security knowledge, skills and experience Non-Financial growth rate (50%) Individual KPIs (50%) Health, Safety and Environment (10%) Performance Measures are clearly aligned to Measures are clearly aligned to Relative TSR: Board review of targets / hurdles security holder returns and value security holder returns and value companies included in comparator creation creation group FCF: budget-setting process, plus Board considerations as to quantifiable risks and opportunities Further alignment Minimum security holding STI deferral into securities Measures are clearly aligned to to security requirements for Group CEO security holder returns and value holders and KMP (equal in value to fixed creation annual remuneration excluding superannuation; five-year period to accumulate) Governance The Board holds discretion in regards to the setting Strict protocols are in place for engaging independent of targets and hurdles, as well as decisions regarding remuneration consultants and advisors performance and remuneration outcomes; this includes taking into account any relevant significant items 85 TRANSURBAN Overview of executive 2020 CORPORATE REPORT remuneration framework Fixed Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 (Base salary and superannuation) TEC 100% Variable remuneration (Securities deferred for two years following the performance period) (Cash) (Subject to two-year service requirement and Board discretion) STI 50% 50% —1— 50% of award based on relative TSR (performance measured at the end of year three) INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW LTI 50% 50% of award based on FCF growth (performance measured at the end of year three) 50% —2— Full LTI award vests at end of year three subject to above performance outcomes and service arrangements BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 (Performance period) —3— Executive KMP remuneration GOVERNANCE The remuneration mix is designed to achieve a balanced reward for achievement of short-term objectives and the AND RISK creation of long-term sustainable value. The remuneration mix for FY20 for target performance (100% vesting of STI and LTI) for Executive KMP is outlined in the diagram below. TEC1 is set with reference to the market median, using the ASX 10-30 as the primary reference. Remuneration —4— DIRECTORS’ packages (including TEC levels) are reviewed by the Remuneration, People and Culture Committee taking into consideration of an individual’s role, experience and performance, as well as relevant comparative market data provided by remuneration consultants. TEC levels are also reviewed on a change in role. REPORT FIGURE 22: CEO TARGET FIGURE 23: EXECUTIVE KMP —5— REMUNERATION MIX TARGET REMUNERATION MIX 29% 41% REMUNERATION tion tion era era REPORT un 1 4.5% un 1 3.5% m sh m sh ca % ca % Fixed— 14.5 Fixed— 13.5 anned anned rr 2% rr 2% ua I4 ua I3 Vari LT lr Vari LT lr abl abl —6— eS e eS e ariable STI— T ariable STI— T V de I V de I Variab fe Variab fe FINANCIAL le le STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 1 Total Employment Cost—includes base salary and statutory superannuation 86 Our business performance Financial highlights for FY20 Following a strong first half of FY20 financial performance that delivered 9.5% growth in EBITDA, COVID-19 had a significant impact on the Group’s financial performance, with government responses and mandatory measures to contain the virus having a substantial impact on traffic and revenue from March 2020. The Group recorded proportional EBITDA excluding significant items of $1,880 million for the financial year ended 30 June 2020, a decrease of 6.4% on the prior corresponding period. The impact of COVID-19 was offset by positive contributions from our new assets and disciplined cost control. Overview of Group performance The variable (or ‘at risk’) remuneration of the CEO and other senior executive KMP is linked to the Group’s performance by using measures based on the operating performance of the business. The table below shows the Group’s performance over the past five financial years including metrics used to determine components of STI and LTI awards. Further details of our Group performance are provided in the Business Performance section on pages 14 to 59. Five-year performance FY20 FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16 Proportional EBITDA excluding significant items $m 1,888 2,016 1,796 1,629 1,480 Proportional net costs excluding significant items $m 475 450 406 380 342 Free cash per security Cents 54.0 4 57.13 56.8 59.62 46.8 Distribution paid per security Cents 47.0 59.0 56.0 51.5 45.5 Security price at 30 June1 $ 14.13 14.74 11.97 11.85 11.99 Market capitalisation $b 38.65 39.43 26.63 24.32 24.41 TSR at 30 June % (1) 31 6 4 35 1 The opening share price in FY16 was $9.30 2 The FY17 free cash flow of 59.6 cents per security included 8.5 cents per security relating to a capital release from NorthWestern Roads Group. Excluding this capital release, the FY17 free cash flow was 51.1 cents per security 3 The FY19 free cash flow of 57.1 cents per security included 4.6 cents per security relating to a capital release from the NorthWestern Roads Group and 6.7 cents per security from a capital release from Transurban Queensland. Excluding these capital releases, the FY19 free cash flow was 45.8 cents per security 4 The FY20 free cash flow of 54.0 cents per security included 5.9 cents per security relating to capital releases from Lane Cove Tunnel, 2.7 cents per security from NorthWestern Roads Group, 1.9 cents per security from Hills M2 and 1.2 cents per security from Transurban Queensland. Excluding these capital releases, the FY20 free cash flow was 42.3 cents per security Executive KMP • unforeseen factors that may not have been known at the beginning of the performance period but which are relevant to performance over the performance period remuneration • whether budgetary assumptions that were made when setting performance targets remain correct and whether outcomes conditions are potentially better or worse when compared with those assumptions • the degree of difficulty and complexity associated with achieving the targets, as related to both the internal and STI outcomes external environment. STI awards are determined with reference to an assessment Target performance, which is defined by a combination of of performance against individual KPIs (50%) and Group individual and Group KPIs, provides the potential to achieve performance measures (50%). When the Board and the 100% of STI opportunity. KMP can achieve up to 150% of the Committee consider the performance against each element, a target STI opportunity based on significant outperformance to number of factors are taken into account that may result in the agreed targets and measures and alignment to Group values. exercise of Board discretion for the benefit or detriment of the Transurban’s strategic priorities are cascaded, via the employees. In assessing whether to exercise discretion for any CEO’s KPIs to other senior executives in combination with other of these factors, the Board will have regard for the interests of functional measures. The Board assessed Group performance security holders. For example: and the CEO’s KPIs as follows (KPIs that are commercially • prevailing external business and economic factors sensitive have been excluded). beyond the control of the business and which may impact performance 87 TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT FY20 CEO Individual KPI outcomes (contributes 50% to total STI outcome) Priority/area/measure Performance Strategy • Demonstrated progress against key strategic growth plans (detail not provided due to commercial in confidence) • Industry leader in Road Transport • Effective capital strategy enabling the business to navigate altered business environment from COVID-19 with sufficient liquidity to support ongoing business operations and development activities • Progression of key strategic initiatives • Tracking ahead of targets on the Community Trust benchmark • Positioned as a sustainability leader in sector on key global measures Customer • Introduced additional payment options for LinktGo • Continuance improvement • Tolling app pilots launched in North America in customer offering and • Significant expansion of Linkt Assist in response to the bushfires and COVID-19 experience • Trip compare tool extended across all Australian markets • Implementation of key customer initiatives • Improving customer satisfaction levels (4.6/5) —1— People and leadership • Executive Committee review and restructure undertaken, including announcement of two new group • Enterprise leadership executive roles INTRODUCTION • New Enterprise Leadership Framework developed and implemented AND OVERVIEW • Workforce capability • Culture • Workforce capability remains strong, with established flexible work practices enabling rapid adjustment to remote working in response to COVID-19 • Diversity and gender pay equity • Achieved WGEA Employer of Choice for Gender Equity citation for sixth consecutive year and delivered —2— less than 1% gender pay gap Operations • Expected completion of West Gate Tunnel Project delayed with contractual and commercial issues BUSINESS • In-flight road projects to be resolved • Tolling capability • Remaining in-flight projects progressing satisfactorily across all markets PERFORMANCE • Improved functionality of other key road assets, including tolling systems and customer experience in line with or ahead of project plans • Strong performance against key road safety metrics —3— Development • Implementation of M5 West tracking to plan GOVERNANCE • New market opportunities • Significant greenfield / brownfield development opportunity pipeline continuing to be identified • USA market opportunities and explored across all markets AND RISK • Building pipeline of adjacent network opportunities —4— DIRECTORS’ In assessing the overall performance of the CEO, the Board has taken into account the current context and associated challenges that are impacting business performance and determined a reduced remuneration outcome for the CEO for the period. REPORT With respect to this, the Board concluded that a STI award of no higher than 50% of the CEO’s target STI opportunity is appropriate for this financial year. Importantly, the CEO has ensured business decisions and focus have been balanced across all stakeholder groups including employees, customers and security holders, in addition to ensuring the balance sheet has remained well funded. —5— This has meant the organisation is well placed to withstand a period of continued economic uncertainty. With the exception of the REMUNERATION current construction issues on the West Gate Tunnel Project, other key project deliverables are progressing within expectations in addition to continued focus on the pipeline of new growth and development opportunities. REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 88 FY20 Group measures outcomes (contributes 50% to total STI outcome) Measure Target Performance Outcome % STI Outcome % Commentary Proportional EBITDA (20%) $2,158m $1,844m 0.0 0.0 Excluding significant items, the additional Proportional net costs (20%) $526m $475m 100.0 40.0 M5 West acquisition that occurred during the year and an approved development spend allocation HSE (10%) (refer below for detail) Refer to the table below 100.5 20.1 Overall performance/Group outcome 60.1 The Board exercised its discretion to ensure an appropriate contextual overlay was applied to the overall Group STI outcome. This decision was taken specifically in relation to balancing the impact of a significantly positive proportional net cost result of 150% and reducing it to an outcome of 100%. The calculated Group outcome was reduced from 80.1% down to 60.1% HSE in detail Target Score Outcome % STI Outcome % Commentary HSE leadership (6%) 3.50 3.18 84.0 50.4 Leader and employee accountability, participation and improvements against HSE system plans and targets Recordable Injury Frequency 0.38 0.74 51.4 5.1 RIFR: recordable injuries (fatalities, lost Rate (RIFR)—employees (1%)1 time and medical treatment injuries) per million work hours Recordable Injury Frequency 4.20 3.6 150.0 15.0 As above Rate—contractors (1%)1 Road Injury Crash Index (RICI) 4.25 3.7 150.0 15.0 RICI: serious road injury (requiring medical (1%) treatment or where emergency medical care is required, other than first aid) crashes per 100 million vehicle kilometres travelled Road Safety Action Plans (1%) Action plans in place 150.0 15.0 Road Safety Plan actions implemented and and tracking to target actions tracking to target Total HSE 100.5 1 In the event of an employee or contractor fatality, the STI outcome for the corresponding RIFR will be zero for all Executive KMP and STI eligible employees The STI performance outcomes and awards for the CEO and Executive KMP are detailed in the following table: STI outcome6 (%) Individual KPIs Total7 STI awarded8 ($) STI forfeited (%) Current Executive KMP S Charlton2 85.0 68.0 1,150,000 50.0 J Aument 3 110.0 88.1 516,269 11.9 H Byrne 4 85.0 68.0 98,540 32.0 M Huey 90.0 72.0 338,850 28.0 S Johnson 115.0 92.1 449,010 7.9 A Watson 85.0 68.0 410,290 32.0 Former Executive KMP T Adams5 75.0 60.1 201,120 39.9 2 In assessing the overall performance of the CEO, the Board has taken into account the current context and associated challenges that are impacting business performance and determined a reduced remuneration outcome for the CEO for the period. With respect to this, the Board concluded that a STI award of no higher than 50% of the CEO’s target STI opportunity is appropriate for this financial year 3 Jennifer Aument is remunerated in US Dollars. Her awarded STI has been translated to Australian dollars using the exchange rate of $0.68565 at 30 June 2020 4 Henry Byrne commenced as a KMP on 1 March 2020 and the period of reporting is from that date 5 Tony Adams ceased being a KMP on 29 February 2020 and the period of reporting is until that date. Wes Ballantine and Lisa Tobin did not receive an STI for FY20, refer to page 99 for details of their FY20 remuneration 6 Percentages have been rounded for presentational purposes 7 The total STI performance outcome is calculated: [Individual STI outcome % + (Individual STI outcome % x Group outcome %)] ÷ 2. The Group’s outcome is 60.1% 8 50% is paid in cash and 50% is awarded in securities that are subject to a two-year restriction period following the end of the performance year 89 LTI outcomes • Funding—balanced mix of debt and equity to support the TRANSURBAN development pipeline while maintaining strong investment grade credit metrics including: Value of performance awards vested and lapsed in FY20 – $25.5 billion in debt funding raised or refinanced reducing 2020 CORPORATE REPORT The FY17 LTI plan performance awards, which were granted on the average tenor of debt by 1.1 years and reducing the 15 August 2016 and 24 October 2016 for the CEO and covered average cost of debt by 56 basis points the performance period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2019, – $6.7 billion of equity raised through two entitlement offers vested on 26 August 2019. The outcome of the performance to fund the construction of West Gate Tunnel and the tests were as follows: acquisition of WestConnex, with securities issued at an average discount of 7.7% to the Theoretical Ex Rights Price. Test type Result of test % of units vest When preparing the FCF targets for the FY17 LTI plan, the FCF TSR Transurban ranked 12th 74.0% targets did not include an assumption associated with an equity highest out of 30 companies raise to be undertaken to fund the acquisition of WestConnex, (62.0 percentile) nor did it reflect the eventual size of the equity raise undertaken Free Cash Flow 12.5% cumulative average 100.0% to fund the West Gate Tunnel Project, both of which occurred annual growth rate in FCF per within the performance period for the plan. The Group security over the performance undertook an equity raising of $1.9 billion in December 2017 and period. Target range was 9% to $4.8 billion in September 2018 to fund these opportunities. The 12% FCF growth per security impact of these equity raisings did not change the outcome of Overall vesting 87.0% the FCF component of the FY17 LTI Plan. Free Cash Flow measure Value of performance awards to vest and lapse in FY21 —1— The target range for the FCF measure in the LTI plans takes into The diagram below shows FCF and TSR performance INTRODUCTION account forecast financial performance over the three years in parameters for current on-foot LTI Plans. The FY18 LTI plan which the award is measured. This three-year forecast reflects is scheduled to vest in August 2020. Reduced traffic and toll AND OVERVIEW near-term FCF growth generated by the business together with revenue across all regions due to the COVID-19 pandemic planned activities that deliver value over the longer term. have significantly impacted the FCF component of this plan, The target free cash growth per security over the with calculations indicating that whilst the awards under the performance period of this FY17 LTI plan (1 July 2016 to 30 June TSR component will vest for eligible participants, there will be —2— 2019) was achieved at 100%. Having set the target at the no vesting of the FCF component. The Board will conduct a BUSINESS beginning of the plan period, the Board reviewed this outcome detailed review of all contributing factors when finalising this to ensure it had incorporated sufficient stretch over the threeoutcome, which will be included in next year’s Remuneration PERFORMANCE year period and was not affected by one-off benefits that were Report. outside of management endeavour. Management achievements were evaluated for demonstrable outcomes in key areas of the Looking ahead to FY21 business strategy including: The Board has also considered the setting of performance —3— • Operational efficiency—improvement in underlying targets for the FY21 LTI plan in the context of the ongoing GOVERNANCE proportional Group EBITDA year on year impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. There are significant • Customer experience—improvements delivered from challenges associated with predicting traffic and toll revenues, initiatives including: and therefore accurately forecasting FCF for the next three year AND RISK – improved fee arrangements for customers period. – investment in customer technology platforms As a result, the Board has decided that FCF is not a suitable – the launch of a new national retail brand an improved measure for the FY21 LTI Plan. After considering various —4— customer hardship program alternatives, incorporating independent expert advice as well as feedback from various stakeholders, a decision was made by DIRECTORS’ • Portfolio development—disciplined investment including: the Board to retain the relative TSR measure with the existing – completion of the CityLink Tulla widening project in REPORT comparator group as a single performance measure. Melbourne and the Gateway Upgrade North and Inner This decision is specific to the FY21 LTI plan and is in City Bypass in projects in Brisbane response to the current uncertain climate and does not – new projects including the Logan Enhancement Project necessarily represent ongoing performance measures for —5— in Brisbane, the 395 Express Lanes and Fredericksburg future LTI plans. For the FY22 LTI plan, the Board will take into REMUNERATION Extension in the Greater Washington Area and the West account the prevailing conditions at that time but its current Gate Tunnel Project in Melbourne preference is to revert to including FCF as the second measure REPORT for the Group’s LTI plan. FIGURE 24: CURRENT ON-FOOT LTI PLANS AND ASSOCIATED PERFORMANCE PARAMETERS —6— FINANCIAL FY2021 Plan1 Compared to select ASX150 Base 59.0 cents / target 5.5%–7.5% STATEMENTS FY2020 Plan Compared to select ASX150 Base 56.0 cents / target 5.5%–7.5% FY2019 Plan Compared to select ASX150 Base 51.5 cents / target 8%–10% —7— FY2018 Plan FCF performance SECURITY HOLDER Compared to select ASX150 TSR performance FY2017 Plan Vested 87% INFORMATION 1 July 2016 1 July 2017 1 July 2018 1 July 2019 1 July 2020 30 June 2021 30 June 2022 30 June 2023 1 Single performance measure of Relative TSR for this plan only 90 How variable remuneration is structured Short Term Incentive (STI)—how does it work? Description Eligible permanent Group employees, including the CEO and other Executive KMP, participate in the annual STI plan, which puts a proportion of remuneration ‘at risk’ subject to meeting specific pre-determined Group and individual performance measures linked to Group objectives. Performance period The performance period is the financial year preceding the payment date. Opportunity For ‘at-target’ performance, the CEO has the opportunity to receive 100% of TEC and all other Executive KMP have the opportunity to receive 67% of TEC. The minimum STI outcome is 0% (if targets are not met) and the maximum is capped at 150% of the STI opportunity, which is only awarded for exceptional performance. Payment and STI awards for the CEO and other Executive KMP are delivered 50% in cash and 50% is deferred into deferral Transurban stapled securities for two years following the performance year. The deferred securities are subject to service conditions and participate in dividends and/or distributions paid during the restricted period. The number of deferred securities allocated is determined by dividing the amount to be deferred by a 10 day Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) of Transurban securities over the 10 business days immediately preceding the STI deferred plan offer. Annual pool The Board determines the total STI pool to be distributed. The total pool will not exceed 125% of the aggregate STI target opportunity for all participants. The pool is awarded on individual performance and Group performance in accordance with the following formula: (Individual STI outcome % + [Individual STI outcome % x Group outcome %)] ÷ 2. This approach is designed such that higher performing employees receive a greater portion of the Group STI outcome than those who do not perform as well. Performance Individual measures (KPIs) (50%): are unique to the individual’s area of accountability. Individuals have a measures clear line of sight to KPIs and are able to directly affect outcomes through their own actions. Group measures (50%) comprise the following three components: • Proportional Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA)1 (20%): is one of the primary measures the Board uses to assess the operating performance of the Group. It reflects the contribution from individual assets to the Group’s operating performance and focuses on elements of the result that management can influence to drive improvements in short term earnings. This measure provides a better reflection of the performance of the Group’s assets than statutory EBITDA. • Proportional Net Costs2 (20%): reflects management’s ability to influence the expenditure of the business. Strong cost management throughout the business drives an increase in proportional EBITDA and free cash flow and ultimately security holder value. • Health Safety and Environment (HSE) (10%): measures focus on improving the Group’s HSE culture and reducing workplace injuries for employees and contractors, as well as customer safety. The HSE measure is a combination of a lead indicator and four lag indicators. The diagram below illustrates the performance measures within the lag indicators. The Leading (leadership) KPI requires the submission of HSE reports and includes proactive HSE observations, HSE meetings and actions to reduce HSE risks. Employees are assessed against a five-scale rating according to their KPI. This result is then aggregated across the Group and averaged to provide the Group score. This is then benchmarked against the annual target. The Lagging KPIs focus on recordable incidents, planning and tracking, including injury frequency rates, crash rates and road safety action planning. Recordable Injury Frequent % Rate (contractors) s 40 10% ice d 60% Lagg es 10% Recordable Injury Frequent ing Rate (employees) in ading in Le dic 10% Road Injury Crash Index 10% Road Safety Action Plans Definitions 1 Proportional EBITDA is the aggregation of EBITDA from each asset multiplied by the Group’s percentage ownership, as well as any contribution from Group functions. Proportional EBITDA figures used to assess performance are included in note B4 of the audited financial statements 2 Proportional net costs is the aggregation of total costs less fee and other revenues from each asset multiplied by the Group’s percentage ownership, as well as any contribution from Group functions 91 TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Targets Financials (proportional EBITDA and proportional net costs) The Board utilises the annual budget as the primary input to determine appropriate stretch financial targets. When approving the budget, the Board reviews the core principles and assumptions underpinning the budget. Specifically for proportional EBITDA, the budget incorporates base business growth derived from network-wide traffic performance, price growth and impacts of inflation and adjusts for events such as construction and project completion and the impact of acquisitions. Directly controllable initiatives including road safety, lane availability, operational efficiencies and the impact of development activity are also incorporated. Once the budget has been finalised, the Board determines the STI targets. In order to ensure that sufficient stretch is incorporated, consideration is given to the quantifiable risks and opportunities that can influence the Group’s financial performance. In some instances, the Board may deem it appropriate to exclude significant items. The targets use a constant currency for operations within North America. —1— INTRODUCTION HSE The Board reviews HSE targets each year with a view to continuously improving the HSE culture and AND OVERVIEW performance of the Group. Individual KPIs Individual targets as set out in KPIs include consideration as to role-related accountabilities and responsibilities in the context of business strategic priorities. Executive KPIs consist of similar categories —2— to those of the CEO (as disclosed on page 87) of this report) and reflect the individual’s role and areas of responsibility. BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Vesting The Board assesses performance against Group measures and the results of key elements are independently validated. The Board confirms final outcomes for individual and Group performance and has discretion to adjust the performance conditions and outcomes. These methods for assessing performance are used because they provide the Board with discretion as to assessment of conditions and outcomes, with the use of an independent overlay where considered —3— appropriate. GOVERNANCE Cessation of If employment ceases before performance is assessed, generally there is no entitlement to receive any employment STI award. If employment ceases due to resignation before the end of the two-year restriction period, any AND RISK unvested deferred securities will lapse, unless the plan rules provide otherwise or the Board otherwise resolves. Clawback Grants prior to FY21: Fraudulent or dishonest behaviour will result in the forfeiture or clawback of any —4— unvested awards. Further, at the discretion of the Board, awards are subject to forfeiture or clawback where there is a financial misstatement circumstance or the allocation of awards was made in error, on the basis of DIRECTORS’ REPORT the misrepresentation or an omission, or on the basis of facts or circumstances that were later proven to be untrue or inaccurate (applicable to both STI and LTI plans) FY21 and future grant: In December 2019 Transurban adopted new Equity Incentive plan Rules. Under the new Equity Plan Rules, in addition to the above, the Board has discretion to clawback vested securities or repay cash proceeds from the sale of vested securities. Circumstances for clawback have also been —5— expanded to include: breach of duties or obligation to the Group, acts which have a negative impact on REMUNERATION Transurban’s reputation, vesting is not justified or supportable and the possibility of an employee who departed as a “good leaver” but then behaves inappropriately. REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 92 Long Term Incentive (LTI)—how does it work? Description Participation in the LTI plan is offered to the CEO and other Executive KMP and a very limited number of other employees nominated by the CEO and approved by the Board. Instrument Grants are made in the form of performance awards at no cost to the recipient. Each performance award is an entitlement to receive a Transurban stapled security, or at the Board’s discretion, an equivalent cash payment, on terms and conditions determined by the Board, subject to the achievement of vesting conditions. Performance awards do not carry dividend, distribution or voting entitlements prior to vesting. Performance period The three financial years commencing on 1 July in the year the grant is made eg. the FY20 grant has a performance period commencing 1 July 2019 and ending 30 June 2022. Opportunity The CEO’s opportunity is 147% of TEC and the opportunity for all other Executive KMP is 80% of TEC. The minimum vesting outcome an individual can receive is 0% of the award (if the performance measures are not achieved) and the maximum vesting outcome an individual can receive is capped at 100% of the award (if performance measures are achieved). Performance Two performance measures are used to determine the number of awards that will vest at the end of the measures performance period; relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) against a bespoke comparator group and Free Cash Flow (FCF) (each with an equal 50% weighting). As noted in the Committee Chair Letter, the Board decided that FCF is not a suitable measure for the FY21 plan (commencing 1 July 2020). After considering various alternatives, incorporating independent expert advice as well as feedback from various stakeholders, a decision was made by the Board to retain the relative Total Shareholder Return measure with the existing comparator group as a single performance measure for the FY21 plan. Targets Relative TSR is measured against a bespoke comparator group comprising companies in the transport, utilities, real estate, construction and infrastructure Global Industry Classification standards sectors of the ASX150. The companies in this group for grants made during FY20 were: Abacus Property Group, AGL Energy Limited, APA Group, Atlas Arteria, Aurizon Holdings Limited, AusNet Services Limited, BWP Trust, Charter Hall Group, Charter Hall Retail, Chorus Limited, Cromwell Property Group, Dexus Property Group, Goodman Group, GPT Group, Growthpoint Properties Australia, Lendlease Group, Mirvac Group, Monadelphous Group Limited, Qantas Airways Limited, Qube Holdings Limited, Scentre Group, Shopping Centres Australasia Property Group, Spark Infrastructure Group, Spark New Zealand Limited Stockland Corporation Limited, Sydney Airport, Telstra Corporation Limited, TPG Telecom Limited, Transurban Group, Vicinity Centres, Waypoint, Vocus Group Limited. Changes to the comparator group in FY20 are as follows: Excluded due to Delisting: Investa Office Fund Moved into ASX150 and included: Mondadelphous Group Limited, Waypoint, Vocus Group Limited FCF per security targets are set by the Board utilising the annual budget and three-year forecast as the primary inputs (consistent with the approach taken for STI measures of proportional EBITDA and proportional net costs). Once the budget and forecast has been finalised, the Board determines the FCF targets by analysing the cash flow outcomes, ensuring sufficient stretch is incorporated. The actual FCF outcomes are reviewed in detail against targets to consider key reasons for variance and assess whether any adjustments should be made in determining management’s performance. The Board may make adjustments where a decision has been made, in the interests of the Transurban Group and its security holders that differs from the original budgeted assumptions. This may include factors such as significant equity raisings to fund growth opportunities or changes to the timing or quantum of anticipated capital releases. Factors that may cause FCF growth to fluctuate from year to year include activities that are intended to generate long-term value for the business but may negatively impact FCF growth in the near term. The Group is currently in a significant development phase with seven major projects to be delivered in Australia and North America (see page 59 for the project pipeline). The FCF calculation is included in note B10 of the audited financial statements. Why are these TSR is a relative, external, market-based performance measure against those companies with which the performance Group competes for capital. It provides a direct link between executive reward and security holder return. measures used? TSR measures total return on investment of a security, taking into account both capital appreciation and distributed and/or dividend income that was reinvested on a pre-tax basis. Growth in FCF per security reflects the Group’s continued focus on maximising available free cash. The Group seeks to consistently grow its distributions year on year and to align security holder distributions with FCF per security. Allocation Face value allocation methodology (discounted for distributions and/or dividends foregone throughout the performance period). For each grant cycle, the allocation calculations are performed on 1 July of the first performance year using a valuation determined by an independent third party. Vesting Following the end of the performance period, the performance measures are tested and the Board assesses the LTI outcome. TSR component The Group uses an independent report that sets out the Group’s TSR growth and that of each company in the bespoke comparator group. A VWAP of securities for the 20 trading days up to and including the testing date is used to calculate TSR. 93 TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Vesting The level of TSR growth achieved by the Group is given a percentile ranking in relation to the Group’s (continued) performance compared to the performance of other companies in the comparator group (the highestranking company is ranked at the 100th percentile). The TSR performance is tested at the end of the threeyear performance period, and this ranking determines the extent to which performance awards, subject to this component vest. Following testing, any awards that do not vest lapse, and any awards that vest are automatically exercised into Transurban stapled securities or settled in cash at the discretion of the Board. No price is payable on exercise. FY20 TSR vesting schedule The TSR component of performance awards granted during FY20, will vest on a straight line basis in accordance with the following table: The Group’s relative TSR ranking in the comparator group % of performance awards that vest At or below the 50th percentile Zero Above the 50th percentile but below the 75th percentile Straight line vesting between 50 and 100 At or above the 75th percentile 100 —1— FCF component INTRODUCTION The Group’s FCF per security percentage growth rate is calculated over the three-year performance period. Following testing, any awards that do not vest, lapse and any awards that vest are automatically exercised AND OVERVIEW into Transurban stapled securities or settled in cash at the discretion of the Board. No price is payable on exercise. FY20 FCF vesting schedule The FCF per security component of performance awards granted during FY20 will vest based on the —2— Group’s cumulative average annual growth targets translated into annual FCF per security over the threeBUSINESS year performance period, as set out below: % annual growth in FCF per security (distribution base of 59.0 cents per security) % of performance awards that vest PERFORMANCE Less than 5.5% Zero 5.5% 50 —3— Between 5.5% and 7.5% Straight line vesting between 50 and 100 GOVERNANCE 7.5% or more 100 AND RISK The methods of assessing the performance measures set out above are considered to be the most appropriate for the types of performance measures used. Cessation of If employment ceases due to resignation before the performance measures are tested, generally there is employment no entitlement to unvested performance awards and any unvested awards will lapse, unless the plan rules —4— provide otherwise or the Board otherwise resolves. Clawback Same treatment as per STI DIRECTORS’ REPORT Minimum security holding Service Agreements —5— The Board has endorsed minimum security holding The remuneration and other terms of employment for REMUNERATION guidelines for Non-executive Directors, the CEO and Executive the CEO and other Executive KMP are formalised in service KMP. The guidelines recommend that all KMP build and agreements that have no specified term. Under these maintain a minimum security holding of Transurban stapled agreements, the CEO and other Executive KMP are eligible to REPORT securities equal in value to their fixed annual remuneration participate in STI and LTI plans. Some other key aspects of the (excluding superannuation). The minimum stapled security agreements in place for FY20 are outlined below: —6— holding can be accumulated over a five-year period. As at the date of this report, all KMP have either achieved Period of notice Period of notice FINANCIAL and maintained their minimum security holding or, for those to terminate by to terminate by STATEMENTS new to the Group, are on track to meet the five-year the Executive KMP the Group1 accumulation period. CEO 6 months 12 months Other Executive KMP 3 months 6 months —7— SECURITY HOLDER 1 Payment in lieu of the notice period may be provided (based on the executive’s fixed remuneration). The Group may also terminate at any time without notice INFORMATION for serious misconduct 94 Non-executive Director remuneration Remuneration policy Remuneration arrangements The diagram below sets out the key objectives of the Maximum aggregate remuneration Group’s Non-executive Director remuneration policy and The aggregate remuneration that may be paid to Non-executive how they are achieved through the Group’s remuneration Directors in any year is capped at a level approved by security framework: holders. Security holders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting approved the current aggregate fee pool of $3,000,000 per year Securing and retaining (inclusive of superannuation contributions). talented, qualified Directors Director fee levels are set with regards Non-executive Director fees to: the responsibilities and risks attached The Remuneration, People and Culture Committee regularly to the role, the time commitment and reviews Non-executive Director fees and such reviews include workload expected, the Director’s experience and expertise, and market periodic benchmarking against other publicly listed entities of a benchmark data similar size and complexity to Transurban. A review of Non-executive Director fees (base Director and Committee fees) was undertaken during FY20. The Remuneration, People and Culture Committee recommended Preserving independence and impartiality and the Board subsequently resolved that Non-executive Director remuneration consists of base Director fees remain unchanged for the 2020 calendar year. (Director) fees and Committee fees. Current Director and Committee fees (per annum) are set No element of Director remuneration out below: is ‘at risk’ (i.e. fees are not based on the Board fees Chair $600,000 performance of the Group or individual Member $205,000 Directors) Committee fees Audit and Risk Committee Chair $50,000 Aligning Director and security holder interests Member $25,000 Directors are encouraged to hold Remuneration, People and Culture Transurban securities and the Board Committee has endorsed minimum security Chair $45,000 holding guidelines for Directors Member $20,000 There are no fees for membership of the Nomination Committee. The Chair of the Board does not receive any additional fees for Committee responsibilities. The Chair of each Committee only receives the Chair fee (and not a member fee). Non-executive Directors are permitted to be paid additional fees for special duties or exertions. No such fees were paid during FY20. Non-executive Directors are also entitled to be reimbursed for all business-related expenses, including travel, as may be incurred in the discharge of their duties. Non-executive Directors are not entitled to any retirement benefits. 95 TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Non-executive Director related party information All Non-executive Director related party relationships are based on normal commercial arms’ length terms. None of the Non-executive Directors were, or are, involved in any procurement or other Board decision-making regarding the companies or firms with which they have an association. The Group is not required to make the following disclosures but for transparency reasons notes the following relationships and transactions. Director Related party Services provided L Maxsted Mr Lindsay Maxsted was Chair Westpac provided transactional banking and banking products and and a non-executive director of services to Transurban on normal commercial terms. Westpac Banking Corporation until During FY20 Westpac provided a new working capital debt facility 31 March 2020. to Transurban. Westpac also participates in numerous debt —1— facilities and acts as the facility agent for certain debt facilities, all INTRODUCTION on normal commercial terms. S Mostyn Ms Samantha Mostyn is Chair During FY20 Citigroup was a Joint Lead Manager on a Corporate and a non-executive director of EMTN issuance, received fees for a EURO Private Placement AND OVERVIEW Citigroup Pty Limited. transaction and provided a new working capital debt facility, all conducted by Transurban. Citigroup also participates in a corporate working capital facility to Transurban, all on normal commercial —2— terms. J Wilson Dr Jane Wilson is a non-executive Sonic HealthPlus (backed by Sonic Healthcare) provides BUSINESS PERFORMANCE director of Sonic Healthcare employment medical services to Transurban on normal commercial Limited. terms. —3— GOVERNANCE AND RISK —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 96 Statutory tables The maximum LTI opportunity for each Executive KMP is the face value of the award (i.e. the value the Executive KMP would receive if all of their performance awards vested, based on Transurban’s security price at the time the award was granted). The minimum total value of the grant, if the applicable Dealing in securities performance measures are not met, is zero. The relevant values of the grants are as follows: In accordance with the Group’s Dealing in Securities Policy, employees who have equity awards under a Group equity Value of plan may not hedge against those equity awards. In addition, awards at Executive KMP may not hedge against entitlements that have allocation Value of awards date at grant date vested but remain subject to a holding lock. Directors and employees are also prohibited from entering into margin Relative FCF per Security price Grant date Face value 4 TSR 5 security6 at grant date lending arrangements using Transurban stapled securities as 17 October security. 2019 $13.13 $6.23 $13.25 $14.73 4 Security price as at 1 July 2019 (allocation date) discounted for distributions Securities held by Executive KMP and dividends forgone throughout the three-year performance period 5 Fair value in accordance with AASB 2—share-based payments treatment of as at 30 June 2020 market conditions 6 Security price as at the grant date discounted for distributions and dividends forgone throughout the three-year performance period Balance at Changes Balance at start of year during year end of year3 The table below shows the number of LTI awards granted to Current Executive KMP Executive KMP during FY20. S Charlton 1,508,941 (29,929) 1,479,012 Potential Maximum J Aument – 14,013 14,013 value of grant (face value) of Number of yet to vest potential value H Byrne1 – 8,022 8,022 performance at target of grant to vest M Huey 156,408 33,023 189,431 awards granted ($) ($) S Johnson 115,666 (25,330) 90,336 Current Executive KMP A Watson 125,510 4,174 129,684 S Charlton 257,502 2,508,069 3,793,004 Former Executive KMP2 J Aument 52,270 509,110 769,937 T Adams 61,383 – N/A H Byrne7 37,179 362,123 547,647 W Ballantine 74,651 – N/A M Huey 42,773 416,609 630,046 L Tobin 145,099 – N/A S Johnson 44,357 432,037 653,379 1 Henry Byrne become a member of KMP on 1 March 2020 A Watson 54,837 534,112 807,749 2 Ceased being a KMP during FY20 Former Executive KMP 8 3 No Transurban securities were held nominally or held by closely related parties of Executive KMP during FY20 T Adams 45,697 445,089 673,117 W Ballantine 48,744 474,767 717,999 L Tobin 44,357 432,037 653,379 Performance awards granted in FY20 7 LTI awards granted during the year as remuneration occurred prior to Henry Byrne becoming a member of KMP on 1 March 2020 Eligible Executive KMP received performance awards with a 8 Ceased being a KMP during FY20 grant date of 17 October 2019. All performance awards granted in FY20 may vest subject to a performance period from 1 July 2019 through to 30 June 2022. The value of the grant has been estimated based on the award valuations at grant date which is a fair value approach for the TSR component and a face value approach discounted for distributions/and or dividends for the FCF component. The fair value for TSR considers the probability that the Executive KMP may not derive value from the LTI award, along with other factors, including difficulty of achieving performance hurdles and anticipated security price volatility. 97 TRANSURBAN Summary of Executive KMP allocated, vested or lapsed equity 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Balance Granted % of Lapsed/ Balance Fair value Allocation Grant Vesting at start during Vested total forfeited at end of equity date date date of year year in FY205 Vested in FY20 of year6 ($)7, 8 Current Executive KMP S Charlton Performance awards 1 Jul 2016 24 Oct 2016 26 Aug 2019 298,267 – (259,493) 87 (38,774) – 1,855,760 Performance awards 1 Jul 2017 23 Oct 2017 Aug 2020 309,697 – – – – 309,697 2,476,785 Performance awards 1 Jul 2018 19 Oct 2018 Aug 2021 316,870 – – – – 316,870 2,170,560 Performance awards 1 Jul 2019 17 Oct 2019 Aug 2022 – 257,502 – – – 257,502 2,508,069 Total performance awards 924,834 257,502 (259,493) 87 (38,774) 884,069 Deferred securities 7 Aug 2017 23 Aug 2017 1 Jul 2019 109,553 – (109,553) 100 – – 1,265,000 Deferred securities 7 Aug 2018 30 Aug 2018 1 Jul 2020 126,861 – – – – 126,861 1,486,370 Deferred securities 2 Sep 2019 11 Oct 2019 Aug 2021 – 79,006 – – – 79,006 1,180,475 Total deferred securities 236,414 79,006 (109,553) 100 – 205,867 J Aument1 Performance awards 1 Jul 2016 15 Aug 2016 26 Aug 2019 50,650 – (44,066) 87 (6,584) – 363,738 —1— INTRODUCTION Performance awards 1 Jul 2017 21 Aug 2017 Aug 2020 54,068 – – – – 54,068 401,700 Performance awards 1 Jul 2018 22 Aug 2018 Aug 2021 60,941 – – – – 60,941 453,096 AND OVERVIEW Performance awards 1 Jul 2019 17 Oct 2019 Aug 2022 – 52,270 – – – 52,270 509,110 Total performance awards 165,659 52,270 (44,066) 87 (6,584) 167,279 Deferred securities 7 Aug 2017 23 Aug 2017 9 Aug 2019 20,213 – (20,213) 100 – – 233,392 —2— Deferred securities 7 Aug 2018 30 Aug 2018 Aug 2020 28,414 – – – – 28,414 332,905 BUSINESS Deferred securities 2 Sep 2019 11 Oct 2019 Aug 2021 – 25,592 – – – 25,592 382,350 Total deferred securities 48,627 25,592 (20,213) 100 – 54,006 H Byrne2 PERFORMANCE Performance awards 1 Jul 2017 21 Aug 2017 Aug 2020 36,727 – – – – 36,727 272,866 Performance awards 1 Jul 2018 22 Aug 2018 Aug 2021 42,362 – – – – 42,362 314,961 Performance awards 1 Jul 2019 17 Oct 2019 Aug 2022 – 37,179 – – – 37,179 362,123 —3— GOVERNANCE Total performance awards 79,089 37,179 – – – 116,268 AND RISK Deferred securities 7 Aug 2017 23 Aug 2017 1 Jul 2019 7,013 – (7,013) 100 – – 80,975 Deferred securities 7 Aug 2018 30 Aug 2018 1 Jul 2020 14,416 – – – – 14,416 168,895 Deferred securities 2 Sep 2019 11 Oct 2019 Aug 2021 – 14,954 – – – 14,954 223,430 Total deferred securities 21,429 14,954 (7,013) 100 – 29,370 —4— M Huey3 Performance awards 1 Jul 2016 15 Aug 2016 26 Aug 2019 39,999 – (34,800) 87 (5,199) – 287,249 DIRECTORS’ Performance awards 1 Jul 2017 21 Aug 2017 Aug 2020 45,908 – – – – 45,908 341,075 REPORT Performance awards 1 Jul 2018 22 Aug 2018 Aug 2021 48,735 – – – – 48,735 362,345 Performance awards 1 Jul 2019 17 Oct 2019 Aug 2022 – 42,773 – – – 42,773 416,609 Total performance awards 134,642 42,773 (34,800) 87 (5,199) 137,416 —5— REMUNERATION Deferred securities 7 Aug 2017 23 Aug 2017 1 Jul 2019 17,198 – (17,198) 100 – – 198,575 Deferred securities 7 Aug 2018 30 Aug 2018 1 Jul 2020 3,901 – – – – 3,901 45,695 REPORT Deferred securities 2 Sep 2019 11 Oct 2019 Aug 2021 – 9,476 – – – 9,476 141,580 Total deferred securities 21,099 9,476 (17,198) 100 – 13,377 S Johnson Performance awards 1 Jul 2016 15 Aug 2016 26 Aug 2019 42,961 – (37,377) 87 (5,584) – 308,519 —6— FINANCIAL Performance awards 1 Jul 2017 21 Aug 2017 Aug 2020 48,969 – – – – 48,969 363,817 Performance awards 1 Jul 2018 22 Aug 2018 Aug 2021 52,484 – – – – 52,484 390,219 Performance awards 1 Jul 2019 17 Oct 2019 Aug 2022 – 44,357 – – – 44,357 432,037 STATEMENTS Total performance awards 144,414 44,357 (37,377) 87 (5,584) 145,810 Deferred securities 7 Aug 2017 30 Aug 2018 1 Jul 2019 20,328 – (20,328) 100 – – 234,725 —7— Deferred securities 7 Aug 2018 30 Aug 2018 1 Jul 2020 24,727 – – – – 24,727 289,710 SECURITY HOLDER Deferred securities 2 Sep 2019 11 Oct 2019 Aug 2021 – 15,305 – – – 15,305 228,675 Total deferred securities 45,055 15,305 (20,328) 100 – 40,032 INFORMATION 98 Summary of Executive KMP allocated, vested or lapsed equity Balance Granted % of Lapsed/ Balance Fair value Allocation Grant Vesting at start during Vested total forfeited at end of equity date date date of year year in FY205 Vested in FY20 of year6 ($)7,8 Current Executive KMP A Watson Performance awards 1 Jul 2016 15 Aug 2016 26 Aug 2019 53,181 – (46,268) 87 (6,913) – 381,913 Performance awards 1 Jul 2017 21 Aug 2017 Aug 2020 65,036 – – – – 65,036 483,187 Performance awards 1 Jul 2018 22 Aug 2018 Aug 2021 67,479 – – – – 67,479 501,706 Performance awards 1 Jul 2019 17 Oct 2019 Aug 2022 – 54,837 – – – 54,837 534,112 Total performance awards 185,696 54,837 (46,268) 87 (6,913) 187,352 Deferred securities 7 Aug 2017 23 Aug 2017 1 Jul 2019 21,881 – (21,881) 100 – – 252,650 Deferred securities 7 Aug 2018 30 Aug 2018 1 Jul 2020 25,527 – – – – 25,527 299,085 Deferred securities 2 Sep 2019 11 Oct 2019 Aug 2021 – 23,821 – – – 23,821 355,910 Total deferred securities 47,408 23,821 (21,881) 100 – 49,348 Former Executive KMP4 T Adams Performance awards 1 Jul 2016 15 Aug 2016 26 Aug 2019 43,337 – (37,704) 87 (5,633) – 311,221 Performance awards 1 Jul 2017 21 Aug 2017 Aug 2020 53,560 – – – – N/A N/A Performance awards 1 Jul 2018 22 Aug 2018 Aug 2021 56,233 – – – – N/A N/A Performance awards 1 Jul 2019 17 Oct 2019 Aug 2022 – 45,697 – – – N/A N/A Total performance awards 153,130 45,697 (37,704) 87 (5,633) – Deferred securities 7 Aug 2017 23 Aug 2017 1 Jul 2019 18,633 – (18,633) 100 – – 215,150 Deferred securities 7 Aug 2018 30 Aug 2018 1 Jul 2020 23,409 – – – – N/A N/A Deferred securities 2 Sep 2019 11 Oct 2019 Aug 2021 – 16,398 – – – N/A N/A Total deferred securities 42,042 16,398 (18,633) 100 – – W Ballantine Performance awards 1 Jul 2016 15 Aug 2016 26 Aug 2019 43,771 – (38,081) 87 (5,690) – 314,337 Performance awards 1 Jul 2017 21 Aug 2017 Aug 2020 49,733 – – – (5,526) N/A N/A Performance awards 1 Jul 2018 22 Aug 2018 Aug 2021 59,982 – – – (26,659) N/A N/A Performance awards 1 Jul 2019 17 Oct 2019 Aug 2022 – 48,744 – – (37,912) N/A N/A Total performance awards 153,486 48,744 (38,081) 87 (75,787)9 – Deferred securities 7 Aug 2017 23 Aug 2017 1 Jul 2019 20,712 – (20,712) 100 – – 239,150 Deferred securities 7 Aug 2018 30 Aug 2018 1 Jul 2020 23,111 – – – – N/A N/A Deferred securities 2 Sep 2019 11 Oct 2019 Aug 2021 – 15,650 – – – N/A N/A Total deferred securities 43,823 15,650 (20,712) 100 – – L Tobin Performance awards 1 Jul 2016 15 Aug 2016 26 Aug 2019 43,060 – (37,463) 87 (5,597) – 309,229 Performance awards 1 Jul 2017 21 Aug 2017 Aug 2020 48,969 – – – (5,441) N/A N/A Performance awards 1 Jul 2018 22 Aug 2018 Aug 2021 52,484 – – – (23,326) N/A N/A Performance awards 1 Jul 2019 17 Oct 2019 Aug 2022 – 44,357 – – (34,500) N/A N/A Total performance awards 144,513 44,357 (37,463) 87 (68,864)9 – Deferred securities 7 Aug 2017 23 Aug 2017 1 Jul 2019 21,261 – (21,261) 100 – – 245,500 Deferred securities 7 Aug 2018 30 Aug 2018 1 Jul 2020 19,221 – – – – N/A N/A Deferred securities 2 Sep 2019 11 Oct 2019 Aug 2021 – 15,305 – – – N/A N/A Total deferred securities 40,482 15,305 (21,261) 100 – – 1 Jennifer Aument’s vested performance awards were settled in cash 8 In accordance with the requirements of AASB 2 Share-based Payment, 2 STI deferred securities and performance awards granted as remuneration the fair value of performance awards as at their date of grant has been and matured during FY20 occurred prior to Henry Byrne becoming a member independently determined. The fair value of the performance awards with a of KMP on 1 March 2020 TSR performance measure has been valued applying a Monte Carlo simulation (using a Black-Scholes framework) to model Transurban’s security price and 3 Michele Huey was on parental leave for the period 18 September 2017 to the TSR performance against the comparator group’s TSR performance. 16 September 2018. Her deferred securities recognise this period of leave The fair value of performance awards with a FCF performance measure has 4 Ceased being a KMP during FY20 been determined by reference to Transurban’s security price at the grant date discounted for dividends and distributions forgone throughout the 5 Performance awards granted in FY17 vested during FY20 at the end of the performance period. The amount included is not related to or indicative of the three year performance period in accordance with performance outcomes. benefit (if any) that individual executives may ultimately realise should these Securities granted as FY17 deferred STI awards vested during FY20 at the end equity instruments vest of the two-year restriction period. Vesting date and exercise date are the same 9 Wes Ballantine and Lisa Tobin forfeited a prorated portion of their unvested 6 No closely related parties of Executive KMP held any performance awards or performance awards upon termination deferred securities during FY20 7 Fair value at grant date for performance awards. Deferred securities represents the value of the STI deferred component 99 TRANSURBAN Executive KMP remuneration Post2020 CORPORATE REPORT employment Long-term Short-term employee benefits benefits benefits Share-based benefits10 NonTerminaLong Cash salary Cash monetary Deferred Supertion service Equity Cash and fees STI6 benefits7 STI8 annuation benefits9 leave awards awards Total CEO S Charlton 2020 2,278,997 575,000 3,453 1,080,615 21,003 – 108,779 480,721 – 4,548,568 2019 2,279,469 1,180,475 11,743 1,412,580 20,531 – 90,793 2,173,136 – 7,168,727 Other Current Executive KMP J Aument1 2020 893,655 258,135 1,540 324,473 16,682 – – 86,903 – 1,581,388 2019 838,457 382,350 1,445 299,734 15,372 – – 275,979 198,050 2,011,387 H Byrne2 2020 234,666 49,270 283 60,015 7,001 – 32,128 20,915 – 404,278 —1— M Huey 3 INTRODUCTION 2020 680,997 169,425 789 118,900 21,003 – 19,267 68,243 – 1,078,624 2019 467,153 141,580 7,367 96,655 25,005 – 9,073 327,585 – 1,074,418 AND OVERVIEW S Johnson 2020 706,997 224,505 1,053 247,630 21,003 – (8,987) 71,144 – 1,263,345 2019 679,469 228,675 7,177 271,382 20,531 – 32,172 351,275 – 1,590,681 —2— A Watson BUSINESS 2020 878,997 205,145 1,353 286,713 21,003 – 27,715 85,561 – 1,506,487 2019 879,469 355,910 4,559 283,607 20,531 – 14,370 451,896 – 2,010,342 Former Executive KMP PERFORMANCE T Adams 2020 485,998 100,560 752 148,914 14,002 – (33,163) 47,989 – 765,052 —3— 2019 729,469 245,010 4,438 254,560 20,531 – 24,149 372,479 – 1,650,636 W Ballantine4 GOVERNANCE 2020 519,332 – 1,203 246,148 15,752 685,867 (123,101) 29,212 – 1,374,413 2019 900,265 233,835 5,448 260,233 20,531 – (49,087) 371,960 – 1,743,185 AND RISK L Tobin 5 2020 471,331 – 1,053 227,515 15,752 848,139 (66,735) 20,365 – 1,517,420 2019 679,469 228,675 4,559 231,963 20,531 – 27,316 351,522 – 1,544,035 —4— Total DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2020 7,150,970 1,582,040 11,479 2,740,923 153,201 1,534,006 (44,097) 911,053 – 14,039,575 2019 7,453,220 2,996,510 46,736 3,110,714 163,563 – 148,786 4,675,832 198,050 18,793,411 1 Jennifer Aument is remunerated in US Dollars. The amounts shown in the table in the table above. These awards will continue on foot and vest at the end of the above have been converted to Australian Dollars using the average exchange original two-year deferred period —5— rate over the reporting period, being $0.6714 (2019: $0.7156). Jennifer’s cash 9 Termination benefit for Wes Ballantine represents payment in lieu of notice and REMUNERATION salary remained unchanged in FY20 at US$600K an ex-gratia payment of $285,867. Termination benefit for Lisa Tobin represents 2 Henry Byrne commenced as a KMP on 1 March 2020 and the period of payment in lieu of notice, a redundancy payment of $224,000 and an ex-gratia reporting is from that date payment of $260,139 REPORT 3 FY19: Michele Huey returned to her KMP role from parental leave on 10 In accordance with the requirements of the accounting standards, remuneration 17 September 2018; amounts reported have been prorated for the period of time includes a proportion of the fair value of equity compensation granted or as KMP outstanding during the year (i.e. performance awards under the LTI plan). The 4 FY20: Wes Ballantine’s cash salary included annual leave of $9,327 and long fair value of the awards is determined as at the grant date and is progressively allocated over the performance period. The amount included, as remuneration —6— service leave of $69,282, which was paid on termination may be different to the benefit (if any) that the KMP may ultimately realise FINANCIAL FY19: Wes Ballantine’s cash salary includes a cash allowance of $113,205 should the awards vest. The fair value of performance awards with a TSR relating to his interstate relocation and a vehicle lease refund of $7,591 performance measure has been determined by applying a Monte Carlo STATEMENTS 5 FY20: Lisa Tobin’s cash salary included annual leave of $61,891 and long service simulation (using a Black-Scholes framework) to model Transurban’s security leave of $83,398, which was paid on termination price and the TSR performance against the comparator group performance. The fair value of performance awards with a FCF performance measure has 6 The amount represents the cash STI payment to the Executive KMP for FY20, been determined by reference to Transurban’s security price at the grant date which will be paid in September 2020. FY19: cash component of FY19 STI paid in discounted for dividends and distributions forgone throughout the performance September 2019 period. As the FCF performance measure is a non-market performance —7— 7 Non-monetary benefits include Group employee insurance condition, amounts recognised are adjusted based on the best available SECURITY HOLDER 8 A component of STI award is deferred into Transurban stapled securities. In estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest accordance with accounting standards, the deferred component will be FY20: The value for share based benefits for Wes Ballantine and Lisa Tobin is the recognised over the three-year service period. The amount recognised in this remaining value of the awards retained by them upon their departure. These INFORMATION table is the FY20 accounting charge for unvested grants. The value for Deferred awards will continue on foot with the applicable measures for each grant to be STI benefit for Wes Ballantine and Lisa Tobin include all unvested Deferred STI tested at the end of the applicable original performance periods. These awards securities. The amount that would have been recognised for services received may or may not vest from Wes and Lisa over the remainder of the deferred periods has been included 100 Remuneration paid Securities held by Non-executive Directors to Non-executive Directors as at 30 June 2020 and at the date of this Report PostShort-term employment Balance at Changes during Balance at end benefits benefits start of year year of year5,6 SuperCurrent Non-executive Director Fees annuation1 Total Current Non-executive Directors L Maxsted 89,282 1,025 90,307 L Maxsted M Birrell 5,000 5,145 10,145 2020 578,997 21,003 600,000 T Bowen4 – 40,221 40,221 2019 579,469 20,531 600,000 N Chatfield 74,842 (8,975) 65,867 M Birrell S Mostyn 26,492 1,064 27,556 2020 210,046 19,954 230,000 C O’Reilly 26,268 1,327 27,595 2019 189,117 17,966 207,083 P Scott 28,410 2,187 30,597 T Bowen2 J Wilson 12,702 1,025 13,727 2020 78,006 7,411 85,417 Former Non-executive Director N Chatfield R Edgar 47,729 – N/A 2020 235,998 14,002 250,000 2019 229,469 20,531 250,000 4 Terry Bowen held 25,221 securities as at his appointment as a Non-executive Director on 1 February 2020 S Mostyn 5 No Transurban securities were held nominally or held by closely related parties 2020 228,998 21,002 250,000 of Non-executive Directors during FY20 6 Balance at date of this Report is same as balance at end of FY20 2019 229,469 20,531 250,000 C O’Reilly 2020 244,499 10,501 255,000 2019 234,469 20,531 255,000 P Scott 2020 210,046 19,954 230,000 2019 210,046 19,954 230,000 J Wilson 2020 205,479 19,521 225,000 2019 205,479 19,521 225,000 Former Non-executive Directors R Edgar3 2020 63,887 5,881 69,768 2019 229,469 20,531 250,000 Total 2020 2,055,956 139,229 2,195,185 2019 2,106,987 160,096 2,267,083 1 Superannuation contributions made on behalf of Non-executive Directors to satisfy the Group’s obligations under applicable superannuation guarantee legislation. Excludes Australian Taxation Office approved exemptions 2 Terry Bowen commenced as a KMP on 1 February 2020 and the period reported is from that date 3 Robert Edgar ceased to be a Director on 10 October 2019 and his remuneration reported is until that date 101 TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Auditor’s Independence Declaration —1— INTRODUCTION As lead auditor for the audit of Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust and Transurban International Limited for the year ended 30 June 2020, I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, there have been: AND OVERVIEW (a) no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit; and (b) no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit. —2— This declaration is in respect of Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust and Transurban International Limited and the entities they controlled during the period. BUSINESS PERFORMANCE —3— Marcus Laithwaite Melbourne GOVERNANCE Partner 12 August 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AND RISK —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 2 Riverside Quay, SOUTHBANK VIC 3006, GPO Box 1331, MELBOURNE VIC 3001 T: 61 3 8603 1000, F: 61 3 8603 1999, www.pwc.com.au —7— SECURITY HOLDER Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. INFORMATION 102 102 A25, Montreal FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —SECTION 6— 103 2 TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT CONTENTS 104 Section A: Group financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidated statement of cash flows 110 Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements Basis of preparation and significant changes B1 B2 B3 Corporate Summary of significant Basis of —1— information changes in the current preparation INTRODUCTION reporting period Operating performance B4 B5 B6 B7 B8 AND OVERVIEW Segment Revenue Significant Income Working information items tax capital Security holder outcomes —2— BUSINESS B9 B10 Earnings per Dividends/distributions stapled security and free cash Capital and borrowings PERFORMANCE B11 B12 B13 B14 B15 Contributed Reserves Net finance Borrowings Derivatives and financial equity costs risk management —3— Concession summary GOVERNANCE B16 B17 B18 B19 B20 B21 AND RISK Goodwill Other intangible Concession Maintenance Construction obligation Other liabilities― assets financial asset provision provision concession liabilities Group structure B22 B23 B24 B25 B26 B27 —4— Principles of Material Changes in ownership Equity accounted Non-controlling Deed of cross and DIRECTORS’ consolidation subsidiaries interests and business investments interests―other intra-group guarantees combinations REPORT Items not recognised B28 B29 B30 Contingencies Commitments Subsequent events Other —5— REMUNERATION B31 B32 B33 B34 B35 Leases Related party Key management Remuneration Parent entity disclosures REPORT transactions personnel compensation of auditors 169 Section C: Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) financial statements Consolidated statements of comprehensive income —6— Consolidated balance sheets FINANCIAL Consolidated statements of changes in equity Consolidated statements of cash flows STATEMENTS 177 Section D: Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements 194 Section E: Signed reports Directors’ declaration —7— SECURITY HOLDER Independent auditor’s report to the stapled security holders INFORMATION . 104 Section A: Section A: Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 3 SECTION A: GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Transurban Holdings Limited Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 2019 Note $M $M Revenue B5 3,616 4,166 Expenses Employee benefits expense (250) (230) Road operating costs (388) (373) Construction costs (1,003) (1,435) Transaction and integration costs (7) (25) Corporate and other expenses (127) (107) Total expenses (1,775) (2,170) Earnings before depreciation, amortisation, net finance costs, equity accounted investments and income taxes 1,841 1,996 Amortisation B17 (1,037) (882) Depreciation (148) (113) Total depreciation and amortisation (1,185) (995) Net finance costs B13 (914) (865) Share of loss of equity accounted investments, inclusive of impairments B25 (62) (334) Gain on revaluation of equity accounted investment B24 – 228 (Loss)/profit before income tax (320) 30 Income tax benefit B7 167 140 (Loss)/profit for the year (153) 170 (Loss)/profit attributable to: Ordinary security holders of the stapled group ̶ ̶ Attributable to Transurban Holdings Limited (THL) (267) (40) ̶ ̶ Attributable to THT/TIL 156 211 (Loss)/profit attributable to ordinary security holders of the stapled group B9 (111) 171 Non-controlling interests—other B26 (42) (1) (Loss)/profit for the year (153) 170 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss in the future Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges, net of tax 11 (181) Share of other comprehensive loss of equity accounted investments, net of tax B25 (22) (74) Movement in share based payments reserve – 2 Exchange differences on translation of North American operations, net of tax 6 (12) Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax (5) (265) Total comprehensive loss for the year (158) (95) Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year is attributable to: Ordinary security holders of the stapled group ̶ Attributable to THL (310) (81) ̶ ̶ Attributable to THT/TIL 151 16 Non-controlling interests—other 1 (30) Total comprehensive loss for the year (158) (95) Cents Cents Earnings per security attributable to ordinary security holders of the stapled group B9 (4.1) 6.6 The above consolidated statement of comprehensive income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Section A: 105 Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section A: 4 TRANSURBAN Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Transurban Holdings Limited Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 June 2020 2020 2019 Note $M $M Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents B8 2,349 1,630 Trade and other receivables B8 417 285 Derivative financial instruments B15 71 10 Total current assets 2,837 1,925 Non-current assets Equity accounted investments B25 3,435 3,614 Financial assets at amortised cost B32 1,352 1,193 Derivative financial instruments B15 497 293 —1— Property, plant and equipment1 594 414 INTRODUCTION Concession financial asset B18 331 341 Deferred tax assets B7 1,098 1,107 AND OVERVIEW Goodwill B16 466 466 Other intangible assets B17 25,940 26,604 Total non-current assets 33,713 34,032 Total assets 36,550 35,957 —2— Liabilities BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Current liabilities Trade and other payables B8 485 513 Borrowings B14 1,553 959 Derivative financial instruments B15 96 7 Maintenance provision B19 104 156 —3— Distribution provision B10 476 841 Other provisions 141 193 GOVERNANCE AND RISK Construction obligation provision B20 767 831 Other liabilities2 235 291 Total current liabilities 3,857 3,791 Non-current liabilities —4— Borrowings B14 19,525 17,507 Derivative financial instruments B15 632 496 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Deferred tax liabilities B7 1,213 1,412 Maintenance provision B19 1,102 1,006 Other provisions 7 6 Construction obligation provision B20 822 1,391 Other liabilities2 591 446 —5— Total non-current liabilities 23,892 22,264 REMUNERATION Total liabilities 27,749 26,055 REPORT Net assets 8,801 9,902 Equity —6— Contributed equity B11 2,919 2,675 Reserves B12 (491) (149) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accumulated losses (3,887) (3,563) Equity attributable to other members of the stapled group (THT/TIL) 9,333 9,791 Equity attributable to security holders of the stapled group 7,874 8,754 Non-controlling interests—other B26 927 1,148 Total equity 8,801 9,902 —7— SECURITY HOLDER 1. The Group adopted AASB 16 Leases (AASB 16) on 1 July 2019 and has presented right-of-use assets within property, plant and equipment as at 30 June 2020; the same line item that the corresponding underlying asset would be presented were it owned. 2. Upon adoption of AASB 16 the Group has presented lease liabilities within other liabilities as at 30 June 2020. INFORMATION The above consolidated balance sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 106 Section A: Section A: Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 5 Transurban Holdings Limited Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 30 June 2020 Attributable to security holders of the stapled group Equity attributable Nonto other controlling Number of Contributed Accumulated members— interests— Total securities equity Reserves losses THT & TIL Total other equity M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Balance at 30 June 2019 as originally presented 2,675 2,675 (149) (3,563) 9,791 8,754 1,148 9,902 Change in accounting policy1 – – – (2) (1) (3) – (3) Balance at 1 July 2019 2,675 2,675 (149) (3,565) 9,790 8,751 1,148 9,899 Comprehensive (loss)/income (Loss)/profit for the year – – – (267) 156 (111) (42) (153) Other comprehensive (loss)/income – – (43) – (5) (48) 43 (5) Total comprehensive (loss)/income – – (43) (267) 151 (159) 1 (158) Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners: Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs2 55 226 – – 578 804 – 804 Employee performance awards issued3 1 3 (1) – 4 6 – 6 Distributions provided for or paid4 – – – (55) (1,229) (1,284) – (1,284) Distribution reinvestment plan5 4 15 – – 39 54 – 54 Distributions to non-controlling interests6 – – – – – – (87) (87) Derecognition of non-controlling interest on acquisition of remaining interest7 – – – – – – (135) (135) Transactions with non-controlling interests—other7 – – (298) – – (298) – (298) 60 244 (299) (55) (608) (718) (222) (940) Balance at 30 June 2020 2,735 2,919 (491) (3,887) 9,333 7,874 927 8,801 1. Refer to Note B3 for further details on the change in accounting policy. 2. During August and September 2019, the Group completed a ‘pro-rata’ institutional placement and security purchase plan. The ‘pro-rata’ institutional placement raised gross proceeds of $500 million at an issue price of $14.70 per security. The security purchase plan raised gross proceeds of $312 million at an issue price of $14.64 per security. The total gross proceeds of $812 million ($804 million net of transaction costs) were used to fund the Group’s acquisition of the remaining interests in Interlink Roads Pty Limited (M5 Motorway) and for general corporate purposes. 3. From 2012 it is the Group's policy that a portion of all Short Term Incentives issued to the CEO and other executives are deferred for a period of 2 years. In addition to the Short Term Incentives, stapled securities (including units in the Trust) were issued to senior executives and other employees under the Group's Long Term Incentive share based payment plans. These securities are held by the employees but will only vest in accordance with the terms of the plans. 4. Refer to Note B10 for further details of dividends and distributions provided for or paid. 5. Under the Distribution Reinvestment Plan (DRP), holders of stapled securities may elect to have all or part of their distribution entitlements satisfied by the issue of new stapled securities rather than by cash. The DRP applied for the final distribution for FY19 and the interim distribution for HY20, paid in August 2019 and February 2020, respectively. The DRP applies for the final FY20 distribution. 6. Distributions and dividends were paid during the period to the non-controlling interest partners in the Eastern Distributor, Transurban Queensland and the M5 Motorway. 7. Refer to Note B24 for details on the derecognition of the non-controlling interest ($135 million) in the M5 Motorway following the acquisition of the remaining 34.62% interest on 30 October 2019, including associated transaction costs ($39 million). The above consolidated statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Section A: 107 Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section A: 6 TRANSURBAN Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Transurban Holdings Limited Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 30 June 2019 Attributable to security holders of the stapled group Equity attributable Nonto other controlling Number of Contributed Accumulated members— interests— Total securities equity Reserves losses THT & TIL Total other equity M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Balance at 30 June 2018 as originally presented 2,225 1,746 (101) (3,455) 7,401 5,591 1,175 6,766 Change in accounting policy1 – – – 12 – 12 (5) 7 Balance at 1 July 2018 2,225 1,746 (101) (3,443) 7,401 5,603 1,170 6,773 Comprehensive (loss)/income (Loss)/profit for the year – – – (40) 211 171 (1) 170 Other comprehensive loss – – (41) – (195) (236) (29) (265) —1— Total comprehensive (loss)/income – – (41) (40) 16 (65) (30) (95) INTRODUCTION Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners: Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs2 446 915 – – 3,833 4,748 – 4,748 AND OVERVIEW Employee performance awards issued3 1 2 – – 9 11 – 11 Distributions provided for or paid4 – – – (80) (1,497) (1,577) – (1,577) Distribution reinvestment plan5 3 12 – – 29 41 – 41 Distributions to non-controlling interests6 – – – – – – (183) (183) —2— Recognition of non-controlling interest upon stepBUSINESS up acquisition and change in ownership7 – – – – – – 191 191 Transactions with non-controlling interests—other7 – – (7) – – (7) – (7) PERFORMANCE 450 929 (7) (80) 2,374 3,216 8 3,224 Balance at 30 June 2019 2,675 2,675 (149) (3,563) 9,791 8,754 1,148 9,902 1. Relates to the change in accounting policy upon the initial adoption of AASB 9 Financial Instruments from 1 July 2018. The reclassifications and the adjustments which arose from the new standard were not reflected in the restated balance sheet as at 30 June 2018, but were recognised in the opening balance sheet on 1 July 2018. 2. On 21 September 2018, the Group completed the fully underwritten institutional and retail components of its pro-rata accelerated renounceable 10 for 57 entitlement offer. The —3— institutional component raised gross proceeds of $2,996 million at an issue price of $10.80 per security. The retail component raised gross proceeds of $1,222 million at an issue GOVERNANCE price of $10.80 per security. A further $600 million was raised on 12 September 2018 through a placement to AustralianSuper and Tawreed Investments Limited (Tawreed) at an issue price of $10.85 per security. The total gross proceeds of $4,818 million ($4,748 million net of transaction costs, including $5 million of non-cash tax benefit) were used to fund AND RISK the Group’s investment in WestConnex (WCX) through Sydney Transport Partners Joint venture (STP JV) and for general corporate purposes. 3. From 2012 it is the Group's policy that a portion of all Short Term Incentives issued to the CEO and other executives are deferred for a period of 2 years. In addition to the Short Term Incentives, stapled securities (including units in the Trust) were issued to senior executives and other employees under the Group's Long Term Incentive share based payment plans. These securities are held by the employees but will only vest in accordance with the terms of the plans. 4. Refer to Note B10 for further details of dividends and distributions provided for or paid. —4— 5. Under the Distribution Reinvestment Plan (DRP), holders of stapled securities may elect to have all or part of their distribution entitlements satisfied by the issue of new stapled DIRECTORS’ securities rather than by cash. The DRP was not in effect for the final distribution for FY18. The DRP applied for the interim FY19 distribution, paid in February 2019 6. Distributions and dividends were paid during the period to the non-controlling interest partners in the Eastern Distributor, Transurban Queensland and the M5 Motorway. REPORT 7. Relates to the recognition of the non-controlling interest upon the step-up acquisition of the M5 Motorway ($277 million) and other transactions with non-controlling interests including $86 million to acquire an additional interest in the M5 Motorway and a related $7 million payment for stamp duty on this transaction. —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION The above consolidated statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 108 Section A: Section A: Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 7 Transurban Holdings Limited Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 2019 Note $M $M Cash flows from operating activities Receipts from customers 2,762 2,873 Payments to suppliers and employees (844) (851) Payments for maintenance of intangible assets (135) (117) Transaction and integration costs related to acquisitions (7) (25) Other cash receipts 126 112 Interest received 35 36 Interest paid (769) (771) Income taxes paid (37) (60) Net cash inflow from operating activities (a) 1,131 1,197 Cash flows from investing activities Payments for financial assets at amortised cost (232) (865) Repayment of financial assets at amortised cost 75 330 Payments for equity accounted investments – (3,420) Capital contribution to equity accounted investment (48) (68) Payments for intangible assets (1,391) (1,741) Payments for property, plant and equipment (178) (133) Distributions received from equity accounted investments 171 190 Payments for acquisition of subsidiaries and term loan notes, net of cash acquired (1) (65) Net cash outflow from investing activities (1,604) (5,772) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from equity issues of stapled securities (net of costs) 804 4,743 Acquisition of non-controlling interest in subsidiary and term loan notes (492) (106) Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) (b) 4,478 4,193 Proceeds made in the provision of loan facilities 32 215 Proceeds from loan facilities (b) 7 – Principal repayment of leases B31 (10) – Repayment of borrowings (b) (1,965) (2,445) Dividends and distributions paid to the Group's security holders B10 (1,595) (1,357) Distributions paid to non-controlling interests B10 (87) (192) Net cash inflow from financing activities 1,172 5,051 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 699 476 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,630 1,130 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 20 24 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year B8 2,349 1,630 (a) Reconciliation of (loss)/profit after income tax to net cash inflow from operating activities (Loss)/profit for the year (153) 170 Depreciation and amortisation 1,185 995 Gain on revaluation of equity accounted investments – (228) Non-cash share based payments expense 8 14 Non-cash net finance costs 116 112 Share of losses of equity accounted investments, inclusive of impairments B25 62 334 Change in operating assets and liabilities: Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 26 (48) (Decrease)/increase in concession and promissory note liability (6) 16 Increase/(decrease) in operating creditors and accruals 58 (3) (Decrease)/increase in other operating provisions (2) 6 Movement in deferred and current taxes (205) (204) Increase in maintenance provision 42 33 Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,131 1,197 The above consolidated statement of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Section A: 109 Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section A: 8 TRANSURBAN Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Transurban Holdings Limited Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 30 June 2020 (continued) (b) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities Debt principal related derivatives Other Loan Total debt (included in Facilities related Borrowings Borrowings assets (included in financial 1 current non-current /liabilities) other liabilities) instruments $M $M $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2019 959 17,507 (1,301) – 17,165 Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) – 4,478 – – 4,478 Repayment of borrowings (953) (1,024) 12 – (1,965) Proceeds from other loan facilities – – – 70 70 Repayment of other loan facilities – – – (63) (63) —1— Capitalised premiums and discounts included in operating and investing – 21 – – 21 INTRODUCTION cash flows Total cash flows (953) 3,475 12 7 2,541 Non-cash changes AND OVERVIEW Acquisitions2 – (65) – – (65) Foreign exchange movements (6) 127 (147) – (26) Transfer 1,553 (1,553) – – – —2— BUSINESS Capitalised interest – 14 – – 14 Amortisation of borrowing costs – 20 – – 20 PERFORMANCE Total non-cash changes 1,547 (1,457) (147) – (57) Balance at 30 June 2020 1,553 19,525 (1,436) 7 19,649 1. Total derivatives balance as at 30 June 2020 is a liability of $160 million. The difference in carrying value to the table above relates to interest rate swap contracts, forward exchange contracts, the interest portion of cross-currency interest rate swap contracts and credit valuation and debit valuation adjustments which are excluded from the balances above. 2. For the year ended 30 June 2020 this relates to the acquisition of the remaining equity interest in the M5 Motorway. —3— GOVERNANCE Debt principal related derivatives Other Loan Total debt AND RISK (included in Facilities related Borrowings Borrowings assets (included in financial current non-current /liabilities)1 other liabilities) instruments $M $M $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2018 524 14,871 (891) – 14,504 —4— Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) – 4,205 (12) – 4,193 Repayment of borrowings (564) (1,911) 30 – (2,445) DIRECTORS’ REPORT Total cash flows (564) 2,294 18 – 1,748 Non-cash changes Acquisitions 78 640 – – 718 Foreign exchange movements (12) 608 (428) – 168 —5— Transfer 933 (933) – – – REMUNERATION Capitalised interest – 6 – – 6 Amortisation of borrowing costs – 21 – – 21 REPORT Total non-cash changes 999 342 (428) – 913 Balance at 30 June 2019 959 17,507 (1,301) – 17,165 1. Total derivatives balance as at 30 June 2019 is a liability of $200 million. The difference in carrying value to the table above relates to interest rate swap contracts, forward exchange contracts, the interest portion of cross-currency interest rate swap contracts and credit valuation and debit valuation adjustments which are excluded from the balances above. —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION The above consolidated statement of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 110 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 9 SECTION B: NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Basis of preparation and significant changes B1 Corporate information Transurban Holdings Limited (the Company, the Parent or THL) is a Company incorporated in Australia and limited by shares that are publicly traded on the Australian Securities Exchange. These financial statements have been prepared as a consolidation of the financial statements of Transurban Holdings Limited and its controlled entities (Transurban, Transurban Holdings Limited Group, Transurban Group or the Group). The controlled entities of THL include the other members of the stapled group being Transurban International Limited and its controlled entities (TIL) and Transurban Infrastructure Management Limited (TIML) as the responsible entity of Transurban Holding Trust and its controlled entities (THT). The equity securities of THL, TIL and THT are stapled and cannot be traded separately. The Group is a for-profit entity. Entities within the Group are domiciled and incorporated in Australia, the United States of America and Canada. The consolidated financial statements of the Transurban Group for the year ended 30 June 2020 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 12 August 2020. Directors have the power to amend and reissue the financial statements. B2 Summary of significant changes in the current reporting period The financial position and performance of the Group was particularly affected by the following transactions and events during the reporting period: Coronavirus global pandemic and the related government-mandated restrictions (COVID-19) COVID-19 has impacted the Group’s operations, particularly traffic volumes and toll revenue. A significant decline in traffic was observed in March and early April 2020, before a progressive improvement in traffic volumes was observed from mid-April 2020 as government restrictions eased. Notwithstanding this, differing trends are developing across various markets that the Group operates in, including tighter government restrictions being introduced in Melbourne in August 2020. Except for the impact on toll revenue and the related decline in cash receipts, there has been no other significant impact to the Group's operations, cash flow or overall financial position for the current reporting period resulting from COVID-19. The Group's concession road assets have remained fully operational and investment into networks and major development projects has continued throughout the period. The Group also successfully raised $3,427 million of debt (inclusive of new facilities) across bank and debt capital markets during March and April 2020 to fund future capital requirements. Acquisition of remaining equity interest in the M5 Motorway On 30 October 2019 Transurban acquired the remaining 34.62% interest in the M5 Motorway for a purchase price of $459 million, taking Transurban’s ownership to 100%. As a result of the transaction the Group has derecognised the non-controlling interest and related shareholder loan notes. Refer to Note B24 for further information. Group equity issuances During August and September 2019, the Group successfully completed a ‘pro-rata’ institutional placement and security purchase plan. The ‘pro-rata’ institutional placement raised gross proceeds of $500 million at an issue price of $14.70 per security. The security purchase plan raised gross proceeds of $312 million at an issue price of $14.64 per security. The total gross proceeds of $812 million ($804 million net of transaction costs) were used to fund the Group’s investment in the remaining interest in M5 Motorway and for general corporate purposes. Section B: 111 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 10 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B3 Basis of preparation The Group financial statements are general purpose financial statements which:  have been prepared in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, Australian accounting standards and other authoritative pronouncements of the Australian Accounting Standards Board;  have adopted all accounting policies in accordance with Australian accounting standards and, where a standard permits a choice in accounting policy, the policy adopted by the Group has been disclosed in these financial statements;  have applied the option under ASIC Corporations (Stapled Group Reports) Instrument 2015/838 to present the consolidated financial statements in one section (Section A) and all other reporting group members in a separate section (Section C);  apart from the accounting standard early adopted as set out in this note, have not early adopted accounting standards or interpretations that have been issued or amended but are not yet effective;  comply with International financial reporting standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB);  have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of other financial assets and liabilities (including derivative financial instruments);  are presented in Australian dollars, which is the Group's functional and presentation currency; —1— INTRODUCTION  have been rounded to the nearest million dollars, unless otherwise stated, in accordance with ASIC Corporations (Rounding in Financial/Director's Reports) Instrument 2016/191; and AND OVERVIEW  have restated the presentation of comparative amounts, where applicable, to conform to the current period presentation. Going concern The financial report has been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes the continuity of normal operations. In —2— determining the appropriateness of this basis of preparation, the Directors have considered the impact of COVID-19 on the Group’s BUSINESS operations and in particular the next 12 months from the financial statements release date on 12 August 2020. PERFORMANCE While the long-term strategy of the Group remains unchanged, the ongoing impact of COVID-19 is uncertain and represents a significant risk to the global economy. For the Group, traffic performance is expected to remain sensitive to future government responses to COVID-19 outbreaks, as well as global economic conditions. In response to this uncertainty, the Group has critically assessed cash flow forecasts for the 12 months from the date of this report, —3— taking into consideration an estimate of the potential continued impacts of COVID-19. In addition, the Group has considered the GOVERNANCE ability to fund THL’s net current liability position as at 30 June 2020 of $1,020 million (2019: $1,866 million). Scenario analysis has been undertaken on cash flow forecasts to reflect reasonably possible changes in traffic volume and includes funding future debt AND RISK financing through the use of existing debt facilities and cash and cash equivalents as at 30 June 2020. Based on the analysis, which includes judgement, the Group is expected to have sufficient headroom to continue to operate within available cash levels and the terms of its debt facilities, and fund THL’s net current liability position as at 30 June 2020. In making this assessment, the Group has assumed that equity partners will be able to proportionally support future debt refinancing should credit markets not be accessible prior to maturity dates. —4— Despite the impact of COVID-19 on the global economy, the Group has been successful in accessing credit markets at market rates DIRECTORS’ REPORT since the impacts of COVID-19 were first observed. This includes the Group receiving the proceeds from a $1,082 million (€600 million) issuance of senior secured 10 year notes under its Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme that reached financial close on 9 April 2020 and a further $250 million (€150 million) in proceeds from the issuance of senior secured 10 year notes under its EMTN programme that reached financial close on 1 May 2020. These funds will be used to repay corporate debt maturities due to mature in the next 12 months. —5— REMUNERATION The Group has also forecast that it does not expect to breach any covenants within the next 12 months from the date of this report, however some assets are forecast to enter distribution lock-up and this has been factored into the analysis. Covenant forecasts utilised the same underlying cash flow forecasts as those described above. Corporate and non-recourse debt covenants are calculated on a trailing 12 month basis, therefore moderating short-term earnings impacts. REPORT Furthermore, the Directors have also taken the following matters into consideration in forming the view that the Group is a going concern: —6—  The Group has cash and cash equivalents of $2,349 million as at 30 June 2020;  The Group has available a total of $2,822 million of undrawn general purpose borrowing facilities across a number of financial FINANCIAL STATEMENTS providers with a maturity beyond 12 months (total undrawn general purpose borrowing facilities is $3,102 million). Additionally, the Group has a further $268 million of undrawn borrowings facilities to provide funding for the Group's capital projects with a maturity beyond 12 months (total undrawn capital borrowings is $268 million);  The Group has the ability to fund the net current liability position through the generation of free cash in the next 12 months and —7— the use of undrawn facilities; and SECURITY HOLDER  The Group has paid $1,595 million of dividends and distributions to the Group’s security holders over the past 12 months. Payment of future dividends is at the discretion of the Board. INFORMATION 112 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 11 B3 Basis of preparation (continued) Foreign currency translation Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the profit and loss, except when they are deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges or are attributable to part of the net investment in a foreign operation. Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined. Translation differences on assets and liabilities carried at fair value are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss. For example, translation differences on non-monetary assets and liabilities such as equities held at fair value through profit and loss are recognised in the profit and loss as part of the fair value gain or loss and translation differences on nonmonetary assets such as equities classified as available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in the fair value reserve in equity. Foreign operations The results and financial position of all of the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:  assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date;  income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates throughout the course of the reporting period (unless this is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions); and  all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income. On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of any net investment in foreign entities and of borrowings and other financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive income. Section B: 113 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 12 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B3 Basis of preparation (continued) New and amended standards and interpretations The Group has adopted the following new and amended accounting standards and interpretations which became effective for the annual reporting period commencing 1 July 2019. The Group’s assessment of the impact of these new and amended standards and interpretations is set out below. Reference Description and impact on the Group AASB 16 AASB 16 modifies the accounting for leases by removing the distinction between operating and finance leases. The standard Leases requires the recognition of an asset and a financial liability for all leases, with exemptions for short term and low value leases. The Group has adopted AASB 16 retrospectively from 1 July 2019, but has not restated comparatives, as permitted under the transitional provisions in the standard. The reclassifications and adjustments arising from the new leasing rules are therefore recognised in the opening balance sheet on 1 July 2019. Adjustments recognised on adoption of AASB 16 On adoption of AASB 16, the Group recognised $137 million of lease liabilities relating to leases previously classified as ‘operating leases’ under the principles of AASB 117 Leases. These leases primarily relate to office space that the Group leases from third parties. These liabilities were measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the lessee’s —1— incremental borrowing rate as of 1 July 2019. The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to the lease liabilities on INTRODUCTION 1 July 2019 was 4.57%. Below is a reconciliation of operating lease commitments as at 30 June 2019 to the lease liabilities recognised as at AND OVERVIEW 1 July 2019: $M Operating lease commitments disclosed as at 30 June 2019 196 (Less): lease commitments where lease commencement date is after initial adoption date (16) (Less): lease incentives receivable (4) —2— BUSINESS 176 PERFORMANCE Discount from using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application (39) Lease liabilities recognised as at 1 July 2019 137 The associated right-of-use assets for these leases amounted to $133 million. They were measured on a retrospective basis as if —3— the new rules had always been applied. There were no onerous lease contracts that would have required an adjustment to the GOVERNANCE right-of-use assets at the date of initial application. Deferred tax assets of $1 million were also recognised. Overall net assets are $3 million lower. AND RISK Practical expedients applied In applying AASB 16 for the first time, the Group has elected not to reassess whether a contract is or contains a lease at the date of initial application. Instead, for contracts entered into before the transition date the Group relied on its assessment made in applying AASB 117 and AASB Interpretation 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease. Cross-staple lease arrangements —4— There are a number of cross-staple lease arrangements within the Group between trusts, as the lessor, and operating DIRECTORS’ companies, as the lessee. These arrangements relate to rights held by the operating companies over concession intangible assets recorded by the trusts. As permitted under the scope provisions in AASB 16, the operating companies have elected to adopt an REPORT accounting policy and not apply the standard to leases of intangible assets. There is no impact on the Group as these arrangements are eliminated on consolidation. The new accounting policies are disclosed in Note B31 Leases. Interpretation 23 The interpretation clarifies how to apply the standard on income taxes, AASB 112, when an entity has to consider, recognise and Uncertainty over measure the accounting impact of tax uncertainties. —5— income tax treatment The adoption of this interpretation did not have a material impact on the Group. REMUNERATION AASB 2018-1 Amendments were made to the following accounting standards as part of the Annual Improvements 2015-2017 Cycle: REPORT Annual improvements  AASB 3 Business Combinations and AASB 11 Joint Arrangements to clarify that an entity remeasures its previously held interest in 2015–2017 Cycle a joint operation when it obtains control of the business;  AASB 112 Income Taxes to clarify that an entity accounts for all income tax consequences of dividend payments according to where the entity originally recognised the past transactions or events that generated the distributable profits; and  AASB 123 Borrowing Costs to clarify that an entity treats any borrowings originally made to develop a qualifying asset as part of —6— general borrowings when the asset is ready for its intended use or sale. The adoption of the amendments did not have a material impact on the Group. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 114 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 13 B3 Basis of preparation (continued) New and amended standards and interpretations (continued) Reference Description and impact on the Group AASB 2019-3 The Group has elected to early adopt AASB 2019-3. The standard amends AASB 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, AASB 9 Amendments to Australian Financial Instruments and AASB 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to provide certain relief for hedge Accounting Standards―Interest accounting in the period before benchmark interest rates are replaced by global regulators. The relief enables hedge accounting Rate Benchmark Reform to continue for certain hedging relationships that might otherwise need to be discontinued due to uncertainties arising from the interest rate reform. The Group holds a number of interest rate swaps (hedging instruments) and floating rate debt instruments (hedged items) exposed to benchmark rates, predominantly the Bank Bill Swap Rate (BBSW) and US dollar London Inter-bank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Group continues to monitor ongoing regulatory responses to assess the impact of the introduction of alternative reference rates, which is expected to occur at the end of calendar year 2021. The BBSW has recently undergone several changes to ensure it remains compliant with the new regulatory standards. The notional value of the Group’s LIBOR-benchmarked exposure as at 30 June 2020 was US$225 million (A$328 million). The adoption of the amendments had no impact on the Group’s financial results for the year ended 30 June 2020. Accounting standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published but are not mandatory for the year ended 30 June 2020. The Group's assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations is set out below. Application Application Reference Description and impact on the Group of the standard by the Group AASB 2014-10 The AASB has made limited scope amendments to AASB 10 Consolidated Financial 1 January 2022 1 July 2022 Amendments to Australian Statements and AASB 128 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. The amendments Accounting Standards— clarify the accounting treatment for sales or contribution of assets between an investor Sale or Contribution of Assets and its associates or joint ventures. They confirm that the accounting treatment depends between an Investor and its on whether the non-monetary assets sold or contributed to an associate or joint venture Associate or Joint Venture constitute a ‘business’ (as defined in AASB 3 Business Combinations). Where the nonmonetary assets constitute a business, the investor will recognise the full gain or loss on the sale or contribution of assets. If the assets do not meet the definition of a business, the gain or loss is recognised by the investor only to the extent of the other investor’s interest in the associate or joint venture. Application of the new standard is prospective and is not expected to materially impact the Group. AASB 2018-6 Amendments to AASB 3 revise the definition of a business. To be considered a business, 1 January 2020 1 July 2020 Amendments to Australian an acquisition would have to include an input and a substantive process that together Accounting Standards— significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs. The new guidance provides a Definition of a Business framework to evaluate when an input and a substantive process are present. To be a business without outputs, there would need to be an organised workforce. Application of the new standard is prospective for acquisitions following the application date by the Group and is not expected to materially impact the Group. The changes to the standard may result in more acquisitions being accounted for as an asset acquisition by the Group. AASB 2018-7 Amendments are primarily to AASB 101 and AASB 108 to refine the definition of material 1 January 2020 1 July 2020 Amendments to Australian and its application by improving the wording and aligning the definition across AASB Accounting Standards— Standards and other publications. Definition of Material Application of the amendments is not expected to materially impact the Group. AASB 2019-1 The Australian Accounting Standards Board issued a revised Conceptual Framework 1 January 2020 1 July 2020 Conceptual Framework for which will initially only apply to for-profit private sector entities that have public Financial Reporting accountability and are required by legislation to comply with Australian Accounting Amendments to Australian Standards (AAS), and to other for-profit entities that elect to apply it. Accounting Standards— The key amendments include revising the definition and recognition criteria for assets, References to the Conceptual liabilities, income and expenses and other relevant financial reporting concepts. No Framework changes have been made to existing AAS, however the updated concepts should be used when an existing accounting standard does not provide relevant guidance for a transaction. AASB 2019-1 makes consequential changes to other standards so that they retain the previous Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements for entities that do not have to apply the revised Framework. The revised Framework is not expected to materially impact the Group given there is no change to existing AAS and there are no existing transactions that require the application of the revised Framework. AASB 2019-5 Amendments to AASB 1054 to clarify that in order for an entity to assert compliance with 1 January 2020 1 July 2020 Amendments to Australian IFRS Standards in its financial statements, it is required to disclose the potential effect on Accounting Standards― its financial statements of an IFRS Standard that has not yet been issued by the AASB as at Disclosure of the Effect of New reporting date. IFRS Standards Not Yet Issued Application of the amendments is not expected to materially impact the Group. in Australia Section B: 115 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 14 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B3 Basis of preparation (continued) Accounting standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective (continued) Application Application Reference Description and impact on the Group of the standard by the Group AASB 2020-1 Amendments to AASB 101 to clarify requirements for the presentation of liabilities in 1 January 2022 1 July 2022 Amendments to Australian the statement of financial position as current or non-current. Accounting Standards— Application of the amendments is not expected to materially impact the Group. Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current AASB 2020-3 The following small amendments were made to accounting standards: 1 January 2022 1 July 2022 Annual improvements  Annual Improvements 2018-2020 Cycle make minor amendments to AASB 1 First2018–2020 Cycle and Other time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, AASB 9 Financial Amendments Instruments and the Illustrative Examples accompanying AASB 16 Leases to clarify the wording or correct minor consequences, oversights or conflicts between requirements in the Standards; —1—  Amendments to AASB 3 Business Combinations update a reference in AASB 3 to the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting without changing the accounting INTRODUCTION requirements for business combinations;  Amendments to AASB 116 Property, Plant and Equipment require an entity to AND OVERVIEW recognise the sales proceeds from selling items produced while preparing property, plant and equipment for its intended use and the related cost in the profit and loss, instead of deducting the amounts received from the cost of the asset; and  Amendments to AASB 137 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets clarify which costs a company includes when assessing whether a contract will be onerous. —2— The application of the above amendments are prospective following the application BUSINESS date by the Group and is not expected to materially impact the Group. PERFORMANCE AASB 2020-4 This standard amends AASB 16 to provide lessees with an optional practical expedient 1 June 2020 1 July 2020 Amendments to Australian in assessing whether a COVID-19 related rent concession is a lease modification. The Accounting Standards optional practical expedient allows any impact from the change in lease payments COVID-19 Related Rent (originally due before 30 June 2021) to be recognised directly in the profit and loss. Concessions The amending standard also requires disclosure of the use of the election and the —3— amount recognised in the profit and loss as a result. GOVERNANCE Application of this standard is not expected to materially impact the Group. AND RISK Critical accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements are regularly made by management and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that may have a financial impact on the Group and that are believed to be reasonable under the —4— circumstances. DIRECTORS’ The estimates and assumptions that have the most significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities are as follows: REPORT  Provision for income taxes and utilisation of tax losses Note B7  Fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments Note B15  Recoverability of goodwill, other intangibles assets and equity accounted investments Concession Summary —5—  Construction risk of assets under construction Note B17  Provision for maintenance expenditure Note B19 REMUNERATION REPORT  Valuation of construction liability Note B20  Valuation of promissory notes and concession notes Note B21  Assessment of control of STP JV Note B25 —6—  Contingencies Note B28 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS KEY ESTIMATE AND JUDGEMENT The Group has made a number of estimates and judgements as at 30 June 2020 as a result of COVID-19. These estimates and judgements are included in the notes to the financial statements as applicable. —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 116 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 15 Operating performance B4 Segment information In the segment information provided to the Transurban Group Executive Committee (certain members of which act as the chief operating decision maker), segments are defined by the geographical region in which the Group operates being Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and North America. The Group's corporate function is not an operating segment under the requirements of AASB 8 as its revenue generating activities are only incidental to the business. The Executive Committee assesses the performance of the region based on a measure of proportional earnings before depreciation, amortisation, net finance costs and income taxes (Proportional EBITDA). This reflects the contribution of each region in the Group in the proportion of Transurban's equity ownership. Significant items are those items where their nature is sufficiently significant to the financial statements and not in the ordinary course of business. Refer to Note B6 for further details. The diagram below shows the assets included in each geographical region, together with the ownership interests held by the Group for the current financial year: MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE NORTH AMERICA Lane Cove Hills M2 95 Express 495 Express WHOLLY CityLink Lanes4 Lanes Tunnel Motorway (100%) OWNED (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) West Gate Cross City M5 Motorway1 A25 Tunnel Tunnel (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) M1 Eastern Logan Gateway NON-100% OWNED Distributor Motorway Motorway (75.1%) (62.5%) (62.5%) Go Between AND CONSOLIDATED Clem7 Bridge (62.5%) (62.5%) Legacy Way AirportlinkM7 (62.5%) (62.5%) Westlink M72 WestConnex NON-100% OWNED (50%) M43 (25.5%) NorthConnex2 WestConnex AND EQUITY ACCOUNTED (50%) M8/M5 East3 (25.5%) WestConnex M4-M5 Link3 (25.5%) 1. The M5 Motorway additional equity interest of 34.62% was acquired on 30 October 2019, increasing the equity interest to 100%. The M5 Motorway is currently under concession to Interlink Roads Pty Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Transurban Group, until the current concession expiration date in December 2026. 2. Westlink M7 and NorthConnex form the NorthWestern Roads Group (NWRG). 3. The M4, M8/M5 East and M4-M5 Link together form WestConnex. The M8/M5 East includes the newly constructed M8, the M5 East and will include the M5 Motorway (also known as M5 West) from December 2026. 4. The 95 Express Lanes concession is inclusive of the 395 Express Lanes and the Fredericksburg Extension. Section B: 117 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 16 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B4 Segment information (continued) Segment information—proportional income statement 2020 $M North Corporate Melbourne Sydney Brisbane America and other Total Toll revenue 747 1,072 394 279 – 2,492 Other revenue 23 48 5 15 26 117 Total proportional revenue 770 1,120 399 294 26 2,609 Underlying proportional EBITDA 634 879 286 154 (65) 1,888 Significant items – (13) – (1) – (14) Proportional EBITDA 634 866 286 153 (65) 1,874 —1— 2019 INTRODUCTION $M North Corporate AND OVERVIEW Melbourne Sydney Brisbane America and other Total Toll revenue 813 1,042 402 324 – 2,581 Other revenue 24 38 6 14 11 93 Total proportional revenue 837 1,080 408 338 11 2,674 Underlying proportional EBITDA 716 856 293 210 (59) 2,016 —2— Significant items – (309) – (11) – (320) Proportional EBITDA 716 547 293 199 (59) 1,696 BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Reconciliation of segment information to statutory financial information The proportional results presented above are different from the statutory financial results of the Group due to the proportional presentation of each asset’s contribution to each geographical region and adjustments. The adjustments relate to the contribution —3— of revenue and the treatment of cash received in relation to A25 availability payments and guaranteed toll income arrangements, which offset the concession financial asset recorded on acquisition of the A25. Construction revenue and construction costs are also GOVERNANCE AND RISK excluded from proportional results. Segment revenue Revenue from external customers comprises toll, service and fee revenues earned on toll roads. Segment revenue reconciles to total statutory revenue as follows: —4— 2020 2019 Note $M $M DIRECTORS’ REPORT Total segment revenue (proportional) 2,609 2,674 Add: Revenue attributable to non-controlling interests 312 374 Construction revenue from road development activities 1,003 1,435 Intragroup elimination1 16 14 —5— Less: REMUNERATION Proportional revenue of non-100% owned equity accounted assets (296) (305) Toll revenue receipts on A25 relating to concession financial asset2 (13) (12) REPORT Other revenue receipts on A25 relating to concession financial asset2 (15) (14) Total statutory revenue B5 3,616 4,166 1. Statutory revenue recognised in relation to arrangements with equity accounted investments that are eliminated for segment purposes. 2. The Executive Committee members acting as the chief operating decision maker assesses the performance of the Group using proportional results that include A25 income streams —6— relating to availability payments and guaranteed toll income which are classified as revenue within the proportional results. These revenues form part of the ordinary activities of the FINANCIAL A25 and are reflective of its underlying performance. For statutory accounting purposes, these income streams offset the related concession financial asset receivable recorded on acquisition of the A25 (refer to Note B18). STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 118 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 17 B4 Segment information (continued) Proportional EBITDA Proportional EBITDA reconciles to (loss)/profit before income tax as follows: 2020 2019 $M $M Proportional EBITDA 1,874 1,696 Add: EBITDA attributable to non-controlling interests 230 284 Add: Intragroup elimination1 3 – Less: Proportional EBITDA (excluding significant items) of non-100% owned equity accounted assets (245) (253) Add: Significant items incurred by equity accounted assets2 7 295 Less: Toll and other revenue on A25 concession financial asset relating to repayments received from Ministry of Transport of Quebec (MTQ)3 (28) (26) Statutory earnings before depreciation, amortisation, net finance costs, equity accounted investments and income taxes 1,841 1,996 Statutory depreciation and amortisation (1,185) (995) Statutory net finance costs (914) (865) Share of loss from equity accounted investments, inclusive of impairments (62) (334) Gain on revaluation of equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway – 228 (Loss)/profit before income tax (320) 30 1. Statutory revenue recognised in relation to arrangements with equity accounted investments that are eliminated for segment purposes. For statutory purposes an offsetting adjustment is recognised within the share of loss from equity accounted investments, inclusive of impairments. 2. Refer to Note B6 for further information. 3. The Executive Committee members acting as the chief operating decision maker assesses the performance of the Group using proportional results that include A25 income streams relating to availability payments and guaranteed toll income which are classified as revenue within the proportional results. These revenues form part of the ordinary activities of the A25 and are reflective of its underlying performance. For statutory accounting purposes, these income streams offset the related concession financial asset receivable recorded on acquisition of the A25 (refer to Note B18). B5 Revenue 2020 2019 $M $M Toll revenue 2,510 2,643 Construction revenue 1,003 1,435 Other revenue 103 88 Total revenue 3,616 4,166 The Group’s principal revenue generating activities, being the service concession arrangements, are accounted for in accordance with AASB Interpretation 12 Service Concession Arrangements (IFRIC 12) and AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Those accounting pronouncements specify that operations and maintenance services and construction services provided under the Group’s service concession arrangements are two distinct types of services. Toll revenue includes $11 million of compensation received from the Ministry of Transport of Quebec (MTQ) for customers who used the A25 during the government imposed toll suspension period from 25 March to 24 May 2020. The Group’s service concession arrangements fall into two types of models, the intangible asset model and the financial asset model as discussed below. Service concession arrangements—intangible asset model The revenue streams covered by this model are Toll revenue and Construction revenue. Revenue recognition principles for these revenue streams are discussed below: Revenue type Recognition Toll revenue The customer of the operations and maintenance services is the user of the infrastructure. Each use made of the toll road by users is considered a performance obligation. The related revenue is recognised at the point in time that the individual service is provided and the amount is determined to be recoverable by the Group. Total toll revenue is net of any revenue share arrangements that the Group has triggered during the reporting period. Construction revenue The customer with respect to construction services is the concession grantor. Construction services are accounted for as one performance obligation and revenue is recognised in line with the progress of construction services provided over time. The progress of construction is measured by reference to costs incurred to date. Revenue is measured at fair value by reference to the stand-alone selling price. Section B: 119 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 18 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B5 Revenue (continued) Service concession arrangements—financial asset model The Group’s accounting policy for service concession arrangements under the financial asset model is consistent with that disclosed in Note B18 Concession financial asset. As at 30 June 2020, the Group’s concession financial asset only relates to A25. Revenue sharing Toll revenue for the year ended 30 June 2020 is recognised net of revenue share of:  $28 million (2019: $23 million) to the grantor of A25, MTQ; and  $14 million (2019: $nil) to the grantor of 395 Express Lanes (which forms part of the 95 Express Lanes), Virginia Department of Transportation (VDOT). Other revenue Other revenue includes management fee revenue, roaming fee revenue and advertising revenue and is recognised at the point in time the service is provided. Additionally, other revenue includes tolling services provided to third parties for which revenue is —1— recognised over the period the service is provided. It also includes compensation received from third parties for a loss of toll revenue due to delays with construction completion, which is recognised when it is reasonably assured it will be collected. INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW Interest income―receivables Interest income (refer to Note B13) from receivables and bank deposits is recognised using the effective interest method. —2— B6 Significant items Significant items are items where their nature is sufficiently significant to the financial statements and not in the ordinary course of BUSINESS business. For the year ended 30 June 2020 the nature of items presented is comparable with significant items presented in the year ended 30 June 2019. Such items included within the Group's results are detailed below: PERFORMANCE 2020 2019 Statutory Proportional Statutory Proportional —3— $M $M $M $M GOVERNANCE Significant items included within total expenses Stamp duty on acquisition of additional 8.24% equity interest in M5 Motorway1 – – (8) (8) Transaction and integration costs of WCX, M5 Motorway and A252 (7) (7) (17) (17) AND RISK (7) (7) (25) (25) Significant items included within share of loss of equity accounted investments, inclusive of impairments3 Stamp duty on acquisition of WCX by STP JV – – (278) (278) —4— DIRECTORS’ Transaction and integration costs relating to acquisition of WCX by STP JV (7) (7) (17) (17) (7) (7) (295) (295) Significant items relating to gain on revaluation of equity accounted investment REPORT Disposal of equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway in exchange for acquisition of controlling interest1 – – 228 – Total significant items (14) (14) (92) (320) Income tax benefit associated with above significant items 4 4 2 2 Net significant items (10) (10) (90) (318) —5— REMUNERATION 1. On 18 September 2018, the Group completed the acquisition of an additional 8.24% equity interest of the company that holds the M5 Motorway concession in Sydney, New South Wales. The Group determined that this increased equity ownership provided the Group with control over M5 Motorway. The transaction was accounted for as a step-up acquisition, being a disposal of the Group’s existing 50% equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway at its fair value on 18 September 2018 in exchange for the acquisition of a 58.24% REPORT controlling interest in M5 Motorway. 2. FY20 includes costs relating to the integration of M5 Motorway following the acquisition of the remaining 34.62% interest on 30 October 2019 and integration costs relating to A25. FY19 includes costs relating to the WCX acquisition incurred by Transurban and transaction and integration costs relating to A25. The integration programs for M5 Motorway and WCX are ongoing as at 30 June 2020. 3. These costs are included within proportional EBITDA for segment reporting. Refer to the definition of proportional EBITDA in Note B4 Segment information. —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 120 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 19 B7 Income tax Income tax (benefit)/expense 2020 2019 $M $M Current tax (107) 76 Deferred tax (57) (154) Over provision in prior years (3) (62) (167) (140) Deferred income tax benefit included in income tax (benefit)/expense comprises: (Increase)/decrease in deferred tax assets (135) 39 Increase/(decrease) in deferred tax liabilities 78 (193) (57) (154) Reconciliation of income tax (benefit)/expense to prima facie tax payable 2020 2019 $M $M (Loss)/profit before income tax (benefit)/expense (320) 30 Tax at the Australian tax rate of 30% (2019: 30%) (96) 9 Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible/(taxable) in calculating taxable income: Trust income not subject to tax (122) (107) Equity accounted results 19 45 Tax rate differential 4 3 (Non-assessable)/non-deductible interest (3) 28 Non-deductible tax depreciation 28 8 Gain on revaluation of equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway – (68) Prior year tax losses utilised 7 2 Assessable income from non-100% owned, controlled entities 3 4 Over provision in prior years (3) (62) Other items (4) (2) Income tax benefit (167) (140) Tax expense/(income) relating to items of other comprehensive income and equity Cash flow hedges 17 (51) Foreign currency translation 2 6 Other equity transactions – (5) 19 (50) Over provision in prior years Included in the over provision for the year ended 30 June 2019 is a $64 million adjustment to the tax base for the Legacy Way concession asset following confirmation in the period of the availability of certain deductions that existed at the acquisition date of Transurban Queensland in 2014. Section B: 121 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 20 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B7 Income tax (continued) Deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities 2020 2019 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M The balance comprises temporary differences attributable to: Provisions 459 439 (14) (12) Current and prior year losses 1,101 956 – – Fixed assets/intangibles 584 580 (2,083) (2,174) Concession fees and promissory notes – – (381) (301) Derivatives and foreign exchange 349 218 (155) (40) Lease liabilities 4 – – – Other 21 29 – – Tax assets/(liabilities) 2,518 2,222 (2,633) (2,527) Set-off of tax (1,420) (1,115) 1,420 1,115 —1— Net tax assets/(liabilities) 1,098 1,107 (1,213) (1,412) Movements: INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW Closing balance at 30 June 2,222 2,031 (2,527) (2,000) Change in accounting policy1,2 1 5 – 2 Opening balance at 1 July 2,223 2,036 (2,527) (1,998) Credited/(charged) to the statement of comprehensive income 135 (39) (78) 193 —2— (Charged)/credited to equity (18) 60 (1) (10) BUSINESS Acquired – 17 – (592) Foreign exchange movements 7 26 (3) (35) PERFORMANCE Transfer from deferred tax assets/liabilities 13 (1) (13) 1 Current year losses recognised/(prior year losses utilised) and under/(over) provision in prior years 158 123 (11) (86) Closing balance at 30 June 2,518 2,222 (2,633) (2,527) Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) to be recovered/(paid) after more than 12 months 2,518 2,222 (2,633) (2,527) —3— 1. For the year ended 30 June 2020, the deferred tax impact from the change in accounting policy relates to the initial adoption of AASB 16 Leases from 1 July 2019. Refer to Note B3 GOVERNANCE for further details on the change in accounting policy. 2. For the year ended 30 June 2019, the deferred tax impact from the change in accounting policy relates to the initial adoption of AASB 9 Financial Instruments from 1 July 2018. The Group has reviewed its deferred tax assets with reference to the potential impact of COVID-19 on forecast taxable profits. AND RISK Management have determined that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available to utilise against deferred tax assets recognised as at 30 June 2020. The Group has not recognised tax effected losses of $42 million (2019: $28 million) for the TIL Australia tax consolidated group and —4— DRIVe US tax consolidated group. Management have determined as at 30 June 2020 that it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise these tax losses. DIRECTORS’ REPORT Accounting policy The income tax expense/(benefit) for the period is the tax payable or benefit on the current period's taxable income based on the applicable income tax rate for each jurisdiction, adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary differences and to unused tax losses. —5— REMUNERATION The current income tax expense is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income. Management periodically evaluate positions taken in tax returns REPORT with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. They establish provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. The Transurban stapled group comprises two corporate entities (THL and TIL) and a trust (THT). THT operates as a flow-through trust, and is not liable to pay tax itself. Instead, security holders pay tax on the distributions they receive from the trust at their individual marginal tax rates. —6— The Group is structured in this way because the initial heavy capital investment and associated debt funding required for infrastructure FINANCIAL investments results in accounting losses being generated in the initial years which would otherwise prevent a company from paying dividends. The trust enables distributions to be made to security holders throughout the life of the asset. Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and STATEMENTS liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit and loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or —7— substantially enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred SECURITY HOLDER income tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that future taxable INFORMATION amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences and losses. 122 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 21 B7 Income tax (continued) Accounting policy (continued) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised for temporary differences between the carrying amount and tax bases of investments in foreign operations where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate to the same taxation authority. Current tax assets and tax liabilities are offset where the entity has a legally enforceable right to offset and intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Current and deferred tax is recognised in the profit and loss, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Investment allowances Companies within the Group may be entitled to claim special tax deductions for investments in qualifying assets (investment allowances). The Group accounts for such allowances as tax credits, which means that the allowance reduces income tax payable and current tax expense. A deferred tax asset is recognised for unclaimed tax credits that are carried forward as tax losses. Tax consolidation legislation The Transurban Group has adopted the Australian tax consolidation legislation for THL and its wholly-owned Australian entities from 1 July 2005. All entities within the Australian tax consolidated groups continue to account for their own current and deferred tax amounts. These tax amounts are measured as if each entity in the tax consolidation group is a separate taxpayer within the tax consolidated group. The tax consolidated groups within the Group are summarised as follows: TRANSURBAN GROUP THL THT2 TIL THL TRANSURBAN QUEENSLAND AML Transurban DRIVe TIL AUSTRALIA Queensland US TAX GROUP Concession A25 TAX GROUP TAX GROUP (TQ) TAX GROUP TAX GROUP Finance LP (A25)1 Pty Ltd CityLink APL Co Transurban Transurban Melbourne Transurban TQ Holdings 1 Pty Limited Airport DRIVe International Limited Limited Pty Limited TQ APL (AirportlinkM7) Motorway Holdings LLC Limited (CityLink) Finance Co Pty Limited Limited (M1 Eastern The Hills Transurban Distributor) Motorway Finance GBB Gateway TUSAH Limited Company Operations Motorway US TAX GROUP (Hills M2) Pty Limited Pty Limited Pty Limited (Go Between (Gateway Bridge) Motorway) Transurban LCT MRE Roam (USA) Pty Limited Tolling Holdings Inc (LCT) Pty Limited Logan LW Motorways Operations Pty Limited Capital Beltway CCT Pty Limited Tollaust (Logan Express LLC (495 Pty Limited (Legacy Way) Pty Limited Motorway) Express Lanes)1 (CCT) Transurban Interlink WGT Co Roads Pty 95 Express Project T Partnership Pty Limited Limited Lanes LLC (95 (Clem7)1 (WGT) (M5 Motorway) Express Lanes)1 1. Entity is classified as a partnership for tax purposes. 2. There are no tax groups under THT. Section B: 123 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 22 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B7 Income tax (continued) THL tax consolidated group The entities in the THL tax consolidated group entered into a tax sharing agreement (TSA) effective from 29 April 2009, with amendments executed on 30 June 2020 to cover various administrative changes in tax legislation. The entities in the THL tax consolidated group have also entered into a tax funding agreement (TFA) effective from 1 July 2008, with amendments executed on 30 June 2020 to cover various administrative changes in tax legislation. Under the TFA the wholly-owned entities fully compensate THL for any current tax payable assumed and are compensated by THL for any current tax receivable and deferred tax assets relating to tax losses. The funding amounts are determined by reference to the amounts recognised in the wholly-owned entities’ financial statements. The amount receivable/payable under the TFA is calculated at the end of the financial year for each wholly-owned entity. THL determines and communicates the amount payable/receivable to each wholly-owned entity along with the method of calculation and any other information deemed necessary. During the year ended 30 June 2020, Interlink Roads Pty Ltd joined the THL tax consolidated group effective 30 October 2019, —1— subsequent to Transurban’s acquisition of the remaining 34.62% equity interest. Transurban Queensland tax consolidated group INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW The entities in the Transurban Queensland Holdings 1 Pty Ltd (TQH1) tax consolidated group entered into a TSA effective from 2 July 2014. The entities in the TQH1 tax consolidated group have also entered into a TFA effective from 2 July 2014. APL Hold Co Pty Ltd (AirportlinkM7) and its controlled entities entered the Transurban Queensland tax consolidated group effective from 23 November 2015. —2— BUSINESS Under the TFA the wholly-owned entities fully compensate TQH1 for any current tax payable assumed and are compensated by TQH1 for any current tax receivable and deferred tax assets relating to tax losses. The funding amounts are determined by PERFORMANCE reference to the amounts recognised in the wholly-owned entities financial statements. The amount receivable/payable under the TFA is calculated at the end of the financial year for each wholly-owned entity. TQH1 determines and communicates the amount payable/receivable to each wholly-owned entity along with the method of calculation and any other information deemed necessary. —3— GOVERNANCE Airport Motorway tax consolidated group The entities in the Airport Motorway Holdings (AMH) tax consolidated group entered into a TSA effective from 2 July 2009. The entities in the AMH tax consolidated group have also entered into a TFA effective from 2 July 2009. AND RISK Under the TFA the wholly-owned entities fully compensate AMH for any current tax payable assumed and are compensated by AMH for any current tax receivable and deferred tax assets relating to tax losses. The funding amounts are determined by reference to the amounts recognised in the wholly-owned entities financial statements. —4— The amount receivable/payable under the TFA is calculated at the end of the financial year for each wholly-owned entity. AMH DIRECTORS’ determines and communicates the amount payable/receivable to each wholly-owned entity along with the method of calculation REPORT and any other information deemed necessary. Transurban International tax consolidated groups Transurban International Limited consists of the Australian holding company, USA operations and the Canadian operations. There —5— are three tax consolidated groups in Transurban International Limited being the TIL Australia tax consolidated group (TIL), DRIVe US REMUNERATION tax consolidated group and the TUSAH US tax consolidated group. The entities in the TIL Australia tax consolidated group have entered into a TSA effective from 1 July 2018. The entities in the TIL Australia tax consolidated group have also entered into a TFA REPORT effective from 1 July 2018. Under the TFA the wholly-owned entities fully compensate TIL for any current tax payable assumed and are compensated by TIL for any current tax receivable and deferred tax assets relating to tax losses. The funding amounts are determined by reference to the amounts recognised in the wholly-owned entities financial statements. —6— The amount receivable/payable under the TFA is calculated at the end of the financial year for each wholly-owned entity. TIL FINANCIAL determines and communicates the amount payable / receivable to each wholly-owned entity along with the method of calculation and any other information deemed necessary. STATEMENTS Transurban DRIVe tax consolidated group Transurban DRIVe Holdings LLC (TDH) is the head company of the DRIVe tax consolidated group. The DRIVe tax consolidated group —7— is consolidated for US tax purposes in the sense that the 100% subsidiaries of TDH have elected to be treated as disregarded SECURITY HOLDER entities for US tax purposes. This treatment means that those entities are ignored for US tax purposes and that TDH, as head entity, carries any tax liability or benefits arising in the group. The DRIVe tax consolidated group currently owns partnership interests in INFORMATION both 495 Express Lanes and 95 Express Lanes and includes its share of each asset’s profits or losses in its US tax return. 124 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 23 B7 Income tax (continued) Transurban (USA) Holdings tax consolidated group Transurban (USA) Holdings LLC (TUSAH) is the head company of the TUSAH tax consolidated group. The TUSAH tax consolidated group owns the remaining partnership interests in both 495 Express Lanes and 95 Express Lanes and includes its share of each asset’s profits or losses in its US tax return. Concession A25 LP Concession A25 LP (A25 LP) is treated as a partnership for tax purposes and is the main operating entity of the A25 Group. The partners of A25 LP includes its share of A25 LP’s profits or losses in its Canadian tax return. Goods and Services Tax (GST) Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of associated GST, unless the GST incurred is not recoverable from the taxation authority. In this case it is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense. Receivables and payables are stated inclusive of the amount of GST receivable or payable. The net amount of GST recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included with other receivables or payables in the balance sheet. Cash flows are presented on a gross basis. The GST components of cash flows arising from investing or financing activities which are recoverable from, or payable to the taxation authority, are presented as operating cash flows. KEY ESTIMATE AND JUDGEMENT The Group is subject to income taxes in Australia, the United States and Canada. Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes. There are various transactions and calculations undertaken during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Group recognises liabilities for tax audit issues based on whether it is anticipated that additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred tax assets and liabilities in the period in which such determination is made. The Group has recognised deferred tax assets relating to carried forward tax losses to the extent there are sufficient taxable temporary differences relating to the same taxation authority against which the unused tax losses can be utilised. However, the utilisation of tax losses also depends on the ability of the Group to satisfy certain tests at the time the losses are recouped. In the United States carried forward tax losses relating to periods on or before 30 June 2018 generally expire after a 20 year period and tax losses relating to periods post 30 June 2018 are generally carried forward indefinitely, subject to an 80 per cent limit on taxable income in any one year. In Canada tax losses generally expire after a 20 year period. Management have reviewed forecast taxable profits including the potential impact of COVID-19 and have recognised deferred tax assets in relation to tax losses. Section B: 125 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 24 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B8 Working capital The Group’s working capital balances are summarised as follows: 2020 2019 Note $M $M Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 2,349 1,630 Prepayments 213 19 Trade receivables 117 122 Other receivables 60 85 Concession financial asset B18 27 28 Loan receivable at call – 31 417 285 Current liabilities Trade and other payables (485) (513) —1— (485) (513) INTRODUCTION Net working capital 2,281 1,402 AND OVERVIEW Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of presentation in the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, —2— deposits held at call with financial institutions, other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or BUSINESS less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities. All cash balances are interest bearing. PERFORMANCE The amount shown in cash and cash equivalents includes $625 million not available for general use as at 30 June 2020 (2019: $503 million) of which $566 million (2019: $422 million) belongs to TIL. This comprises amounts required to be held in a construction account, maintenance and funding reserves and prepaid tolls. Prepayments —3— GOVERNANCE From time to time the Group makes advance payments to its Design and Construct (D&C) subcontractors, not necessarily stipulated in the D&C subcontract itself, to facilitate the progression of its construction projects. Included within prepayments as at 30 June 2020 is an advance payment of $190 million to the West Gate Tunnel Project D&C subcontractor. The payment has been classified AND RISK as a payment for intangible assets within investing activities of the Group’s consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 30 June 2020. Trade receivables —4— Trade receivables are recognised initially at the amount of consideration that is unconditional unless they contain significant DIRECTORS’ REPORT financing components in which case they are recognised at fair value. The Group holds the trade receivables with the objective to collect the contractual cash flows and therefore measures them subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Trade receivables are generally due for settlement no more than 30 days from revenue recognition. The Group applies the AASB 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime of expected loss allowance for all trade receivables. The expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of toll revenue over historical periods —5— and the corresponding historical credit losses experienced. The historical loss rates are adjusted to reflect current and forwardlooking information on macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of customers to settle the receivables. The Group has identified REMUNERATION GDP and the unemployment rate of the countries in which it operates to be the most relevant factors and accordingly adjusts the historical loss rates based on expected changes in these factors. REPORT As at 30 June 2020, the expected loss rates have been adjusted to incorporate forward-looking information about the potential impacts of COVID-19, including the impact of COVID-19 initiatives implemented by the Group to extend credit to support customers —6— facing financial hardship. Such forward-looking information reflects management’s estimate based on the information available as at FINANCIAL 30 June 2020, noting the uncertainty in relation to the magnitude and duration of COVID-19 impacts on the collectability of trade receivables. STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 126 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 25 B8 Working capital (continued) Trade receivables (continued) The loss allowance as at 30 June 2020 and 30 June 2019 was determined as follows for trade receivables: 2020 Up to More than 90 days 90 days Current past due past due Total Expected loss rate 3% 33% 100% NA1 Gross carrying amount ($M) 112 12 10 134 Loss allowance ($M) (3) (4) (10) (17) 2019 Up to More than 90 days 90 days Current past due past due Total Expected loss rate 1% 12% 88% NA1 Gross carrying amount ($M) 107 17 10 134 Loss allowance ($M) (1) (2) (9) (12) 1. NA―not applicable The closing loss allowances for trade receivables reconciles to the opening loss allowance as follows: 2020 2019 $M $M Opening loss allowance 12 14 Increase in loss allowance recognised in the profit and loss during the year 6 2 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible (1) (4) Closing loss allowance 17 12 As at 30 June 2020, the expected loss rate and loss allowance has increased in line with management’s estimates of COVID-19 impacts and other macroeconomic factors that are expected to impact the ability of customers to settle receivables. Trade receivables are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery include the failure of a debtor to engage in a repayment plan with the Group, and a failure to make contractual payments for an extended period. Other financial assets at amortised cost The Group classifies its financial assets at amortised cost only if both of the following criteria are met:  the asset is held within a business model whose objective is to collect the contractual cash flows; and  the contractual terms give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest. Other financial assets at amortised cost include concession financial assets, other receivables and loan receivables at call recorded within trade and other receivables. For one subset of other financial assets at amortised cost, the gross value is $9 million (2019: $9 million) and the Group has recorded an expected credit loss of $9 million (2019: $9 million), after the expected credit loss the net carrying value is $nil (2019: $nil). For the Group’s remaining other financial assets at amortised cost, as at 30 June 2020, management have assessed the impacts arising from COVID-19 and do not consider there to be evidence of a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of these balances. This is mainly due to there being no significant change in the nature of or the collectability of these balances. The loss allowance for these other financial assets continues to be limited to 12 months of expected losses. These balances continue to have low credit risk as they have a low risk of default and the issuer has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow obligations in the near term. The loss allowance for these other financial assets is $nil (2019: $nil). Section B: 127 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 26 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Security holder outcomes B9 Earnings per stapled security Reconciliation of earnings used in calculating earnings per security 2020 2019 (Loss)/profit attributable to ordinary security holders of the stapled group ($M) (111) 171 Weighted average number of securities (M) 2,725 2,578 Basic and diluted earnings per security attributable to the ordinary security holders of the stapled group (cents) (4.1) 6.6 B10 Dividends/distributions and free cash Paid in Settled in Total cash securities Date $M $M $M Cents paid/payable —1— Dividends/distributions payable by the Group INTRODUCTION Declared 22 June 20201 Franked THL – – – – AND OVERVIEW Unfranked THT 437 – – 16.0 437 – – 16.0 14 August 2020 2020 Declared 3 December 20191 —2— Franked THL 55 53 2 2.0 Unfranked THT 792 764 28 29.0 BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 847 817 30 31.0 14 February 2020 Declared 21 May 20192 Franked THL 53 52 1 2.0 Unfranked THT 749 726 23 28.0 802 778 24 30.0 9 August 2019 —3— Total paid 1,649 1,595 54 61.0 GOVERNANCE 2019 AND RISK Declared 4 December 20182 Franked THL 27 26 1 1.0 Unfranked THT 748 708 40 28.0 775 734 41 29.0 15 February 2019 —4— Declared 21 May 2018 DIRECTORS’ Franked THL 56 56 – 2.5 Unfranked THT 567 567 – 25.5 623 623 – 28.0 10 August 2018 REPORT Total paid 1,398 1,357 41 57.0 1. Total declared FY20 was $1,284 million. 2. Total declared FY19 was $1,577 million. —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 128 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 27 B10 Dividends/distributions and free cash (continued) Distribution policy and free cash calculation The Group typically aligns distributions with free cash generated, however the final distribution declared on 22 June 2020 was in line with free cash generated for the 6 months ended 30 June 2020 excluding capital releases. The Group calculates free cash as follows: 2020 2019 $M $M Cash flows from operating activities 1,131 1,197 Add back transaction and integration costs related to acquisitions 7 25 Add back payments for maintenance of intangible assets 135 117 Add capital releases from 100% owned assets 212 – Less debt amortisation of 100% owned assets1 (12) (3) Less cash flow from operating activities from consolidated non-100% owned entities (426) (502) Less allowance for maintenance of intangible assets for 100% owned assets (88) (62) Adjust for distributions and interest received from non-100% owned entities M1 Eastern Distributor distributions 28 54 M5 Motorway dividends and term loan note interest1 32 133 M5 pro-forma adjustment as if 100% ownership acquired 1 July 20192 33 – Transurban Queensland distributions and shareholder loan note payments 161 306 NWRG distributions and shareholder loan note payments 224 240 STP JV distributions and shareholder loan note payments 39 22 Free cash 1,476 1,527 Weighted average securities on issue (millions)3 2,734 2,673 Free cash per security (cents)—weighted average securities 54.0 57.1 1. From the date of the WCX acquisition, debt amortisation from M5 West (Transurban proportional share 25.5%) is also added back to this figure due to the M5 West concession arrangement being transferred to the WCX ownership consortium at the end of the current M5 West concession agreement in 2026. M5 Motorway dividends and term-loan notes interest received of $32 million (2019: $133 million) are adjusted for debt amortisation of $13 million (2019: $38 million from 1 October 2018). From 30 October 2019 to 30 June 2020 debt amortisation of 100% owned assets is adjusted by $61 million. 2. A pro-forma adjustment has been made to reflect 100% ownership of M5 Motorway as if the acquisition took place on 1 July 2019. This adjustment primarily reflects the noncontrolling interests in operating cash flows from 1 July through to financial close. This is due to the purchase price to acquire the remaining minority interests being based on a 1 July 2019 acquisition date, with available cash having been previously distributed to shareholders and in lieu of the final purchase price being reduced for distributions paid to minority interests between 1 July 2019 and 30 October 2019. 3. The weighting applied to securities is based on their eligibility for distributions during the year and is consequently different to weighted average securities calculated in Note B9 Earnings per stapled security. Franking credits 2020 2019 $M $M Franking credits available for subsequent periods based on a tax rate of 30% (2019: 30%) 118 142 Franking credits available for subsequent periods relate to Airport Motorway Holdings Pty Ltd $101 million (2019: $117 million) and Transurban Holdings Limited $17 million (2019: $21 million). Interlink Roads Pty Ltd joined the Transurban Holdings Limited tax consolidated group and therefore no longer maintains a separate franking account (2019: $4 million). Distribution provision A provision for distribution is recognised for any distribution declared and authorised on or before the end of the reporting period, but not distributed by the end of the reporting period. These distributions are provided for once they are approved by the Board, are announced to equity holders and are no longer at the discretion of the entity. Section B: 129 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 28 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B10 Dividends/distributions and free cash (continued) Distribution provision (continued) Movements in distribution provision Movements in the distribution provision during the financial year are set out below: Distributions to Distribution to non-controlling security holders interest—other Total $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2019 802 39 841 Additional provision recognised 1,284 87 1,371 Amounts paid (1,595) (87) (1,682) Amounts reinvested (54) – (54) Balance at 30 June 2020 437 39 476 Balance at 1 July 2018 623 48 671 —1— Additional provision recognised 1,577 183 1,760 INTRODUCTION Amounts paid (1,357) (192) (1,549) Amounts reinvested (41) – (41) AND OVERVIEW Balance at 30 June 2019 802 39 841 —2— BUSINESS PERFORMANCE —3— GOVERNANCE AND RISK —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 130 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 29 Capital and borrowings B11 Contributed equity 2020 2019 $M $M Fully paid stapled securities 2,919 2,675 Stapled securities Stapled securities are classified as equity and entitle the holder to participate in distributions and share in the proceeds upon winding up of the Group in proportion to the number of securities held. Every holder of a stapled security present at a meeting, in person or by proxy, is entitled to one vote. The issued units of the Group are made up of a parcel of stapled securities, each parcel comprising one share in THL, one unit in THT and one share in TIL. The individual securities comprising a parcel of stapled securities cannot be traded separately. Other contributed equity units attributable to security holders of the Group relating to THT and TIL of $16,504 million and $595 million respectively (2019: $15,954 million and $522 million respectively) is included within non-controlling interests that relate to THT and TIL. Refer to Note B22. B12 Reserves Transactions Foreign with nonCash flow Share based currency controlling hedges payments translation interests Total $M $M $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2019 (190) 3 44 (6) (149) Revaluation―gross (66) (1) 4 – (63) Deferred tax 20 – (1) – 19 Transactions with non-controlling interests – – – (298) (298) Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investments, net of tax – – – – – Balance at 30 June 2020 (236) 2 47 (304) (491) Balance at 1 July 2018 (127) – 25 1 (101) Revaluation―gross (80) 3 25 – (52) Deferred tax 19 – (6) – 13 Transactions with non-controlling interests – – – (7) (7) Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investments, net of tax (2) – – – (2) Balance at 30 June 2019 (190) 3 44 (6) (149) Nature of reserves Purpose of reserves Cash flow hedges Used to record gains or losses on cash flow hedging instruments (to the extent these are part of an effective hedge relationship), which are used by the Group to mitigate the risk of movements in exchange rates and interest rates. Amounts are reclassified to the profit and loss when the transaction to which the hedge is linked (such as the payment of interest) affects the profit and loss. Share based payments Used to recognise the grant date fair value of securities issued to employees and deferred securities granted to employees but not yet vested. Foreign currency translation Exchange differences arising on translation of the United States and Canadian operations of the Group are recognised in this reserve. Transactions with nonThe Group uses the economic entity approach when accounting for transactions with non-controlling interests. controlling interests Section B: 131 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 30 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B13 Net finance costs 2020 2019 $M $M Finance income Interest income on financial assets at amortised cost 24 46 Unwind of discount on financial assets at amortised cost 17 23 Interest income on bank deposits held at amortised cost 23 26 Income from concession financial asset 25 23 Unwind of discount and remeasurement of liabilities—promissory and concession notes 13  Total finance income 102 118 Finance costs Interest and finance charges paid/payable (891) (839) Unwind of discount and remeasurement on liabilities—maintenance provision (45) (44) Unwind of discount and remeasurement on liabilities—construction obligation (24) (66) Unwind of discount and remeasurement on liabilities—promissory and concession notes – (8) —1— Unwind of discount and remeasurement on liabilities—lease liabilities (6)  INTRODUCTION Unwind of discount and remeasurement on liabilities—other liabilities (28) (17) Movement in impairment provisions on related party receivables (1) (2) AND OVERVIEW Net foreign exchange losses (21) (7) Total finance costs (1,016) (983) Net finance costs (914) (865) —2— In addition to the net finance costs (shown above) that are included in the profit and loss, $65 million (2019: $32 million) of financing costs have been capitalised and included in the carrying value of assets under construction. BUSINESS The movement in net finance costs for the unwind of discount on financial assets at amortised cost and promissory and concession PERFORMANCE notes has been influenced by changes in the timing of expected payments due to COVID-19. The movement in the unwind of discount and remeasurement on liabilities – construction obligation has been influenced by the —3— change in expected opening completion of the West Gate Tunnel Project to 2023 (previously 2022). GOVERNANCE B14 Borrowings 2020 2019 AND RISK $M $M Current Capital markets debt 1,117  U.S. private placement 228 227 —4— DIRECTORS’ Term debt 208 732 Total current borrowings 1,553 959 REPORT Non-current Capital markets debt 11,408 10,232 U.S. private placement 3,281 3,445 Term debt 3,177 2,149 —5— REMUNERATION Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) 1,370 1,325 Shareholder loan notes 289 356 REPORT Total non-current borrowings 19,525 17,507 Total borrowings 21,078 18,466 Accounting policy —6— FINANCIAL Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption amount is recognised in the profit and loss over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. Fees paid on the establishment of loan STATEMENTS facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw down occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the —7— facility to which it relates. SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 132 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 31 B14 Borrowings (continued) Accounting policy (continued) Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired. The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability that has been extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the profit and loss as finance income or finance costs. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting period. Borrowing costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred, except to the extent to which they relate to the construction of qualifying assets, in which case specifically identifiable borrowing costs are capitalised into the cost of the asset. Borrowing costs include interest on short-term and long-term borrowings. Costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings are capitalised and amortised over the effective period of the funding. Financing arrangements and credit facilities During the reporting period Transurban executed a number of financing activities including:  July 2019  Transurban reached financial close on a €350 million ($570 million) Euro private placement under its EMTN Programme with a tenor of 15 years;  Transurban closed the refinancing of $240 million letter of credit facilities for a further 1 year; and  Financial close was reached on the Fredericksburg Extension project, following the issuance of US$262 million private activity bonds.  August 2019  Transurban Queensland established a new $500 million syndicated bank debt facility with a 3 year tenor and a $25 million 3 year working capital facility;  Transurban closed the refinancing of a $139 million letter of credit facility for a further 1 year; and  Cross City Tunnel closed a $280 million 2 year bank debt facility.  October 2019  Lane Cove Tunnel reached financial close on a $326 million 5 year bank debt facility.  November 2019  Transurban reached financial close on a $1,650 million syndicate bank debt facility, comprising a $825 million 3 year tranche and $825 million 5 year tranche; and  Transurban closed the refinancing of a $55 million letter of credit facility for a further 3 years.  December 2019  Hills M2 Motorway closed a $403 million bank debt facility with a 12 month tenor; and  Transurban closed two $75 million bilateral letter of credit facilities with a 3 year tenor.  April 2020  Hills M2 Motorway reached financial close on a 10 year $475 million and a 15 year $340 million bank debt facility via the Asian Loan Market;  Transurban reached financial close on €600 million ($1,082 million) of senior secured 10 year notes under its EMTN Programme; and  Transurban closed $1,530 million of bilateral bank debt. This was comprised of $280 million of 1 year facilities, $550 million of 18 month facilities and $700 million of 2 year facilities.  May 2020  Transurban reached financial close on €$150 million ($250 million) of senior secured 10 Year notes. The notes were executed as a tap to the above noted €600 million issuance completed in April 2020, thereby increasing the series to €750 million ($1,325 million). During the reporting period, the equity accounted investments of the Group executed the following financing activity:  June 2020  Westlink M7 closed $155 million of fixed rate 10 year senior secured notes. Section B: 133 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 32 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B14 Borrowings (continued) Financing arrangements and credit facilities (continued) Credit facilities are provided as part of the overall debt funding structure of the Group. The drawn component of each facility is shown below: Carrying value 2020 2019 Maturity $M $M Working capital facilities AUD 1,650m facility Jul 20201 100 – Net capitalised borrowing costs – – Capital markets debt EMTN EUR 500m Jul 2020 817 811 EMTN EUR 600m Sep 2024 982 973 EMTN EUR 500m Aug 2025 818 811 —1— US 144A USD 550m Feb 2026 802 784 INTRODUCTION US 144A USD 550m Mar 2027 802 784 EMTN NOK 750m Jul 2027 112 126 AND OVERVIEW EMTN EUR 500m Mar 2028 818 811 EMTN CAD 650m Nov 2028 693 708 EMTN EUR 600m May 2029 981 974 EMTN EUR 750m Apr 2030 1,226 – —2— EMTN EUR 350m Jul 2034 572 – BUSINESS Net capitalised borrowing costs (73) (53) U.S. private placement PERFORMANCE Dec 2004—Tranche C USD 109m2 Dec 2019 – 155 Dec 2004—Tranche D AUD 72m2 Dec 2019 – 72 Aug 2005—Tranche C USD 157m Aug 2020 228 223 —3— Nov 2006—Tranche C USD 121m (plus accreted interest) Nov 2021 237 231 GOVERNANCE Nov 2006—Tranche D USD 50m (plus accreted interest) Nov 2026 98 96 Net capitalised borrowing costs – – AND RISK Total corporate debt, net of capitalised borrowing costs 9,213 7,506 Non-recourse debt —4— Capital markets debt DIRECTORS’ Airport Motorway Trust—Domestic bond AUD 300m Dec 2020 300 300 Transurban Queensland Finance—Domestic bond AUD 250m Dec 2021 250 250 Transurban Queensland Finance—EMTN CHF 200m Jun 2023 306 293 REPORT Transurban Queensland Finance—Domestic bond AUD 200m Oct 2023 200 200 Transurban Queensland Finance—Domestic bond AUD 200m Dec 2024 200 200 Transurban Queensland Finance—EMTN CHF 200m Dec 2025 306 293 —5— Transurban Queensland Finance—EMTN CHF 175m Nov 2026 268 256 REMUNERATION Transurban Queensland Finance—EMTN Reg S USD 500m Apr 2028 729 713 95 Express Lanes—Private activity bonds USD 72m Jul 20343 105 102 REPORT 95 Express Lanes—Private activity bonds USD 107m Jul 20343 156 152 495 Express Lanes—Private activity bonds USD 225m Jun 2038 328 320 95 Express Lanes—Private activity bonds USD 170m Jan 20403 248 243 95 Express Lanes—Private activity bonds USD 126m Jan 20403 184 180 —6— 95 Express Lanes—Private activity bonds USD 79m Jan 20443 115 – FINANCIAL 3 95 Express Lanes—Private activity bonds USD 183m Jul 2049 267 – Net capitalised borrowing costs4 13 1 1. This represents the contractual maturity of the drawn component of the A$825 million 3-year tranche of the A$1,650 million syndicate bank debt facility as at 30 June 2020. The 3 STATEMENTS year tranche matures in November 2022. 2. These facilities were repaid during FY20. 3. This represents final maturity. —7— 4. Net capitalised borrowing costs paid are net of $42 million (2019: $22 million) worth of private activity bonds (PABs) premiums, of which $22 million were received during the year SECURITY HOLDER ended 30 June 2020 (2019: $23 million). INFORMATION 134 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 33 B14 Borrowings (continued) Financing arrangements and credit facilities (continued) Carrying value 2020 2019 Maturity $M $M Non-recourse debt (continued) U.S. private placement Transurban Cardinal Holdings—Nov 2018 CAD 200m Feb 2023 213 218 Transurban Queensland Finance—Sep 2015—Tranche A USD 155m Sep 2025 226 221 Transurban Queensland Finance—Dec 2016—Tranche A USD 130m Dec 2026 190 185 Transurban Queensland Finance—Dec 2016—Tranche D AUD 35m Dec 2026 35 35 Transurban Queensland Finance—Sep 2015—Tranche B USD 230m Sep 2027 335 328 Transurban Queensland Finance—Dec 2016—Tranche B USD 225m Dec 2028 328 321 Transurban Queensland Finance—May 2019—Tranche A AUD 30m May 2029 30 30 Transurban Queensland Finance—May 2019—Tranche C USD 144m May 2029 210 205 Transurban Queensland Finance—Sep 2015—Tranche C USD 256m Sep 2030 373 365 Transurban Queensland Finance—Sep 2015—Tranche D AUD 70m Sep 2030 70 70 Transurban Queensland Finance—May 2019—Tranche D USD 245m May 2031 357 349 Transurban Queensland Finance—Dec 2016—Tranche C USD 78m Dec 2031 114 111 Transurban Queensland Finance—Dec 2016—Tranche E AUD 75m Dec 2031 75 75 Transurban Queensland Finance—May 2019—Tranche B AUD 40m May 2034 40 40 Transurban Queensland Finance—May 2019—Tranche E USD 180m May 2034 263 257 Transurban Queensland Finance—Jan 2017—Tranche F AUD 100m Jan 2035 100 100 Net capitalised borrowing costs (13) (15) Term debt Cross City Tunnel Trust—Term debt AUD 278m1 Dec 2019  278 Hills Motorway Trust—Term debt AUD 350m1 Mar 2020  350 M5 Motorway—Term debt AUD 272m3 Dec 2020 42 122 Lane Cove Tunnel Trust—Term debt AUD 160m1 May 2021  160 Cross City Tunnel Trust—Term debt AUD 280m Aug 2021 280 – Airport Motorway Trust—Term debt AUD 226m3 Mar 2022 186 206 Transurban Queensland Finance—Capex facility AUD 232m2 Aug 2022 232 – Hills Motorway Trust—Term debt AUD 408m1 Nov 2022  408 M5 Motorway—Term debt AUD 180m3 Dec 2022 180 180 Concession A25 LP—Term debt CAD 383m3 Feb 2023 395 407 Lane Cove Tunnel Trust—Term debt AUD 326m Oct 2024 326 – Lane Cove Tunnel Trust—Term debt AUD 60m May 2025 60 60 M5 Motorway—Term debt AUD 275m Jun 2025 275 275 Lane Cove Tunnel Trust—Term debt AUD 200m May 2028 200 200 Transurban Queensland Finance—Term debt AUD 200m Apr 2030 200 200 Hills Motorway Trust—Term debt AUD 475m Apr 2030 475 – Lane Cove Tunnel Trust—Term debt AUD 40m May 2031 40 40 Hills Motorway Trust—Term debt AUD 340m Apr 2035 340 – Virginia Transportation Infrastructure Bank Facility Limit USD $45m (plus accreted interest) Dec 2047 66 – Net capitalised borrowing costs (12) (5) 1. These facilities were refinanced during FY20. 2. This facility was refinanced during FY20. This facility was reduced by $593 million during FY19. 3. These facilities require principal repayments throughout their life, with $108 million due within one year of 30 June 2020 (2019: $104 million), classified as current borrowings. Section B: 135 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 34 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B14 Borrowings (continued) Financing arrangements and credit facilities (continued) Carrying value 2020 2019 Maturity $M $M Non-recourse debt (continued) TIFIA loans 495 Express Lanes—Facility limit USD 589m (plus accreted interest) Oct 20471,2 998 959 95 Express Lanes—Facility limit USD 300m (plus accreted interest) Jan 20481,2 372 366 Shareholder loan notes Loan from M5 Motorway consortium partners—AUD 65m Jun 2022 − 65 Loan from Transurban Queensland consortium partners—AUD 281m Dec 2048 281 281 Loan from Transurban Queensland consortium partners—AUD 38m3 Jul 2053 8 10 —1— Total non-recourse debt, net of capitalised borrowing costs 11,865 10,960 INTRODUCTION Total borrowings 21,078 18,466 1. This represents final maturity. AND OVERVIEW 2. These facilities require principal repayments throughout their life, with the first of such payment due in 2033 for 495 Express Lanes and 2035 for 95 Express Lanes. 3. A portion of these shareholder loan notes were repaid during FY19 and FY20. Working capital facilities —2—  The corporate facilities are secured by first ranking charges granted by Transurban Finance Company Pty Ltd, Transurban Finance BUSINESS Trust, Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust, Transurban International Limited and Transurban Limited; and  The Transurban Queensland Finance facility is secured against the respective rights of Transurban Queensland Holdings 1 Pty PERFORMANCE Limited, Transurban Queensland Holdings 2 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Invest Trust and their assets. Capital markets debt  A corporate secured EMTN programme was established in October 2011 with a program limit of USD2 billion, which increased to —3— USD5 billion in May 2015 and to USD10 billion in March 2020. Under the program the Group may from time to time issue notes GOVERNANCE denominated in any currency. These facilities are secured by first ranking charges granted by Transurban Finance Company Pty Ltd, Transurban Finance Trust, Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust, Transurban International Limited and Transurban Limited; AND RISK  The corporate US 144A notes are secured by first ranking charges granted by Transurban Finance Company Pty Ltd, Transurban Finance Trust, Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust, Transurban International Limited and Transurban Limited;  The Airport Motorway Trust domestic bond is secured against the respective rights of Airport Motorway Limited and Airport —4— Motorway Trust and their assets; DIRECTORS’  The Transurban Queensland Finance domestic bonds are secured against the respective rights of Transurban Queensland Holdings 1 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Holdings 2 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Invest Trust and their assets; REPORT  A Transurban Queensland Finance EMTN program was established in March 2016 with a program limit of USD2 billion. Under the programme, Transurban Queensland Finance may from time to time issue notes denominated in any currency. These notes are secured against the respective rights of Transurban Queensland Holdings 1 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Holdings 2 Pty —5— Limited, Transurban Queensland Invest Trust and their assets; REMUNERATION  The 95 Express Lanes Private Activity Bonds (PABs), including the PABs issued in relation to the 395 Express Lanes and Fredericksburg Extension, are secured against the rights of 95 Express Lanes LLC and its assets; and REPORT  The 495 Express Lanes PABs are secured against the rights of Capital Beltway Express LLC and its assets. U.S. private placement  Corporate U.S. private placement facilities are secured by first ranking charges granted by Transurban Finance Company Pty Ltd, —6— Transurban Finance Trust, Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust, Transurban International Limited and FINANCIAL Transurban Limited;  The Transurban Queensland Finance U.S private placement facilities are secured against the respective rights of Transurban Queensland Holdings 1 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Holdings 2 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Invest Trust and STATEMENTS their assets; and  The Cardinal Hold Co Canadian notes was a Private Placement issuance and are secured against the rights of Transurban Cardinal —7— Holdings Ltd. SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 136 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 35 B14 Borrowings (continued) Term debt  The Airport Motorway facility is secured against the respective rights of Airport Motorway Limited, the Airport Motorway Trust and their assets;  The Hills Motorway Trust facilities are secured against the respective rights of Hills Motorway Limited, Hills Motorway Trust and their assets;  The Lane Cove Tunnel facility is secured against the respective rights of LCT-MRE Pty Limited, LCT-MRE Trust and their assets;  The Cross City Tunnel facility is secured against the respective rights of Transurban CCT Pty Limited, Transurban CCT Trust and their assets;  The M5 Motorway facility is secured against the respective rights of Interlink Roads Pty Limited and their assets;  The Transurban Queensland Finance facilities are secured against the respective rights of Transurban Queensland Holdings 1 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Holdings 2 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Invest Trust and their assets; and  The A25 credit facility is secured against the respective rights of Concession A25 Funding Limited and Concession A25, L.P. and their assets. Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA)  The 495 Express Lanes TIFIA facility is secured against the rights of Capital Beltway Express LLC and its assets; and  The 95 Express Lanes TIFIA facility is secured against the rights of 95 Express Lanes LLC and its assets. Virginia Transportation Infrastructure Bank (VTIB)  The 95 Express Lanes VTIB facility is secured against the rights of 95 Express Lanes LLC and its assets. Shareholder loan notes  The loans to Transurban Queensland from the acquisition consortium partners are unsecured. Letters of credit and corporate credit facilities 2020 2019 $M $M Facility Amount Facility Amount Maturity amount issued amount issued 1 Letter of credit facility Aug 2020 139 139 140 140 Letter of credit facilities2 Jan 2021 55 55 240 240 Letter of credit facility Apr 2022 219 123 214 154 Working capital facility3 Aug 2022 3 3   Letter of credit facility1 Nov 2022 55 43 75 64 General credit facility4 Dec 2022 6 5 6 5 Letter of credit facilities1 Dec 2022 150 100 150 104 Letter of credit facility Feb 2023 13 13 13 13 Letter of credit facility Dec 2023 92 92 140 140 Total 732 573 978 860 1. These facilities were refinanced during FY20. 2. $10 million of the $55 million was refinanced during FY20. 3. Transurban Queensland $3 million letter of credit facility was refinanced in FY20. The $3 million drawn reflects letters of credit issued as these are not available to be drawn for working capital purposes 4. The general credit facility covers corporate requirements including credit card facilities, online banking and an overdraft facility. There are no claims against any of the issued letters of credit and therefore no liability is recorded as at 30 June 2020 (2019: $nil). Covenants A number of the Group's consolidated borrowings include financial covenants, which are listed below. There have been no breaches of any of these covenants during the year. The Group monitors covenants by applying forecast cash flows to ensure ongoing compliance with its obligations. This enables capital management decisions to be made at the asset level (including distributions) and considers any management actions that can be undertaken should actual cash flows not perform to budget. Refer to the Group’s going concern note (Note B3) for disclosure concerning forecast debt covenants that consider the impact of COVID-19. Corporate and non-recourse debt covenants are calculated on a trailing 12 month basis, moderating short-term earning impacts. A trailing 12 month metric also enables management action to be taken swiftly to mitigate the risks of any covenants breaches. Section B: 137 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 36 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B14 Borrowings (continued) Corporate Debt Covenant Covenant breach threshold Senior interest Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.25 times Group Market Capitalisation Gearing must not exceed 60%1 CityLink Interest Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.1 times 1. Based on the balance sheet as at 30 June 2020, the Group’s average closing security price over 20 consecutive business days would need to be below $5.01 (2019: $4.86) per security to trigger this clause. Non-Recourse Debt Covenant Covenant breach threshold A25 Interest Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.05 times M5 Motorway Debt Service Cover Ratio Greater than 1.10 times Airport Motorway Trust Interest Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.15 times Hills Motorway Trust Debt Service Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.10 times —1— 495 Express Lanes Senior Debt Service Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.15 times INTRODUCTION Lane Cove Tunnel Trust Interest Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.15 times Cross City Tunnel Trust Interest Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.15 times AND OVERVIEW Transurban Queensland Finance Interest Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.20 times Transurban Cardinal Holdings Senior Debt Service Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.30 times 95 Express Lanes Senior Debt Service Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.45 times —2— B15 Derivatives and financial risk management BUSINESS Derivatives PERFORMANCE 2020 2019 $M $M Current Non-current Current Non-current Assets Forward exchange contract—cash flow hedges – – 1 – —3— GOVERNANCE Cross-currency interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges 71 497 9 293 Total derivative financial instrument assets 71 497 10 293 AND RISK Liabilities Interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges 3 435 7 330 Forward exchange contracts—cash flow hedges 18 – – – Cross-currency interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges 75 197 – 166 —4— Total derivative financial instrument liabilities 96 632 7 496 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Accounting policy Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. The accounting for subsequent changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain —5— derivatives as either: REMUNERATION  hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedges);  hedges of a particular risk associated with the cash flows of recognised assets and liabilities and highly probable forecast REPORT transactions (cash flow hedges); or  hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (net investment hedges). At the inception of the hedging transaction the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instruments and hedged —6— items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents FINANCIAL its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions have been and will continue to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. When forward contracts are used to hedge forecast transactions, the Group generally designates the entire fair value of the forward contract as STATEMENTS the hedging instrument. The fair values of various derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in this note. Movements in the cash flow hedging reserve in equity are shown in Note B12. The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current —7— asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months. SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 138 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 37 B15 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Accounting policy (continued) Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the profit and loss, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings is recognised in the profit and loss within finance costs, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged fixed rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the profit and loss. If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used, is amortised to the profit and loss over the period to maturity using a recalculated effective interest rate. Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in reserves in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the profit and loss in the periods when the hedged item affects the profit and loss. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold or terminated, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the profit and loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the profit and loss. Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in reserves in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the profit and loss when the foreign operation is partially disposed or sold. Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the profit and loss. Hedging strategy and instruments used by the Group The Group uses derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business in order to hedge exposures to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates in accordance with the Group’s financial risk management policies. The Group’s policies allow derivative transactions to be undertaken for the purpose of reducing risk and do not permit speculative trading. The instruments used by the Group are as follows: Interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges The Group uses interest rate swap contracts to manage the Group’s exposure to variable interest rates related to borrowings. Interest rate swap contracts currently in place cover 100% (2019: 100%) of the variable debt held by the Group (excluding working capital facilities). Forward exchange contracts—cash flow hedges The Group currently uses forward exchange contracts to protect against exchange rate movements between the AUD and foreign currencies. The Group has hedged a portion of its USD and CAD interest commitments. Cross-currency interest rate contracts—cash flow hedges The Group has entered into cross-currency interest rate swap contracts to remove the risk of unfavourable exchange rate movements on borrowings held in foreign currencies. Under these contracts, the Group receives foreign currency at fixed rates and pays AUD at either fixed or floating rates. The Group then uses the interest rate swap contracts to hedge the floating interest rate commitments back to fixed interest rates. Section B: 139 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 38 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B15 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Hedging strategy and instruments used by the Group (continued) Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Currently there is no right or basis to present any financial assets or financial liabilities on a net basis, and as such no financial assets or financial liabilities have been presented on a net basis in the Group's balance sheet at the end of the financial year. Hedge of net investment in foreign entity Transurban's investment in its US and Canadian based assets (495 Express Lanes and 95 Express Lanes in the US, A25 in Canada) act as a natural hedge against the exposure to foreign currency movements for a portion of the Group’s USD denominated borrowings and CAD denominated borrowings. Exchange differences arising on the revaluation of these financial instruments are recognised in the profit and loss in the separate financial statements of the relevant subsidiaries. In the Group financial statements these exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve in equity and will be transferred to the profit and loss when the Group disposes its interest in either the US or Canadian based assets. As at 30 June 2020, the Group has deferred $163 million in losses (2019: $148 million losses) related to exchange differences on the revaluation of financial instruments and $116 million in gains —1— (2019: $104 million gains) related to exchange differences on the net assets of its US and Canadian assets. Power Purchase Agreement INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW The Group entered into three Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) in the financial year:  a 9 year PPA with Lakeland Wind Farm to support Transurban’s Queensland operations was entered into on 18 December 2019; and  two 9 year 9 month PPA’s with Sapphire Wind Farm and Banjo Wind Farm to support the NSW and WCX operations (does not —2— include NWRG, M5 West and WestConnex M4-M5 Link), entered into on 31 January 2020 and 5 March 2020 respectively. BUSINESS The PPAs operate as a ‘contract for difference’ (CfD) which is a derivative financial instrument, hence it is recorded on the balance PERFORMANCE sheet at fair value with movements recorded in the profit and loss. The CfD will be measured as a level 3 financial instrument as the key inputs, the electricity spot prices, cannot be forecasted (using observable market data) for the duration of the contract. As at 30 June 2020, the plants are not operational and the instrument’s fair values are offset by the day 1 deferred gains / losses. Financial risk management —3— GOVERNANCE The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk and interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The financial risk management function is carried out centrally under the policies approved by the Board. The Group AND RISK reviews operations actively to identify and monitor all financial risks and to mitigate these risks through the use of hedging instruments where appropriate. The Board is kept informed in a timely manner of any material exposures to financial risks. The Group monitors continuously risk exposures over time through reviewing cash flow sensitivities, market analysis and ongoing communication within the Group. When measuring financial risk, the Group considers the positive and negative exposures, existing —4— hedges and the ability to offset exposures. DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 140 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 39 B15 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk when future transactions and recognised assets and liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. Foreign currency exposures are viewed as either investment exposures or operating exposures. The Group generally manages exposures from investments in foreign assets using foreign currency debt. The Group’s policy is to ensure that, at any time, all known material operating exposures for the following twelve months are hedged using hedging instruments or are offset by drawing on foreign currency funds. The Group uses hedging instruments such as cross-currency swaps, as well as natural hedges such as foreign currencydenominated operating exposures and foreign currency borrowings, to manage these exposures. The effects of the foreign currency related hedging instruments on the Group’s financial position and performance are as follows: 2020 2019 $M $M Net investment in foreign operation—USD Carrying amount 966 1,165 USD carrying amount 662 818 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 Change in carrying amount of loan as a result of foreign currency movements 22 70 Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness 27 59 Net investment in foreign operation—CAD Carrying amount 541 634 CAD carrying amount 507 583 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 Change in carrying amount of loan as a result of foreign currency movements (15) 26 Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness (12) 23 2020 2019 $M $M Cross-currency interest rate swaps Carrying amount 296 135 Notional amount 10,417 8,662 Maturity dates August 2020 – December 2019 – July 2034 May 2034 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 Change in discounted value of outstanding hedging instruments 201 115 Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness (183) (112) Section B: 141 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 40 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B15 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Market risk (continued) Foreign exchange risk (continued) Maturity profile—notional value of cross-currency interest rate swaps are as follows: Total 2020 Less than 1–5 Over nominal $M 12 months years 5 years amount Cross-currency swaps (AUD:USD) (148) – 2,810 2,662 Average AUD-USD exchange rate 0.76 – 0.75 NA1 2 Average fixed interest rate 3.2% – 5.1% NA1 Cross-currency swaps (AUD:EUR) 500 600 2,700 3,800 Average AUD-EUR exchange rate 0.71 0.72 0.63 NA1 Average fixed interest rate2 4.4% 5.4% 4.4% NA1 Cross-currency swaps (AUD:CHF) – 200 375 575 Average AUD-CHF exchange rate – 0.72 0.74 NA1 —1— INTRODUCTION 2 1 Average fixed interest rate – 4.6% 4.5% NA Cross-currency swaps (AUD:NOK) – – 750 750 AND OVERVIEW Average AUD-NOK exchange rate – – 6.42 NA1 Average fixed interest rate2 – – 4.5% NA1 2019 —2— $M BUSINESS Cross-currency swaps (AUD:USD) 109 (148) 2,810 2,771 Average AUD-USD exchange rate 0.74 0.76 0.75 NA1 PERFORMANCE 2 Average fixed interest rate 2.2% 3.2% 5.1% NA1 Cross-currency swaps (AUD:EUR) – 500 2,200 2,700 Average AUD-EUR exchange rate – 0.71 0.68 NA1 2 Average fixed interest rate – 4.4% 4.8% NA1 —3— Cross-currency swaps (AUD:CHF) – 200 375 575 GOVERNANCE 1 Average AUD-CHF exchange rate – 0.72 0.74 NA Average fixed interest rate2 – 4.6% 4.5% NA1 Cross-currency swaps (AUD:NOK) – – 750 750 AND RISK Average AUD-NOK exchange rate – – 6.42 NA1 Average fixed interest rate2 – – 4.5% NA1 1. NA―Not applicable —4— 2. Based on average fixed rate of cross currency swap contracts, which does not include any margins that may be applicable on the hedged debt instrument. DIRECTORS’ Effectiveness of hedging relationships designated are as follows: REPORT Line item in Amount reclassified 2020 Hedge loss recognised in Hedge ineffectiveness profit and loss that from other Line item in $M other comprehensive recognised in profit includes hedge comprehensive income profit and loss for income and loss ineffectiveness to profit and loss reclassification —5— Foreign currency risk (270) (30) Net finance costs (13) Net finance costs REMUNERATION 2019 REPORT $M Foreign currency risk (115) 5 Net finance costs (36) Net finance costs Exposure to foreign currency risk at the reporting date, denominated in the currency in which the risk arises are as follows: —6— FINANCIAL 2020 Local 2019 Local $M $M STATEMENTS USD EUR CAD CHF NOK USD EUR CAD CHF NOK Net investment in foreign operation 809 – 507 – – 818 – 583 – – Borrowings (3,629) (3,800) (650) (575) (750) (3,738) (2,700) (650) (575) (750) Foreign exchange forwards 304 (4) – – – – – – – – —7— Cross-currency interest rate swaps 2,662 3,800 – 575 750 2,771 2,700 – 575 750 SECURITY HOLDER Net exposure 146 (4) (143) – – (149) – (67) – – INFORMATION 142 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 41 B15 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Market risk (continued) Foreign exchange risk (continued) Sensitivity to exchange rate movements based on the translation of financial instruments held at the end of the period is as follows: 2020 2019 $M $M Movement Increase/ Movement Increase/ in post-tax (decrease) in post-tax (decrease) profit in equity profit in equity AUD/USD + 10 cents – (146) – (68) 10 cents – 179 – 94 AUD/EUR + 5 cents – (59) – (35) 5 cents – 70 – 41 AUD/CAD + 10 cents (10) (1) – 3 10 cents 13 1 – (4) AUD/CHF + 10 cents – (9) – (8) 10 cents – 6 – 10 AUD/NOK + 50 cents – (1) – (1) 50 cents – 1 – 1 The Group revalues its foreign currency denominated borrowings each period using market spot rates and, where these borrowings have been appropriately hedged, defers these movements in the cash flow hedge reserve in equity. The volatility in the cash flow hedge reserve is caused mainly by fair value movements of the cross-currency interest rate swaps, which are affected by changes in forward Australian dollar/foreign currency exchange rates. Interest rate risk The Group’s main exposure to interest rate risk arises from our borrowings and cash and cash equivalents. The Group manages the interest rate risk on our borrowings by entering into fixed rate debt facilities or by using interest rate swaps to convert floating rate debt to fixed interest rates. The Group’s policy is to hedge the interest rate exposure on drawn debt to between 80% and 100%, and to ensure compliance with any covenant requirements of our funding facilities. As at 30 June 2020, 91% (2019: 100%) of the Group’s interest rate exposure on variable rate borrowings was hedged. The effects of the interest rate related hedging instruments on the Group’s financial position and performance are as follows: 2020 2019 $M $M Interest rate swaps Carrying amount 282 210 Notional amount 3,705 2,807 Maturity dates August 2020 – September 2019 – January 2035 May 2034 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 Change in fair value of outstanding hedging instruments (71) (85) Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness 74 114 Section B: 143 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 42 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B15 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Market risk (continued) Interest rate risk (continued) Maturity profile―notional value of interest rate swaps are as follows: 2020 $M Total Less than Over nominal 12 months 1–5 years 5 years amount $M $M $M $M Interest rate swaps 528 1,635 1,542 3,705 Average fixed interest rate1 3.8% 3.0% 4.8% – —1— 2019 INTRODUCTION $M Interest rate swaps 847 980 980 2,807 AND OVERVIEW Average fixed interest rate1 3.2% 2.8% 3.2% – 1. Based on average fixed rate of interest rate swap contracts, which does not include any margins that may be applicable on the hedged debt instrument. Effectiveness of hedging relationships designated are as follows: —2— Amount reclassified BUSINESS 2020 Hedge ineffectiveness Line item in profit and from other Line item in $M Hedge gain recognised recognised in loss that includes hedge comprehensive income profit and loss for PERFORMANCE in other comprehensive profit and loss ineffectiveness to profit and loss reclassification income $M $M $M $M $M Interest rate risk 277 2 Net finance costs – Net finance costs —3— 2019 $M GOVERNANCE Interest rate risk 154 2 Net finance costs – Net finance costs AND RISK As at the reporting date, the Group had the following cash balances, variable rate borrowings and interest rate swap contracts outstanding: 2020 2019 —4— $M $M Cash and cash equivalents 2,349 1,630 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Floating rate borrowings (3,818) (3,438) Interest rate swaps (notional principal amount) 3,486 3,438 Net exposure to interest rate risk 2,017 1,630 Sensitivity to interest rate movements based on variable rate cash balances, variable rate borrowings and interest rate swap contracts is as follows: —5— REMUNERATION Movement in post-tax profit and equity 2020 2019 REPORT $M $M Interest rates +100bps 20 16 Interest rates –100bps (20) (16) —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 144 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 43 B15 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations, resulting in financial loss. The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk from operating activities, and has policies in place to ensure that transactions are made with commercial customers with an appropriate credit history. However, as an operator of large infrastructure assets, the Group is exposed to credit risk with its financial counterparties through entering into financial transactions in the ordinary course of business. These include funds held on deposit, cash investments and the market value of derivative transactions. The Group assesses the credit strength of potential financial counterparties using objective ratings provided by multiple independent rating agencies. The Board approved policies ensure that higher limits are granted to higher rated counterparties. The Group also seeks to mitigate its total credit exposure to counterparties by only dealing with credit worthy entities, limiting the exposure to any one counterparty, minimising the size of the exposure where possible through netting offsetting exposures, diversifying exposures across counterparties, closely monitoring changes in total credit exposures and changes in credit status, and taking mitigating action when necessary. Since the onset of COVID-19, credit exposures and compliance with internal credit limits continue to be monitored daily. An International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) agreement must be in place between the Transurban dealing entity and the counterparty prior to executing any derivatives and netting provisions are included. Liquidity risk The Group maintains sufficient cash and undrawn facilities to maintain short term flexibility and enable the Group to meet financial commitments in a timely manner. The Group assesses liquidity over the short term (up to 12 months) and medium term (1 to 5 years) by maintaining accurate forecasts of operating expenses, committed capital expenditure, debt maturities and payments to security holders. Long term liquidity requirements are reviewed as part of the annual strategic planning process. Short term liquidity is managed by maintaining a strategic level of liquidity at the corporate level of the Group. This reserve is based on the Group’s forecast annual operating costs and certain risk exposure scenarios as maintained by the Group’s strategic risk register, and is maintained as cash and undrawn facilities. The reserve has historically been maintained on a rolling 12 month basis. In light of the deterioration in revenue and cash flows observed as a consequence of COVID-19, forecasting is being performed more frequently to ensure the strategic liquidity reserve is being maintained to adequate levels. Medium term liquidity forecasting is maintained on a rolling five year horizon. All Australian assets are currently forecasting to have sufficient liquidity to withstand the current and potential ongoing deterioration in revenue and cash flow due to COVID-19 restrictions. Existing cash reserves are sufficient to cover periods of negative cash flows, however some subsidiary assets will need to adopt a conservative position on paying distributions to retain sufficient asset level liquidity. All North American assets are currently forecast to have sufficient liquidity to meet their debt obligations, primarily based on existing cash reserves and loan structures. Some debt repayments may be capitalised which is a feature of some debt facilities in North America. Transurban Finance Company Pty Ltd, Transurban’s corporate borrowing entity is currently forecast to maintain all required liquidity buffers for the Group as required under the Group’s Treasury Policy. Financing arrangements The Group has access to the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the reporting period: 2020 2019 $M $M Floating rate Expiring within one year 280 252 Expiring beyond one year 3,090 1,716 3,370 1,968 As at 30 June 2020, the Group has letter of credit facilities and general credit facilities in place with an undrawn capacity of $159 million (2019: $118 million). The facilities are committed for the duration of the facility and the undrawn portion cannot be withdrawn by the lenders. Section B: 145 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 44 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B15 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Liquidity risk (continued) Contractual maturities of financial liabilities The amounts disclosed in the following table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of the Group’s financial liabilities. For interest rate swaps, the cash flows have been estimated using forward interest rates applicable at the end of the reporting period. 2020 Total $M 1 year Over 1 to 2 Over 2 to 3 Over 3 to 4 Over 4 to 5 Over contractual Carrying or less years years years years 5 years cash flows amount Trade payables 485 – – – – – 485 485 Borrowings 1,917 1,632 1,907 877 2,291 18,846 27,470 21,078 Interest rate swaps1 82 72 62 54 43 153 466 438 Cross-currency swaps1 176 177 177 166 167 488 1,351 (296) Foreign exchange forwards 18 – – – – – 18 18 Concession and promissory notes – – – – – 573 573 101 —1— Lease Liabilities 17 17 16 17 18 105 190 152 INTRODUCTION Other liabilities 4 4 342 4 4 155 513 355 Total 2,699 1,902 2,504 1,118 2,523 20,320 31,066 22,331 AND OVERVIEW 2019 Total $M 1 year Over 1 to 2 Over 2 to 3 Over 3 to 4 Over 4 to 5 Over contractual Carrying or less years years years years 5 years cash flows amount —2— BUSINESS Trade payables 513 – – – – – 513 513 Borrowings 1,379 2,184 1,304 1,922 755 17,783 25,327 18,466 PERFORMANCE Interest rate swaps1 66 54 45 37 32 142 376 337 Cross-currency swaps1 152 168 155 155 145 518 1,293 (137) Concession and promissory notes – – – – – 546 546 107 Other liabilities 83 4 335 4 4 155 585 412 Total 2,193 2,410 1,839 2,118 936 19,144 28,640 19,698 —3— GOVERNANCE 1. The carrying value of the interest rate and cross-currency swaps are presented on a net basis. The gross position is disclosed in the first table of Note B15. Capital management AND RISK The Group's objectives when managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital, so that it can continue to provide returns to security holders and benefits for other stakeholders. Fair value measurements —4— The carrying amount of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair value. This is also generally the case with borrowings DIRECTORS’ since either the interest payable on those borrowings is close to current market rates or the borrowings are of a short-term nature. The fair REPORT values of non-current borrowings are determined based on discounted cash flows using a current borrowing rate. They are classified as level 2 fair values in the fair value hierarchy due to the use of observable inputs. Fair value is categorised within the fair value hierarchy based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: —5— REMUNERATION  Level 1—quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;  Level 2—inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (as REPORT prices) or indirectly (derived from prices); and  Level 3—inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). All of the Group’s financial instruments measured, recognised and disclosed at fair value are valued using market observable inputs (level 2), except for the PPAs. The PPAs operate as a CfD and are measured as a level 3 financial instrument as the key inputs, the electricity spot prices, —6— cannot be forecasted (using observable market data) for the duration of the contract. As at 30 June 2020, the power plants that are the subject of the PPA are not operational and the instruments’ fair values are offset by their day 1 deferred gain / loss. FINANCIAL There were no transfers between levels during the period and there has been no change in the valuation techniques applied. STATEMENTS KEY ESTIMATE AND JUDGEMENT —7— The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined using valuation SECURITY HOLDER techniques. The Group uses its judgement to select a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each reporting date. The fair value of both cross-currency interest rate swaps and interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the end of the reporting period. INFORMATION 146 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 45 Concession summary The table below summarises the key balance sheet items of the Group’s concession assets by geographical region: 2020 $M North Carrying Melbourne Sydney Brisbane America amount Equity accounted investment carrying amount – 3,435 – – 3,435 Service concession intangible assets carrying amount 2,899 6,309 7,796 4,486 21,490 Concession financial asset – – – 358 358 Assets under construction1 3,727 – – 625 4,352 Goodwill 1 260 205 – 466 Maintenance provision (161) (243) (601) (201) (1,206) Construction obligation provision (1,589) – – – (1,589) 2019 $M North Carrying Melbourne Sydney Brisbane America amount Equity accounted investment carrying amount – 3,610 – 4 3,614 Service concession intangible assets carrying amount 3,039 6,742 7,566 4,045 21,392 Concession financial asset – – – 369 369 Assets under construction1 3,811 – 445 856 5,112 Goodwill 1 260 205 – 466 Maintenance provision (155) (228) (620) (159) (1,162) Construction obligation provision (2,222) – – – (2,222) 1. Assets under construction are included within other intangible assets in the consolidated balance sheet. KEY ESTIMATE AND JUDGEMENT The Group makes certain assumptions in calculating the recoverable amount of its goodwill (Note B16), other intangible assets (Note B17) and equity accounted investments (Note B25). These include assumptions around expected traffic flows (including COVID-19 impacts) and forecast operational costs. In performing the recoverable amount calculations, the Group has applied the assumptions noted in the table in Note B16. Management do not consider that any reasonable possible change in the assumptions will result in the carrying amount of a cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated exceeding its recoverable amount. Section B: 147 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 46 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B16 Goodwill 2020 2019 $M $M Cost 466 466 Carrying amount 466 466 Goodwill primarily relates to the Group's Sydney Network cash generating unit (CGU) and Brisbane Network CGU and has arisen from the acquisition of Hills Motorway Group, Tollaust Pty Limited and the Sydney Roads Group in Sydney and the Queensland Motorways Group in Brisbane. Impairment testing of goodwill The Group assesses whether there is an indication of impairment at each reporting period and tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, regardless of whether an indicator of impairment exists. The economic impact of COVID-19 and its direct impact on traffic performance, is considered an impairment trigger in the year ended 30 June 2020 for the Group’s goodwill. Impairment testing is undertaken by calculating the recoverable amount, which is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable —1— cash inflows which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets (CGU). INTRODUCTION Where the carrying amount of an intangible asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written AND OVERVIEW down to its recoverable amount through the profit and loss. The decrement in the carrying amount is recognised as an expense in the profit and loss in the reporting period in which the impairment occurs. The recoverable amount of the Group’s CGUs has been determined based on value-in-use calculations. —2— The following table sets out the key assumptions on which management have based their cash flow projections. The calculations use BUSINESS three year cash flow projections based on financial plans reviewed by the Board which include management’s estimate of the reduction in traffic volumes arising from COVID-19. Cash flows beyond this period are modelled using a consistent set of long-term PERFORMANCE assumptions up to the end of the applicable concession period: Melbourne Sydney Brisbane 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 Long term CPI (% annual growth) 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 2.7% —3— Long term average weekly earnings (% annual growth) 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% GOVERNANCE Pre-tax discount rate (%) 8.2% 8.2% 8.2% 8.2% 8.2% 8.2% AND RISK Management have determined the values assigned to each of the below key assumptions as follows: Assumption Approach used to determined values Traffic volume Based on the Group’s short term and long term traffic forecasting models, which incorporate management’s estimate of the impact on traffic from COVID-19. In —4— developing these forecasts, management utilised external observable data to benchmark current traffic performance against estimated improvement in traffic DIRECTORS’ profiles. The improvement in traffic is expected to be associated with government responses (including restrictions on movement) to COVID-19. Refer to Note B17 for REPORT additional information on the traffic volume assumption. Long term CPI (% annual growth) Based on independent external forecasts Long term average weekly earnings (% annual growth) Based on independent external forecasts Pre-tax discount rate Discount rates consider specific risks relating to the CGU. In performing the value-in-use —5— calculations for each CGU, the Group has applied pre-tax discount rates to discount the REMUNERATION forecast future attributable pre-tax cash flows. The pre-tax discount rates are disclosed in the table above. Discount rates factor in the risk associated with possible variations in the REPORT forecast impact to traffic volumes plus the increased volatility in markets that has been observed following the onset of COVID-19. The impairment testing indicates the recoverable amount of each Group CGU to which goodwill has been allocated exceeds its carrying amount (after allocating goodwill). Therefore, there is no goodwill that is impaired as at 30 June 2020. —6— Sensitivity analysis has been performed within each of the CGU valuation models to determine whether it is feasible that the recoverable amount of the CGU could fall below its net carrying amount (after allocating goodwill) under reasonably possible FINANCIAL scenarios of shifts in key assumptions. The results from the sensitivity analysis show that the recoverable amount of the CGU did not fall below its carrying amount (after allocating goodwill) under any of the sensitivity scenarios. This is mainly due to the length of the STATEMENTS remaining term of the Group’s service concession arrangements, with the majority of the recoverable amount generated beyond the near term period impacted by COVID-19. —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 148 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 47 B17 Other intangible assets 2020 $M Concession Assets under Other assets construction1 intangibles Total Cost 28,539 4,477 114 33,130 Accumulated amortisation (7,049) (125) (16) (7,190) Net carrying amount 21,490 4,352 98 25,940 2019 $M Concession Assets under Other assets construction intangibles Total Cost 27,539 5,112 106 32,757 Accumulated amortisation (6,147) – (6) (6,153) Net carrying amount 21,392 5,112 100 26,604 Movement in other intangible assets Concession Assets under Other assets construction1 intangibles Total $M $M $M $M Net carrying amount at 1 July 2019 21,392 5,112 100 26,604 Additions – 387 8 395 Foreign exchange movements and other adjustments 10 (32) – (22) Transfers 990 (990) – – Amortisation charge (902) (125) (10) (1,037) Net carrying amount at 30 June 2020 21,490 4,352 98 25,940 Net carrying amount at 1 July 2018 19,774 1,143 21 20,938 Additions 23 4,019 85 4,127 Acquisition of subsidiary 2,196 – – 2,196 Foreign exchange movements and other adjustments 215 10 – 225 Transfers 60 (60) – – Amortisation charge (876) – (6) (882) Net carrying amount at 30 June 2019 21,392 5,112 100 26,604 1. The amortisation charge recorded in assets under construction relates to the component of the West Gate Tunnel Project asset under construction which is related to CityLink funding contributions for which funding sources began to be received from 1 July 2020. Concession assets represent the Group's rights to operate roads under Service Concession Arrangements. Service Concession Arrangements are accounted for in accordance with AASB Interpretation 12 Service Concession Arrangements (IFRIC 12), which establishes a framework for classification of the assets based on an intangible asset model and a financial asset model (bifurcated arrangements can also exist). Assets under construction are accounted for as contract assets in accordance with AASB15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers until they are available for use. The Group classifies assets under construction based on whether the consideration provides rights to an intangible asset or a financial asset. Intangible asset model Concession assets that do not meet the criteria of the financial asset model are classified as intangible assets and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the term of the concession arrangement. Transurban has the right to toll the concession assets for the concession period. Extensions to the concession period have been granted for a number of individual concessions as a result of road development projects and improvements. At the end of the concession period, all concession assets are to be returned to the respective Government. The remaining terms of the right to operate period are reflected below: 2020 2019 years years1 Melbourne—Victorian State Government 25 26 Sydney—New South Wales State Government 6–28 7–29 Brisbane—Queensland State Government and Brisbane City Council 31–45 32–46 North America—Commonwealth of Virginia and Ministry of Transport of Quebec (MTQ) 22–67 23–68 1. During the year ended 30 June 2019 the CityLink Concession Deed in Melbourne was amended and the concession end date was extended from January 2035 to January 2045. The concession end date for M5 Motorway is December 2026 at which point it will form part of the WCX M5 concession. Section B: 149 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 48 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B17 Other intangible assets (continued) Indicators of impairment At each reporting period the Group assesses whether there is an indication of impairment for the Group’s concession intangible assets. Where an indicator of impairment is identified, impairment testing is performed. Consistent with goodwill, the economic impact of COVID-19 and the direct impact on traffic performance, is considered an impairment trigger in the year ended 30 June 2020. Accordingly, impairment testing has been performed for each of the Group’s concession intangible assets, inclusive of the Group’s North American concession intangible assets. Recoverable amounts were based on the higher of value-in-use and fair value less costs of disposal, estimated using discounted cash flows. The key assumptions on which management have based their cash flow projections are traffic volumes, long-term CPI and discount rate. Management have estimated the recoverable amount of each Group concession intangible asset using three year cash flow projections based on financial plans reviewed by the Board. Management have estimated a near term reduction in traffic volumes arising from COVID-19 before the commencement of a gradual improvement in the traffic profile that is associated with an expected easing of government-mandated restrictions. Thereafter, traffic volumes are modelled to continue to improve before traffic growth reverts to a set of market based long-term assumptions up to the end of the applicable concession period. The expected —1— improvement in traffic profile is broadly the same across each of the Group’s concession intangible assets. INTRODUCTION Discount rates consider specific risks relating to the CGU. Discount rates also factor in the risk associated with possible variations in AND OVERVIEW the traffic forecast including impacts of COVID-19. Long-term CPI is based on independent external forecasts. The impairment testing indicates the recoverable amount exceeds the relevant carrying amount for all of the Group’s concession intangible assets. This is mainly due to the length of the remaining term of the Group’s service concession arrangements, with the majority of the recoverable amount generated beyond the near term period impacted by COVID-19. —2— BUSINESS As part of the impairment testing, sensitivity analysis has been performed which considers reasonably possible changes in the above key assumptions for each of the Group’s concession intangible assets. Except for the A25, the impairment assessment of the PERFORMANCE Group’s concession intangible assets were not sensitive to reasonable possible changes in key assumptions. The recoverable amount of the A25 was calculated based on fair value less costs of disposal and exceeds the carrying amount by less than 5% (carrying amount $1,272 million at 30 June 2020). The A25 was acquired in June 2018 and due to the recency of the acquisition, the concession intangible asset may be impaired if there were a reasonable possible change in key assumptions relating to traffic volume, the discount rate or long-term CPI. The asset has performed ahead of acquisition assumptions and despite the impact of —3— COVID-19 on near term cash flows, there has not been a material change to long-term assumptions. Accordingly, and in consideration of the A25’s reducing carrying amount through amortisation, there is no impairment as at 30 June 2020. GOVERNANCE Assets under construction AND RISK Assets under construction as at 30 June 2020 include the construction of the West Gate Tunnel Project in Melbourne and Fredericksburg Extension in North America. —4— Construction costs relating to completed works are transferred to the concession asset upon final completion of the projects. In the current period this related to costs associated with the Logan Enhancement Project in Brisbane and the 395 Express Lanes in North DIRECTORS’ America. REPORT For the purposes of impairment testing, these balances are classified as contract assets and subject to the impairment requirements in AASB 9 Financial Instruments. Applying the expected credit loss model to the Group’s assets under construction resulted in a $nil loss allowance being recorded (2019: $nil). The expected credit loss model as at 30 June 2020 included consideration of the impacts arising from COVID-19, which were limited due to the financial strength of the Group’s government —5— counterparties. Further, these infrastructure projects have been allowed to continue construction through the period of government-mandated restrictions. There has been no material change in construction timetables for the West Gate Tunnel Project REMUNERATION (WGTP) and the Fredericksburg Extension due to COVID-19. REPORT Management considers the carrying amount of assets under construction to be appropriate as at 30 June 2020. West Gate Tunnel Project —6— The West Gate Tunnel Project is being funded by the right to toll from the amended CityLink Concession Deed and the right to toll FINANCIAL the West Gate Tunnel once construction is completed. Funding sources in connection with the CityLink Concession Deed began to be received from 1 July 2019, at which time the asset under construction attributable to the CityLink funding sources began to amortise through to the concession end date of January 2045. STATEMENTS During the course of construction the D&C subcontractor has made a number of claims, including claims relating to the presence, classification and disposal of per and polyfluorinated alkyl substances (PFAS), which the D&C subcontractor claims have an impact —7— on its ability to complete the project within the contractual sum and project schedule. PFAS is a group of chemicals, low levels of SECURITY HOLDER which are predicted by the D&C subcontractor to be found in some of the soil excavated to build the tunnels. To date, most of these claims have been assessed as forming part of the ‘Linked Claims’ and 'Linked Disputes’ framework and have been passed onto the State of Victoria for assessment in accordance with the relevant contracts. The nature of the ‘Linked Claims’ mechanism within the INFORMATION relevant contracts means that the obligation should not rest with the Group. Section B: 150 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 49 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 B17 Other intangible assets (continued) Assets under construction (continued) West Gate Tunnel Project (continued) Furthermore in the period from January to April 2020, the D&C subcontractor purported to terminate the D&C subcontract with Transurban WGT Co Pty Ltd three times and also noted their intention to continue works on site. The purported terminations relate to issues in respect of the presence, classification and disposal of PFAS. Works have continued on the site. Transurban does not consider the D&C Subcontract to have been validly terminated and, as such, Transurban believes the contract remains valid. In response to commercial matters and claims that have arisen on the Project, dispute resolution processes are underway and are being progressed. The presence of commercial matters, claims and dispute resolution processes results in additional risk of the contracted works being completed by the D&C subcontractor within the agreed schedule and contractual sum. The West Gate Tunnel Project’s opening is now expected in 2023 (previously 2022) and there are a number of technical and commercial challenges to work through in order to commence tunnelling on the Project. The Group is working with the State of Victoria and D&C subcontractor to mitigate delays to the construction schedule and to reduce the risk of cost overruns. The Group is assessing a number of options to resolve these challenges and facilitate the progression of the project. The West Gate Tunnel Project is one of a number of construction projects Transurban oversees. In overseeing these projects, there is the potential for actual or potential future claims or possible commercial payments to third parties in excess of, or separate to, the amounts stipulated in the D&C subcontracts. As at 30 June 2020 any possible payments, including in relation to the West Gate Tunnel Project, cannot be reliably estimated. KEY ESTIMATE AND JUDGEMENT As at 30 June 2020 the Group has a number of construction projects at varying stages of completion. The Group is exposed to direct and indirect construction risk including through its third party contractors. Construction risk includes exposures to claims made on the Group and claims that the Group may pass through or initiate on others. From time to time the Group may make payments, not necessarily stipulated in the D&C subcontract itself, to facilitate the continued progression of the Group’s construction projects. As at 30 June 2020 there is an increased risk of claims linked to COVID-19, with claims activity observed across the construction industry owing to the impact of COVID-19 on construction schedules. The Group regularly monitors its exposure to construction risks, assessing impacts to the financial statements at the conclusion of each reporting period. As at 30 June 2020 any possible payments relating to actual or potential future claims or possible commercial payments to third parties in excess of, or separate to the amounts stipulated in the D&C subcontracts, cannot be reliably estimated. Section B: 151 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 50 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B18 Concession financial asset The Group’s financial asset only relates to A25 as at 30 June 2020 and 30 June 2019. 2020 2019 Note $M $M Opening carrying value 369 349 Additional finance income recognised B13 25 23 Cash received (28) (26) Foreign exchange movements and other adjustments (8) 23 Closing carrying value 358 369 Including: Current asset B8 27 28 Non-current asset 331 341 Total concession financial asset 358 369 The financial asset model within IFRIC 12 applies to service concession arrangements whereby the Group has an unconditional contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset as the consideration for the construction services provided to the grantor —1— of the concession. The unconditional contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset arises under two scenarios:  the respective Government authority guarantees to pay the Group specified amounts throughout the term of the concession INTRODUCTION arrangement (such as availability payments) provided certain asset operating conditions are met; or  the respective Government authority guarantees to pay the Group any shortfall between amounts received from users of the AND OVERVIEW asset and an amount specified within the concession agreement (guaranteed toll revenue arrangements). For amounts received under these arrangements the traffic risk is not borne by the Group. The portion of concession arrangements —2— accounted for under the financial asset model in IFRIC 12 are presented as a financial receivable within the Group’s consolidated BUSINESS balance sheet. The Group classifies its Concession financial asset at amortised cost as the objective of the Group’s business model is to collect the contractual cash flows and the contractual terms give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and PERFORMANCE interest. Management have assessed the impacts arising from COVID-19 and do not consider there to be evidence of a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of these balances. This is mainly due to there being no significant change in the nature of or the collectability of these balances. The loss allowance for this concession financial asset continues to be limited to 12 months of —3— expected losses. These balances continue to have low credit risk as they have a low risk of default and the government counterparty GOVERNANCE has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow obligations in the near term. Applying the expected credit loss model to the Group’s Concession financial asset at amortised cost resulted in a $nil loss allowance being recorded (2019: $nil). The fair value of the receivable is determined at the inception of the service concession arrangement based on the discounted AND RISK present value of cash flows to be received over the concession life. A portion of the receivable is recognised with corresponding revenue recorded for construction services based on the progress of the construction services provided in each period. Post completion of construction services, interest income is recorded to recognise the unwind of discounted future cash flows, while also —4— increasing the receivable balance. Amounts received from the respective Government authority are offset against the financial asset DIRECTORS’ receivable. REPORT The concession asset of the A25 asset in Canada are accounted for using a bifurcated model, being:  Financial asset model for the income streams of an unconditional contractual right to receive cash from MTQ, including the availability payments and the minimum guaranteed toll income; and  Intangible asset model for the remaining income streams (refer to Note B17). —5— REMUNERATION B19 Maintenance provision Movement in maintenance provision Current Non-current REPORT $M $M Carrying value at 1 July 2019 156 1,006 Additional provision recognised – 130 —6— Amounts paid/utilised (135) – Unwinding of discount – 45 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Transfer 83 (83) Foreign exchange movements – 4 Carrying value at 30 June 2020 104 1,102 —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 152 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 51 B19 Maintenance provision (continued) Movement in maintenance provision (continued) Current Non-current $M $M Carrying value at 1 July 2018 149 914 Additional provision recognised – 129 Acquisition of subsidiary 2 38 Amounts paid/utilised (120) – Unwinding of discount – 44 Transfer 125 (125) Foreign exchange movements – 6 Carrying value at 30 June 2019 156 1,006 KEY ESTIMATE AND JUDGEMENT As part of its obligations under the service concession arrangements, the Group assumes responsibility for the maintenance and repair of installations of the publicly owned roads it operates (including associated tolling equipment and systems). The Group records a provision for its present obligation to maintain the motorways held under concession deeds. The Group periodically reassesses the estimate of its present obligation, which includes consideration of the results of routine inspections performed over the condition of the roads it operates. Any incremental maintenance and repair activities identified through this process are assessed for whether they are the sole responsibility of the Group or whether they are the responsibility of other parties. To the extent the Group believes other parties are responsible for the maintenance or repair or remediation, the Group may initiate claims on those parties. These assessments inform the timing and extent of planned future maintenance activities, notwithstanding the provision recorded at period end continues to capture the Group’s maintenance and repair obligations under the concession deeds. The provision is included in the financial statements at the present value of expected future payments. The calculations to discount these amounts to their present value are based on the estimated timing and profile of expenditure occurring on the roads. B20 Construction obligation provision West Gate Tunnel Project The West Gate Tunnel Project is being funded by tolling income from the CityLink Concession Deed and the receipt of future tolling income from the West Gate Tunnel Project. The CityLink Concession Deed was amended in April 2019, requiring the recognition of an incremental asset within other intangible assets and a corresponding liability. The liability represents the Group’s obligation to complete construction of the West Gate Tunnel Project, attributable to the remaining CityLink funding sources payments. The liability will reduce as payments are made in connection with the CityLink funding sources. The estimated nominal value of the remaining funding sources payments attributable to CityLink is $1,691 million as at 30 June 2020. Current Non-current West Gate West Gate Tunnel Project Tunnel Project Total $M $M $M Carrying value at 1 July 2019 831 1,391 2,222 Adjustments recorded to assets under construction – (26) (26) Amounts paid/utilised (631) – (631) Unwinding of discount – 24 24 Transfer 567 (567) – Carrying value at 30 June 2020 767 822 1,589 Carrying value at 1 July 2018 Liability recognised on date of transaction 1,018 1,325 2,343 Amounts paid/utilised (187) – (187) Unwinding of discount – 66 66 Carrying value at 30 June 2019 831 1,391 2,222 KEY ESTIMATE AND JUDGEMENT The Group has a construction liability for the West Gate Tunnel Project attributable to the CityLink funding sources from the CityLink Concession Deed Amendments. The construction liability is measured at the present value of the remaining CityLink funding sources payments. Assumptions are made in determining the timing and profile, based on the expected cash flows to be paid through completion of construction of the West Gate Tunnel Project. A discount rate is used to value the construction liability to its present value, which is determined with reference to the Group’s cost of debt. A discount rate of 5.1% was used on recognition of the liability in April 2019. The current balance represents the payments the Group expects to be made within 12 months from the reporting date, with the non-current portion being the present value of payments beyond 12 months from the reporting date. Section B: 153 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 52 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B21 Other liabilities—concession liabilities 2020 2019 $M $M M1 Eastern Distributor concession note 41 44 M2 Motorway promissory note 60 63 Fredericksburg Extension payable 305 363 M1 Eastern Distributor The Eastern Distributor project deed between Airport Motorway Limited, Airport Motorway Trust and the Transport for New South Wales (TfNSW) provides for annual concession fees of $15 million during the construction phase and for the first 24 years after completion of construction of the M1 Eastern Distributor. Until a certain threshold return is achieved, payments of concession fees due under the Project Deed will be satisfied by means of the issue of non-interest bearing concession notes. The face value of concession notes on issue as at 30 June 2020 is $345 million (2019: $330 million). M2 Motorway —1— The Hills Motorway Trust has entered into leases with the TfNSW. Annual lease liabilities under these leases total $12 million (2019: INTRODUCTION $12 million), indexed annually to the consumer price index over the estimated period that the M2 Motorway will be used. Until such time as a threshold return is achieved, payments under these leases can be made at any time at the discretion of the trustee of the AND OVERVIEW Hills Motorway, by means of the issue of non-interest bearing promissory notes to the TfNSW. The face value of promissory notes on issue as at 30 June 2020 is $228 million (2019: $216 million). Fredericksburg Extension project —2— BUSINESS The 95 Express Lanes service concession agreement was amended following commercial close of the Fredericksburg Extension project in April 2019. A series of payments are due to the Virginia Department of Transportation (VDOT) in connection with the PERFORMANCE construction of the project, payable between commercial close and construction completion. As at 30 June 2020, a current liability of $nil (2019: $78 million) and a non-current liability of $305 million (2019: $285 million) has been recorded. The nominal value of the payable is $338 million (2019: $408 million). —3— KEY ESTIMATE AND JUDGEMENT Concession and promissory notes GOVERNANCE AND RISK The Group has non-interest bearing long term debt, represented by promissory notes and concession notes payable to the Government, measured at the present value of expected future payments. The calculations to discount these notes to their present value are based on the estimated timing and profile of the repayments. Assumptions are made in determining the timing and profile, based on expected available equity cash flows of the Group's cash generating units. A discount rate is used to value the promissory notes and concession notes to their present value, which is determined through reference to other facilities in the market with similar characteristics. A discount rate of 7.7% (2019: 7.9%) has been used for notes issued during the period, which recognises the subordinated nature of these notes. A lower discount rate has been used in the current financial year following a review of discount rates applicable for —4— liabilities across the Group. DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 154 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 53 Group structure B22 Principles of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date the Group gains control of the subsidiary and are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases. In preparing the consolidated financial statements of the Group, all inter-entity transactions and balances have been eliminated. The accounting policies adopted by the individual entities comprising the Group are consistent with the parent company. Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests consist of two components:  Non-controlling interest—other: external non-controlling interests relating to the results and equity of Transurban Queensland and Eastern Distributor subsidiaries are shown separately in the Group financial statements; and  Non-controlling interests that relate to THT and TIL are presented separately, and relate to equity holders of the stapled group. Associates and joint ventures Associates are entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies. The Group currently has an interest in one associate being Bluedot. A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities. The Group’s investments in joint ventures during the period comprised STP and NWRG (which holds the Westlink M7 and NorthConnex assets). Interests in the associate and the joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. They are initially recognised at cost, which includes transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the profit and loss and OCI of equity accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases. When the Group’s cumulative share of losses in an associate exceeds its investment in the asset, the Group does not recognise any further losses from this point. Dividends received from the entities listed above reduce the carrying amount of the investment. B23 Material subsidiaries The Group’s material subsidiaries as at 30 June 2020 are outlined in the Group structure diagram below1. TRANSURBAN TRANSURBAN TRANSURBAN HOLDINGS LIMITED HOLDING TRUST INTERNATIONAL LIMITED CORPORATE ROAD/OPERATING OTHER ROAD/OPERATING CORPORATE ENTITIES ENTITIES ENTITIES ENTITIES ENTITIES 100% OWNED CityLink Melbourne Ltd CityLink Trust Transurban Transurban Transurban Ltd 495 Express Lanes LLC (CityLink) (CityLink) Finance Trust (USA) Inc Transurban Finance The Hills Motorway Ltd Hills Motorway Trust Transurban NCX Transurban DRIVe 95 Express Lanes LLC Company Pty Ltd (Hills M2) (Hills M2) M7 Hold Trust Holdings LLC Transurban Funding LCT MRE Pty Ltd LCT MRE Trust Transurban STP Asset Concession A25 LP Pty Ltd (LCT) (LCT) Holding Trust Transurban Transurban CCT Pty Ltd Transurban CCT Trust Infrastructure Management Ltd (CCT) (CCT) Transurban STP Project Transurban WGT Hold Co Pty Ltd Co Pty Ltd Tollaust Ltd / Roam Tolling Pty Ltd Interlink Roads Pty Limited1 (M5 Motorway) CONSOLIDATED Airport Motorway Ltd Airport Motorway Trust 75.1% (M1 Eastern Distributor) (M1 Eastern Distributor) Logan Motorway Pty Ltd 62.5% (Logan Motorway) Transurban Transurban Queensland Queensland Gateway Motorway Property Trust Finance Pty Ltd 62.5% Pty Ltd Project T Partnership 62.5% (Clem7) GBB Operations Pty Ltd 62.5% (Go Between Bridge) LW Operations Pty Ltd 62.5% (Legacy Way) APL Co Pty Ltd TQ APL Asset Trust TQ APL Finance Co 62.5% (AirportlinkM7) (AirportlinkM7) Pty Ltd 1. M5 Motorway additional equity interest of 34.62% was acquired on 30 October 2019, increasing the equity interest to 100%. Section B: 155 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 54 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B24 Changes in ownership interests and business combinations Changes in ownership interests in controlled subsidiaries Year ended 30 June 2020 changes in ownership interests Acquisition of remaining 34.62% equity interest in Interlink Roads Pty Ltd On 30 October 2019, Transurban completed the acquisition of the remaining 34.62% equity interest in Interlink Roads Pty Ltd, the company that holds the M5 Motorway concession in Sydney, New South Wales, for a purchase price of $459 million. This takes the Group’s ownership interest to 100%. This transaction did not result in a change in control over the M5 Motorway and it continues to be controlled and consolidated in the Group results. As the change in ownership interest does not result from a loss of control, the transaction is recorded in equity. The purchase price of $459 million reflects $394 million for the additional equity interest and $65 million for the term loan notes attributable to the noncontrolling interest, which are now extinguished. Transaction costs of $39 million relating to stamp duty have also been recognised in equity. Year ended 30 June 2019 changes in ownership interests —1— INTRODUCTION Acquisition of additional 7.14% equity interest in Interlink Roads Pty Ltd AND OVERVIEW On 3 December 2018, the Group acquired an additional 7.14% interest in the M5 Motorway for a total consideration of $99 million, comprising $86 million for the additional equity interest and $13 million to acquire the proportional M5 term loan notes. This transaction did not result in a change in control and was accounted for as a transaction between shareholders within equity, with no impact to profit and loss. Transaction costs on acquisition of the additional interest related to stamp duty of $7 million and was also recorded as a transaction between shareholders within equity. —2— BUSINESS Business combinations PERFORMANCE Accounting policy Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred also includes the fair value of any contingent consideration arrangement and the fair value of any pre—3— existing equity interest in the subsidiary. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and GOVERNANCE liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are, with limited exceptions, measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the AND RISK acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest's proportionate share of the acquiree's net identifiable assets. The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Group's share of the net identifiable assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If those amounts are less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the subsidiary acquired and the —4— measurement of all amounts has been reviewed, the difference is recognised directly in the profit and loss as a gain on bargain purchase. DIRECTORS’ Where settlement of any part of cash consideration is deferred, the amounts payable in the future are discounted to their present REPORT value as at the date of obtaining control. The discount rate used is the entity's incremental borrowing rate, being the rate at which a similar borrowing could be obtained from an independent financier under comparable terms and conditions. Contingent consideration is classified either as equity or a financial liability. Amounts classified as a financial liability are subsequently —5— remeasured to fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the profit and loss. Year ended 30 June 2019 acquisitions REMUNERATION REPORT M5 Motorway On 18 September 2018, the Group completed the acquisition of an additional 8.24% equity interest (and a corresponding additional interest in the debt notes) in the M5 Motorway through an all cash offer of $116 million. At the date of the transaction, the Group's overall equity ownership interest in the M5 Motorway increased to 58.24% and the Group obtained control over the M5 Motorway. —6— FINANCIAL The transaction was accounted for as a step-up acquisition, being a disposal of the Group's existing 50% equity accounted investment in the M5 Motorway at its fair value on 18 September 2018 in exchange for the acquisition of a 58.24% controlling STATEMENTS interest in the M5 Motorway. This resulted in the recognition of a $228 million gain on revaluation of the equity accounted Motorway. Total transaction costs incurred were $8m which primarily related to stamp duty. The assets and liabilities of the M5 Motorway were measured at fair value at the acquisition date of 18 September 2019, with fair values having been determined on a provisional basis. —7— The total provisional fair value was allocated to the concession asset and no goodwill was recognised. The end of the purchase price allocation measurement period occurred in the year ended 30 June 2020 and there were no SECURITY HOLDER retrospective adjustments recorded to the provisional amounts nor any additional assets or liabilities recognised. INFORMATION 156 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 55 B25 Equity accounted investments Below is the reconciliation of the equity accounted carrying value of investments: STP JV NWRG M5 Motorway5 Other Total 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Opening carrying value at 1 July 3,115 – 495 347 – 122 4 5 3,614 474 Acquisition – 3,411 – – – – – – – 3,411 Acquisition costs – 9 – – – – – – – 9 Group’s share of (loss)/profit, inclusive of impairments1,2,3 (58) (343) – – – 10 (4) (1) (62) (334) Group’s recognised share of other comprehensive loss (22) (74) – – – – – – (22) (74) Distributions received (22) (18) (149) (142) – (30) – – (171) (190) NWRG shareholder loan modification4 – – – 290 – – – – – 290 Disposal due to M5 Motorway step-up acquisition5 – – – – – (102) – – – (102) Capital contributions to STP JV 48 68 – – – – – – 48 68 Fair value adjustment on issuance of shareholder loans6 – 62 28 – – – – – 28 62 Closing carrying value at 30 June 3,061 3,115 374 495 – – – 4 3,435 3,614 Cumulative losses not recognised2 – – 297 401 – – – – 297 401 1. STP JV Group’s share of losses for the year ended 30 June 2019 includes stamp duty on acquisition of WCX. Refer to Note B6. The Group’s share of STP JV losses includes losses from STP Project Trust of $48 million (2019: $152 million) and STP Asset Trust of $10 million (2019: $191 million). 2. The Group’s share of profits from the investment in the NWRG are currently not recognised until such time as cumulative losses have been fully utilised. Cumulative losses not recognised above are disclosed at 100%. For the year ended 30 June 2019, the Group eliminated a gain disclosed within the NWRG summarised financial information of $47 million ($24 million at 50%) relating to the sale of the Roam customer base to the Group. 3. The Group recorded a $4 million impairment of its investment in Bluedot Innovation, Inc. in the year ended 30 June 2020. Refer below for further details. 4. During the year ended 30 June 2019, NWRG and its shareholders modified the existing SLNs on issue. The modified SLNs include an at call facility (maturity date is greater than 12 months). The at call loan has been recorded at fair value on initial recognition and will be subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The difference between the nominal value of the at call loan and the fair value has been treated as a contribution to the equity accounted investment in NWRG. 5. As described in Note B24, on 18 September 2018, Transurban completed the acquisition of the additional 8.24% equity interest of the company that holds the M5 Motorway concession in Sydney, New South Wales. This resulted in the Group obtaining control over the M5 Motorway and the derecognition of the Group’s equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway. The Group’s share of profit of M5 Motorway represents profit from Interlink Roads Pty Ltd. 6. During the period, a non-interest bearing facility was drawn for the first time. The loan has been recorded at fair value on initial recognition and will be subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The difference between the nominal value of the loan and the fair value has been treated as a contribution to the equity accounted investment in NWRG. Joint Ventures STP JV (50% ownership interest) To facilitate the WCX acquisition, the STP JV was established by Transurban (50%), AustralianSuper (20.5%), CPPIB (20.5%) and Tawreed (9%). The STP JV and its subsidiaries is jointly controlled by Transurban, AustralianSuper and CPPIB. The STP JV holds a 51% ownership interest in WCX. WCX has long-dated concessions through to 2060 and includes 33-kilometres of new or improved motorway linking Sydney’s west and southwest with the CBD, and the corridor to Sydney Airport and Port Botany. The following entities are part of the STP JV Group:  STP Project Trust  STP Asset Trust  STP PT Pty Ltd  STP AT Pty Ltd. KEY ESTIMATE AND JUDGEMENT The Group’s assessment that it does not control STP JV has been made by considering the terms of the Investment Agreement signed by the JV partners and the ongoing compliance with the Investor Agreement. This Agreement requires a supermajority vote of at least 82.5% of all shareholders for the decisions on the significant relevant activities made by the JV. As such, noting this and other factors, the Group concluded that it, together with AustralianSuper and CPPIB, jointly controls the STP JV and its controlled entities. Section B: 157 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 56 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B25 Equity accounted investments (continued) Joint ventures (continued) NWRG (50% ownership interest) The Group has a 50% ownership interest in NWRG (including NorthWestern Roads Group Pty Ltd, NorthWestern Roads Group Trust and NorthConnex State Works Contractor Pty Limited), which holds 100% of the Westlink M7 Group and the NorthConnex Group. Westlink M7 holds the concession to design, construct, finance and operate the Westlink M7 Motorway in Sydney for a period of 43 years from the date of operation (16 December 2005) until June 2048, and NorthConnex holds the concession to design, construct, finance and operate the NorthConnex Tunnel in Sydney until 2048. The following entities are a part of the Westlink Group:  WSO Co Pty Limited (the operator of the Motorway);  Westlink Motorway Limited (the nominee manager of the Westlink Motorway Partnership);  WSO Finance Pty Limited (the financier of the Motorway); and  Westlink Motorway Partnership (was responsible for the construction of the Motorway). —1— INTRODUCTION The following entities are part of the NorthConnex Group:  NorthConnex Company Pty Limited (the operator of the Motorway); and  NorthConnex Finance Company Pty Limited (the financier of the Motorway). AND OVERVIEW Bluedot (4.2% ownership interest) —2— Bluedot is an advanced location services technology company. The Group leverages Bluedot’s location services technology for the BUSINESS Group’s LinktGo application which allows the use of a smartphone’s GPS and other sensors to identify when a driver has entered and exited a toll road. Bluedot’s technology continues to be used by the Group as at 30 June 2020. PERFORMANCE —3— GOVERNANCE AND RISK —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 158 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 57 B25 Equity accounted investments (continued) Summarised financial information of equity accounted investments Set out below is the summarised financial information for those investments accounted for using the equity method. The summarised financial information presented below is on a 100 per cent basis for each equity accounted investment. Summarised balance sheet―100% STP JV NWRG M5 Motorway Other Total 2020 20191 2020 2019 2020 20192 2020 2019 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Cash and cash equivalents 955 1,283 82 115 – – 5 1 1,042 1,399 Other current assets 60 101 159 234 – – – – 219 335 Non-current assets 21,970 21,549 3,292 3,209 – – – – 25,262 24,758 Current liabilities (229) (310) (93) (426) – – (1) (1) (323) (737) Non-current liabilities (9,516) (9,179) (3,466) (2,990) – – – (2) (12,982) (12,171) Net assets/(liabilities) 13,240 13,444 (26) 142 – – 4 (2) 13,218 13,584 Summarised statement of comprehensive income—100% Revenue 353 200 413 486 – 68 2 1 768 755 Construction revenue 1,085 1,211 148 148 – – – – 1,233 1,359 Depreciation and amortisation (233) (126) (81) (81) – (9) – – (314) (216) Other expenses (102) (647) (65) (70) – (10) (9) (5) (176) (732) Construction expenses (1,085) (1,211) (148) (148) – – – – (1,233) (1,359) Net finance costs (188) (144) (130) (180) – (9) – – (318) (333) Income tax expense (15) (10) (33) (59) – (13) – – (48) (82) (Loss)/profit (185) (727) 104 96 – 27 (7) (4) (88) (608) Other comprehensive (loss)/income (87) (284) (13) 9 – – – – (100) (275) Total comprehensive (loss)/income (272) (1,011) 91 105 – 27 (7) (4) (188) (883) The following table reconciles the above summarised financial information presented on a 100 per cent basis to the proportional amounts recognised by the Group: Ownership interest 50% 50% 50% 50% 100% 50% 4.2% 20% Proportional total comprehensive (loss)/income (77) (417) 46 53 – 14 – (1) (31) (351) Amortisation of fair value uplift and other adjustments (3) – – – – (4) (4) – (7) (4) Group's share of comprehensive (loss)/income (80) (417) 46 53 – 10 (4) (1) (38) (355) Profits not recognised (excluding other comprehensive income) – – (52) (48) – – – – (52) (48) Group's recognised share of total comprehensive (loss)/income (80) (417) – – – 10 (4) (1) (84) (408) Group's share of dividends/distributions received 22 18 149 142 – 30 – – 171 190 1. The summarised statement of comprehensive income for STP JV is presented from the date of acquisition which is 27 September 2018. 2. The summarised statement of comprehensive income for M5 Motorway is presented above through to 18 September 2018, the date of disposal of the Group’s equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway. Indicators of impairment During the year ended 30 June 2020, the Group’s interest in Bluedot was diluted from 20% to 4.2% following the Group’s decision not to contribute additional funding to a capital raising. The change in ownership triggered an impairment assessment and the carrying amount of the investment was impaired from $4 million to $nil. The investment continues to be equity accounted due to the Group’s ability to significantly influence outcomes. The economic impact of COVID-19 and its direct impact on traffic performance, is considered an impairment trigger in the year ended 30 June 2020 for the Group’s remaining equity accounted investments. Accordingly, impairment testing has been undertaken for the Group’s remaining equity accounted investments which factored in traffic growth impacts associated with COVID-19. The impairment testing indicated the recoverable amount exceeds the relevant carrying amount for the Group’s remaining equity accounted investments. Therefore, they are not impaired as at 30 June 2020. Section B: 159 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 58 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B26 Non-controlling interests—other Set out below is the summarised financial information for each material subsidiary (refer to Note B23) that has non-controlling interests (NCI) that are material and external to the Group and the total external non-controlling interest. The amounts disclosed are before intercompany eliminations. Total non-controlling Transurban Queensland Airport Motorway M5 Motorway interests 37.5% 37.5% 24.9% 24.9% 34.62% 34.62% 2020 2019 2020 2019 20201 20192 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Summarised balance sheet Current assets 149 128 34 11 – 23 183 162 Non-current assets 9,184 9,148 1,442 1,467 – 1,992 10,626 12,607 Current liabilities (229) (345) (485) (193) – (168) (714) (706) Non-current liabilities (6,853) (6,500) (657) (925) – (1,263) (7,510) (8,688) Net assets 2,251 2,431 334 360 – 584 2,585 3,375 Carrying amount of NCI 844 911 83 90 – 147 927 1,148 —1— INTRODUCTION Summarised statement of comprehensive income AND OVERVIEW Revenue 639 653 139 153 109 248 887 1,054 Expenses (749) (650) (129) (130) (117) (270) (995) (1,050) (Loss)/profit for the year (110) 3 10 23 (8) (22) (108) 4 Other comprehensive income/(loss) 114 (62) – (5) – (13) 114 (80) —2— Total comprehensive income/(loss) 4 (59) 10 18 (8) (35) 6 (76) BUSINESS (Loss)/profit allocated to NCI (42) 1 3 6 (3) (8) (42) (1) Other comprehensive income/(loss) PERFORMANCE allocated to NCI 43 (23) – (1) – (5) 43 (29) Summarised cash flows Cash flows from operating activities 126 159 82 90 62 125 270 374 Cash flows from investing activities (139) (252) – – – – (139) (252) —3— Cash flows from financing activities (1) 98 (57) (92) (45) (168) (103) (162) Net (decreases)/increases in cash and GOVERNANCE cash equivalents (14) 5 25 (2) 17 (43) 28 (40) 1. The summarised statement of comprehensive income for M5 Motorway is presented above prior to 30 October 2019, before the acquisition of the remaining 34.62% equity interest AND RISK in M5 Motorway. 2. The summarised statement of comprehensive income for M5 Motorway is presented above subsequent to 18 September 2018, following the step up acquisition of the Group’s controlling interest in M5 Motorway. —4— B27 Deed of cross and intra-group guarantees DIRECTORS’ Deed of cross guarantee REPORT Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Limited, Tollaust Pty Limited, Roam Tolling Pty Limited, Sydney Roads Limited, Sydney Roads Management Limited, Statewide Roads Limited, M4 Holdings No. 1 Pty Limited, M5 Holdings Pty Limited and Devome Pty Limited, Transurban Funding Pty Limited, Transurban STP AHT Pty Limited, Transurban STP AT Pty Limited, Transurban STP Project —5— Hold Co Pty Limited and Transurban STP Project Co Pty Limited are party to a deed of cross guarantee under which each company REMUNERATION guarantees the debts of the others. By entering into the deed, the wholly-owned entities have been relieved from the requirement to prepare a financial report and Directors’ report under Instrument 2016/785 issued by the Australian Securities and Investments REPORT Commission. The companies represent a 'closed group' for the purposes of the Instrument, and as there are no other parties to the deed of cross guarantee that are controlled by THL, they also represent the 'extended closed group’. Set out below is the summary financial information of the closed group. 2020 2019 —6— $M $M Summarised statement of comprehensive income FINANCIAL Revenue 316 310 Operating costs (320) (294) STATEMENTS Depreciation and amortisation expense (138) (103) Net finance costs (181) (59) Loss before income tax (323) (146) —7— Income tax benefit 148 78 SECURITY HOLDER Loss for the year (175) (68) Total comprehensive loss for the year (175) (68) INFORMATION 160 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 59 B27 Deed of cross and intra-group guarantees (continued) Deed of cross guarantee (continued) 2020 2019 $M $M Summarised movements in retained earnings Accumulated losses at the beginning of the year (562) (406) Accumulated losses of entities that joined the ‘closed group’ – 3 Change in accounting policy—AASB 9 – (11) Change in accounting policy—AASB 161 (2) – Loss for the year (175) (68) Dividends provided for or paid (55) (80) Accumulated losses at the end of the year (794) (562) Summarised balance sheet Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,223 494 Trade and other receivables2 2,503 2,407 Total current assets 3,726 2,901 Non-current assets Other financial assets2 6,719 5,201 Equity accounted investments 985 985 Property, plant and equipment 420 324 Intangible assets 96 97 Deferred tax assets 513 442 Total non-current assets 8,733 7,049 Total assets 12,459 9,950 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 3,114 1,483 Provisions 39 90 Total current liabilities 3,153 1,573 Non-current liabilities Payables 7,164 6,234 Deferred tax liabilities 10 22 Provisions 5 5 Total non-current liabilities 7,179 6,261 Total liabilities 10,332 7,834 Net assets 2,127 2,116 Equity Contributed equity 2,919 2,675 Other reserves 2 3 Accumulated losses (794) (562) Total equity 2,127 2,116 1. The extended closed group adopted AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019. The adoption of AASB 16 Leases resulted in the recognition of $126 million of lease liabilities in relation to leases which had previously been classified as ‘operating leases’ under the principles of AASB 117 Leases, $123 million of associated right-of-use assets and net deferred tax assets of $1 million. Overall net assets are $2 million lower. 2. The classification of financial assets as at 30 June 2019 has been restated in the above table. Section B: 161 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 60 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B27 Deed of cross and intra-group guarantees (continued) Intra–group guarantees As at 30 June 2020, the Transurban Group comprises Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust and Transurban International Limited, traded and quoted on the ASX as one triple stapled security. Under the stapling arrangement, each entity is able to provide direct and/or indirect support to each other entity and its controlled entities within the Group on a continual basis. Expected credit loss Management have assessed the impacts arising from COVID-19 and do not consider there to be evidence of a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of financial assets at amortised cost in the closed group. This is mainly due to there being no significant change in the nature of or the collectability of these balances. The loss allowance for these financial assets at amortised cost continues to be limited to 12 months of expected losses. These balances continue to have low credit risk as they have a low risk of default and the counterparties have a strong capacity to meet their contractual cash flow obligations in the near term. As at 30 June 2020 the loss allowance has been updated for management’s estimate of the collectability of these balances and is $22 million (2019: $11 million). —1— INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW —2— BUSINESS PERFORMANCE —3— GOVERNANCE AND RISK —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 162 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 61 Items not recognised B28 Contingencies Contingent assets are possible recoveries whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events not wholly in within control of the Group. Contingent assets are not recognised on the balance sheet unless they are virtually certain but are disclosed if the inflow of economic resources is probable. Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events and present obligations where the transfer of economic resources is not probable or cannot be reliably estimated. Contingent liabilities are not recognised on the balance sheet unless they are probable but are disclosed if the outflow of economic resource is possible. In overseeing construction projects, from time to time it is possible payments may be made that are in excess of, or separate to, D&C subcontracted amounts to facilitate the continued progression of the project. Contingent assets and liabilities may exist in respect of actual or potential claims and commercial payments and recoveries arising from overseeing construction projects. Disclosures are made for these matters in accordance with accounting standards, or other legal disclosure obligations. This may be applicable to the West Gate Tunnel Project and other projects being overseen by Transurban, however any possible payment or possible claim settlement cannot be reliably estimated as at 30 June 2020. Contingent consideration As a result of the acquisition of the Legacy Way tunnel, the Group may be required to make further payments to the vendors in the event that the traffic and toll revenue performance of the relevant asset exceeds certain criteria. The contingent consideration is recorded at the end of each reporting period at its fair value based upon the same traffic and revenue assumptions as outlined in Note B16. The following table details the current carrying value of the contingent consideration recognised within ‘Other provisions’ in the consolidated balance sheet, the maximum nominal value that could be paid and the date at which the contingent consideration is assessed and becomes payable. Maximum Carrying consideration value payable Assessment $M $M date 1 Legacy Way Tunnel 56 Unlimited Jun 20202 1. The maximumconsideration The maximum consideration payable payable willwill reflect reflect a portion a portion of the of the cumulative cumulative of theof outperformance outperformance the concession concession asset asasset as compared compared against against an internal internal an rate rate of of return return agreed between Transurban agreed between Queensland Transurban and the Brisbane Queensland and theCity Council.City Council. Brisbane payable for 2. Contingent consideration payable forthe the Legacy LegacyWay Tunnelhas WayTunnel hasnot notbeen beenpaid paidatatreporting reportingdate. date. The carrying value of the contingent consideration liability has decreased by $66 million during the year ended 30 June 2020. This reduction is mainly due to the impact of lower traffic volumes (COVID-19 related) on the measurement of the liability at reporting date. Parent entity The parent entity does not have any contingent liabilities at reporting date. Equity accounted investments Disclosure relating to equity accounted investments is included in the key estimate below. KEY ESTIMATE AND JUDGEMENT The Group has a number of existing claims that it has brought against other parties with respect to the Group’s obligations under its service concession arrangements. As at 30 June 2020 these claims are not considered probable and cannot be reliably estimated. Additionally, the Group (including its equity accounted investments) has received claims in connection with its construction projects. Many of these claims have been passed through or resulted in the initiation of claims on others. In overseeing construction projects, from time to time payments may be made in excess of contracted amounts to facilitate their continued progression. The Group (including its equity accounted investments) assess each claim that they are party to for the purposes of preparing financial statements in accordance with the accounting standards. Contingent assets and liabilities may exist in respect of actual or potential claims and commercial payments and recoveries arising from these matters. Disclosures are made for these matters in accordance with accounting standards, or other legal disclosure obligations. As at 30 June 2020 any possible payments relating to actual or potential future claims or possible commercial payments to third parties in excess of, or separate to the amounts stipulated in the D&C subcontracts, cannot be reliably estimated. Section B: 163 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 62 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B29 Commitments Capital Operating lease commitments commitments 2020 2019 20201 2019 $M $M $M $M Within 1 year 231 270 – 16 Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 197 342 – 64 Later than 5 years – – – 116 428 612 – 196 1. Refer to Note B3 for details of the Group's transition to AASB 16 Leases. Commitments disclosed as non-cancellable operating leases under AASB 117 Leases have been recorded as lease liabilities from 1 July 2019, with the exception of short-term and low-value leases. The Group’s capital commitments as of 30 June 2020 relate primarily to the Fredericksburg Extension in North America (2019: Fredericksburg Extension and 395 Express Lanes in North America). Share of commitments for equity accounted investments STP JV NWRG —1— 50% 50% Total INTRODUCTION 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M $M $M AND OVERVIEW Capital commitments 369 687 6 109 375 796 The Group’s equity accounted investment capital commitments as of 30 June 2020 primarily relate to WestConnex M5 and WestConnex M4-M5 Link in STP JV and NorthConnex in NWRG (2019: WestConnex M5 and WestConnex M4-M5 Link in STP JV and NorthConnex in NWRG). —2— B30 Subsequent events BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Other than as disclosed elsewhere in this report, there has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report any matter or circumstance that has significantly affected, or may significantly affect, the Group’s operations, the results of those operations, or Group’s state of affairs, in the future years. —3— GOVERNANCE AND RISK —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 164 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 63 Other B31 Leases Refer to Note B3 for details of the Group's transition to AASB 16 Leases. Leases as a lessee Information about leases for which the Group is a lessee is presented below. Right-of-use Asset The Group’s right-of use assets relate to leased office buildings and are included in property, plant and equipment on the Group’s consolidated balance sheet. Right-of-use assets have finite lives, are depreciated on a straight-line basis and are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. The net carrying amount of right-of-use assets is presented below: Office buildings $M Carrying amount at 1 July 2019 133 Depreciation charge for the year (19) Additions to right-of-use assets 25 Carrying amount at 30 June 2020 139 Lease Liability Lease liabilities are included in other liabilities on the Group’s consolidated balance sheet. 2020 $M Current (17) Non-Current (135) Total lease liability (152) Refer to Note B15 for contractual maturities for lease liabilities. Refer to Note B13 for interest expense on lease liabilities (included in finance costs). Reconciliation of lease liabilities arising from financing activities Lease Liabilities $M Balance at 30 June 2019 as originally presented – Change in accounting policy 137 Balance at 1 July 2019 137 Interest paid on leases (6) Principal repayment of leases (10) Total cash flows (16) Non-cash changes Additions to right-of-use asset 25 Unwinding of discount 6 Total non-cash changes 31 Balance at 30 June 2020 152 The total cash outflow for leases in the year ended 30 June 2020 was $16 million. The Group presents lease payments as ‘principal repayments of leases’ in ‘cash flows from financing activities’ and the finance cost as ‘interest paid’ in ‘cash flows from operating activities’ within the consolidated statement of cash flows. The Group’s leasing activities and how these are accounted for The Group leases various office buildings. Rental contracts are typically made for fixed periods of 3 to 12 years but may have extension options. The majority of extension options held are exercisable only by the Group and not by the respective lessor. In determining the lease term, management consider all facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive to exercise an extension option. Extension options are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be extended. The assessment is reviewed if a significant event or a significant change in circumstances occurs which affects this assessment and that is within the control of the lessee. Section B: 165 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 64 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B31 Leases (continued) The Group’s leasing activities and how these are accounted for (continued) Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis. Leased assets may not be used as security for borrowing purposes. Until the FY19, leases of property, plant and equipment were classified as either finance or operating leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) were charged to the profit and loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. From 1 July 2019, leases are recognised as a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability at the date at which the leased asset is available for use by the Group. Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities include the net present value of the following lease payments:  fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives receivable;  variable lease payment that are based on an index or a rate; —1—  amounts expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees;  the exercise price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option; and INTRODUCTION  payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising that option. AND OVERVIEW Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain extension options are also included in the measurement of the liability. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be determined, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is used, being the rate that the lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an —2— asset of similar value in a similar economic environment with similar terms and conditions. BUSINESS Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance cost. The finance cost is charged to the profit and loss over the PERFORMANCE lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the following:  the amount of the initial measurement of lease liability; —3—  any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received;  any initial direct costs; and GOVERNANCE AND RISK  restoration costs. The right-of-use asset is depreciated over the shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease term on a straight-line basis. In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability. —4— The COVID-19 impact on asset values from the decline in economic conditions, combined with the lower utilisation of these assets, are considered impairment triggers for the year ended 30 June 2020. Given this, impairment testing has been performed for the DIRECTORS’ REPORT Group’s right-of use assets. As these assets do not generate independent cash flows, for the purposes of impairment testing, these assets have been allocated to each Cash Generating Unit (CGU) they belong to, which is based on the geographical network that the assets support. Management have used the same approach and assumptions as the Group’s annual goodwill impairment testing, as detailed in Note B16. This testing indicates that the recoverable amount of each right-of-use asset, in their respective CGU exceeds their relevant carrying amount and no impairment was identified as at 30 June 2020. —5— B32 Related party transactions REMUNERATION Joint ventures REPORT 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Transactions with related parties Revenue from services 47,277 37,199 —6— Interest income 40,872 68,402 FINANCIAL 88,149 105,601 STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 166 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 65 B32 Related party transactions (continued) Joint ventures 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Outstanding balances with related parties Financial assets at amortised cost NorthConnex shareholder loan notes 705,583 550,185 STP JV shareholder loan notes 646,497 642,805 Other liabilities NWRG payable for acquisition of customer base (50,204) (49,428) Other assets NWRG shareholder loan note interest receivable 8 24 STP JV shareholder loan interest receivable 4,425 11,861 NWRG other receivables 6,313 4,420 STP JV other receivables 7,244 10,350 1,319,866 1,170,217 Transactions with related parties Revenue for services Revenue relates to tolling and management services provided to related parties. Interest income Interest income relates to the interest recorded on financial assets at amortised costs as noted below. Financial assets at amortised cost Debt financial assets carried at amortised cost relate to NorthConnex and STP JV SLN’s. The Group intends to hold the assets to maturity and to collect contractual cash flows and these cash flows consist solely of payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The SLNs are not classified as an investment for equity accounting purposes, and therefore have not been affected by equity accounting losses from the associate. All SLNs are denominated in Australian currency. The movement of the NorthConnex and STP JV SLNs is set out below: NorthConnex STP JV Total 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Opening balance at 30 June 550,185 735,501 642,805 – 1,192,990 735,501 Change in accounting policy1 – (2,500) – – – (2,500) Opening balance at 1 July 550,185 733,001 642,805 – 1,192,990 733,001 SLNs issued 231,558 165,184 – 700,000 231,558 865,184 SLNs repaid (75,000) (97,977) – – (75,000) (97,977) Day 1 fair value adjustment for SLNs issued2,3 (27,805) (289,630) – (62,177) (27,805) (351,807) Capitalisation of accrued interest 2,949 22,832 12,154 – 15,103 22,832 Unwind of discount on SLNs4 23,398 15,775 (6,726) 7,482 16,672 23,257 Change in expected credit losses 298 1,000 (1,736) (2,500) (1,438) (1,500) Closing balance at 30 June 705,583 550,185 646,497 642,805 1,352,080 1,192,990 1. Relates to the change in accounting policy upon the initial adoption of AASB 9 Financial Instruments from 1 July 2018. 2. During the year ended 30 June 2019 the NWRG and its shareholders modified the existing SLNs on issue to include an at call facility (maturity date is greater than 12 months). The at-call loan was recorded at fair value on initial recognition and is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The difference between the nominal value of the-at call loan and the fair value has been treated as a contribution to the equity accounted investment in NWRG. 3. During the year ended 30 June 2020, a non-interest bearing facility with NWRG was drawn on for the first time. The interest free loan has been recorded at fair value on initial recognition and will be subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The difference between the nominal value of the interest free loan and the fair value has been treated as a contribution to the equity accounted investment in NWRG. 4. Includes adjustments from updating the expected timing of cash repayments from the SLNs. NorthConnex shareholder loan notes The NorthConnex SLNs consist of an interest-bearing SLN facility with a fixed rate of 5.9% and a maturity date of June 2048 and two non-interest bearing facilities with maturity dates of June 2024 and June 2048 respectively. The SLNs are presented within noncurrent financial assets in the consolidated balance sheet. As at 30 June 2020, the repayment profile for these SLNs have been updated to reflect lower forecast toll revenue arising from the COVID-19 government-mandated restrictions and the associated deferral of SLN repayments. The nominal value of the NorthConnex SLNs as at 30 June 2020 is $985,047 thousand (30 June 2019 is $825,540 thousand). Section B: 167 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section B: 66 TRANSURBAN Notes to the Group financial statements 2020 CORPORATE REPORT B32 Related party transactions (continued) STP JV shareholder loan notes The STP JV SLNs earn interest at a rate equivalent to the weighted average of the interest rate applicable to WCX’s senior secured debt plus a margin. The agreement includes a mechanism to capitalise interest should funds not be available to settle accrued interest. The SLNs are repayable 10 years after their respective issuance date. The SLNs are presented within non-current financial assets in the consolidated balance sheet. The Group measured the SLNs at fair value on initial recognition and they are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Any difference between the nominal value of the SLNs and their fair value at initial recognition is treated as a contribution to the equity accounted investment in STP JV. As at 30 June 2020, the repayment profile for these SLNs have been updated to reflect lower forecast toll revenue arising from the COVID-19 government-mandated restrictions and the associated deferral of SLN repayments. The nominal value of the STP JV SLNs as at 30 June 2020 is $712,154 thousand (30 June 2019 is $700,000 thousand). Expected credit loss Management have assessed the impacts arising from COVID-19 and do not consider there to be evidence of a significant increase in —1— credit risk since initial recognition of these balances. This is mainly due to there being no significant change in the nature of or the INTRODUCTION collectability of these balances. The loss allowance for these financial assets at amortised cost continues to be limited to 12 months of expected losses. These balances continue to have low credit risk as they have a low risk of default and the counterparties have a AND OVERVIEW strong capacity to meet their contractual cash flow obligations in the near term. As at 30 June 2020 the loss allowance has been updated for management’s estimate of the collectability of these balances and is $5,438 thousand (2019: $4,000 thousand). B33 Key management personnel compensation —2— 2020 2019 BUSINESS $ $ Short-term employee benefits 10,800,445 13,033,651 PERFORMANCE Post-employment benefits 292,430 328,621 Termination benefits 1,534,006 – Long-term benefits (long service leave) (44,097) 153,949 Share based payments 911,053 4,976,091 Deferred short term incentives 2,740,923 3,178,563 —3— GOVERNANCE 16,234,760 21,670,875 Detailed remuneration disclosures including the key management personnel are made in the remuneration report in the Directors' report. AND RISK B34 Remuneration of auditors —4— During the year the following fees were paid or payable for services provided by the auditor of the Group and its related practices. DIRECTORS’ (a) Amounts received or due and receivable by PricewaterhouseCoopers Australia 2020 2019 REPORT $ $ Audit and other assurance services Audit and review of financial reports 2,766,510 3,010,505 Other assurance services 677,000 857,000 —5— 3,443,510 3,867,505 Other consulting services 340,000 – REMUNERATION Total remuneration of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australia 3,783,510 3,867,505 REPORT (b) Amounts received or due and receivable by network firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australia 2020 2019 $ $ —6— Audit and other assurance services FINANCIAL Audit and review of financial reports 1,013,309 804,595 Other assurance services 270,000 500,000 1,283,309 1,304,595 STATEMENTS Other consulting services – – Total remuneration of network firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australia 1,283,309 1,304,595 —7— Total auditors remuneration 5,066,819 5,172,100 SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 168 Section B: Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 67 B35 Parent entity disclosures The financial information for the parent entity, Transurban Holdings Limited, has been prepared on the same basis as the consolidated financial statements, except as set out below. Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are accounted for at cost in the parent entity financial statements of Transurban Holdings Limited. Dividends received from associates are recognised in the parent entity's profit and loss, rather than being deducted from the carrying amount of these investments. Tax consolidation legislation In addition to its own current and deferred tax amounts, Transurban Holdings Limited also recognises the current tax liabilities (or assets) and the deferred tax assets arising from unused tax losses and unused tax credits assumed from controlled entities in the tax consolidated group. Assets or liabilities arising under tax funding agreements with the tax consolidated entities are recognised as amounts receivable from or payable to other entities in the Group. Any difference between the amounts assumed and amounts receivable or payable under the tax funding agreement are recognised as a contribution to (or distribution from) wholly owned tax consolidated entities. Summary financial information The individual financial statements for the parent entity report the following aggregate amounts: 2020 2019 $M $M Balance sheet Current assets 2,895 2,720 Total assets 8,890 7,629 Current liabilities 4,711 3,520 Total liabilities 5,567 4,629 Net assets 3,323 3,000 Shareholders' equity Contributed equity 2,919 2,675 Reserves 2 3 Retained earnings 402 322 Total equity 3,323 3,000 Profit for the year 135 28 Total comprehensive income 135 28 Expected credit loss Management have assessed the impacts arising from COVID-19 and do not consider there to be evidence of a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of financial assets at amortised cost in the parent entity. This is mainly due to there being no significant change in the nature of or the collectability of these balances. The loss allowance for these financial assets at amortised cost continues to be limited to 12 months of expected losses. These balances continue to have low credit risk as they have a low risk of default and the counterparties have a strong capacity to meet their contractual cash flow obligations in the near term. As at 30 June 2020 the loss allowance has been updated for management’s estimate of the collectability of these balances and is $16 million (2019: $7 million). Guarantees entered into by the parent entity There are cross guarantees given by Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Limited, Tollaust Pty Limited, Roam Tolling Pty Limited, Sydney Roads Limited, Sydney Roads Management Limited, Statewide Roads Limited, M4 Holdings No 1 Pty Limited, M5 Holdings Pty Limited and Devome Pty Limited as described in Note B27. Section C: 169 THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section C: 68 TRANSURBAN THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT SECTION C: TRANSURBAN HOLDING TRUST (THT) AND TRANSURBAN INTERNATIONAL LIMITED (TIL) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —1— THT—ARSN 098 807 419 and TIL—ABN 90 121 746 825 INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW Consolidated statements of comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheets —2— Consolidated statements of changes in equity Consolidated statements of cash flows BUSINESS PERFORMANCE —3— GOVERNANCE AND RISK —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 170 Section C: Section C: THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 69 Transurban Holding Trust and Transurban International Limited Consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 June 2020 Transurban Transurban Holding Trust International Limited 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note $M $M $M $M Revenue D4 1,109 1,068 506 551 Expenses Employee benefits expense – – (38) (23) Road operating costs – – (95) (82) Construction costs (212) (231) (240) (239) Transaction and integration costs – – (1) (11) Corporate and other expenses (10) (8) (28) (26) Total expenses (222) (239) (402) (381) Earnings before depreciation and amortisation, net finance costs, equity accounted investments and income tax 887 829 104 170 Amortisation (327) (309) (105) (94) Depreciation – – (7) (3) Total depreciation and amortisation (327) (309) (112) (97) Net finance (costs)/income D9 (148) 28 (290) (261) Share of profit/(loss) of equity accounted investments, inclusive of impairments D15 32 (153) (4) (1) Profit/(loss) before income tax 444 395 (302) (189) Income tax (expense)/benefit (5) (1) 47 35 Profit/(loss) for the year 439 394 (255) (154) Profit/(loss) is attributable to: Ordinary security holders of TIL – – (255) (154) Ordinary unit holders of THT 444 409 – – Non-controlling interests D16 (5) (15) – – Profit/(loss) for the year 439 394 (255) (154) Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss in the future Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges, net of tax 73 (106) (16) (10) Share of other comprehensive income from equity accounted investments, net of tax D15 (29) (67) – – Movement in share based payments reserve – (2) – 1 Exchange differences on translation of North American operations, net of tax – – – (35) Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax 44 (175) (16) (44) Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 483 219 (271) (198) Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year is attributable to: Ordinary security holders of TIL – – (271) (198) Ordinary unit holders of THT 445 259 – – Non-controlling interests 38 (40) – – Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 483 219 (271) (198) Cents Cents Cents Cents Earnings per security attributable to ordinary security holders of the Group D7 16.3 15.9 (9.4) (6.0) The above consolidated statements of comprehensive income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Section C: 171 THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section C: 70 TRANSURBAN THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Transurban Holding Trust and Transurban International Limited Consolidated balance sheets as at 30 June 2020 Transurban Transurban Holding Trust International Limited 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note $M SM $M $M Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 128 119 599 512 Loans to related parties 1,493 1,508 4 – Trade and other receivables 11 22 62 68 Concession notes – 106 – – Total current assets 1,632 1,755 665 580 Non-current assets Equity accounted investments D15 2,419 2,539 – 4 Derivative financial instruments D11 299 56 – – —1— INTRODUCTION Related party receivables 9,170 8,871 – – Concession notes 786 923 – – Concession financial asset – – 331 341 AND OVERVIEW Financial assets at amortised cost D17 646 643 – – Property, plant and equipment1 – – 79 51 Deferred tax assets D5 44 92 291 250 Other intangible assets D12 9,636 9,870 5,133 4,905 —2— Total non-current assets 23,000 22,994 5,834 5,551 Total assets 24,632 24,749 6,499 6,131 BUSINESS Liabilities PERFORMANCE Current liabilities Related party payables 1,294 453 966 1,658 Trade and other payables 63 74 92 110 —3— Borrowings D10 320 648 4 4 GOVERNANCE Maintenance provision – – 23 19 Distribution payable D6 476 788 – – AND RISK Derivative financial instruments D11 1 2 – – Construction obligation provision 114 133 – – Other liabilities2 – – 48 111 Total current liabilities 2,268 2,098 1,133 1,902 —4— Non–current liabilities Maintenance provision – – 178 140 DIRECTORS’ Deferred tax liabilities D5 – – 326 357 Related party payables 3,796 4,585 1,627 876 REPORT Borrowings D10 7,279 6,426 3,459 2,959 Derivative financial instruments D11 154 149 245 194 Construction obligation provision 122 208 – – Other liabilities2 60 63 314 287 —5— Total non–current liabilities 11,411 11,431 6,149 4,813 REMUNERATION Total liabilities 13,679 13,529 7,282 6,715 Net assets/(liabilities) 10,953 11,220 (783) (584) REPORT Equity Contributed equity – – 595 522 —6— Issued units 16,504 15,954 – – Reserves D8 (234) (233) (223) (207) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accumulated losses (6,148) (5,363) (1,155) (899) Non-controlling interests D16 831 862 – – Total equity 10,953 11,220 (783) (584) 1. TIL adopted AASB 16 Leases (AASB 16) on 1 July 2019 and has presented right-of-use assets within property, plant and equipment as at 30 June 2020, the same line item that the corresponding underlying asset would be presented were it owned. There was no impact from the adoption of AASB 16 on THT. —7— SECURITY HOLDER 2. Upon adoption of AASB 16 TIL has presented lease liabilities within other liabilities as at 30 June 2020. INFORMATION The above consolidated balance sheets should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 172 Section C: Section C: THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 71 Transurban Holding Trust and Transurban International Limited Consolidated statements of changes in equity for the year ended 30 June 2020 THT Attributable to security holders of Transurban Holding Trust NonAccumulated controlling No of units Issued units Reserves losses interests Total M $M $M $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2019 2,675 15,954 (233) (5,363) 862 11,220 Comprehensive income Profit/(loss) for the year – – – 444 (5) 439 Other comprehensive income – – 1 – 43 44 Total comprehensive income – – 1 444 38 483 Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs1 55 511 – – – 511 Employee performance awards issued 1 5 (2) – – 3 Distributions provided to or paid – – – (1,229) – (1,229) Distribution reinvestment plan 4 34 – – – 34 Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – (69) (69) 60 550 (2) (1,229) (69) (750) Balance at 30 June 2020 2,735 16,504 (234) (6,148) 831 10,953 Balance at 30 June 2018 as originally presented 2,225 12,243 (83) (4,255) 1,045 8,950 Change in accounting policy1 – – – (21) – (21) Balance at 1 July 2018 2,225 12,243 (83) (4,276) 1,045 8,929 Comprehensive (loss)/income Profit/(loss) for the year – – – 409 (15) 394 Other comprehensive loss – – (150) (25) (175) Total comprehensive (loss)/income – – (150) 409 (40) 219 Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs1 446 3,676 – – – 3,676 Employee performance awards issued 1 8 – 1 – 9 Distributions provided to or paid – – – (1,497) – (1,497) Distribution reinvestment plan 3 27 – – – 27 Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – (143) (143) 450 3,711 (150) (1,087) (183) 2,291 Balance at 30 June 2019 2,675 15,954 (233) (5,363) 862 11,220 1. Refer to the Group’s Consolidated statement of changes in equity for further information. The above consolidated statements of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Section C: 173 THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section C: 72 TRANSURBAN THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Transurban Holding Trust and Transurban International Limited Consolidated statements of changes in equity for the year ended 30 June 2020 (continued) TIL Attributable to security holders of Transurban International Limited No. of Contributed Accumulated Total securities equity Reserves losses equity M $M $M $M $M Balance at 30 June 2019 as originally presented 2,675 522 (207) (899) (584) Change in accounting policy1 – – – (1) (1) Balance at 1 July 2019 2,675 522 (207) (900) (585) Comprehensive loss Loss for the year – – – (255) (255) Other comprehensive loss – – (16) – (16) —1— INTRODUCTION Total comprehensive loss – – (16) (255) (271) Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs2 55 67 – – 67 AND OVERVIEW Employee performance awards issued 1 1 – – 1 Distribution reinvestment plan 4 5 – – 5 60 73 – – 73 Balance at 30 June 2020 2,735 595 (223) (1,155) (783) —2— BUSINESS Balance at 1 July 2018 2,225 363 (163) (745) (545) Comprehensive loss PERFORMANCE Loss for the year – – – (154) (154) Other comprehensive loss – – (44) – (44) Total comprehensive loss – – (44) (154) (198) Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs2 446 157 – – 157 Employee performance awards issued 1 – – – – —3— Distribution reinvestment plan 3 2 – – 2 450 159 (44) (154) (39) GOVERNANCE AND RISK Balance at 30 June 2019 2,675 522 (207) (899) (584) 1. Relates to the change in accounting policy upon the initial adoption of AASB 16 Leases from 1 July 2019. On adoption of AASB 16, TIL recognised $8 million of lease liabilities in relation to leases which had previously been classified as ‘operating leases’ under the principles of AASB 117 Leases and $7 million in associated right-of-use assets. 2. Refer to the Group’s Consolidated statement of changes in equity for further information. —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION The above consolidated statements of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 174 Section C: Section C: THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 73 Transurban Holding Trust and Transurban International Limited Consolidated statements of cash flows for the year ended 30 June 2020 Transurban Transurban Holding Trust International Limited 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note $M $M $M $M Cash flows from operating activities Receipts from customers 880 831 294 319 Payments to suppliers (39) (40) (127) (83) Payments for maintenance of intangibles – – (8) (5) Transaction costs related to acquisitions – – (1) (11) Other cash receipts 5 – 15 15 Interest received 296 365 7 7 Interest paid (535) (601) (122) (112) Income taxes paid – – (7) (1) Net cash inflow from operating activities (a) 607 555 51 129 Cash flows from investing activities Payments for equity accounted investments – (2,419) – – Payments for property, plant and equipment – – (26) (24) Payments for intangible assets (229) (285) (364) (288) Payment for/Repayment of financial assets at amortised cost – (700) – 233 Capital contribution to equity accounted investments (48) (68) – – Receipts from concession notes 124 96 – – Distributions received from equity accounted investments 171 154 – – Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities 18 (3,222) (390) (79) Cash flows from financing activities Loans (to)/from related parties (b) (3,129) (7,894) 8 115 Repayment of loans from/(to) related parties (b) 3,153 7,815 (76) (377) Proceeds from issue of stapled securities (net of costs) 511 3,676 67 157 Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) (b) 2,027 1,158 419 201 Principal repayment of leases – – (1) – Repayment of borrowings (b) (1,619) (656) (12) (3) Distributions paid to Transurban Group's security holders (1,490) (1,275) – – Distributions paid to non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (69) (151) – – Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (616) 2,673 405 93 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 9 6 66 143 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 119 113 512 346 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents – – 21 23 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 128 119 599 512 (a) Reconciliation of profit after income tax to net cash inflow from operating activities Transurban Transurban Holding Trust International Limited 2020 2019 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M Profit/(loss) for the year 439 394 (255) (154) Depreciation and amortisation 327 309 112 97 Non-cash net finance costs (9) 18 193 171 Capitalised interest income (270) (226) – – Non-cash net (income)/cost on concession notes 164 (60) – – Share of (profit)/loss from equity accounted investments, inclusive of impairments (32) 153 4 1 Change in operating assets and liabilities: Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 12 (18) 4 (4) (Decrease)/increase in related party operating loans (35) (28) (5) 9 Increase/(decrease) in trade creditors and accruals 8 (1) 5 12 Increase in other operating provisions – – 9 – Increase/(decrease) in deferred and current taxes 5 1 (56) (35) Increase in maintenance provision – – 40 32 (Decrease)/increase in other liabilities (2) 13 – – Net cash inflow from operating activities 607 555 51 129 The above consolidated statements of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Section C: 175 THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section C: 74 TRANSURBAN THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Transurban Holding Trust and Transurban International Limited Consolidated statements of cash flows for the year ended 30 June 2020 (continued) (b) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities THT Debt principal related Total debt derivatives related Net related Borrowings Borrowings (included in financial party 1 current non-current assets/liabilities) instruments (receivables) $M $M $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2019 648 6,426 (309) 6,765 (5,341) Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) – 2,027 – 2,027 – Repayment of borrowings (648) (971) – (1,619) – Loans to related parties – – – – (3,129) —1— Repayment of loans from related parties – – – – 3,153 INTRODUCTION Total cash flows (648) 1,056 – 408 24 Non-cash changes AND OVERVIEW Transfer 320 (320) – – – Capitalised Interest – – – – (256) Amortisation of borrowing costs – 7 – 7 – Intercompany non-cash settlements – – – – (12) —2— Provision for impairment of intercompany loans – – – – 14 BUSINESS Foreign exchange movements – 110 (209) (99) (2) Total non-cash changes 320 (203) (209) (92) (256) PERFORMANCE Balance at 30 June 2020 320 7,279 (518) 7,081 (5,573) 1. Total derivatives balance as at 30 June 2020 is an asset of $144 million. The difference in carrying value to the table above relates to interest rate swap contracts, forward exchange contracts, the interest portion of cross-currency interest rate swap contracts and credit valuation and debit valuation adjustments which are excluded from the balances above. Debt principal related Total debt —3— derivatives related Net related Borrowings Borrowings (included in 1 financial party GOVERNANCE current non-current assets/liabilities) instruments (receivables) AND RISK $M $M $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2018 20 6,361 (221) 6,160 (5,053) Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) – 1,158 – 1,158 – Repayment of borrowings (20) (636) – (656) – Loans to related parties – – – – (7,894) —4— DIRECTORS’ Repayment of loans from related parties – – – – 7,815 Total cash flows (20) 522 – 502 (79) Non-cash changes REPORT Transfer 648 (648) – – – Capitalised Interest – – – – (202) Amortisation of borrowing costs – 7 – 7 Intercompany non-cash settlements – – – – (30) —5— REMUNERATION Provision for impairment of intercompany loans – – – – 23 Foreign exchange movements – 184 (88) 96 – Total non-cash changes 648 (457) (88) 103 (209) Balance at 30 June 2019 648 6,426 (309) 6,765 (5,341) REPORT 1. Total derivatives balance as at 30 June 2019 is a liability of $95 million. The difference in carrying value to the table above relates to interest rate swap contracts, forward exchange contracts, the interest portion of cross-currency interest rate swap contracts and credit valuation and debit valuation adjustments which are excluded from the balances above. —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION The above consolidated statements of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 176 Section C: Section C: THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 75 Transurban Holding Trust and Transurban International Limited Consolidated statements of cash flows for the year ended 30 June 2020 (continued) (b) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities (continued) TIL Net related Borrowings Borrowing Total party current non-current borrowings payables $M $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2019 4 2,959 2,963 2,534 Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) – 419 419 – Repayment of borrowings (4) (8) (12) – Loans from related parties – – – 8 Repayment of loans to related parties – – – (76) Capitalised premiums and discounts included in operating cash flows and investing cash flows – 21 21 – Total cash flows (4) 432 428 (68) Non-cash changes Transfer 4 (4) – – Capitalised interest – 14 14 120 Intercompany net settlements – – – (18) Amortisation of borrowing costs – 10 10 – Foreign exchange movements – 48 48 21 Total non-cash changes 4 68 72 123 Balance at 30 June 2020 4 3,459 3,463 2,589 Net related Borrowings Borrowing Total party current non-current borrowings payables $M $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2018 3 2,591 2,594 2,534 Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) – 201 201 – Repayment of borrowings (3) – (3) – Loans from related parties – – – 115 Repayment of loans to related parties – – – (377) Total cash flows (3) 201 198 (262) Non-cash changes Transfer 3 (3) – – Capitalised interest – 6 6 124 Intercompany net settlements – – – 10 Amortisation of borrowing costs – 11 11 – Foreign exchange movements 1 153 154 128 Total non-cash changes 4 167 171 262 Balance at 30 June 2019 4 2,959 2,963 2,534 The above consolidated statements of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Section D: 177 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section D: 76 TRANSURBAN Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT SECTION D: NOTES TO THE THT AND TIL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Basis of preparation and significant changes D1 D2 Summary of significant changes Basis of in the current reporting period preparation Operating performance D3 D4 D5 Segment Revenue Income tax —1— information Security holder outcomes INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW D6 D7 Distributions Earnings per stapled security Capital and borrowings —2— D8 D9 D10 D11 BUSINESS Reserves Net finance Borrowings Derivatives and financial income/(costs) risk management PERFORMANCE Concession summary D12 D13 D14 Other intangible Concession Other liabilities— assets financial asset concession liabilities —3— Group structure D15 D16 GOVERNANCE Equity accounted Non-controlling AND RISK investments interests Other D17 D18 Related party Parent entity —4— transactions financial information DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 178 Section D: Section D: Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 77 Basis of preparation and significant changes D1 Summary of significant changes in the current reporting period Refer to Note B2 for significant changes in the current reporting period. D2 Basis of preparation The Transurban Holding Trust Group consists of Transurban Holding Trust and the entities it controls (THT) and the Transurban International Limited Group consists of Transurban International Limited and the entities it controls (TIL). THT and TIL form part of the stapled Transurban Group. THT is registered as a managed investment scheme under Chapter 5C of the Corporations Act 2001, and as a result requires a responsible entity. The responsible entity of the THT is Transurban Infrastructure Management Limited (TIML). TIML is the responsible entity of the Trust and is responsible for performing all functions that are required under the Corporations Act 2001 of a responsible entity. The Transurban Holding Trust was established on 15 November 2001 and has no termination date. The Trust was registered as a managed investment scheme by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission on 28 November 2001. THT is a Trust registered and domiciled in Australia. TIL is a public company limited by shares and incorporated in Australia. Going concern The financial report has been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes the continuity of normal operations. In determining the appropriateness of the basis of preparation, the Directors have considered the impact of COVID-19 on THT and TIL's operations and in particular the next 12 months from the financial statements release date on 12 August 2020. Refer to Note B2 for detail of the impact of COVID-19 on the current reporting period. While the long-term strategy of THT and TIL remains unchanged, the ongoing impact of COVID-19 is uncertain and represents a significant risk to the global economy. For THT and TIL, traffic performance is expected to remain sensitive to future government responses to COVID-19 outbreaks, as well as global economic conditions. In response to this uncertainty, THT and TIL have critically assessed cash flow forecasts for the 12 months from the date of this report, taking into consideration an estimate of the potential continued impacts of COVID-19. In addition, the Directors have considered the ability of THT and TIL to fund their net current liability positions as at 30 June 2020 of $636 million and $468 million, respectively. Excluding related party payables, THT and TIL are in net current asset positions of $658 million and $498 million, respectively. Scenario analysis has been undertaken on cash flow forecasts to reflect reasonably possible changes in traffic volume and includes funding future debt financing through the use of existing debt facilities and cash and cash equivalents as at 30 June 2020. Based on the analysis, which includes judgement, THT and TIL are expected to have sufficient headroom to continue to operate within available cash levels and the terms of their debt facilities, and fund their respective net current liability positions as at 30 June 2020. The Directors have also taken the following matters into consideration in forming the view that THT and TIL are a going concern:  THT and TIL have generated positive cash inflows from operating activities of $607 million and $51 million respectively for the year ended 30 June 2020;  THT and TIL expect to refinance or repay with available cash all borrowing facilities classified as a current liability as at 30 June 2020. Under the stapling arrangement, each entity is able to provide direct and/or indirect support to each other entity and its controlled entities within the Transurban Group; and  THT has paid $1,490 million of distributions to Transurban Group's security holders over the past 12 months. Payment of future distributions is at the discretion of the Board. Section D: 179 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section D: 78 TRANSURBAN Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Operating performance D3 Segment information Refer to Note B4 for further information around the structure of the segments for the Transurban Group. THT operating segments Management have determined that THT has one operating segment. THT operations involve the leasing of assets and the provision of funding to the Transurban Group or associates of the Transurban Group. All revenues and expenses are directly attributable to these activities. The management structure and internal reporting of the Trust are based on this one operating segment. TIL operating segments Management have determined that TIL has one operating segment. —1— TIL’s operations involve the development, operation and maintenance of toll roads in North America. All revenues and expenses are INTRODUCTION directly attributable to these activities. The management structure and internal reporting of TIL are based on this one operating segment. Reconciliation of segment information to statutory financial information AND OVERVIEW Segment information for TIL as disclosed in the Transurban Group segment note (Note B4) is reconciled to the TIL statutory financial information below. —2— Segment revenue BUSINESS Revenue from external customers is through toll and service and fee revenues earned on toll roads. There are no inter-segment PERFORMANCE revenues within the North America segment. Segment revenue reconciles to total statutory revenue as follows: 2020 2019 TIL $M $M Total segment revenue (proportional) 294 338 Add: —3— GOVERNANCE Construction revenue from road development activities 240 239 Toll revenue receipts on A25 relating to concession financial asset1 (13) (12) AND RISK Other revenue receipts on A25 relating to concession financial asset1 (15) (14) Total statutory revenue 506 551 1. The Executive Committee members acting as the chief operating decision maker assesses the performance of TIL using proportional results that include A25 income streams relating to availability payments and guaranteed toll income which are classified as revenue within the proportional results. These revenues form part of the ordinary activities of the A25 asset and are reflective of its underlying performance. For statutory accounting purposes, these income streams offset the related concession financial asset receivable recorded on —4— acquisition of the A25 (refer to Note B18). Reconciliation of proportional EBITDA to statutory profit for the year DIRECTORS’ REPORT Proportional EBITDA reconciles to statutory profit as follows: 2020 2019 TIL $M $M Proportional EBITDA 153 199 Add: —5— REMUNERATION 1 EBITDA attributable to TIL corporate activities (disclosed in corporate and other) (21) (3) Toll and other revenue on A25 concession financial asset recognised as repayment of concession financial asset (28) (26) REPORT Statutory earnings before depreciation, amortisation, net finance costs, equity accounted investments and income taxes 104 170 Statutory depreciation and amortisation expense (112) (97) Statutory net finance costs (290) (261) Share of loss from equity accounted investments, inclusive of impairments (4) (1) Loss before tax (302) (189) —6— FINANCIAL 1. Relates primarily to development activities. STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 180 Section D: Section D: Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 79 D4 Revenue THT TIL 2020 2019 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M Toll revenue – – 266 312 Rental income 843 796 – – Construction revenue 212 231 240 239 Other revenue 9 1 – – Concession fees 45 40 – – Total revenue 1,109 1,068 506 551 For accounting policies on Toll revenue, construction revenue and other revenue, refer to Note B5. Revenue type Recognition Rental income Rental income is derived from operating leases on assets held by THT and is recognised in the profit and loss on a straight line basis over the lease term. Concession fees Other income from concession fees relates to the CityLink concession notes. Pursuant to the Agreement for the Melbourne CityLink Concession Deed (the Concession Deed), CityLink Melbourne Limited (CityLink) (a member of the Transurban Group), is required to pay annual concession fees for the duration of CityLink's concession period. Until a certain threshold rate of return on the project is achieved, the payment of concession fees due under the Concession Deed can be satisfied by means of noninterest bearing concession notes. Following agreements reached with the State of Victoria (the State), the Group paid a total of $765 million to the State to have all current concession notes issued by the State assigned to Transurban Holding Trust, and the State directed CityLink to pay future concession notes to Transurban Holding Trust. Accordingly, CityLink continues to issue notes semi-annually to Transurban Holding Trust, and Transurban Holding Trust recognises concession note income from the issue of these notes, at the present value of expected future repayments. D5 Income tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities—TIL Asset Liability 2020 2019 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M The balance comprises temporary difference attributable to: Accrued expenses 2 2 (3) (1) Provisions 66 52 – – Current and prior year losses 472 376 – – Fixed assets/intangibles 28 18 (697) (626) Derivatives and foreign exchange 91 72 – – Other 6 – – – Tax assets/(liabilities) 665 520 (700) (627) Set off of tax (374) (270) 374 270 Net tax assets/(liabilities) 291 250 (326) (357) Movements: Opening balance at 1 July 520 467 (627) (602) Credited/(charged) to the statement of comprehensive income 8 5 (51) 11 Credited/(charged) to equity 8 5 – (1) Foreign exchange movements 7 26 (3) (35) Transfer from deferred tax assets/liabilities 13 – (13) – Current year losses recognised/(prior year losses utilised) and under/(over) provision in prior years 104 20 (6) – Other 5 (3) – – Closing balance at 30 June 665 520 (700) (627) Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) to be recovered/(paid) after more than 12 months 665 520 (700) (627) Section D: 181 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section D: 80 TRANSURBAN Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Security holder outcomes D6 Distributions Refer to Note B10 of the THL financial statements for the dividends/distributions paid and payable by the Group. Movements in distribution provision—THT Distributions to nonDistribution controlling to security interest in holders subsidiaries Total $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2019 749 39 788 Additional provision recognised 1,229 69 1,298 Amounts paid (1,490) (69) (1,559) Amounts reinvested (51) – (51) —1— Balance at 30 June 2020 437 39 476 INTRODUCTION Balance at 1 July 2018 567 48 615 AND OVERVIEW Additional provision recognised 1,497 143 1,640 Amounts paid (1,275) (152) (1,427) Amounts reinvested (40) – (40) Balance at 30 June 2019 749 39 788 —2— D7 Earnings per stapled security BUSINESS THT TIL PERFORMANCE 2020 2019 2020 2019 Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary security holders ($M) 444 409 (255) (154) Weighted average number of securities (M) 2,725 2,578 2,725 2,578 Basic and diluted earnings per security attributable to the ordinary security holders (cents) 16.3 15.9 (9.4) (6.0) —3— GOVERNANCE AND RISK —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 182 Section D: Section D: Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 81 Capital and borrowings D8 Reserves Refer to Note B12 for a description of the nature and purpose of each reserve. THT Cash flow Share based hedges payments Total $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2019 (239) 6 (233) Revaluation—gross 57 – 57 Share based payments – (2) (2) Deferred tax (27) – (27) Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investments, net of tax (29) – (29) Balance at 30 June 2020 (238) 4 (234) Balance at 1 July 2018 (91) 8 (83) Revaluation—gross (98) – (98) Share based payments – (2) (2) Deferred tax 17 – 17 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investments, net of tax (67) – (67) Balance at 30 June 2019 (239) 6 (233) TIL Transactions Foreign with nonCash flow Share based currency controlling hedges payments translation interests Total $M $M $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2019 (8) 1 (142) (58) (207) Revaluation—gross (22) – – – (22) Currency translation differences – – (2) – (2) Deferred tax 6 – 2 – 8 Balance at 30 June 2020 (24) 1 (142) (58) (223) Balance at 1 July 2018 2 – (107) (58) (163) Revaluation—gross (14) 1 – – (13) Currency translation differences – – (35) – (35) Deferred tax 4 – – – 4 Balance at 30 June 2019 (8) 1 (142) (58) (207) Section D: 183 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section D: 82 TRANSURBAN Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT D9 Net finance income / (costs) THT TIL 2020 2019 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M Finance income Interest income from related parties 572 589 – – Interest income on financial assets at amortised cost 21 21 – – Unwind of discount and remeasurement of financial assets at amortised cost – 8 – – Unwind of discount and remeasurement of liabilities―concession notes payable 7 – – – Other interest income 1 2 7 7 Interest income from concession financial asset – – 25 23 Net foreign exchange gains 3 4 9 6 Remeasurement of concession notes receivable – 20 – – Total finance income 604 644 41 36 Finance costs —1— Interest and finance charges paid/payable (554) (605) (312) (290) INTRODUCTION Unwind of discount and remeasurement of liabilities—maintenance provision – – (5) (5) Unwind of discount and remeasurement of liabilities—concession notes payable – (9) – – AND OVERVIEW Unwind of discount and remeasurement of liabilities—other liabilities – – (14) (2) Unwind of discount and remeasurement of liabilities—construction obligation (12) (2) – – Unwind of discount and remeasurement of financial assets at amortised cost (8) – – – Remeasurement of concession notes receivable (164) – – – —2— Movement in impairment provisions on related party receivables (14) – – – BUSINESS Total finance costs (752) (616) (331) (297) PERFORMANCE Net finance (costs)/income (148) 28 (290) (261) Re-measurement of concession notes —3— Re-measurement of concession notes represents the discount unwinding over the passage of time on these notes and the change in the payment profile of the concession notes. As at 30 June 2020, the repayment profile for these concession notes has been GOVERNANCE AND RISK updated to reflect lower forecast toll revenue arising from COVID-19 and the associated deferral of repayments. D10 Borrowings Refer to Note B14 for a description of each facility type. —4— THT TIL 2020 2019 2020 2019 DIRECTORS’ $M $M $M $M Current REPORT Capital markets debt 300 – – – Term debt 20 648 4 4 320 648 4 4 —5— Non-current REMUNERATION Capital markets debt 2,236 2,491 1,421 1,015 U.S. private placement 2,736 2,686 211 215 REPORT Term debt 2,307 1,249 457 404 TIFIA – – 1,370 1,325 7,279 6,426 3,459 2,959 Total borrowings 7,599 7,074 3,463 2,963 —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 184 Section D: Section D: Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 83 D11 Derivatives and financial risk management The instruments used by the Group are described in Note B15. 2020 2019 $M $M Current Non-current Current Non-current THT TIL THT TIL THT TIL THT TIL Assets Interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges – – – – – – – – Cross currency interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges – – 299 – – – 56 – Total derivative financial instrument assets – – 299 – – – 56 – Liabilities Interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges 1 – 154 245 2 – 90 194 Cross currency interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges – – – – – – 59 – Total derivative financial instrument liabilities 1 – 154 245 2 – 149 194 Market risk Foreign exchange risk The effects of the foreign currency related hedging instruments on THT’s and TIL’s financial position and performance are as follows: THT 2020 2019 $M $M Cross-currency interest rate swaps Carrying amount 299 3 Notional amount 3,640 3,640 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 Change in discounted value of outstanding hedging instruments 302 (2) Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness (300) 4 TIL 2020 2019 $M $M Net investment in foreign operation—CAD Carrying amount 86 182 CAD carrying amount 81 167 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 Change in carrying amount of loan as a result of foreign currency movements (7) 19 Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness (2) 11 Maturity profile—notional value of cross-currency interest rate swaps are as follows: THT Total 2020 Less than Over nominal $M 12 months 1–5 years 5 years amount Cross-currency swaps (AUD:USD) – – 2,143 2,143 Average AUD-USD exchange rate – – 0.75 NA1 Average fixed interest rate2 – – 5.0% NA1 Cross-currency swaps (AUD:CHF) – 200 375 575 Average AUD-CHF exchange rate – 0.72 0.74 NA1 Average fixed interest rate2 – 4.6% 4.5% NA1 2019 $M Cross-currency swaps (AUD:USD) – – 2,143 2,143 Average AUD-USD exchange rate – – 0.75 NA1 2 Average fixed interest rate – – 5.0% NA1 Cross-currency swaps (AUD:CHF) – 200 375 575 Average AUD-CHF exchange rate – 0.72 0.74 NA1 Average fixed interest rate2 – 4.6% 4.5% NA1 1. NA—Not applicable 2. Based on average fixed rate of cross currency swap contracts, which does not include any margins that may be applicable on the hedged debt instrument. Section D: 185 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section D: 84 TRANSURBAN Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT D11 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Market risk (continued) Foreign exchange risk (continued) Effectiveness of hedging relationships designated are as follows: THT Hedge ineffectiveness Line item in profit Amount reclassified 2020 Hedge loss recognised in recognised in profit and loss that includes from OCI to Line item in profit and $M OCI and loss hedge ineffectiveness profit and loss loss for reclassification Foreign currency risk (286) (14) Net finance costs – Net finance costs 2019 $M Foreign currency risk 2 – Net finance costs – Net finance costs —1— INTRODUCTION Exposure to foreign currency risk at the reporting date, denominated in the currency in which the risk arises, was as follows: AND OVERVIEW THT THT TIL TIL 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 USD USD CHF CHF AUD AUD CAD CAD $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Net investment in foreign operation – – – – – – 81 167 —2— Receivables 964 964 – – – – – – BUSINESS Payables (936) (1,045) – – – – (313) (294) Borrowings (2,143) (2,143) (575) (575) – – – – PERFORMANCE Cross-currency interest rate swaps 2,143 2,143 575 575 – – – – Net exposure 28 (81) – – – – (232) (127) Sensitivity to exchange rate movements based on the translation of financial instruments held at the end of the period is as follows: —3— GOVERNANCE Movement in Increase / (decrease) THT post-tax profit in equity 2020 2019 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M AND RISK AUD/USD + 10 cents (4) 10 (88) (53) 10 cents 5 (13) 119 71 —4— DIRECTORS’ AUD/CHF + 10 cents – – (7) (8) 10 cents – – 9 10 REPORT Movement in Increase / (decrease) TIL post-tax profit in equity 2020 2019 2020 2019 —5— $M $M $M $M REMUNERATION AUD/CAD + 10 cents (17) (10) (6) – REPORT 10 cents 21 12 7 – —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 186 Section D: Section D: Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 85 D11 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Interest rate risk The effects of the interest rate related hedging instruments on THT’s and TIL’s financial position and performance are as follows: THT 2020 2019 $M $M Interest rate swaps Carrying amount 155 92 Notional amount 2,675 2,062 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 Change in fair value of outstanding hedging instruments (48) (92) Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness 48 95 Weighted average hedged rate for the year 100% 100% TIL 2020 2019 $M $M Interest rate swaps Carrying amount 89 67 Notional amount 328 320 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 Change in fair value of outstanding hedging instruments (21) (11) Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness 24 24 Weighted average hedged rate for the year 100% 100% Maturity profile—notional value of interest rate swaps are as follows: THT Total 2020 Less than Over nominal $M 12 months 1-5 years 5 years amount Interest rate swaps 280 1,180 1,215 2,675 Average fixed interest rate1 0.7% 2.1% 1.8% NA2 2019 $M Interest rate swaps 628 774 660 2,062 Average fixed interest rate1 2.2% 2.1% 2.7% NA2 1. Based on average fixed rate of interest rate swap contracts, which does not include any margins that may be applicable on the hedged debt instrument. TIL Total 2020 Less than Over nominal $M 12 months 1-5 years 5 years amount Interest rate swaps – – 328 328 Average fixed interest rate1 – – 4.0% NA2 2019 $M Interest rate swaps – – 320 320 Average fixed interest rate1 – – 4.0% NA2 1. Based on average fixed rate of interest rate swap contracts, which does not include any margins that may be applicable on the hedged debt instrument. 2. NA—Not applicable Section D: 187 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section D: 86 TRANSURBAN Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT D11 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Interest rate risk (continued) Effectiveness of hedging relationships designated are as follows: THT Hedge ineffectiveness Line item in profit Amount reclassified Line item in profit 2020 Hedge gain recognised recognised in profit and loss that includes from OCI to profit and loss for $M in OCI and loss hedge ineffectiveness and loss reclassification Interest rate risk 155 – Net finance costs – Net finance costs 2019 $M Interest rate risk 92 – Net finance costs – Net finance costs TIL —1— Hedge ineffectiveness Line item in profit Amount reclassified Line item in profit INTRODUCTION 2020 Hedge gain recognised recognised in profit and loss that includes from OCI to profit and loss for $M in OCI and loss hedge ineffectiveness and loss reclassification Interest rate risk 86 2 Net finance costs – Net finance costs AND OVERVIEW 2019 $M Interest rate risk 67 2 Net finance costs – Net finance costs —2— BUSINESS THT and TIL are not materially impacted by movements in interest rates. As at the reporting date, THT and TIL had the following PERFORMANCE variable rate borrowings and interest rate swap contracts outstanding: THT TIL 2020 2019 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M Cash and cash equivalents 128 119 599 512 —3— Floating rate borrowings (2,500) (2,062) (722) (727) Interest rate swaps (notional principal amount) 2,267 2,062 722 727 GOVERNANCE Net exposure to interest rate risk (105) 119 599 512 AND RISK Sensitivity to interest rate movements based on variable rate obligations is as follows: THT TIL 2020 2019 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M —4— Interest rates +100bps (1) 1 6 5 Interest rates –100bps 1 (1) (6) (5) DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 188 Section D: Section D: Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 87 D11 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Liquidity risk Contractual maturities of financial liabilities The amounts disclosed in the following table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of THT and TIL’s financial liabilities. For interest rate swaps, the cash flows have been estimated using forward interest rates applicable at the end of the reporting period. For further information refer to Note B15. THT Total 2020 1 year Over 1 to 2 Over 2 to 3 Over 3 to 4 Over 4 to 5 Over contractual Carrying $M or less years years years years 5 years cash flows amount Trade payables 63 – – – – – 63 63 Borrowings 496 912 830 443 810 6,330 9,821 7,599 Related party loans 1,214 371 127 127 1,108 2,854 5,801 5,090 Interest rate swaps1 38 34 28 24 17 25 166 155 Cross-currency swaps1 40 40 40 30 30 56 236 (299) Concession notes – – – – – 228 228 60 Total 1,851 1,357 1,025 624 1,965 9,493 16,315 12,668 Total 2019 1 year Over 1 to 2 Over 2 to 3 Over 3 to 4 Over 4 to 5 Over contractual Carrying $M or less years years years years 5 years cash flows amount Trade payables 74 – – – – – 74 74 Borrowings 843 700 650 901 388 5,579 9,061 7,074 Related party loans 649 1,148 311 73 73 2,795 5,049 5,038 Interest rate swaps1 22 21 18 12 10 18 101 92 Cross-currency swaps1 44 43 43 43 33 101 307 3 Concession notes – – – – – 216 216 63 Trade payables 1,632 1,912 1,022 1,029 504 8,709 14,808 12,344 1. The carrying value of the interest rate and cross-currency swaps are presented on a net basis. The gross position is disclosed in the first table of Note D11. TIL Total 2020 1 year Over 1 to 2 Over 2 to 3 Over 3 to 4 Over 4 to 5 Over contractual Carrying $M or less years years years years 5 years cash flows amount Trade payables 92 – – – – – 92 92 Borrowings 156 141 733 87 150 4,133 5,400 3,463 Related party loans 1,045 83 83 83 83 3,038 4,415 2,593 Interest rate swaps 28 28 27 25 24 128 260 245 Lease liability 1 1 1 1 1 4 9 8 Other liabilities – – 338 – – – 338 305 Total 1,322 253 1,182 196 258 7,303 10,514 6,706 Total 2019 1 year Over 1 to 2 Over 2 to 3 Over 3 to 4 Over 4 to 5 Over contractual Carrying $M or less years years years years 5 years cash flows amount Trade payables 110 – – – – – 110 110 Borrowings 141 133 134 736 78 4,847 6,069 2,963 Related party loans 1,757 52 52 52 52 2,206 4,171 2,534 Interest rate swaps 19 21 21 20 20 122 223 194 Other liabilities 78 – 331 – – – 409 363 Total 2,105 206 538 808 150 7,175 10,982 6,164 Section D: 189 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section D: 88 TRANSURBAN Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Concession summary Refer to the Concession summary section of the Group financial statements for the intangible assets, concession note and promissory note accounting policies. D12 Other intangible assets 2020 Concession Assets under $M assets construction Total THT TIL THT TIL THT TIL Cost 12,151 4,861 355 629 12,506 5,490 Accumulated amortisation (2,870) (357) – – (2,870) (357) Net book amount 9,281 4,504 355 629 9,636 5,133 2019 Concession Assets under —1— $M assets construction Total INTRODUCTION THT TIL THT TIL THT TIL Cost 11,595 4,297 818 860 12,413 5,157 AND OVERVIEW Accumulated amortisation (2,543) (252) – – (2,543) (252) Net book amount 9,052 4,045 818 860 9,870 4,905 Movement in other intangible assets —2— Concession Assets under BUSINESS assets constructions Total THT TIL THT TIL THT TIL $M $M $M $M $M $M Opening balance at 1 July 2019 9,052 4,045 818 860 9,870 4,905 PERFORMANCE Additions – – 93 275 93 275 Foreign exchange movements and other adjustments – 42 – 16 – 58 Transfer 541 522 (541) (522) – – —3— Amortisation charge (312) (105) (15) – (327) (105) Net carrying amount at 30 June 2020 9,281 4,504 355 629 9,636 5,133 GOVERNANCE Opening balance at 1 July 2018 9,358 3,917 243 165 9,601 4,082 AND RISK Additions 2 – 576 686 578 686 Foreign exchange movements and other adjustments – 225 – 9 – 234 Transfer 1 – (1) – – – —4— Amortisation charge (309) (97) – – (309) (97) Net carrying amount at 30 June 2019 9,052 4,045 818 860 9,870 4,905 DIRECTORS’ REPORT D13 Concession financial asset TIL’s financial assets relate only to A25 as at 30 June 2020 and 30 June 2019. Refer to Note B18 for a reconciliation of movements in the A25 Concession financial asset. —5— REMUNERATION D14 Other liabilities—concession liabilities REPORT Refer to Note B21 for further information on these concession liabilities. M2 Motorway (THT) The face value of promissory notes on issue as at 30 June 2020 is $228 million (2019: $216 million). The net present value as at 30 —6— June 2020 of the redemption payments relating to these promissory notes is $60 million (2019: $63 million). FINANCIAL Fredericksburg Extension Project (TIL) The nominal value of payables to VDOT relating to the Fredericksburg Extension as at 30 June 2020 is $338 million (2019: $408 STATEMENTS million). As at 30 June 2020, a current liability of $nil million (2019: $78 million) and a non-current liability of $305 million (2019: $285 million) has been recorded. —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 190 Section D: Section D: Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 89 Group structure D15 Equity accounted investments Set out below is the summarised financial information for the THT Group’s investments accounted for using the equity method. The summarised financial information presented below is on a 100 per cent basis. Refer to Note B25 for the details of the STP JV, NWRG and details on impairment testing. THT THT NorthWestern THT TIL STP JV Roads Trust Total 2020 20191 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Summarised balance sheet—100% Current assets 862 1,349 1 159 863 1,508 5 1 Non-current assets 16,128 15,430 2,238 2,304 18,366 17,734 – – Current liabilities (130) (233) (20) (19) (150) (252) (1) (1) Non-current liabilities (8,196) (7,870) (2,002) (1,841) (10,198) (9,711) – (2) Net assets/(liabilities) 8,664 8,676 217 603 8,881 9,279 4 (2) Summarised statement of comprehensive income—100% Revenue 206 39 139 136 345 175 2 1 Construction revenue 1,081 1,201 – – 1,081 1,201 – – Construction costs (1,081) (1,201) – – (1,081) (1,201) – – Depreciation and amortisation (86) (11) (35) (34) (121) (45) (9) – Other expenses (1) (309) – (2) (1) (311) – (5) Net finance cost (157) (87) (16) (22) (173) (109) – – Income tax expense – – (5) (1) (5) (1) – – (Loss)/profit for the year (38) (368) 83 77 45 (291) (7) (4) Other comprehensive (loss)/income (87) (285) (13) 9 (100) (276) – – Total comprehensive (loss)/income (125) (653) 70 86 (55) (567) (7) (4) The following table reconciles the above summarised financial information presented on a 100 per cent basis to the proportional amounts recognised by the Group: Ownership interest 50% 50% 50% 50% 4.2% 20% Proportional total comprehensive (loss)/income (32) (263) 35 43 3 (220) – (1) Amortisation of fair value uplift and other adjustments – – – – – – (4) – Profits not recognised – – – – – – – – Group's share of comprehensive (loss)/income (32) (263) 35 43 3 (220) (4) (1) 1. The summarised statement of comprehensive income for STP JV is presented above from the date of acquisition which is 27 September 2018. Reconciliation of summarised financial information Set out below is the reconciliation of the summarised financial information presented to the carrying amount of the Group’s interest in associates. THT THT NorthWestern THT TIL STP JV Roads Trust Total 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Opening carrying amount at 1 July 2,274 – 265 364 2,539 364 4 5 Acquisition – 2,425 – – – 2,425 – – Group’s share of (loss)/profit, inclusive of impairments (10) (191) 42 38 32 (153) (4) (1) Acquisition of and capital contributions to STP JV 48 68 – – 48 68 – – Fair value adjustment on issuance of shareholder loan notes to STP JV – 62 – – – 62 – – Group’s recognised share of other comprehensive (loss)/income (22) (72) (7) 5 (29) (67) – – Distributions received (22) (18) (149) (142) (171) (160) – – Closing carrying amount at 30 June 2,268 2,274 151 265 2,419 2,539 – 4 Section D: 191 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section D: 90 TRANSURBAN Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT D16 Non-controlling interests Set out below is summarised financial information for each material subsidiary that has non-controlling interests that are material to THT. The amounts disclosed for each subsidiary are before inter-company eliminations. THT Transurban Airport Motorway Queensland Trust Trust 37.5% 37.5% 24.9% 24.9% Total 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M $M $M Summarised balance sheet Current assets 188 81 20 20 208 101 Non-current assets 7,448 7,346 797 819 8,245 8,165 Current liabilities (41) (56) (475) (175) (516) (231) Non-current liabilities (5,494) (5,186) (171) (490) (5,665) (5,676) Net assets 2,101 2,185 171 174 2,272 2,359 —1— Carrying amount of NCI 788 819 43 43 831 862 Summarised statement of comprehensive income INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW Revenue 362 337 23 23 385 360 Loss for the year (12) (38) (3) (1) (15) (39) Other comprehensive income/(loss) 114 (62) – (5) 114 (67) Total comprehensive income/(loss) 102 (100) (3) (6) 99 (106) —2— Loss allocated to NCI (4) (15) (1) – (5) (15) BUSINESS Other comprehensive income/(loss) allocated to NCI 43 (24) – (1) 43 (25) PERFORMANCE Summarised cash flows Cash flows from operating activities 172 168 – (1) 172 167 Cash flows from investing activities (102) (216) – – (102) (216) Cash flows from financing activities (55) 57 – 1 (55) 58 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 15 9 – – 15 9 —3— GOVERNANCE AND RISK —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 192 Section D: Section D: Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 91 Other D17 Related party transactions THT THL1 Joint ventures 2020 2019 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Transactions with related parties Rental income 843,044 796,177 – – Concession fee income 241,375 39,602 – – Interest income 571,612 588,927 – – Finance income on financial assets at amortised cost – – 26,872 28,933 Interest expense 249,471 300,731 – – Other expenses 4,597 4,525 – – Outstanding balances with related parties – – Current receivables 1,493,427 1,508,346 – – Current concession notes – 106,254 – – Non-current receivables 9,169,686 8,871,221 – – Financial assets at amortised cost – – 646,497 642,805 Non-current concession notes 786,467 923,105 – – Current liabilities 1,294,214 453,161 – – Non-current liabilities 3,796,171 4,585,156 – – 1. Transactions and outstanding balances between THT and THL. Expected credit loss Management have assessed the impacts arising from COVID-19 and do not consider there to be evidence of a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of the financial assets at amortised cost by THT. This is mainly due to there being no significant change in the nature of or the collectability of these balances. The loss allowance for these financial assets at amortised cost continues to be limited to 12 months of expected losses. These balances continue to have low credit risk as they have a low risk of default and the counterparties have a strong capacity to meet their contractual cash flow obligations in the near term. As at 30 June 2020 the loss allowance has been updated for management’s estimate of the collectability of these balances and is $39 million (2019: $24 million). THL1 TIL 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Transactions with related parties Interest expense 67,704 72,284 Other expenses 8,444 8,362 Outstanding balances with related parties Current liabilities 966,228 1,657,674 Non-current liabilities 1,627,181 876,065 1. Transactions and outstanding balances between TIL and THL. Section D: 193 Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 Section D: 92 TRANSURBAN Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 CORPORATE REPORT D18 Parent entity financial information Summary financial information The individual financial statements for the parent entities (THT and TIL) show the following aggregate amounts: THT TIL 2020 2019 2020 2019 $M $M $M $M Balance sheet Current assets 1,895 2,214 559 545 Total assets 17,948 18,296 1,141 1,041 Current liabilities 2,364 1,763 14 6 Total liabilities 4,271 4,570 454 428 Net assets 13,677 13,726 687 613 Issued units/contributed equity 16,504 15,954 595 522 —1— Reserves 4 6 118 103 INTRODUCTION Accumulated losses (2,831) (2,234) (26) (12) Shareholders’ equity 13,677 13,726 687 613 Profit/(loss) for the year 632 818 (14) (19) AND OVERVIEW Exchange differences on translation of USD balances, net of tax – – 14 29 Movement in share based payments reserve – 1 – 1 Total comprehensive income 632 819 – 11 —2— Expected credit loss BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Management have assessed the impacts arising from COVID-19 and do not consider there to be evidence of a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of the financial assets at amortised cost in each respective parent entity. This is mainly due to there being no significant change in the nature of or the collectability of these balances. The loss allowance for these financial assets at amortised cost continues to be limited to 12 months of expected losses. These balances continue to have low credit risk as they —3— have a low risk of default and the counterparties have a strong capacity to meet their contractual cash flow obligations in the near GOVERNANCE term. As at 30 June 2020 the loss allowance has been updated for management’s estimate of the collectability of these balances and is $20 million for THT (2019: $14 million) and $2 million for TIL (2019: $nil). AND RISK —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 194 Section E: Section E: Directors’ declaration for the year ended 30 June 2020 Directors’ declaration for the year ended 30 June 2020 93 SECTION E: SIGNED REPORTS In the opinion of the Directors of Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Infrastructure Management Limited (as the responsible entity of Transurban Holding Trust) and Transurban International Limited (collectively referred to as ‘the Directors’): a. the financial statements and notes of Transurban Holdings Limited and its controlled entities, including Transurban Holding Trust and its controlled entities and Transurban International Limited and its controlled entities set out on pages 102 to 193 are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: i. complying with Accounting Standards, the Corporations Regulations 2001 and other mandatory professional reporting requirements, and ii. giving a true and fair view of the Transurban Holdings Limited Group's, Transurban Holding Trust Group’s and Transurban International Limited Group’s financial position as at 30 June 2020 and of its performance for the year ended on that date, and b. there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Transurban Holdings Limited Group, Transurban Holding Trust Group and Transurban International Limited Group will be able to pay their debts as and when they become due and payable, and c. at the date of this declaration, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the members of the Extended Closed Group identified in Note B27 will be able to meet any obligations or liabilities to which they are, or may become liable, subject by virtue of the deed of cross guarantee described in Note B27. Note B3 confirms that the financial statements also comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. The Directors have been given the declarations by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001. Lindsay Maxsted Director Scott Charlton Director Melbourne 12 August 2020 195 Independent auditor’s report TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Independent auditor’s report To the stapled security holders of Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust and Transurban International Limited Report on the audit of the financial report —1— Our opinion INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW In our opinion: The accompanying financial reports of Transurban Holdings Limited (THL or the Company) and its controlled entities (together the Transurban Group or the Group), Transurban Holding Trust (the Trust) and its controlled entities (together THT) and Transurban International Limited (the International Company) and its controlled entities (together TIL) are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, —2— including: (a) giving a true and fair view of the Transurban Group, THT and TIL’s f inancial positions as at 30 June BUSINESS 2020 and of their financial performance for the year then ended PERFORMANCE (b) complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Regulations 2001. What we have audited The Transurban Group, THT and TIL f inancial reports (the financial report) comprise: —3— ● the consolidated balance sheets as at 30 June 2020 ● the consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended GOVERNANCE AND RISK ● the consolidated statements of changes in equity for the year then ended ● the consolidated statements of cash flows for the year then ended ● the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies ● the directors’ declaration. —4— DIRECTORS’ Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under REPORT those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial report section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for —5— our opinion. Independence REMUNERATION We are independent of the Transurban Group, THT and TIL in accordance with the auditor independence REPORT requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 and the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including Independence Standards) (the Code) that are relevant to our audit of the financial report in Australia. We have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 2 Riverside Quay, SOUTHBANK VIC 3006, GPO Box 1331, MELBOURNE VIC 3001 T: 61 3 8603 1000, F: 61 3 8603 1999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 196 Independent auditor’s report Our audit approach An audit is designed to provide reasonable assurance about whether the financial report is free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial report. We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the f inancial report as a whole, taking into account the geographic and management structure of the Transurban Group, THT and TIL, their accounting processes and controls and the industry in which they operate. Group materiality ● For the purpose of our audit we used overall Group materiality of $45.9 million, which represents approximately 2.5% of the Group's earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation expenses (EBITDA). ● We applied this threshold, together with qualitative considerations, to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements on the financial report as a whole. ● We chose EBITDA as the benchmark because, in our view, it is the metric against which the perf ormance of the Transurban Group is most commonly measured and is a generally accepted benchmark in the infrastructure industry. We chose 2.5% based on our professional judgement, noting that it is within the common range relative to EBITDA benchmarks. Audit scope ● Our audit f ocused on where the Group made subjective judgements; for example, significant accounting estimates involving assumptions and inherently uncertain future events. ● We conducted an audit of the financial report for each of the Transurban Group, THT and TIL, including substantive audit procedures in respect of the operation of each of the toll road concessions and equity accounted investments. Specific audit procedures were also performed for interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation expenses. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial report for the current period. The key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial report as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Further, any commentary on the outcomes of a particular audit procedure is made in that context. We communicated the key audit matters to the Audit and Risk Committee. 197 Independent auditor’s report TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Recording of toll revenue Group – Note B5 THT TIL – Note D4 Toll revenue: $2,510m Toll revenue – not applicable Toll Revenue: $266m Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter —1— The Transurban Group operates toll roads in 4 Our procedures included, amongst others: INTRODUCTION geographic segments: Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane ● Testing a selection of Information in Australia and North America. Each toll road records Technology General Controls (ITGCs) and recognises revenue through the use of technology, AND OVERVIEW supporting the integrity of the tolling specifically, road side equipment supported by tolling systems' operation, including access, and billing systems. operations and change management Tolling equipment and systems are customised complex controls. systems that are built with the purpose of correctly ● Performing tests of the design and operation identifying vehicle type, calculating correct fare and —2— of relevant controls over revenue linking the vehicle to the customer’s account for billing adjustments, write offs, image processing BUSINESS purposes or obtaining information from local transport and exception reporting. authorities for vehicles that have not made a valid billing ● Performing testing of the review and PERFORMANCE arrangement. approval of a selection of toll price increases Every toll road operates under a different concession for each toll road during the year. deed which governs the means by which customers are ● Performing data analysis of manual journals charged. and adjustments to revenue to test a sample We considered this to be a key audit matter for the of material postings to revenue and —3— Group and TIL due to the large volume of transactions checking that they were generated by the GOVERNANCE that were processed in the year, the unique nature of tolling systems. each toll road and the reliance on bespoke information ● Using data analytics to recalculate the toll technology systems and controls. AND RISK revenue for each toll road in Australia and Canada for the full 12 month period. ● Testing a selection of cash collected by the North America toll roads. ● For all contracts, obtaining an understanding of the key terms of the —4— arrangements, term dates, performance obligations and payments made in regard to DIRECTORS’ AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. REPORT ● Assessing the Group's identification of performance obligations and allocation of prices to the performance obligations for a sample of contracts. —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 198 Independent auditor’s report Borrowings Group – Note B14 THT – Note D10 TIL – Note D10 Current borrowings: $1,553m Current borrowings: $320m Current borrowings: $4m Non-Current borrowings: $19,525m Non-Current borrowings: $7,279m Non-Current borrowings: $3,459m Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Borrowings are an integral part of the Transurban Our procedures included, amongst others: Group’s business model as it is the key source of funds used by the business to fund new projects and upgrades ● Obtaining confirmations from banks to to existing concession assets. Borrowings represent the confirm a selection of borrowings. largest liability on the balance sheets. ● Reading the most up-to-date borrowing agreements with the financiers to develop During the year the Transurban Group continued to an understanding of the terms associated refinance borrowings through bond issuances and new with the facilities and the amount of facility bank facilities. available for drawdown. Each of the borrowing agreements has its own set of ● Where debt is regarded as non-current, terms and conditions and therefore audit work was considering the Group's assessment required to assess the treatment of the agreements and whether there is an unconditional right to their impact on the financial statements. defer payment such that there were no repayments required within 12 months from We considered this to be a key audit matter for the the balance date. Group, THT and TIL given the size of the borrowings balances, the number of borrowing agreements in place ● Assessing accounting treatment of the and the importance of the funding structure for continued capitalised borrowing costs arising from growth. new arrangements and borrowing costs related to terminated facilities. ● Evaluating the debt maturity profile and funding plan in light of our understanding of the debt agreements in place. ● Performing tests of the design and operation of relevant controls over the treasury function including funding plan and board review and approval of debt agreements and financial institutions used. 199 Independent auditor’s report TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Service concession arrangements Group – Notes B17 B21 THT – Notes D12, D14 TIL – Notes D12 D14 Concession assets: $21,490m Concession assets: $9,281m Concession assets: $4,504m Assets under construction: $4,352m Assets under construction: $355m Assets under construction: —1— Concession financial assets: $358m Concession notes receivable: $786m $629m INTRODUCTION Maintenance provision: $1,206m Construction obligation: $236m Concession financial asset: $358m Construction obligation: $1,589m Other liabilities: $60m AND OVERVIEW Maintenance provision: $201m Other liabilities: $406m Other liabilities: $305m Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Each of the concession assets in the Transurban Group’s We evaluated the concession agreements for —2— portfolio represents a contractual right under a each toll road to develop an understanding of the BUSINESS concession agreement to toll a road in return for the nature of the agreements with the concession capital and expertise needed to build, maintain and grantors and assess the accounting implications of operate the road. the contractual arrangements. PERFORMANCE Every concession asset is governed by its own Our other procedures included, amongst others: concession agreement between the Group and the ● Performing tests of the design and operation concession grantor (typically the government or a local of controls over a selection of the forecast and transport authority of the region in which concession is budgeting processes impacting the models in granted). As a result, the Transurban Group is subject to —3— the COVID-19 environment. a number of contractual obligations, some of which have a direct impact on the financial statements. Whenever the ● Considering the relevant obligations in the GOVERNANCE Group undertakes a new project to construct, acquire or concession agreements having regard to the upgrade the asset, its contractual arrangements with calculations in the models and corresponding AND RISK concession grantors are altered either through a new balance sheet line items. concession agreement or an amendment of the existing ● Assessing the mathematical accuracy of the concession agreement. models and agreeing key data to the latest The right to receive future economic benefits is approved budgets and forecasts. recognised on the balance sheet as a concession asset. ● Evaluating the appropriateness of impairment —4— The asset is recognised at the cost of construction or assessment methodology and the price paid at acquisition. reasonableness of key assumptions, including future traffic performance, recovery of traffic DIRECTORS’ Assets under construction represent a number of from the COVID-19 pandemic, and discount REPORT construction projects at varying stages of completion across the Group’s network of toll roads. The Group is rate. exposed to direct and indirect construction risk including ● Involving valuation experts to assess the through its third party contractors. Construction risk reasonableness of selected key assumptions includes exposures to claims made on the Group and used within the models. claims that the Group may pass through or initiate on ● Obtaining an understanding through —5— others. discussions with management, of the status of REMUNERATION The concession agreements also contain clauses that ongoing construction projects, including require the Transurban Group to make cash outflows in claims made on the Group and claims the the future, resulting in the recognition of concession Group may pass onto other parties. REPORT liabilities such as maintenance liabilities, concession note ● Involving legal experts to review the West liabilities and contingent consideration liabilities. Gate Tunnel project agreements and claims The concession assets’ recoverable amount and made by the contractor and consider their concession liabilities recognised are calculated by impact on the financial statements and estimating the net present value of future cash flows of disclosures therein. —6— the concession agreements using discounted cash flow FINANCIAL models (the models). This area requires significant judgement by the Group STATEMENTS due to a number of uncertain assumptions that impact the —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 200 Independent auditor’s report Service concession arrangements timing and quantum of future cash flows generated by the ● Assessing the adequacy of the disclosures in toll road, specifically assumptions such as future traffic the financial report in respect of contractual expectations, operating costs, maintenance cash outflows arrangements having regard to the and finance cost forecasts. The COVID-19 pandemic requirements of Australian Accounting resulted in a number of these assets showing indicators Standards. of impairment at 30 June 2020. We considered this to be a key audit matter for the Group, THT and TIL due to the accounting complexity of the arrangements and judgement required to interpret the accounting requirements and calculate their impact on the financial statements. Income taxes Group – Note B7 THT TIL – Note D5 Income tax benefit: $167m Income taxes – not applicable Income tax benefit: $47m Deferred tax assets: $1,098m Deferred tax assets: $291m Deferred tax liabilities: $1,213m Deferred tax liabilities: $326m Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter The Transurban Group is subject to income taxes in Our procedures included, amongst others: Australia and North America. Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes, specifically ● Assessing the processes for identifying those industry specific tax rules and provisions which uncertain tax positions and the related require significant judgement and detailed understanding accounting policy of provisioning for tax of the legislation and relevant case law. exposures. Some of the tax provisions are subject to interpretation ● Using Australian and US tax specialists to and therefore for some transactions the ultimate tax gain an understanding of the current status determination is uncertain. of tax assessments and investigations and assessing the impact of selected new tax Deferred tax assets relating to carried forward tax losses laws and guidance on the tax balances are recognised to the extent there are sufficient taxable recognised. profits relating to the same taxation authority against ● Reading recent rulings and selected which the unused tax losses can be utilised. The correspondence with local tax authorities, assumptions supporting this position are dependent on as well as external advice provided to the future cash flows generated from the toll roads operating Group and TIL where relevant, to assess in each tax group. Future taxable profits will need to be the associated tax provisions. generated in order to support the recognition of the deferred tax assets. ● Testing a sample of deferred and income tax calculations for each tax group. Due to the stapled structure of the Group, tax calculations are complex and require the Group to make ● Assessing the key assumptions used to judgements and assumptions. Furthermore, as described support the recognition of tax losses and in Note B7 the Transurban Group consists of six different their future utilisation in light of COVID-19 tax consolidated groups with their own Tax Sharing and impacts, specifically forecast taxable profits. Tax Funding agreements, each of which creates The key assumptions included judgements additional complexities in the calculations. over forecast traffic performance including the impacts of COVID-19 and pricing We considered this to be a key audit matter for the Group assumptions. and TIL due to the accounting complexity of the calculations, judgmental nature and expertise required to estimate the tax positions recorded. 201 Independent auditor’s report TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Recoverability of equity accounted investments – Sydney Transport Partners Group (STP) Group – Note B25 THT – Note D15 TIL Equity accounted investment: Equity accounted investment: Equity accounted investment —1— $3,061m $2,268m not applicable INTRODUCTION Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter In September 2018 the Sydney Transport Partners Our procedures included, amongst others: AND OVERVIEW Group (STP) acquired a stake (51%) in the ● Performing tests of the design and operation of WestConnex Project. The Transurban Group holds a controls over a selection of the forecast and 50% share in the STP joint venture and equity budgeting processes impacting the models in the account for its investment. COVID-19 environment. The Group makes certain assumptions in assessing —2— ● Assessing the mathematical accuracy of the impairment for its investment. These include models and agreeing key data to the latest BUSINESS assumptions around expected traffic flows, forecast approved budgets and forecasts. operational costs, construction completion timing and budget construction costs. ● Evaluating the appropriateness of the impairment PERFORMANCE assessment methodology and reasonableness of The COVID-19 pandemic’s direct impact on traffic key assumptions, including future traffic performance is considered an indicator of impairment performance, recovery of traffic from the COVID-19 of the Group’s investment in STP. pandemic, and discount rate. We considered this to be a key audit matter for the ● Involving valuation specialists to assess the Group and THT, due to the size of the investment and reasonableness of selected key assumptions used —3— the complexity and judgement involved in the within the models. GOVERNANCE impairment assessment. ● Assessing the adequacy of the disclosures in the financial report having regard to the requirements AND RISK of Australian Accounting Standards. —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 202 Independent auditor’s report Other information The directors of Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Infrastructure Management Limited (as the responsible entity of Transurban Holding Trust) and Transurban International Limited (collectively referred to as “the directors”) are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the inf ormation included in the Group’s Corporate Report for the year ended 30 June 2020, but does not include the financial report and our auditor’s report thereon. Prior to the date of this auditor's report, the other inf ormation we obtained included the FY20 Corporate Report, FY20 Results Presentation, FY20 Sustainability Supplement, Corporate Governance Statement and Security Holder Inf ormation. We expect the remaining other information to be made available to us after the date of this auditor's report. Our opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information and we do not and will not express an opinion or any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial report, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If , based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. When we read the other information not yet received, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to the directors and use our professional judgement to determine the appropriate action to take. Responsibilities of the directors for the financial report The directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Act 2001 and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and f air view and is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial report, the directors are responsible for assessing the ability of the Transurban Group, THT and TIL to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Transurban Group, THT or TIL or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial report Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial report as a whole is free f rom material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial report. A f urther description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial report is located at the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at: https://www.auasb.gov.au/admin/file/content102/c3/ar1_2020.pdf. This description forms part of our auditor's report. 203 Independent auditor’s report TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT Report on the remuneration report Our opinion on the remuneration report We have audited the remuneration report included in pages 79 to 100 of the Directors’ Report for the year ended 30 June 2020. —1— In our opinion, the remuneration report of Transurban Holdings Limited for the year ended 30 June 2020 complies with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW Responsibilities The directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the remuneration report in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the remuneration report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. —2— BUSINESS PricewaterhouseCoopers PERFORMANCE —3— Marcus Laithwaite Melbourne GOVERNANCE AND RISK Partner 12 August 2020 —4— DIRECTORS’ REPORT —5— REMUNERATION REPORT —6— FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —7— SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION 204 204 95 Express Lanes, Greater Washington Area SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION —SECTION 7— 205 205 THE SECURITY HOLDER INFORMATION SET OUT BELOW WAS APPLICABLE AS AT 6 JULY 2020 TRANSURBAN TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE CORPORATE REPORT REPORT Distribution of stapled securities 2020 The total number of holders of stapled securities, which comprise one share in Transurban Holdings Limited, one share in Transurban International Limited and one unit in Transurban Holding Trust, was 131,082. The voting rights are one vote per stapled security. There were 2,735,102,808 stapled securities on issue. The distribution of security holders was as follows: Total Stapled Percentage of issued Security grouping holders securities stapled securities 1–1,000 52,993 21,627,977 0.79 1,001–5,000 55,195 135,582,295 4.96 5,001–10,000 13,851 96,876,188 3.54 10,001–100,000 8,772 183,105,061 6.69 100,001 over 271 2,297,911,287 84.02 Total 131,082 2,735,102,808 100.00 There were 2,955 security holders holding less than a marketable parcel of $500 worth of stapled securities, based on the closing —1— —1— market price on 6 July 2020 of $14.27 per share. INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW OVERVIEW Twenty largest holders of stapled securities AND Number of stapled Percentage of issued Name securities held stapled securities —2— —2— BUSINESS HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED 932,173,310 34.08 J P MORGAN NOMINEES AUSTRALIA PTY LIMITED 494,595,056 18.08 BUSINESS PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE BNP PARIBAS NOMINEES PTY LTD <AGENCY LENDING DRP A/C> 364,729,374 13.34 CITICORP NOMINEES PTY LIMITED 161,667,993 5.91 NATIONAL NOMINEES LIMITED 93,631,920 3.42 BNP PARIBAS NOMS PTY LTD <DRP> 29,110,183 1.06 —3— —3— AUSTRALIAN FOUNDATION INVESTMENT COMPANY LIMITED 20,359,237 0.74 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CITICORP NOMINEES PTY LIMITED <COLONIAL FIRST STATE INV A/C> 14,478,184 0.53 AND RISK RISK CUSTODIAL SERVICES LIMITED <BENEFICIARIES HOLDING A/C> 14,223,159 0.52 AND HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED <NT-COMNWLTH SUPER CORP A/C> 13,980,193 0.51 NETWEALTH INVESTMENTS LIMITED <WRAP SERVICES A/C> 9,189,149 0.34 ARGO INVESTMENTS LIMITED 8,273,736 0.30 —4— —4— MILTON CORPORATION LIMITED 5,815,153 0.21 AUSTRALIAN UNITED INVESTMENT COMPANY LIMITED 4,670,000 0.17 DIRECTORS’ DIRECTORS’ REPORT HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED-GSCO ECA 4,351,144 0.16 REPORT AMP LIFE LIMITED 4,242,985 0.16 WARBONT NOMINEES PTY LTD <SETTLEMENT ENTREPOT A/C> 4,230,000 0.15 BNP PARIBAS NOMINEES PTY LTD HUB24 CUSTODIAL SERV LTD DRP 4,052,886 0.15 BKI INVESTMENT COMPANY LIMITED 4,031,534 0.15 —5— —5— REMUNERATION BNP PARIBAS NOMS (NZ) LTD <DRP> 3,478,058 0.13 Total 2,191,283,254 80.11 REMUNERATION REPORT REPORT Substantial holders —6— —6— FINANCIAL FINANCIAL Substantial security holders as at 6 July 2020 were as follows: STATEMENTS Number of stapled Percentage of issued STATEMENTS Name securities held stapled securities UNISUPER (BNP PARIBAS NOMINEES PTY LTD) 333,423,165 12.48 BLACKROCK GROUP 193,550,348 7.07 —7— —7— THE VANGUARD GROUP 164,200,454 6.00 SECURITY HOLDER HOLDER SECURITY INFORMATION INFORMATION 206 Glossary 95 95 Express Lanes FIAP Financial Inclusion Action Plan 395 395 Express Lanes FREDEX Fredericksburg Extension project 495 495 Express Lanes FREE CASH/FCF Free Cash is the primary measure used to assess the cash performance of the Group. It 1H/2H First or second half of a financial year represents the cash available for distribution A25 A25 toll road to security holders. Free Cash is calculated as cash flows from operating activities from ABN Australian Business Number 100% owned entities (adjusted to include the ACN Australian Company Number allowance for maintenance of intangible assets, exclude cash payments for maintenance of ADT Average Daily Traffic. ADT is calculated by intangible assets and exclude transaction and dividing the total number of trips on each asset integration costs related to acquisitions), plus (transactions on CityLink) by the number of Capital Releases from 100% owned entities, less days in the period debt amortisation of 100% owned entities, plus AFSL Australian Financial Services Licence returns from non-100% owned entities AMTN Australian Medium Term Note FX Foreign Exchange ARC Audit and Risk Committee FY Financial year 1 July to 30 June ARSN Australian Registered Scheme Number GHG Greenhouse Gas ASIC Australian Securities and Investments GLIDE Transurban’s tolling back-office system Commission GRESB Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark ASX Australian Securities Exchange GRI Global Reporting Initiative ATO Australian Taxation Office GROUP Transurban Group AUD Australian Dollars GWA Greater Washington Area meaning northern AWE Average Weekly Earnings Virginia, Washington D.C., areas of Maryland CAD Canadian Dollars and the surrounding metropolitan area CAPITAL Capital Releases refer to the injection of debt HCV Heavy Commercial Vehicle RELEASES into Transurban assets as assets mature, HOT High Occupancy Toll optimising balance sheets. HPFV High Productivity Freight Vehicle CAVs Connected and Automated Vehicles HSE Health, Safety and Environment CDP Carbon Disclosure Project ICB Inner City Bypass CCT Cross City Tunnel IIRF International Integrated Reporting Framework CHF Swiss Franc ISCA Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia COVID-19 Coronavirus-19 ITS Intelligent Transport Systems CPI Consumer Price Index. Refers to Australian CPI unless otherwise stated KMP Key Management Personnel CPS Cents per security KPI Key Performance Indicator CTW CityLink Tulla Widening KRI Key Risk Indicator D&A Depreciation and Amortisation LCT Lane Cove Tunnel D&C Design and Construct LCV Light Commercial Vehicle DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index LEP Logan Enhancement Project DOT Department of Transport LINKT Transurban’s retail tolling brand EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation LinktGO LinktGO is a GPS mobile tolling app and Amortisation LTI Long Term Incentive ED Eastern Distributor M2 Hills M2 EIS Environmental Impact Statement M4 New M4 EMTN Euro Medium Term Note M4-M5 M4-M5 Link EOI Expressions of interest M5 WEST M5 West motorway ERM Enterprise Risk Management M7 Westlink M7 ESG Environmental, Social and Governance M8 M8 (previously the New M5) EUR Euros MTQ Ministère des Transports du Quebec E-WAY M5 West retail tolling brand N/A Not applicable FFO Funds From Operations NCX NorthConnex FFO/DEBT Based on S&P methodology. FFO is calculated NEURA Neuroscience Research Australia as statutory EBITDA (where EBITDA equals revenue minus operating expenses net of NOK Norwegian Krone maintenance provision) plus dividends from NPAT AND NPBT Net Profit After Tax and Net Profit Before Tax investments; minus net interest expense, tax NSW New South Wales, Australia paid, and stock compensation expense. Debt is calculated as statutory drawn debt net of NWRG NorthWestern Roads Group cash, foreign currency hedging and other O&M Operations and Maintenance liquid investments. FFO/Debt calculation methodology may be subject to adjustments OTHER REVENUE Other revenue includes interoperability charges, in future periods development and construction performance fees 207 TRANSURBAN 2020 CORPORATE REPORT OUR VOICE Internal staff survey TFNSW Transport for New South Wales is the government agency responsible for transport PAB Private Activity Bond infrastructure and transport services in New PFAS Per and polyfluorinated alkyl substances South Wales. Roads and Maritime Services (RMS) was dissolved in December 2019 with all PP Private Placement functions transferring to TfNSW PPA Power Purchasing Agreement THL Transurban Holdings Limited PPP Public-Private Partnership THT Transurban Holding Trust PROP/ The proportional results are the aggregation TIL Transurban International Limited PROPORTIONAL of the results from each asset multiplied RESULTS by Transurban’s percentage ownership as TIFIA Transportation Infrastructure Finance and well as the contribution from central Group Innovation Act functions. Proportional EBITDA is one of TLN Term Loan Note. An interest bearing the primary measures used to assess the shareholder loan. Currently Transurban has operating performance of Transurban, with an TLNs in place on NWRG and M5 aim to maintain a focus on operating results and associated cash generation. The EBITDA TOLL REVENUE Toll revenue includes revenue from customers, calculation from the statutory accounts does specifically tolls, service and fee revenue not include the EBITDA contribution of M5 (until TOLLAUST Service provider including O&M and retail 18 September 2018), M7 and WCX and includes services to NSW assets —1— the non-controlling interests in TQ, M5 (from INTRODUCTION TSR Total Shareholder Return 18 September 2018) and ED. TQ Transurban Queensland. Name change post QC Quebec, Canada AND OVERVIEW acquisition of Queensland Motorways (QM). QLD Queensland, Australia Transurban has a 62.5% interest in TQ RAP Reconciliation Action Plan UNDERLYING EBITDA EBITDA excluding significant items RICI Road Injury Crash Index. Serious road injury —2— (an individual transported from, or receives UN SDGS United Nations Sustainable Development Goals BUSINESS medical treatment, at scene) crashes per USA United States of America 100 million vehicle km travelled USD US Dollars PERFORMANCE RIFR Recordable Injury Frequency Rate USPP US Private Placement S&P Standard and Poor’s VA Virginia, United States of America SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board VDOT Virginia Department of Transportation SBTI Science Based Target Initiative VIC Victoria, Australia —3— SERVICE AND Service and fee revenue includes customer GOVERNANCE FEE REVENUE administration charges and enforcement VTIB Virginia Transportation Infrastructure Bank recoveries WCX WestConnex STI Short Term Incentive WEIGHTED AND RISK SLN Shareholder Loan Note. An interest bearing AVERAGE COST Calculated using proportional debt exclusive shareholder loan. Currently Transurban has OF DEBT of issued letters of credit SLNs on TQ and STP WEIGHTED —4— STATE WORKS The capital contribution for WestConnex Stage AVERAGE DIRECTORS’ CONTRIBUTION 3A to be provided by RMS. This is separate to MATURITY Calculated using proportional drawn debt the NSW Government’s 49% share of the equity WGF West Gate Freeway funding commitment for WestConnex Stage 3A. REPORT WGT/WGTP West Gate Tunnel/West Gate Tunnel Project STEM Science, technology, engineering and WHT Western Harbour Tunnel mathematics ZEVs Zero Emission Vehicles STP/STP JV Sydney Transport Partners Joint Venture —5— TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial REMUNERATION Disclosures REPORT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS —6— The words “anticipate”, “expect”, “forecast”, “estimate”, “intend”, “will”, “outlook”, “may”, “target”, “plan”, “schedule” and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Indications of, and guidance on, future FINANCIAL earnings, financial position, distributions, capex requirements and performance are also forward-looking statements STATEMENTS as are statements regarding internal management estimates and assessments of traffic expectations and market outlook. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, —7— uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of Transurban, its officers, employees, agents SECURITY HOLDER and advisors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. There can be no assurance that actual outcomes will not differ materially from these statements. There are usually differences between forecast and actual results because events and actual circumstances frequently do not occur as INFORMATION forecast and their differences may be material. 208 10-year history Operational metrics FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Number of operational assets # 7 7 8 12 14 15 15 16 17 181 Number of markets # 3 3 3 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 Average daily traffic Group thousands 1,235 1,246 1,295 1,382 1,775 1,911 1,946 2,035 2,217 2,026 Sydney thousands 474 471 477 543 581 622 644 663 814 761 Melbourne thousands 747 761 780 793 816 820 813 824 851 750 Brisbane thousands – – – – 303 383 394 403 405 383 North America thousands 14 14 38 46 75 85 96 144 147 132 1 Since 30 June 2020 the M8 has opened and tolling commenced on the M5 East, taking the number of operational assets to 20 Statutory financials FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Statutory revenue $ millions 1,037 1,154 1,195 1,150 1,860 2,210 2,732 3,298 4,166 3,616 Statutory NPAT $ millions 118 59 175 252 (373) 22 209 468 170 (153) Statutory cash flows from operating activities $ millions 375 373 411 521 304 910 837 1,053 1,197 1,131 Proportional financials FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Proportional Toll Revenue2 Group $ millions 891 944 991 1,117 1,657 1,946 2,153 2,340 2,581 2,492 Sydney $ millions 446 462 479 551 702 799 872 944 1,042 1,072 Melbourne $ millions 435 472 496 535 615 660 687 780 813 747 Brisbane $ millions – – – – 265 313 385 393 402 394 North America $ millions 11 11 16 31 75 174 209 223 324 279 Proportional EBITDA (excl. significant items) Group $ millions 719 784 828 934 1,289 1,480 1,629 1,796 2,016 1,888 Sydney $ millions 360 369 392 466 558 637 702 763 856 879 Melbourne $ millions 382 412 441 483 523 564 594 688 716 634 Brisbane $ millions – – – (6) 185 218 268 279 293 286 North America $ millions 2 3 (3) 7 33 86 116 130 210 154 Corporate and other $ millions (26) 0 (2) (15) (10) (25) (51) (64) (59) (65) Free Cash $ millions 390 433 443 572 768 926 1,220 1,215 1,527 1,476 Proportional drawn debt $ millions 6,327 6,754 7,471 8,015 12,236 12,484 13,639 14,971 19,394 22,118 Gross debt raised3 $ millions 1,925 1,948 1,507 2,122 7,814 4,707 4,518 5,865 15,112 7,968 Equity raised $ millions – – 100 2,742 – 1,025 – 1,900 4,818 812 2 Definition of Toll Revenue adjusted in FY16 (including restatement of FY15) to include fee revenue. Prior to this was disclosed as toll revenue only, and fee and other revenue 3 Calculated on a full facility basis. Excludes acquired debt and letters of credit. Non-AUD denominated debt converted at the 30 June rate for that financial year Ratios and rates FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Group EBITDA margin 4 % 74.4 74.9 75.0 75.8 74.7 73.8 73.9 74.9 75.4 72.3 FFO/Debt % – – – 6.6 7.9 8.0 8.5 8.9 8.7 7.0 Corporate SICR x 2.8 2.7 2.5 2.9 3.5 4.3 3.9 4.9 4.1 3.8 Gearing % 46.0 44.9 42.8 36.4 40.2 33.3 35.3 35.2 32.0 35.8 Weighted average cost of debt AUD % 7.0 6.9 6.6 6.3 5.3 5.2 4.9 4.9 4.6 4.4 USD % 5.5 5.2 4.6 4.0 3.8 4.3 4.3 4.4 4.4 4.4 CAD % – – – – – – – 5.8 4.9 5.0 Weighted average debt maturity5 years 8.9 9.6 9.7 7.5 7.8 8.7 9.0 8.6 8.3 8.4 Weighted average concession length6 years 26.1 25.1 24.3 24.3 28.5 29.9 29.7 28.3 30.8 28.8 4 FY14 and FY15 EBITDA margins were restated in FY16. Not previously disclosed for FY11 to FY13 5 FY18 to FY20 has been calculated using proportional drawn debt. FY11 to FY17 was calculated on the full value of available debt facilities. Prior to FY19, the previously reported tenor did not reflect the amortisation profile that occurs in the latter years of the US asset debt facilities 6 Weighted using proportional Toll Revenue by asset Corporate information FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Market capitalisation $ billions 7.55 8.30 10.02 14.01 17.80 24.41 24.32 26.63 39.43 38.65 Gross distributions $ millions 389 429 456 594 764 901 1,055 1,174 1,577 1,284 Distributions per security cps 27.0 29.5 31.0 35.0 40.0 45.5 51.5 56.0 59.0 47.0 Securities on issue millions 1,444 1,458 1,482 1,896 1,914 2,036 2,052 2,225 2,675 2,735 Key contacts Registered oﬃce General enquiries Level 31, Tower 5, Collins Square Email: corporate@transurban.com 727 Collins Street Docklands VIC Australia 3008 Phone: +61 3 8656 8900 Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Stapled securities listing 2 Riverside Quay Southbank VIC Australia 3006 Transurban Group is listed on the Australian Mailing address: Securities Exchange under the code “TCL”. GPO Box 1331 Each stapled security comprises: Melbourne VIC Australia 3001 • a share in Transurban Holdings Limited Phone: +61 3 8603 1000 ACN 098 143 429; • a share in Transurban International Limited ACN 121 746 825; and Whistleblower service • a unit in Transurban Holding Trust (responsible entity Transurban Infrastructure Management Website: kpmgfaircall.kpmg.com.au/Transurban Limited ACN 098 147 678). Phone (toll free): 1800 500 965 (Australia) 1866 8849 435 (Greater Washington Area) Share registry 1800 241 9148 (Montreal—operated in English and French) Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited Mailing address: Yarra Falls The FairCall Manager 452 Johnston Street PO Box H67, Australia Square Abbotsford VIC Australia 3067 Sydney NSW Australia 1213 Mailing address: GPO Box 2975 Melbourne VIC Australia 3001 Phone: 1300 360 146 Outside Australia: +61 3 9415 4315 Website: computershare.com.au Investor Relations team Email: investor.relations@transurban.com Lighting up Sydney The new M8 motorway features more than 7,400 lights and is the first road tunnel in Australia with energy-eﬃcient LED lighting in all main carriageways. The LED lights can illuminate diﬀerent colours and the community has the chance to choose colour schemes that help raise awareness of charities and causes. transurban.com
