annual sustainability report ´20 annual sustainability report ´20 < Snekkersten Waterworks Photo: Lars Rolfsted Mortensen table of contents Introduction.............................................................................................5 Together we create cohesion........................................................................................................................................7 Comments from the CEO................................................................................................................................................8 The Year in Numbers........................................................................................................................................................10 The Year in Brief.................................................................................................................................................................15 Our Workplace...................................................................................................................................................................16 How we take responsibility....................................................................19 Measuring and reducing our carbon footprint........................................................................................................21 The Global Compact Core Values..................................................................................................................................25 Professional and Organisational Development..................................29 Developing the work life of the Future...................................................................................................................31 Universal Design: Leave No One Behind..................................................................................................................37 Green Mobility.........................................................................................40 Ny Ellebjerg Station........................................................................................................................................................42 Ferry terminal in Stockholm’s Gamla Stan..............................................................................................................43 Haga station and urban space....................................................................................................................................44 Green Energy...........................................................................................46 Pumpestation Kalvebod Brygge...............................................................................................................................48 Snekkersten Waterworks.............................................................................................................................................50 Frederiksberg Waterworks..........................................................................................................................................51 The Amager Power Plant, Block 4..............................................................................................................................53 Our focus in 2021....................................................................................55 introduction Solrødgård Photo: Gottlieb Paludan Architects < Foot and Cycle Bridge, Odense Photo: Lars Rolfsted Mortensen | Introduction // 7 together we create cohesion Great architecture evokes great passion. For us, We insist that our projects contribute to the this is the kind of architecture that contributes common good. We therefore always employ a to solving the challenges we face today. The kind fully integrated approach to understand and that creates sustainable development, vibrant sensitively develop the sites and structures and diverse cities, beautiful and future-proof which are entrusted to us. With both vision structures as well as inviting urban spaces and insight, we create simple, timeless and and landscapes for all to enjoy. An integrated responsible architecture. Collaborating closely approach and collaboration across professional with the client, users and professionals of other disciplines form the basis for our contributions disciplines, we provide functional, technically to a society that functions today and will function sound and aesthetically complete solutions tomorrow. which provide their own contribution – be it small or large – to the world around us. For us, it is all about creating architecture that connects people and cities – architecture Working out of offices in Copenhagen, Oslo and that makes life run smoothly, supplies the Trondheim, we strive to create architecture that necessities for everyday living and inspires understands, connects and enriches the whole positive development. We develop solutions and world. Together we create cohesion. processes that originate from interdisciplinary collaboration for the common good and with At Gottlieb Paludan Architects, we work the clear aim of creating greater cohesion. We proactively to integrate the UN’s Sustainable believe that our communities are stronger and Development Goals in all our projects and the challenges more manageable when the practice. spaces we share and the connections between them are beautiful and beneficial to us all. ,, | Introduction // 9 Architects can provide basic ideas and proposals for regulations that make it possible for us to have sustainable cities and comments communities in the future. from the CEO Architects can facilitate an open dialogue and work in partnerships to give us Our world is in a state of climate emergency and In order to successfully tackle the climate change good solutions, and they can the course is imperative for us. The climate crisis within the building industry, measurability encourage authorities to make poses a threat to the future of our planet and to is imperative; we need to win over our the regulations necessary to humanity and it requires our firm commitment stakeholders, clients and partners with move forward. and our immediate action. Buildings are a indisputable data. Therefore, we are in the midst major contributor to global warming, and, as of developing a climate tool – a way to measure, Mogens Lykketoft in 'An Architecture Guide to the architects, we can make an impact by changing report, and verify greenhouse gas reductions in UN 17 Sustainable Development Goals' Volume 2, 2020 our practice and aim for carbon neutrality in the all our projects. With this tool, we aim to assist built environment. and affect our clients in making sustainable decisions and long-lasting solutions. To this end, Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ partners have passed a landmark resolution; our top We look forward to continued collaboration priority is now to engage in the fight against with our clients, partners, shareholders and climate change through carbon reduction in employees in 2021. our projects. We have narrowed our focus and, although many of United Nation’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals are relevant to our industry, we have decided that a strategy and a plan for Copenhagen, Decenber 2020 reducing the carbon footprint will be required in all our projects. Therefore, we are now concentrating our efforts on goal #13: Climate action. Moreover, we continue to comply with the United Nations Global Compact initiative, Kristian Hagemann which includes principles of human rights, Chief Executive Officer labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. Gottlieb Paludan Architects 11 the year in numbers 56% 44% 71% 29% 50% 50% employees from 13 nationalities working on projects in Employees: 130 in total Hereof Management: 6 Hereof Team Leaders: 14 Norway, Sweden, UK, Germany, The Netherlands and China. ˄ ˄ Infographic Employees and gender Infographic diversity GPA: diversity and activities across borders 138 130 * Numbers reflect Gottlieb Paludan Architects in DK Financial ratios 2017* 2018* 2019* 92 89 Turnover 93,8 100,4 80,9 Pre-tax profit 11,6 10,5 3,9 Equity 26,0 24,2 19,2 Balance sheet 72,9 71,2 54,9 Equity ratio 35,6% 33,9% 34,9% 2017 2018 2019 2020 All figures are stated in DKK million ˄ ˄ Infographic Change in the number of employees over the past 4 years Infographic Financial key figures | Introduction // 13 the year in numbers Who we are Architects 65 Constructing Architects 12 Landscape Architects 10 Engineers 5 Interior Architects 7 Adm, IT and communication 14 Geographers, Sociologists, Philosophers etc. 12 Students and interns 5 20 26 31 36 41 46 51 56 61 -2 5 -3 0 -3 5 -4 0 -4 5 -5 0 -55 60 -6 5 ˄ Nørreport Station Infographic Photo: Jens Lindhe Age distribution of employees x14 the year in brief | Introduction // 15 » Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ inter» Our project Holmestrand Station in Norway disciplinary team of workplace specialists is shortlisted for the Nordic Lighting Design have conducted an employee survey, which Awards 2020. provides valuable insight into the effects » Gottlieb Paludan Architects is collaborating and experiences of working remotely during with ph.d. student Marcus Tang Merit and the Covid-19 pandemic. KADK on a three 3-year industrial PhD » Read more about the study on page 31. research project, with support from » We received a Wienerberger Brick Award Bevica Fonden. The project will employ a for Delft City Archive in the category sociological study of our work practices in order to heighten the expertise and x30 “Working together”, along with Dutch associates Office Winhov. The Wienerberger methodology for planning and developing is an internationally acclaimed architecture inclusive public spaces. Read more on page prize, which is awarded every two years for 37. innovative brick architecture. » Gottlieb Paludan Architects has made the » We have been selected to design a new ferry climate crisis its top priority and is currently terminal in Gamla Stan, Stockholm's historic developing a CO2-monitoring tool, based on centre, that will serve as a hub for the city’s our own project benchmarks, to measure large ferry network, create more urban and minimize the carbon emission of our life on the quay and strengthen the area’s projects. When fully developed, the tool will connection with Gamla Stan's characteristic be an integrated part of our daily practice. historical architecture. Read more on page Read more on page 21. 43. » Amager Power Plant received a five-star » Our experienced waterworks-architects review in a major Danish newspaper, which conquered a new challenge: A vertical believes that the walk through our 'forest' of waterworks building in the middle of the suspended tree trunks will become a new Danish capital. Four stories high, flexible Copenhagen attraction. Read more about and adaptable to future needs. Read more this project on page 53. about this project on page 51. » We have won the open planning design x86 » We have designed a new footbridge for the competition for a new fire station in Oslo Technical University of Denmark (DTU), city center. Wood is an important material providing a safe and spectacular passage for in the fire station, both for its architectural employees and students over the coming expression and for its sustainability. In the light rail line that will run through the construction, wood is used wherever it can campus. Our design supports DTU’s overall replace concrete. This significantly reduces vision for a sustainable campus, promoting the building's CO2 footprint and increases ˄ mobility and accessibility for pedestrians the use of short-travelled materials. The Infographic and cyclists. chosen materials also contribute positively Distribution of employees: Copenhagen, Oslo, Trondheim to the health of the employees, the environment and the local surroundings. | Introduction // 17 our workplace knowledge is key We combine our professional expertise with a apply uniform methods wherever relevant. internships and that they are appropriately keen eye for society’s challenges, user needs and equipped to embark on their professional client wishes whether we are working on new Digital development: Gottlieb Paludan careers in the construction industry. builds or renovations. As architects, we have Architects uses BIM, VR and other digital tools on a passion for our profession and for working many levels. Employees are invited to participate We combine our professional expertise with a closely with both clients and colleagues. This is in ad hoc, internal training courses, adapted to keen eye for society’s challenges, user needs and what powers our teams, and we expect a similar specific projects or current challenges, and in client wishes whether we are working on new attitude and commitment from those wanting to external programmes, such as ICT management builds or renovations. As architects, we have come aboard with us. courses. GPA Practice: Every six months, Gottlieb a passion for our profession and for working Paludan Architects runs GPA Practice which is closely with both clients and colleagues. This is There is a great atmosphere in our offices; we Skills networks: Employees at Gottlieb Paludan the company’s modular induction course for what powers our teams, and we expect a similar are friendly, open and respectful of each other. Architects develop their skills and professional new employees and interns. The seven modules attitude and commitment from those wanting to We are good at sharing our knowledge and networks via a formalized internal networking provide the participants with insight into the come aboard with us. experience among ourselves, and nobody would programme which supports the company’s company’s general expertise and specialisms, hesitate to ask for help or advice. We are busy, strategic tools and business areas. The internal phased services, contractual basis and business There is a pleasant atmosphere in our office; but we make space for inspiration and reflection networks have set coordinators who organize understanding. we are friendly, open and respectful of each and always take the time to celebrate our about four annual meetings which revolve other. We are good at sharing our knowledge successes. around internal or external presentations. GPA interns: Gottlieb Paludan Architects regards and experience among ourselves, and nobody interns as valuable and significant members would hesitate to ask for help or advice. We are Project management: Every project manager Currently, Gottlieb Paludan Architects has of the organization. GPA internships provide busy, but we make space for inspiration and who is the lead professional on a specific the following networks: Mobility & Urban students with the opportunity to develop their reflection and always take the time to celebrate assignment is a member of the GPA Project Development, Materials, Theory and Practice, skills and professionalism while they are still our successes. Manager Forum. The members come together Behavioural Design, Sustainability, Design at university. All interns are asked to attend to participate in structured programmes on Planning & Technology and Landscape. the modular induction course GPA Practice, the responsibilities, duties and tools of project and they are allocated individual mentors who managers. The programmes are concise and Professional events: “Friday Briefing” is a function as their supervisors throughout their carefully managed; both internal and external set weekly presentation on current projects internships. speakers contribute and members share their or themes. Venues are organized together knowledge and experience, ensuring that the with internal and external speakers, internal The mentors ensure that the individual interns company’s knowledge is updated and employees workshops and study tours. are academically challenged during their how we take responsibility Solrødgård Photo: Gottlieb Paludan Architects Measuring and redúcing our carbon footprint | How we take responsibility // 21 measuring and reducing our carbon footprint As one of the large architectural companies Construction coordinated by the United Nations in Scandinavia, Gottlieb Paludan Architects Environment Programme, the building and has a significant responsibility for sustainable construction sector accounted for 36 percent of global development. We have many years of final energy use and 39 percent of energy and experience within our primary business areas: process-related CO2 emissions in 2018. The Energy & Utilities and Mobility & Transport. architectural community is deeply entwined They represent basic functions in society and with the flows of materials, energy, and ideas require technically and artistically ambitious that relate to climate change, both causes and architectural treatment. Good infrastructure solutions. is an obvious prerequisite for prosperity and sustainable development, whatever the scale. Meeting the needs of our society without breaching the earth’s ecological boundaries Through our work with clients and partners, will demand a drastic shift in our practice we always seek to find solutions that are and behaviour. Therefore, Gottlieb Paludan environmentally, economically, and socially Architects has devoted its focus to Sustainable sustainable. The 17 Sustainable Development Development Goal #13. While many of UN’s Goals represent the ambition of world leaders 17 Sustainable development goals are relevant and the United Nations to achieve a more to our organisation and relate to the built inclusive, sustainable and resilient future for environment, we have concluded that the people and planet. The Goals outline the global imminent crisis requires firm commitment and challenges we face together and the problems immediate action. This has become our top that are necessary to address, including those priority and we are committed to reducing the related to environmental degradation, climate, carbon footprint of our solutions. poverty and inequality. We are in the midst of developing a so called When it comes to climate change, the built climate tool – a way to measure, report, and ˄ environment is a major culprit. According to verify reductions in all our projects. With this UN's Sustainable Development Goal number 13 the 2019 Global Status Report for Buildings and tool, we plan to generate indisputable data that Measuring and redúcing our carbon Mobility | How we take responsibility // 23 Green footprint can be the driving force behind responsible and sustainable decisions for our clients, stakeholders and partners. The tool will be applicable for all aspects of our design solutions, as they all offer different possibilities of carbon reduction; from buildings and urban spaces to the surrounding landscapes. When finalized, it will be integrated into our daily practice as a mandatory step in every project. The tool will follow the individual project from the design phase and through to its construction and will provide valuable data and knowledge on sustainable options related to each specific project. > Foot and Cycle Bridge, Odense Photo: Ole Malling The Global Compact Core values| How we take responsibility // 25 the Global Compact Core Values It is emphasised with the 17th goal that the Danish Salaried Employees Act (Danish: concerted and collective efforts across all levels Funktionærloven) which secures human rights of society are necessary, in order to achieve and employment rights. We take care to uphold each Goal by the year 2030. However, the UN the general principles of basic human rights for has estimated that the active participation of everybody through all our work. companies is crucial, in order to achieve as much as one-third of these Goals. We contribute to increasing liveability through the improvement of connectivity and public Global Compact is a corporate sustainability spaces in towns and cities. initiative which urges companies to align strategies and operations with universal We contribute to improving living conditions in principles on human rights, labour, environment peripheral regions through the development of and anti-corruption, and take actions that provincial towns. advance societal goals. We fully support this initiative and the following will describe how we deliver on UN Global Compact’s principles for human rights, labour conditions, the environment and antiLabour corruption. Gottlieb Paludan Architects conducts its business in accordance with Danish law, including the Danish Salaried Employees Act (Danish: Funktionærloven) which secures human rights and employment rights, including the prevention of child labour, forced labour Human Rights and employment discrimination. All employees Peak-Load Plant KLC2, Copenhagen Airport Gottlieb Paludan Architects conducts its business have the freedom of association and collective Photo: Gottlieb Paludan Architects in accordance with Danish law, including bargaining. The Global Compact Core values| How we take responsibility // 27 Our Employee Handbook secures our employees’ culture, thereby reducing transport-related CO₂ rights and thereby expresses our responsibility emissions. within this area. We contribute to lowering the environmental We contribute to creating social cohesion impact of construction work by proposing through infrastructure projects which link city building materials that require fewer resources and countryside, suburb and town centre, giving in production, recycling and disposal, and more people the opportunity to be employed, which last longer. In this way, every individual get an education and participate in society. construction leaves a smaller carbon footprint throughout its service life. The least harmful construction is often the recycled construction, and we specialize in renovation, transformation and refurbishment. Anti-corruption With a combination of architectural design, Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ main activities understanding of materials and respect for the are concentrated in Denmark and Scandinavia, construction and its history, we raise renovation which traditionally top Transparency and adaptive reuse to a level where it can easily International’s list of least corrupt countries. We compete with new construction. The focus is not never encounter corruption in our daily work only on improving energy performance but also and will continue to oppose any signs of it. on rethinking the purpose of the construction to suit current and future use. We integrate climate adaptation measures and rainwater management in all relevant projects. Environment Moreover, Gottlieb Paludan Architects commits As an architectural company, environmental itself to spread environmental sustainability sustainability is the area of responsibility in by educating the public about resources cycles which we can create the most value. through visitor and education facilities in connection with green energy facilities, power We contribute to promoting and strengthening plants and waterworks. Solrødgård public transport, cycling solutions and bicycle Photo: Gottlieb Paludan Architects professional and organisational development Gottlieb Paludan Architects, Cph office Photo: Jens Lindhe | Professional and Organisational Development // 31 developing the work life of the future ....requires balanced, interdisciplinary knowledge. The employee survey was worked out by taking a qualitative approach and asking open-ended Towards this end, Gottlieb Paludan Architects in questions to encourage respondents to describe Denmark and Norway have conducted employee the work-from-home experience in their own surveys among their own staff and at the parent words. company AFRY. The survey asked roughly 1,200 employees to evaluate their personal experiences Kris Ervik, Senior Consultant, Gottlieb Paludan of working from home during the spring's Architects Norway (and an anthropologist with COVID-19 lockdown. a PhD in change management) was in charge of working out the details of and analysing the The analysis of the survey’s 647 responses employee survey. According to Ervik, a qualitative revealed a number of nuances in employees’ analysis is beneficial because the responses experiences depending on seniority, current life give a detailed, in-depth appreciation of the situation, etc. The results will now be included respondents’ personal experiences: “Asking such in the development of new advisory services and open-ended questions enables respondents to the planning of the company’s own future modes respond by telling about what’s most important of operation. to them, which we can see when they share the joys and challenges of working from home in this Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ workplace experts unusual period. Analysing the responses was join forces on an interdisciplinary team of rewarding because of the situational snapshot architects and social scientists specialized in view it provides,” Ervik says. fields such as organizational development, change management and interior design. Our Even if there were minor differences in the advice is always based on modern research, and responses, it was still possible to single out the lockdown period’s working from home was overall tendencies. Employees have generally an ideal opportunity to deepen our knowledge of experienced that working from home functioned ˄ workplace trends and modern working life – and relatively well, but the survey also indicated a Working from home: 'Heimekontor' contribute balanced, interdisciplinary knowledge few unexpected fine points in how employees Photo: Alexander Millan Eide to ongoing research. experienced the unusual working situation. | Professional and Organisational Development // 33 Wishes for a more flexible use of the One size does NOT fit all. home office This is exemplified by the significance of and stop working at the end of the work day. This necessitates the development of new modes 58% seniority. Employees with many years of These skills become increasingly valuable as new of working that can accommodate different needs experience accounted that working from home working solutions are developed. and levels. Each individual needs to develop skills meant fewer interruptions, which made them in how to structure the working at home process, feel more productive, whereas young and newly “...The day becomes blurred and gets longer without whereas managerial staff need to take a fresh hired employees missed receiving guidance and me even noticing it.” approach to management which is capable of professional feedback. These insights indicate defining the framework and making sure that the necessity of developing balanced ways of Joint leadership: cooperation functions and occurs. The wish working to provide satisfying working situations remote work is a collective skill for greater flexibility has to be supported by to experienced and young employees alike Cooperation is a social skill that develops dynamic facilitation of both the configuration and “...It took me a little by surprise that those most naturally in an office community, and lots of organization of future work solutions. Cohesive affected by the problem were young team Management plays a crucial role in whether research has shown how cooperation can actually energy is the basis of success. members: the absence of peer mentoring is far employees experience working from home as be promoted by specific office-based layout more important than technology.” positive in terms of coordination and skill-sets. At solutions. But how do you take steps to maintain the same time, employees’ self-management and the same sense of community in completely According to Ervik, the analysis of the employee joint-leadership skills can relieve pressure on the different circumstances where employees are survey drew attention to three general points: supervisor. separated, while some periodically work from home and others are at the office? Management: the supervisor’s role is changed “… Well-being and atmosphere are important It will be necessary to depart from traditional management elements, because an extra effort “...The number of Skype meetings has risen sharply, ‘management by walking around’, as the physical is needed to maintain good relations with all with less time for actual production.” workplace no longer functions as a unifying employees working from home.” element for the organization. Accordingly, Together we create cohesion Misses the social supervisors need to be able to let go of their Self-management: Generally speaking, the employee survey seems employees and strike a proper balance between working from home is a personal skill to indicate that if employees know what they interaction with control, trust and closeness. This requires a more Like the conclusions drawn by other surveys, have to do, they are just as or even more efficient personal approach to management at the same many found it challenging to structure their than working at the office in person, whereas colleagues time, because the supervisor has to be more daily work and strike the right work–life balance. collaboration and development tasks are more 72% aware of each individual employee’s various skillWhereas it was hard for some to get a good sense difficult. sets, seniority and current life situation. of work flow, others felt it was hard to take breaks | Professional and Organisational Development // 35 The results of Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ employee survey are part of developing the company’s own tools and advisory services that are also developed in cooperation with the parent company AFRY. For example, we are creating a learning network for developing the workplace of the future in which we offer property administrators, administrative and HR managers at major Norwegian companies a unique opportunity to take part in a closed professional network focused on learning and experience sharing. Misses professional sparring with colleagues 47% Gottlieb Paludan Architects, Cph office Photo: Jens Lindhe Universal Design | Professional and Organisational Development // 37 universal design: leave no one behind Leave no one behind is the central, transformative Through selected longitudinal cases at Gottlieb promise of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Paludan Architects and in-depth qualitative Development and its Sustainable Development interviews of architects, officials, and group Goals (SDGs). It represents the unequivocal representatives of physically disabled users, commitment to end discrimination and exclusion, architectural and sociological knowledge will and reduce inequalities. be combined and operationalized in new work methods for designing inclusive public spaces. Universal design is concerned with creating inclusive architecture, where everyone, The chosen methodology is paired with regardless of abilities, gender, religion, age, etc., a theoretical and analytical emphasis on can be involved in the workplace, the educational how futures, imagined, projected, designed, institution, the urban space, etc. communicated, and otherwise present within architectural work, impact on successfully In our efforts to innovate and expand our coordinating the construction of public spaces. expertise within coordinating inclusive The goal is thus to provide new architectural public spaces, Gottlieb Paludan Architects is tools for designing and planning inclusive public collaborating with ph.d. student Marcus Tang spaces, and to expand the sociological knowledge Merit and KADK The Royal Danish Academy on this topic. of Fine Arts, Schools of Architecture, Design and Conservation on a three 3-year industrial The following is an article by Marcus Tang Merit PhD research project, with support from Bevica on the topic of universal design and the ambitions Fonden. The project “Coordinating Inclusive behind his industrial Ph.D. Future Public Spaces in Architecture” investigates how physically disabled users’ experiences of space are mediated and operationalized in the architectural design process, when designing ˄ inclusive public spaces in multi-stakeholder Foot and Cycle Bridge, Odense collaborations. Photo: Lars Rolfsted Mortensen | Professional and Organisational Development // 39 Universal design and the future coordination of architects By Marcus Tang Merit Industrial PhD at Gottlieb Paludan Architects Design is a notoriously contested field, even This analytical focus is based on the hypothesis before one attempts to attach the somewhat that if inclusivity is not an inherent element in the grandiose ‘universal’ prefix to it. For newcomers, future visions circulating around as spaces are who have not previously dealt professionally designed, it will at best become an afterthought or academically with urban public spaces, this ones spaces are actually build. With such ‘shit we might be seen as a weakness, perhaps even an need a ramp’-moment occurring late in design immaturity, of the concept of universal design. product. As it stands, such principles are to a processes, rather than in the earliest ideation large extent defined by the wishes of clients and phases, it is almost assured that the urban space However, the city and its shared spaces have the architectural vision and professional values in question will never become fully inclusive for always been highly contested for better or worse of the architect in question. people with physical disabilities. acting as a mirror of the power structures and It is not that architects are unaware or opposed social struggles of society at large. Therefore, it To be successful in creating accessibility, to this. At least not the ones I have encountered. should come as no great surprise that universal inclusivity, universal design, or whatever They do however need the tools to introduce design has been as contested as the spaces it adjective one wishes to apply, this element universal design as the foundation upon which attempts to address. needs to be introduced as a core element in the spaces are sketched, and just as importantly, the design principles of architects. Universal design arguments to convince clients why universal My PhD is by no means a deep dive into the needs to introduced as the platform from which design is important and can improve the spatial discussions and relations of universal design, or decisions are made, not as a decision of where to experiences of all (dis)abled users. Working for that matter, its practical applications. Instead place the platform. towards creating such tools, and formulating I apply universal design as an ethical torch such arguments, is what I am attempting with whose light I can attempt to follow and spread As such I attempt to research how architects my PhD. further, as I study the role of inclusivity in the coordinate between future scenarios internally everyday design processes of architects, and and externally, and how they communicate these their multitude of external collaborators. In this varying futures through the use of devices. Here context, in which a multitude of often conflicting I understand devices as the models, drawings, spatial requirements must be coordinated, sketches, presentations, renderings, and other < < a guiding principle is necessary if architects visual objects discussed internally as part of the Nørreport Station are to deliver anything resembling a coherent design process, and disseminated externally to Photo: Jens Lindhe collaborators and clients. green Traﬃc hubs mobility We create intermodal traffic hubs that support the efficient Urban infrastructure Metro lines Industrial design interchange We advise cities and We contribute to We design all the between different municipalities feasibility studies fittings, fixtures, modes of transport on the development of and design stations equipment and Station forecourts for metro lines furniture needed urban life Light rail We shape attractive for urban space, through improved We manage and and flow-efficient station forecourts connectivity execute large public space in BRT systems and platforms design tasks for connection with We plan and design comprehensive stations and traffic for the integration Bridges Bicycle parking transport systems hubs of Bus Rapid We design bridges We plan, develop Railway lines Transit systems for soft and and design bicycle We contribute to Cycle lanes into existing urban motorized traffic parking and feasibility studies, We plan and Train stations contexts innovative environmental design safe We design, renovate parking racks impact assesments and attractive and transform and design tasks bicycle lanes stations for local, for new railway regional and lines international train traffic Green Mobility | How we take responsibility // 43 < Ny Ellebjerg Station Visualization: Gottlieb Paludan Architects < Stockholm, Skeppsbron After the transformation, it is expected that The client is the Public transport administration Ny Ellebjerg will be used by approx. 60,000 of Stockholm and the ambition of the project passengers every day and will thus ease traffic is to create more urban life on the quay and Ny Ellebjerg Station at Copenhagen Central Station. strengthen the area’s connection with the In the future, Ny Ellebjerg Station will become water and Gamla Stan's characteristic historical the next big transport hub in Copenhagen, In step with the transformation to a traffic hub, architecture. Denmark. Gottlieb Paludan Architects and the area around Ny Ellebjerg is undergoing hefty Rambøll have won the task of establishing urban development. Gottlieb Paludan Architects Gottlieb Paludan Architects and AFRY will connections between the existing and future has previously developed a master plan for the be responsible for project management and train and metro lines and creating a wellfuture urban development around the station, design in the early stages. A prevailing theme functioning central hub. where passenger and traffic flows are integrated is combining design and technical function and into an ambitious plan for good and safe access the ambition is to create an area which will Today, many different means of transport to, from and between the districts in the area function both as a hub for public transport and cross their tracks at Ny Ellebjerg Station and near the station. as a meeting point in the city, which allows locals in the future, many more will be added. Ny and tourists to reside by the water. Ellebjerg will be the terminus station for the Gottlieb Paludan Architects has also contributed Sydhavnsmetro in 2024 and, in addition, there with studies in connection with the urban The area around Skeppsbron and the new will be transfer options for S-trains, Regional integration of the new Sydhavnsmetro and has ferry terminal constitute a complex part of the trains, long-distance trains, Øresund trains, designed the five upcoming metro stations. quay area in the historical district. The area is buses and perhaps even a future light rail. undergoing major changes in connection with the current redevelopment of the traffic junction Gottlieb Paludan Architects and Rambøll Slussen and the new ferry terminal will be part will be responsible for establishing a center of the general enhancement of the area. The new at Ny Ellebjerg Station in the form of a joint Ferry terminal in Stockholm's Gamla Stan ferry terminal will be completed in 2023. underground concourse hall that connects Stockholm city consists of several islands, islets the individual lines and provides safe and fast and skerries and, therefore, ferriesmake up a travel options. The project will help to create big part of the city’s public transport system. an even stronger public transport network that Gottlieb Paludan Architects and AFRY have been will reduce congestion and increase mobility in selected to design a new terminal which will Copenhagen. serve as a hub for the ferry traffic as well as a meeting place, in Stockholm's historical district. Green Mobility | How we take responsibility // 45 Haga Station and urban space Gothenburg municipality, Parks and nature administration and Västtrafik, Västfastigheter, The Swedish transport administration and architects Sweden Gothenburg Municipality laid out a competition programme with great emphasis on the interplay with the Haga district’s cultural-historical environment. The project will contribute to transforming an area dominated by traffic to an attractive, accessible and safe place to meet, creating a sense of calm and coherence in an area characterised by many different modes of transport. The urban space at Haga Station is dominated by Kungsparken, a park which is also involved and activated as part of the winning project. Generally, the project has an ambition of giving centre stage to the urban space while the station buildings are constructed as subdued, functional pavilions in the green urban space The Haga district’s special historical nature and the future flows of people have guided the competition proposal. The proposal has an ambition that all new additions must build on an in-depth understanding of the character of the location and contribute positively to the park and the urban space. Haga is among the oldest neighbourhoods in Gothenburg and Haga Station will increase access to important local areas, while creating a new hub for public transportation in a valuable, Haga Station and urban space popular and culturally sensitive environment. Visualization: Gottlieb Paludan Architects Data centres green Water works We have contributed to We have managed the planning and Waste water treatment plants energy developing Denmark’s clean and efficient design of some of Denmark’s largest data centres Energy from We have a lot of experience with water treatment groundwater extraction system by Waste facilities plants and their Industrial facilities We design integration into We specialize in the designing state-of-the-art waterworks some of the often scenic and development and design largest EfW protected of efficient, sustainable Switch stations facilities in the surroundings and architecturally We design new switch Control facilities world distinct industrial stations as well as We have delivered extensions of older facilities. Heat and power plants numerous control room facilities – large and Recreational storm Cooling plants facilities securing optimal Having realized a small alike water solutions We helped design the work environments very large number We offer experienced very first sustainable and the highest level of of projects, we have specialists in cooling plants in operational safety. gained outstanding recreational rainwater Denmark and we competencies within the management and continue to assist in planning and design of integrated solutions this sector sustainable power plants. for complex climate challenges. Green energy | How we take responsibility // 49 > Pumpestation kalvebod brygge Visualization: Gottlieb Paludan Architects Pumpestation Kalvebod Brygge Gottlieb Paludan Architects are the architects behind a new pumping station at Kalvebod Brygge in Copenhagen, aimed to safeguard the capital city against the increasing volumes of storm water of the future. The project was carried out for HOFOR in close collaboration with NIRAS’ consulting engineers. The City of Copenhagen and Frederiksberg Municipality have prepared a cloudburst plan as part of the City of Copenhagen’s adaptation of the underground pumps required Window sections facing the harbour promenade overarching climate adaptation plan. Storm close, constructive collaboration with NIRAS. will make it possible for passers-by to look into water from cloudbursts will be channelled The two circular structures appear distinctly the pumping station, visually communicating from Frederiksberg and the Vesterbro district separate but intermesh into a single unified the station’s functions and technology. to Copenhagen Harbour by gravity via an building. It is anticipated that the pumping station underground cloudburst tunnel to a pumping will be needed roughly once every five years station at Kalvebod Brygge. The pumping At Kalvebod Brygge, the circular shape and low during particularly heavy cloudbursts. In these station’s six powerful electric pumps will lift height of the pumping station stands out from instances, the pumping station will prevent the massive volumes of storm water roughly 12 the surrounding office and hotel buildings. flooding in Copenhagen that would otherwise metres up from the tunnel, before discharging it The pumping station will have a brickwork cause widespread damage. into the harbour basin. facade, however, similar to several surrounding buildings, and special recessed brickwork will The underground boring of the cloudburst Gottlieb Paludan Architects designed the abovegive the facades a profusion of details for a tunnel is expected to begin in May 2021 and be ground pumping station structures, comprising diminished visual effect. The building will occupy completed in 2022, after which the pumping the biggest visible component of the new a section of the harbour promenade, which will station will be built. cloudburst tunnel. Above ground, the pumping therefore be enlarged to include terracing that station is made up of two circular structures will provide new publicly accessible seaside mirroring their subjacent counterparts, and the areas. Green Energy | How we take responsibility // 51 90% less Snekkersten Waterworks Since early spring of 2020, the new waterworks in Snekkersten has supplied local residents and businesses with clean drinking water. The facility is the latest in a series of new waterworks designed by Gottlieb Paludan Architects – all with new, modern technologies, and all focusing on managing our water resources and communicating about the circulation of water. The new waterworks replaces the old 1969 facility, introducing new technologies such as sevenchamber bottom aeration for stripping methane, double filtration, 2*1250 m3 detached, inspectable clean-water stainless steel tanks as well as bactericidal UV treatment to counter contamination. ing hotspots at several points in the architecture that invite the public to get a closer look at the Overlooking Snekkersten and the waters of water processing steps, both inside and outside Øresund, the waterworks is integrated on high the facility. A large glazed section will be conFrederiksberg Waierworks With the softener plant, the new waterworks ground that slopes down towards Øresund, takstructed facing the Øresund strait and providing A new waterworks with a softener plant will will lower the water’s hardness from 22-30 dh ing advantage of the terrain to incorporate the a view of the tanks inside, while water pumps supply the city of Frederiksberg with drinking to approx. 10 dh which will reduce limescale in big clean-water tanks so that they appear smallalong the façade and visible downpipes also conwater with an environmentally and economicalwater pipes and installations throughout the er. This also enables the facility to utilize the tribute to the tale of water. ly sustainable method and will secure the city’s city. This will, in turn, lead to reduced energy natural elevation differences to conduct water future water supply. Gottlieb Paludan Architects consumption and thus a lower CO2 footprint. through the various processes.The waterworks New Snekkersten Waterworks is being designed provides architectural expertise on the project. The waterworks thus make a positive contribuis 1,700 m2, organized into a technical wing and by Gottlieb Paludan Architects, with the project tion to four of the UN's 17 Sustainable Developa visitors’ and staff wing. The processing plant is realized as a turnkey contract in collaboration The waterworks will treat water from Frederiksment Goals; Clean Water and Sanitation , Afsymmetrically constructed and placed in a cubic with Krüger A/S, CC Brun A/S and ISC Ingeniørberg Forsyning’s own drills as well as purchased fordable and Clean Energy , Sustainable Cities building with rust-red Corten steel façades that er A/S. water from HOFOR, in order to ensure a suffiand Communities and Climate Action . rise above the low concrete wing. ˄ cient volume of water up to 785,000 liters per Snekkersten Waterworks Photo: Kim Dahl / Effectphoto hour. The water is purified, filtered and softened The waterworks will be based on modern, highSnekkersten Waterworks is intended to have a > separately before it is mixed in the waterworks' quality technical solutions and will provide communicative role in Elsinore Municipality, Frederiksberg Waterworks distribution reservoirs and disinfected before it Frederiksberg with homogeneous, soft water Photo: Gottlieb Paludan Architects and we have consequently constructed learnis distributed to consumers. from 2022. The Amager Power Plant, Block 4 On 26 August 2020, Copenhagen’s new power plant at Amagerværket, block 4, was inaugurated, marking a significant day for the City of Copenhagen’s vision of becoming the world's first CO2neutral capital in 2025. The power plant is now up and running and supplies the capital area with district heating from sustainable biomass. At the inauguration ceremony, Lord Mayor of Copenhagen, Frank Jensen, highlighted Gottlieb Paludan Architects and the power plant’s architectural design, which reinforces the new block 4 as a landmark for sustainable heat production and a future excursion destination for Copenhageners and tourists. The new plant is enclosed by a deep façade of suspended tree trunks, tangibly illustrating the vision promoted by Greater Copenhagen Utility (HOFOR) and Copenhagen Local Authority for green energy through powerful architecture which tangibly depicts the changeover from fossil fuels to renewable energy. BIO4 integrates seamlessly with the existing techIn 2021 a light installation, which we have denical installations, while infusing the peninsula signed in collaboration with the British lighting with new architectural expression. Though priordesigners from Speirs + Major, will move calmly itizing security and safety, the design invites visiacross the façade and clarify the structure and tors to move through the forest of tree trunks via a depth of the stems at night. The purpose of the ilspectacular staircase, from which the sustainable lumination of the facade is to avoid the very large energy production within is visible. The stairs lead plant becoming a large black globe in the cityscape to a platform on the roof, affording a magnificent at night, but instead can give a beautiful and stylish ˄ view of the capital. experience back to the city. The Amager Power Plant, Block 4 Photos: Sarah Plauborg, Lars Rolfsted Mortensen | How we take responsibility // 55 our focus in 2021 During the coming year, we will focus on the following ambitions: » We will finalize and implement our climate tool measurement tool as part of our daily practice. » We will continue our focus on constantly improving our work environment in 2021. » We will work intensively to retain our position as Scandinavia’s preferred infrastructure architect. » We will engage with our customers to promote recycling and to increase the use of local and sustainable materials. » We will actively pursue assignments and research projects with a sustainable profile. » We will continue to encourage and invest in our employees’ further education, arming them with the newest knowledge within the field of sustainable solutions, in order to enhance the sustainability of our practice. < The Arena Quarter Photo: Gottlieb Paludan Architects
