Pure Planet Ltd. Cramer House Lower Bristol Road Bath BA2 3BH 31 July 2020 Dear Mr Secretary-General, I am writing to confirm that Pure Planet Ltd remains completely committed to the UN Global Compact and its ten principles regarding: human rights; freedom of labour; the environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to ensuring these principles are part of our business culture a business which supplies renewable energy to the British domestic market. We also commit to advancing the Sustainable Development Goals, all of which we see as necessary to create a fairer society and a sustainable world. Of particular interest are 7. ‘affordable and clean energy’, 12. ‘responsible consumption and production’, and 13. ‘climate change’. We pledge to engage actively in practices and projects that will strengthen and further the goals. We will be, at all times, transparent and open to the public on our commitment and actions. We have committed to report on our progress annually according to the Global Compact policy. This statement will include: ● This letter from the CEO expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing ongoing commitment to the principles; ● A description of practical actions or projects that the company has undertaken in each of the four key areas updated for 2019-20; ● An honest measurement of the outcome, success, and the degree to which targets to further the goals and SDGs were met in the year 2019-2020. Yours sincerely, Andrew Ralston CEO & Co-founder 2. Communication of progress Human Rights PurePla.net is passionate about being one of the very best employers in Britain, and a market-leading renewable energy supplier that our Members are proud to be part of. We were recently recognised as the second Best Smaller Company to Work For in the UK, and the Best Company of any size in the South West. We strive to offer inclusive and equal policies for staff, recognising and promoting differences among our people in order to build an engaged and fully-participative workforce. ● Pure Planet was the first energy supply company in Britain to offer employees of any gender the same parental leave and financial entitlements when they have a child. ○ This applies to all new parents, whether they have a child by birth, surrogacy or adoption. Parents are not discriminated against for gender, sexuality or identity. ○ Essentially, it means parents can take up to 52 weeks’ leave on exactly the same terms regardless of their gender. For example, if a couple worked for Pure Planet, both could each take up to 52 weeks’ leave. ○ The progressive policy is believed to be a first for the British energy industry, a sector which employs over 637,000 people in the UK. ● Our health insurance benefit encourages and rewards an active lifestyle with cinema tickets and discounts. We also offer a cycle-to-work scheme and discounted gym membership. ● Private Medical Insurance is equally available for all employees, regardless of seniority. It also includes a health cash care plan to help cover the costs of medical care. ● We’re passionate about leading open and honest conversations about mental health. ○ Our Private Medical Insurance covers mental health care. All employees also have access to the Employee Assistance Programme with 24/7 access to support. ○ We have two qualified mental health first aiders at our place of work, alongside the more traditional first aiders. ○ We run regular wellbeing lunch and learn sessions to raise awareness of mental health issues and provide practical support. ● In 2020, Pure Planet published its ​Modern Slavery statement​. This is our commitment to ensure that modern slavery is not happening in any part of the business or our supply chain. ● Our ethical pension plan follows an ESG Investment profile, and is our default pension available to all staff. ● This year we established the Employee Forum to make recommendations to senior management about ways to promote equality, diversity and inclusion. ○ The Forum meets on a monthly basis and reports to the management team every two months. It is empowered to challenge and review Pure Planet’s existing policies. ○ This year, the Forum will specifically be tasked to review the recommendations in the ​McGregor-Smith Report​ into race in the workplace, and align with our practices, where appropriate. Labour Pure Planet is a progressive and flexible employer. ● We're a certified Living Wage Employer and a Disability Confident Employer. ● All employees who joined in the first two years of Pure Planet have received share options, providing a sense of mutual ownership, which ensures alignment and progression across the whole company. We plan to do this for all further joiners later this year. ● Pure Planet has an unlimited holiday policy, over and above the 28 days statutory annual leave requirement. A number of employees took advantage of this in the past year, taking time off to study, travel, spend time with their families, or to rest. ● We have been encouraging applications from among certain demographics, in particular returning-to-work mothers who often need flexibility with working hours to support children, which we have provided. ● We consider flexible working requests at the point a job offer is made for a role at Pure Planet. This is an improvement on the government ruling, which requires firms to offer this only after staff have worked for a firm for at least six months. ● In response to the challenge of remote working during the Covid-19 lockdown period since March 2020, our cloud-based digital model has meant that our business has been able to continue uninterrupted. ○ We have supported 100% of our staff to work remotely from home or wherever they are, and flexibly where caring responsibilities take precedence. ○ We’ve ensured staff are kept connected and supported with regular company-wide meetings and online socials including weekly yoga sessions and quizzes. ● This year we’ve created a number of engagement channels covering subjects such as, health and wellbeing, parenting, pets, a book club and ‘happy channel’ where we share examples of great work and positive feedback from our Members. Environment Pure Planet aims to help create a Britain powered entirely by clean, low-carbon, renewable energy. As such, we take a progressive approach to the environment in which we work and on which we depend. Over the past two years, we have made a number of measures to reduce our staff’s carbon impact during their journeys to work: ● Since 2019, we have introduced carbon offsetting for every employees’ commute following an internal staff audit. ● All staff benefit from interest-free season ticket loans to encourage train travel. ● We operate a green-only company car scheme, where our staff receive discounts on electric or hybrid vehicles. ○ We do not offer a company car scheme for petrol and diesel engined vehicles. ○ As a further step, we’ve introduced a company car levy for parking at the office, to discourage them from driving into the city of Bath and encourage them to take up active and public forms of transport. ● Since 2019 we have included electric bicycles as part of our existing cycle to work scheme. ● Additionally, to help raise internal staff awareness of reducing our travel carbon footprints, we have organised a ‘Zero Carbon Commute Day’ to coincide with National Clean Air Day. During these days, we encourage our team to commute to work without using carbon. 2020’s Commute Day has unfortunately been postponed due to Covid-19 lockdown. ● During our 2019 ‘Zero Carbon Commute Day’, we covered over 480 miles carbon free, saving approximately 60kg CO². Pure Planet’s membership has grown to 150,000 in July 2020. As a 100% renewable electricity and 100% carbon offset gas supplier we have helped our Members reduce carbon emissions by more than 900,000 CO2te since our launch in 2017. ● We’re passionate about making zero carbon energy affordable and accessible to everyone in Britain. We raise awareness about environmental issues and other thought-leaders in sustainable living and business through our blog and recent Sustainable Conversation Series​ on YouTube. ● We’ve also recently been obligated by the sector regulator, Ofgem, to install energy efficiency measures in homes at risk of fuel poverty as part of the Energy Companies Obligation. Anti-Corruption ● Our internal policies allow us to wholly commit to Principle ten of the Global Compact. As a young and growing organisation, and as such have been able to align our policies to the Global Compact from our inception. ● It is in our best interest to operate in a fair and competitive market, as these are the ones which lead to the greatest innovations and advancements. As an organisation that is built around innovation, anti-corruption is something we take very seriously. We ensure all our business practice operates within the boundaries of Competition Law. ● Every new starter is delivered a presentation on Information Security, and the importance of abiding by the Fraud Act (2006). We have a Zero Tolerance policy on fraud, and we clearly outline the steps our staff should follow should they suspect fraud. ● The rules regarding Confidentiality of Company Information are clearly outlined in employment contracts. ● Our Whistleblowing Guidelines are also clearly outlined to all staff. ● In 2020, Pure Planet published its ​Modern Slavery statement​. This is a new requirement as we have exceeded the threshold set by the UK Government. We will be introducing regular training to staff involved with procurement in the coming year. 3. Measurement of actions Environment:​ ​Pure Planet’s primary business is supplying 100% renewable electricity and carbon offset gas to GB customers. We have helped our Members reduce carbon emissions by more than 900,000 CO2te since our launch in 2017. Last year, as a result of consumers switching to our service we estimate that a typical household mitigated 4.8 tonnes of CO2. Pure Planet also featured in ​bp’s Advancing Low Carbon programme​ for 2020, which is audited by Deloitte. Human rights, people and employment: We were recently recognised as the second Best Smaller Company to Work For in the UK, and the Best Company of any size in the South West by the nationally recognised B ​ est Companies​ Awards. A pulse survey in November 2019 found: ● 100% of staff agreed that senior managers truly live the values of this organisation ● 100% of staff felt the organisation does enough for the environment ● 97% of staff disagreed that their health is suffering because of their job SDGs​: In the past year, we have continued to offer and promote an internal programme to explore each SDG in turn, typically with one SDG being a focus of learning, sharing and action over a month or two. We aim to provide an internal forum where our people can learn more about each SDG in more detail, share their learning with others (which also includes our Members), and involve themselves in some form of action should they choose. ● SDG 7 ‘Affordable and Clean Energy’ we recently invited a professor from the University of Bath to speak to our team on sustainable energy, and the impact of Covid-19 on the environment and energy emissions. This talk, like others, was recorded, and is downloadable by our team at any point. ● This year we’ve scaled-up awareness raising activities about environmental issues through our ​blog​ and ​Sustainable Conversation Series​ with thought-leaders in sustainable living and business on YouTube.
