Human Rights  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights.  Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Women and Gender Equality Children's Rights Indigenous Peoples Persons with Disabilities Human Trafficking Myanmar Voyages International Tourism Co., Ltd is committed to Human Rights in compliance with applicable Law of international and the Union of Myanmar. Maintaining integrity in dealing with employees, suppliers and stakeholders as part of Myanmar Voyages Culture.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations.  Description of actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Myanmar Voyages is committed to a fairness culture to all stakeholders which promote honesty, integrity and trust. The company respects for human rights, thus the following implementation has been done and pronounce the policy in employee handbook as below: Myanmar Voyages is an equal opportunity employer. We don't tolerate discrimination against protected characteristics (gender, age, sexual orientation, race, nationality, enthinicty, religion and disability status). We want all employees including excecutives and HR to treat others with respect and professionalism. In practice, this means that we: Hire and promote people based on skills, experience or potential and try to reduce bias in every process (e.g. through structured interviews) Use inclusive, diversity-sensitive language in all official documents, signs and job ads. Conduct diversity and communication training. Additionally, harassment and violence rules and regulations are also included in employee handbook to protect the rights of all employees.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  The company deals with incidents of Human Rights violations in disciplinary policy. Between 2019 20, there were no employees regarding any violation of Human Rights. The company monitors and survey on bi-annual basis in 1-1 consultation with Management or HR to all employees. Labour  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rightsrelated risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights.  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 :The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Myanmar Voyages International Tourism Co., Ltd has clearly stated in the employee handbook regarding the employees rights and responsibilities, and their compensation and benefits. Besides, the complaint procedure is open to all employees who feel unfair treatment by other employees. The company has strict policy regarding child and forced labour not only within the organisation but also to all stakeholders.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations.  Myanmar Voyages International Tourism Co., Ltd has always been supportive of the freedom of association. Thus, we have established Trade Union Team consists of three employees to protect the employees rights. The team raised awareness on trainings for employees on labour rights and policies other than existing HR rules and regulations. Prior to employment, the company's polices are clearly explained to employees and specified within the employee agreement. These policies clearly state the working conditions and employees rights according to International and the Union of Myanmar Labour Law. All employees are aware of its existence and agree upon before the employment with the company. The company aims to support efforts to protect human rights and strives to develop appropriate chains of sustainable policies. Myanmar Voyages has also implement the internal and distribute the guidance for suppliers to protect child and force labour conditions. The working conditions, child labor protection, health and safety and environment and community rules and regulations are also shown in the guidebook. Myanmar Voyages conducted regular trainings from the management and organise monthly creative presentations to engage and develop personal skills of employees. During these sessions, employees are encouraged to freely talk about their expectations, contributions and ideas whilst the management shows support and transparent about company's road maps to all employees.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  Between 2019 -2020 , the employee engagement rating has risen based on the last employee satisfaction survey conducted in January 2020. No conflict or discrimination has been reported. Environment  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection.  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies Myanmar Voyages International Tourism Co., Ltd is committed to sustainable, ethical business in compliance with applicable laws of the Union of Myanmar. Thus, the company promotes sustainable practices within our office premises so as with stakeholders in the global value chain including our partners, suppliers and customers.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents.  Myanmar Voyages has established green team in our office focusing to raise awareness of sustainable practices. The Green Office Guide book is available to all employees and green team is organising for the action plans based on Reduce, Reuse and Recycle principles. The examples include: Minimising energy consumption: Turn off lights & Air corn in lunch time & when it not in use. Use energy saving lightbulbs and use available sunlight to illuminate when possible. Waste Management: Reduce reliance on plastic bags and containers in the office by providing reusable water bottles, cups and lunch boxes. Reduce Paper Usage: Double sided printing policy and encourage to communicate via electronic mail.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance.  To achieve our sustainable goals and improve environmental performance, Myanmar Voyages has Provided trainings and required resources to all employees. Openly communicate our polices and practices to interested parties such as regular updates on website and newsletter Anti-Corruption  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption.  Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Myanmar Voyages against any forms of corruption including extortion and bribery.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents.  Regular seminars and trainings of employees about the company's policies regarding anti-corruption and extortion.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance.  Between 2019 20, Myanmar Voyages management team has not experienced any cases of corruption. Note: Responsibility for the content of participants' public communication related to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and their implementation lies with participants themselves and not with the UN Global Compact.
