RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT OUR DIFFERENTIATORS CONTENTS 1. A true partnership, owned and managed by its 5. Upholding and promoting diversity. We value partners. Because we are not incorporated, all diversity and individuality very highly – different 1. Introduction 4 of our partners are invested in all of our clients, perspectives are crucial when it comes to providing achieving excellence through collective effort, personal innovative advice. Our people come from diverse 1.1 Statement 4 dedication and a willingness to share expertise. backgrounds and we foster an inclusive culture. This 1.2 Foreword 7 We have a unique and stable position when it comes to drives better collaboration and enhances business our partnership: we rarely hire equity laterals or suffer performance. 1.3 Our Responsible Business Two Year Plan 9 losses laterally to competitors. Our growth model is organic and our culture is strong. 6. No hours targets. We focus on the value and quality of the service we provide to clients; not the time we 2. How we do business 12 2. Building relationships that last. We focus on, spend working for them or how it affects individual and invest in, building long term relationships with targets or pay. Accordingly, unlike most other law 2.1 Ethics and culture of integrity 13 our clients, developing and maintaining a deep firms, we do not set any minimum hour targets for our 2.2 Supplier engagement 14 understanding of their people and their businesses. lawyers – and this fosters an approach where our only We help our clients identify and overcome their driver is to help to solve our clients’ problems. 2.3 Client engagement and advice 15 strategic and operational challenges and support them in achieving their aims, becoming an extension of their 7. Strive for continuous improvement with innovation at our core. Innovation and continuous 2.4 Innovation 16 in-house legal teams. improvement are at the core of what we do. So 3. A multi-specialist approach. We require our lawyers we constantly challenge ourselves to drive greater 3. Our people 18 to be nimble and flexible in their approach to working. efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of our legal services and pass these benefits on to our clients. 3.1 Our culture 19 We believe in a multi-specialist approach whereby, within core legal disciplines, our lawyers are experts Part of this includes constantly reviewing the market 3.2 Diversity and inclusion 20 across multiple areas. They are not pigeon-holed in one to see how we can employ innovative technology and particular area, nor tied to any particular sector. This new working practices to add value and deliver more 3.3 Social mobility 26 approach means our lawyers see issues from all sides. efficient legal services to our clients. The nature of our firm means that we share best practice between 3.4 Enhancing working lives and wellbeing 32 4. Delivering solutions-focused advice. We add the our lawyers and support teams and then roll that out most value to our clients’ transactions by focusing on to our clients quickly. how to achieve the end objective, devising innovative 4. Climate action 36 solutions and anticipating problems, not just delivering 4.1 Science-based targets 37 dry legal analysis. 4.2 Our environmental strategy 40 5. Our place in society 44 5.1 Pro bono 45 5.2 Citizenship 48 6. eXXpedition Round the World 50 7. Alignment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 55 2 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM 3 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 1.0 INTRODUCTION 1.1 Statement Slaughter and May has a reputation for providing that we are committed to the ten principles of the UNGC It would be remiss of me not to talk about the impact And we are proud too of our facilities team for responding exceptional legal service, which is recognised and valued and the Sustainable Development Goals. It provides an of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a year of unprecedented innovatively by donating thousands of sheets of acetate by our clients. But there is more to us than this. We pride overview of how we are working towards embedding global upheaval for a generation, we are acutely aware of normally used to cover our legal documents to be ourselves on being a collegiate firm with a strong common sustainability and responsibility into our business strategy the role business has in driving prosperity in society, but, fashioned into 10,000 face guards for NHS workers. sense of purpose, without which our high standards and operations as an international law firm. It contains more crucially, how dependent the business sector is on would not be possible. With a 131 year history, we are some key highlights from our work with clients and a healthy society. With a backdrop of economic, political We recognise that in this period of drastic change, there recognised as leaders in our field and have never merged suppliers and the approach we take to support our people, and social uncertainty, we are doing as much as we can to is a need to heighten our focus on how we see our role as with another law firm. We are an outward looking, the environment and society. support our clients, our staff and our suppliers, and our an employer and a business, our values and culture now internationally-minded collective of individuals who responsible business commitments remain at the forefront more than ever. possess the resources, knowledge and influence to create Slaughter and May is a private partnership and so we are of our activity. rarely required to submit public reports. However this I hope you enjoy reading our report. a substantial and positive impact. We believe that being a responsible business means that we make decisions report allows us the opportunity to share the broad range As I write, our offices are beginning to reopen following a with a long-term view. of our activity, to demonstrate our values and to show period which our employees have settled, as much as they Paul Stacey, how we see ourselves as a firm. are able, into new working from home routines. I have Executive Partner Taking a sustainable approach to our business means that, been struck by the unwavering generosity of colleagues as well as adding value for our clients, we have a positive Our progress to date can be attributed to many years who, when facing their own personal challenges and social and environmental impact. Some of the ways in of investment and focus, of which we are proud. We work pressures, have gone above and beyond to support which we do this are by continually investing in our local believe that we have built a strong base from which we neighbours, the NHS and charities that are on the frontline communities, preserving our environment, ensuring that are able to evolve and increase the speed and depth of taking care of the most vulnerable. As well as maintaining our people are diverse, our culture is inclusive and that our commitment to the sustainability agenda in the years our financial support for charities, we have increased our our employment opportunities are open and accessible to to come. Through this communication we are aiming to pro bono activity to support charities in addressing crucial all. We ask all of our people to take personal responsibility explain the approach that we take and our ambitions for legal, financial, governance and regulatory questions. to make this happen. the future. We understand that we have a long way to go and that the world around us will continue to shift; that For example, we are immensely proud of our lawyers who We are very pleased to present our first Communication the norms and expectations of consumers, civil society, helped NHS workers set up HEROES – a charity that offers on Progress report as part of our participation as a governments, regulators and the financial markets will help in a variety of ways to their frontline colleagues. signatory of the UN Global Compact. We hope it meets evolve at a pace. We want to be an active participant in the expectations of our stakeholders and demonstrates this change. INTRODUCTION 5 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 1.2 Foreword UN Global Compact principles One of the strengths of a professional services firm like If I then look back on our achievements, here are four ours is that we are careful with our commitments and areas of particular note for me. We have established a new committee highly motivated to fulfil them once made. This could lead Human rights to co-ordinate and drive our internal and to targets that do not stretch, but when we articulated One of the areas of which I am most proud is our work around the mental health and wellbeing agenda. In May Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the external sustainability and responsible business our two year plan to our clients in November 2018, I was deliberately setting ourselves a public challenge 2020 we received the highest accolade from the City protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and activities, to advise our board and to drive the Mental Health Alliance an organisation that works knowing that we would move more to meet it than a Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit operational integration of sustainability into private aspiration to do better. You will read of our with businesses to help transform their workplaces into in human rights abuses. our activities. This committee is in place as we seven commitments and our progress below and I am mentally healthy environments – for our Thriving at Work Assessment. I have been inspired by the engagement approach the end of our two year responsible very delighted to observe that most have been fully met. The fact not all have been leaves room for more but also from my colleagues and their willingness to share stories Labour business plan and starts work on devising our and talk openly about their mental health. This, along attests to the genuine ambition we had for ourselves. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom strategy for 2021 and beyond.’ I will come back to this. with our increased provision of workplace support to of association and the effective recognition of the deal with mental health issues, has driven a shift towards Jeff Twentyman, Partner and Head of Sustainability November 2018 seems a different era. We had mapped destigmatising workplace conversations around mental right to collective bargaining; our activities within the framework of the UN’s health. We have seen extraordinary positive change Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced Sustainable Development Goals, we were actively in such a short period and I am certain this trend will and compulsory labour; managing our carbon and resource consumption and continue to embed a culture of openness and inclusiveness. starting to discuss internally a holistic idea and aspiration Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Social mobility is another area of significant achievement. of sustainability. We had many social programmes focusing on diversity and inclusion, equality and social mobility. This is an area where we have been active for a number Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination of years and last year launched two new partnerships to in respect of employment and occupation. Our public commitments, including to the Global create a more sophisticated pipeline approach to work Compact, were timely and well received by clients and with a wider range of students at different ages. This is Environment colleagues alike. Since then the pace has picked up, not to widen access to the profession and ensure that we just through urgency brought about by the IPCC, but also are best placed to recruit talent from less advantaged Principle 7: Businesses should support a as a result of the vision, focus and contribution brought backgrounds. This includes our Law Springboard precautionary approach to environmental challenges; by the numerous initiatives of others, many of which are programme that we deliver in partnership with the charity Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater now components of our professional rather than just upReach, to support undergraduates from less advantaged environmental responsibility; and operational activities: stakeholder capitalism, investor backgrounds, as well as our Lead in to Law programme stewardship, corporate purpose and the ever present that supports 16-18 year olds delivered in partnership with Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion climate crisis and its transformative effect on business. Rare Recruitment, who specialise in sourcing exceptional of environmentally friendly technologies. people from diverse backgrounds into some of the world’s On top of these, we have now also experienced the full leading organisations. Many people from across the firm play out of the #metoo phenomenon, the very recent have put up their hands to provide support as mentors, Anti-corruption reminder of the challenges facing all of us concerning work placement hosts, speakers at insight events and in racial justice and the global COVID-19 crisis not just a the new days of social distancing, to create videos for Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption health crisis but a social one. All of these have shone clear our new online careers blog. in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. daylight on our collective moral compass. 6 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM INTRODUCTION 7 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 1.3 Our Responsible Business Two Year Plan Third, our commitment to the Science Based Targets We look forward to presenting these plans to you soon. Launched at the end of 2018, our two year Responsible Our Two Year Plan commitments initiative signals our conviction to take meaningful action Business plan brought together seven commitments that aim on a critical global issue. We are particularly pleased I want to return to the idea of ambition. We have come to change the way we work and future-proof our business. a long way over recent years but our achievements have Demonstrate sustainability leadership to have been the first law firm in the world to achieve to a great extent been things we do alongside our core We already had a significant spectrum of activities across through membership of the United Nations approval, we hope demonstrating to the sector what business. Our next responsible business plan will have our environment, inclusion, pro bono and community focus Global Compact UK Network is possible. Without a radical re-think in how we do business, ensuring we limit a global temperature rise to further ambitions: areas but wanted to create a central plan that we could use 1.5°C, the disruption to life on this planet is unthinkable. to pull our efforts into a consolidated responsible business • sustainability will become central to our strategy Empower our people to become agents The amount of work already achieved to get us to this strategy and articulate this to our stakeholders. and business, informing decisions from sourcing and of change to support the Sustainable point means we have strong foundations on which to recruitment to service delivery, so that we can accompany Using the UN’s Global Compact as a framework to Development Goals and embed them deliver our carbon emissions reduction target of 50% by and support our clients on their transformation journeys identify where we were able to have the most impact, into our business 2030. We are doing everything we can to get us there and and provide our colleagues with purposeful work which we committed to seven actions that we would deliver over as is required of us we will be doing all we can to influence aligns with their values; and two years. These commitments are helping us to enhance our supply chain to support us. We are already looking to Commit to the Science Based Targets initiative • we will use our influence, capacity and expertise our social impact, re-think traditional working patterns build on our reporting capability with new data tools and enabling us to set approved carbon emission positively in support of the transformation of the for greater diversity and ensure we can access and develop reporting systems that will offer metrics upon which we economy and society in which we participate and to targets across our global operations in line talent from all backgrounds. Whilst we already have strong can more tangibly measure our progress. actively contribute to the coming Decade of Delivery with the latest climate science environmental credentials, they are also bringing us in line informed by the Sustainable Development Goals. with the latest climate change science. Within this report, Finally, you will read further on about our sponsorship of eXXpedition Around the World, an all-women mission you can read more about how we have progressed against Commit to source 100% of our future global Above all we will continue to challenge ourselves to make to research ocean plastic pollution. This shows how an these commitments. electricity requirements from renewables progress against a range of objectives. operational objective, here to remove plastics from our through RE100 supply chain, led us to support separate initiatives all I hope as you read this report, you get to know us a bit addressing problematic plastic use around the world – a better and have a greater understanding of how we work to strategic approach to deploying our capabilities in an area try to make a positive difference and change things for the Implement an enhanced social mobility of concern for our employees and where our expertise better. We would be delighted to hear from you concerning strategy for the firm to support talent could add value. This example shows the potential for the contents of this report and ideas for the future. from low socio-economic backgrounds us to make strategic choices about where to focus our community, pro bono and charitable efforts in order to Jeff Twentyman, Pioneer a job re-design project to build optimise our impacts within the SDG framework. Partner and Head of Sustainability flexibility into associate roles So we have accomplished much within the spheres of ‘E’nvironment and ‘S’ocial. As for ‘G’overnance, most Increase the social impact of our pro bono recently we have established a new committee to cowork including by collaborating with clients ordinate and drive our internal and external sustainability and responsible business activities, to advise our board and to drive the operational integration of sustainability into our activities. This committee is in place as we approach the end of our Responsible Business Two Year Plan and starts work on devising our strategy for 2021 and beyond. 8 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM INTRODUCTION 9 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT UN Sustainable Development Goals On 25 September 2015, 193 world leaders committed to In the final chapter, you can see a table setting out where 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), also known the activities that we cover in this report are aligned to as the Global Goals, which would end extreme poverty, the Goals. fight inequality and stop climate change by 2030 – for everyone and in all countries. Alongside government and Our next steps will be to conduct a second mapping civil society, businesses are encouraged to play a role to exercise across the firm to understand where there achieve these goals. may be gaps in our approach. At the same time, we will identify our key stakeholders and the impacts that We conducted a mapping exercise to examine how our are material to our business so we know which areas business operations and activities aligned to the Goals, to prioritise. Teams across the firm will formulate and which allowed us to understand our impact on the Goals implement their own action plans to identify where they within our sphere of influence. We found that we are can increase their impact. We hope to report back on active against all of the goals to some extent, with some the highlights of this exercise in our next Communication stronger areas of alignment compared to others. We also on Progress. ran a six month programme of workshops, presentations and communications to engage with our employees in what the Goals meant for the firm. 10 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM INTRODUCTION 11 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2.0 HOW WE DO BUSINESS 2.1 Ethics and culture of integrity We are a leading, full service, international law firm We seek excellence in every aspect of our business and Our Code of Business Conduct are committed to the highest standards of professionalism, recognised throughout the business community for Our commitment to fair employment practices in relation ethics and integrity. We try to go beyond simply our commercial awareness and commitment to clients. conducting our business in a lawful manner, for example to our own employees is embodied in our Code of We have 109 partners and 1,235 employees worldwide, by using our purchasing power with our suppliers to Business Conduct. This provides information about how we approach our day-to-day activities and the principles with offices in London, Brussels, Beijing and Hong Kong. encourage them to conduct business by the same high standards that we set for ourselves. We also set high in it are covered in inductions for new staff and reinforced standards when it comes to protecting data and have an through training. The standards in our umbrella Code are We advise on high-profile, ground-breaking and complex aligned to Global Compact principles and reflected in the ISO accredited cybercrime prevention strategy. transactions and deliver bespoke solutions to our clients. detailed policies and procedures that sit beneath it. We We make sure we have the finest lawyers in the market As a firm we demonstrate fairness, honesty and openness endeavour to embed those standards in everything we do. in all of our relationships. This is central to our position as and train them to the highest standards. This means our a trusted international law firm – everything we do is about advice is clear, confident and commercial, but also guides demonstrating our integrity to our clients, employees and Case study: Ethics Applied and leads our clients towards a recommended solution. our wider stakeholders. The regulation of law firms has intensified over the last Fundamentally: few years. There is more of it, it is more granular and We support clients internationally, working seamlessly as well as coming from our direct regulator, the SRA, across borders and our practice has a truly global • We comply with the ethical standards of professional it comes from other regulators and government, and behaviour set by our regulator, the Solicitors Regulation indirectly through the expectations of our insurers reach. We provide clear legal advice that spans not only Authority (SRA), as well as those set out in our own and clients. Against this backdrop, we want to make the globe, but also tackles cultural nuances between Code of Business Conduct. Our lawyers recognise the sure that all of our lawyers are equipped to spot an jurisdictions. Without the constraints of a large office importance of upholding professional standards, adhering ethical question, challenge their own decision and seek to applicable laws and regulations, and fulfilling ethical help when they need it. When we talk about ethics in network, we can handpick the best lawyers from around obligations while delivering high quality, innovative work. this context, it is in the professional standards sense – the world to form elite teams for each deal – providing All staff try to ensure that their business judgements are stripping back to the basics, being mindful of the SRA’s our clients with access to the best local advice. When free from bias, conflicts of interest or undue influence mandatory principles and applying them in practice. from others. Our clients can rely on us to be truly advising clients on international matters we source, independent, putting their best interests before others’. To bring this to life, we designed the Ethics Applied challenge and consolidate advice from local firms around programme to keep ethics front of mind for our • We reject bribery and corruption in line with Principle 10 lawyers and the business more widely. Each year we the world, whilst managing the global team efficiently – anti-corruption. This is vital to maintaining the trust of deliver sessions that examine recent ethical dilemmas and effectively. our colleagues, clients and others we work with. We do facing the legal world, decisions made by the Solicitors not solicit, accept, offer, promise or pay bribes, including Disciplinary Tribunal, lessons learned from financial For further information about our business, including facilitation payments whether directly or through a third scandals and talks from external speakers on topics party. We are keen to avoid any perception of wrongdoing such as modern slavery and human trafficking, whether how we are regulated, see the Legal and Regulatory too, which explains, for example, why we have strict dealing it is ever ethical to breach a contract and the part Information on our website. rules, governing when our partners and staff can buy and sell intuition plays in spotting a problem. shares, which go far beyond what is required by law. HOW WE DO BUSINESS 13 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2.2 Supplier engagement 2.3 Client engagement and advice We work hard to uphold fair employment practices in our Globalisation, increased regulation and government supply chain, working only with key suppliers that adhere Case study: Supplier Symposium scrutiny, sustainability and climate change, market Case study: Our In-Houser campaign to high ethical standards across their business dealings and disruption and disruptive tech, extended supply chains, Every two years we run supplier symposiums in the One of our initiatives aligned with SDG16, which employment practices. heightened public, political and stakeholder interest, cyber, UK for both internal managers and external supply supports in-house lawyers who are regulated as Black Lives Matter, #MeToo and digitalisation (to name We articulate these standards in our Supplier Code of chain partners that bring to life our expectations for solicitors, has focused on the SRA’s renewed focus a few factors) have all brought with them new challenges Business Conduct, which we ask key suppliers to sign to any business that works with us. These dedicated, on ethics for the solicitors profession as a whole for business, their Boards and wider management. Our make their commitment to fair employment practices face-to-face sessions allow for a more engaging, (set out in the new rules it adopted towards the lawyers, in their unique role as advisers to some of the clear. A supplier’s compliance with this Code is an effective tool to bring suppliers and contract managers end of 2019) and how this translates for those in the biggest international businesses, help our clients navigate important factor in us deciding whether to form, continue on board with not only what we want them to do, but in-house community rather than in private practice. these pressures. or renew a relationship with them. Any breach may result also why. We cover responsible business, including With a new spotlight on the individual solicitor’s new in us terminating our arrangements with them. our commitment to the UN’s Global Compact and the We have a number of practice areas where we have regulatory obligation to keep their ethical (as well as Global Goals, diversity and inclusion, environment, established expert teams that advise on risk and business their legal and regulatory) knowledge up to date, we When selecting our suppliers, price is not our only driver, community and pro bono; ethics, including modern transformation, including areas such as governance, created resources and delivered a series of training and we conduct a thorough screening process to assess a slavery, labour practices, bribery and corruption; and culture, sustainability, responsible business, data, cyber and sessions for our clients. This included a video – supplier’s approach to a number of areas, which include data privacy, cyber security and business continuity. people; sustainable finance and the green economy; and ‘Are you an ethical lawyer?’ – in which our General their responsible business strategy and activities. We environment, where we take a flexible approach to an area Counsel outlined details of the changes, which was are committed to buying quality products and services that is often complex and involves rapidly evolving issues accompanied by a toolkit to enable in-house teams from ethical suppliers and to measure this requires an presented by environmental and climate change matters. to facilitate a dedicated ethics training session to assessment of a potential supplier’s approach to its people Modern slavery kick-start their departmental compliance with the and the workers in its own supply chain. We tend to foster In the past year, we have advised on several landmark deals SRA’s new rules. long-term relationships with our first-tier suppliers and we We are required by UK law to publish on our website aligned with SDG9, industry, innovation and infrastructure, avoid making demands of our suppliers that might lead to a statement about how we ensure that slavery and human and SDG11, sustainable cities and communities. These Other training sessions we have delivered as part of them violating human rights. We require all contractors trafficking is not taking place in our supply chains. It is include Hong Kong’s first food-grade ready PET and this campaign include a seminar for General Counsel based onsite in our London office to be paid the London important to us not just to publish a statement, but to HDPE plastics recycling facility and the first revolving on the ethics of non-disclosure agreements and Living Wage as part of our Living Wage commitment. make it meaningful and to treat it as a live issue that needs credit facility provided to a UK Real Estate Investment sessions that have unpicked stories in the news about active engagement across our business. Trust (‘REIT’) that meets the LMA Green Loan Principles. lawyers, examining the ethical dimension of their Our Supplier Relationship Management Programme Aligned to SDG7, affordable and clean energy, our decision-making. These activities are underpinned by includes responsible business areas as part of an ongoing We have a face-to-face training programme for our senior renewable energy team has also been advising clients such our publication, ‘The In-Houser’, which provides a dialogue with suppliers and during regular contract management team as well as those of our employees who as Ørsted and Centrica on offshore wind projects, all of translation of SRA rules for the in-house community. reviews. We aim to identify where there could be have responsibilities in relation to engaging the firm’s suppliers. This covers not only the offences in the Modern which contribute toward a net zero carbon future. improvements at the screening stage then, should they be chosen, use these as discussion points for relationship Slavery Act, but how to go about evaluating suppliers and We have established a rich pool of know-how and meetings throughout the contract. mitigating risks within supply chains. Our aim is to raise expertise to enable us to provide the cutting edge advice awareness of the issues and increase informed scrutiny. expected of us and help our clients keep abreast of In order to identify risks to workers in our supply chain, developments in these areas, such as through our briefings we regularly refresh the due diligence we carry out on our and videos. A recent example was our publication during key suppliers through the ongoing supplier management the COVID-19 crisis on ‘the increasing demands of a social processes we have in place. licence to operate’. 14 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM HOW WE DO BUSINESS 15 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2.4 Innovation Looking to our impacts against SDG8, decent work and We are at the forefront of deploying cutting edge legal economic growth and SDG9, industry, innovation and technology that we use on matters to drive efficiencies Case study: Slaughter and May Collaborate Case study: An innovative approach infrastructure, we believe innovation is at the heart of and enhance value for our clients. Tasks like large scale to our Africa practice We are helping innovators and entrepreneurs change legal practice and this is reflected in the way we approach document reviews have been transformed as a result. the legal sector. In 2019, we launched our first legal While we don’t have a physical presence on the every piece of work. Challenging the way we work through We have developed a legal services delivery toolkit tech programme Slaughter and May Collaborate. continent, over more than 35 years we have taken open-mindedness, diversity and creativity can have an consisting of a number of innovative tools and approaches. It offers legal tech companies an incubator style a unique approach to building our practice in Africa. enormous impact on results for our clients, our efficiency From a technology perspective, this includes: programme to develop, test and potentially pilot We have developed close working relationships with and our wellbeing. That’s why innovation and continuous • Luminance an innovative AI platform which helps our their products, with the aim of enhancing our the leading law firms across Africa and invested in joint improvement are at the core of what we do, and we do a clients and lawyers save precious due diligence time; engagement with the best new legal tech developers, training and cross-secondment programmes for their lot to foster a firm-wide culture of innovation. and to involve our clients in shaping the development lawyers, which enables us to deliver an integrated and • HighQ – a collaborative working platform that combines We have a dedicated innovation group, our Innovation of new technology for use in the legal sector and seamless service to our clients. We have established file sharing, project management and interactive Network, which helps to shape the firm’s strategic beyond. Each cohort member receives access to a a number of initiatives, including: data collection to help manage matters and improve innovation agenda by suggesting and evaluating novel tools, communication with clients; and suite of benefits, including feedback sessions with • the Practical and Legal Exchange, African Symposium processes and ways of working, products and processes our lawyers, a session with our information security (‘PLEASe’), a regional training programme to support us in delivering a cost-efficient service to our • Document Automation – software that offers time team, a sandbox environment, dummy data and clients. We also have a firm-wide Innovation Training savings in the production of document suites. dedicated mentors. We involve several clients and • our EXPLORE secondment programme, which Programme that has been co-designed with Oxford industry experts they form part of our client panel, invites senior lawyers from our Africa relationship University and various other third parties, which aims to attend events and sessions and provide regular firms to spend three weeks with us in London ensure that our people continue to have the right skills, updates on the programme’s success. • the Leadership Forum, a one day programme knowledge and habits to successfully navigate the rapidly The COVID-19 crisis has challenged businesses This was the natural next step following on from focusing on the challenges and opportunities facing changing digital landscape. The programme focuses on: of all sizes, but it’s an especially difficult time our existing, pioneering Fast Forward incubator senior partners managing law firms technical skills in relation to digital literacy; soft skills in relation to creativity and collaboration; and building for start-up companies. Through supporting programme, which focussed on fintech, insurtech, • a compilation of know-how and training packs, which greentech and emerging tech start-ups. Companies greater awareness and providing specific tools in relation innovative legal technology providers through are regularly sent to our relationship firms, and an in our Fast Forward programme receive pro bono ongoing e-Support initiative, which assists African to digital productivity. our second cohort of Collaborate, we are legal advice, mentoring, networking opportunities law firms with ad hoc legal questions. No industry is immune from the disruptive effects of reaffirming our commitment to the legal tech and referrals to other professionals. technology, and the legal profession has exploded with and start-up community. We have also run a fee-free legal sounding board products that are impacting working practices. We are Jane Edwarde, Partner service for start-ups at Runway East, a co-working innovating to make sure that technology really does what space for entrepreneurs and high growth tech it was intended to do: make life better. Great productivity businesses. involves downtime and rest, and protecting that – even from technology itself – is vital. To support this, we have worked with experts in neuroscience and technology to co-design workshops, as part of our Innovation Training Programme, to help us reflect, and change, how we intentionally and unintentionally, use technology. 16 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM HOW WE DO BUSINESS 17 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 3.0 OUR PEOPLE 3.1 Our culture In this section we cover our approach to how we manage Some of the defining features of our culture can be seen and support our employees, upholding the principles in the way that we support each other, by respecting At a time of leading through the COVID-19 autonomy and trusting our people. We place less emphasis of labour and human rights. This also includes how we crisis and making difficult, sometimes rapid, on how work is done and more on the fact that it is done ensure good health and wellbeing in line with SDG3, – on time and to standard. We have no billing or hours decisions, we’ve focussed on the organisation gender equality for SDG5 and our efforts to reduce targets and there is no ‘face-time’ culture. that we want to be, no matter what is all other types of inequality for SDG10. We have been happening around us. As a firm that has people We try to do things right, with honesty, with integrity a Living Wage employer for many years. and with consideration. People often talk of the sense and service excellence at its heart, looking of belonging at Slaughter and May and, while it is hard to after everyone’s physical, mental and emotional Slaughter and May is made up of 1,300 people in the pinpoint exactly where this comes from, we think that wellbeing is critical now more than ever. the loyalty we show our people is an important factor. UK and around the world. There is a strong recognition Louise Meikle, Director of HR that our people make our business and we work hard to attract, recruit, develop and retain a diverse pipeline of talent and to create an inclusive environment where everyone feels valued and is able to be themselves. Our people are drawn from different backgrounds and have different viewpoints and this goes to the heart of our ethos of independent thinking and innovation. Our people strategy sets out how we support the business. We aim to: • foster an inclusive culture and attractive employee experience to attract, recruit and retain high calibre, diverse people • drive a high performance culture across the firm by developing performance of individuals and teams • enhance the working lives and wellbeing of our employees and enable them to be the best they can OUR PEOPLE 19 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 3.2 Diversity and inclusion We believe that a diverse and inclusive workplace drives Highlights There is no quick fix or standalone project that can deliver Female development programmes form a component collaboration and business performance. To achieve this our ambitions but we continue to work hard to embed of our gender balance strategy. For example, we are • Ranked 15th in the 2020 Stonewall Top 100 we focus on examining and adjusting our ways of working and integrate diversity and inclusion (D&I) across the firm. members of the 30% Club in the UK and Hong Kong. Employers’ Index so that we are able to embrace different leadership styles, We believe that the impact of an ongoing internal dialogue This voluntary, business-led organisation campaigns for This annual submission covers a detailed analysis of career paths and work patterns. We also work with organisations’ LGBT+ inclusion activity by leading LGBT+ reminds partners and employees that inclusion is a part of at least 30% female representation on the Boards and diverse individuals in a targeted way and concentrate expert organisation, Stonewall. everyday life at the firm. Below are some examples of our Executive committees of companies. We participate in on engaging everyone at the firm to create a shared flagship initiatives and programmes of action. its cross-organisational mentoring scheme run for highresponsibility for maintaining an inclusive culture. • Signatories to the BITC Race at Work Charter potential women by providing mentors and mentees. This is composed of five principal calls to action for Gender equality leaders and organisations across all sectors to advance We partner with our European Network of Firms to run BAME representation in businesses. In line with SDG5, the principles of gender equality and a six day leadership development programme for mid to Case study: Sharing best practice the advancement of women are fundamental to our D&I senior level female associates. Run across three European • Ranked 40th in the 2019 Social Mobility strategy. We know that firms with greater senior level cities, it focusses on building leadership skills within the We have always taken an active role in sharing best Employers Index Created by the Social Mobility Foundation in the UK, diversity perform better. legal sector and relationships across the firms. practice outside of the firm. For example, in Belgium we are proud to be a founding firm of the Legal employers are ranked on the actions they are taking to We have reported on our gender pay gap in the UK for Diversity and Inclusion Alliance (LDIA). Launched ensure they are open to accessing and progressing talent the past three years and have in place a comprehensive Leadership from all class backgrounds. in Brussels in January 2019, law firm members action plan to close the gap. A detailed, six point action pledge to eliminate discrimination in the workplace, • A number of our partners have been publicly recognised plan can be found in our Gender and Ethnicity Pay Gap promote an inclusive organisational culture and take tangible actions to fulfil a number of goals outlined for their contributions to leading inclusion within the firm and wider business community in the Financial Report 2019, which covers: 21% of our partnership is made up of women in their charter. These include sharing best practice Times and Yahoo Finance sponsored lists. For example, and working jointly to deliver events to help raise partners Nilufer von Bismarck MBE and Sarah Lee have awareness of D&I issues. both ranked in the EMpower Leading Ethnic Minority 25% of all promotions to partnership have been women in the past four years Executives list for four consecutive years. Early in-career talent • CMHA Thriving at Work Accreditation identification 2020 – Excelling Reverse Flexible 63% of our Business Services senior leaders are women This assessment by the City Mental Health Alliance mentoring working pilot (‘CMHA’), aims to help organisations measure their progress as they work to build mentally healthy workplaces. Gender balance 36% of our partnership board is made up of women action plan Mentoring and Support for 80% of our operating Committee is made up of women development working families Lateral hiring 20 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM OUR PEOPLE 21 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Our eco-system to support families and parents Our eight employee networks Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic inclusion Case study: Inclusion Allies The support and benefits we have in place for working The UK population has a sizeable black and minority parents and those with dependents is gender neutral and Our ‘Inclusion Allies’ initiative aims to encourage ethnic population: 8% are Asian/Asian British and 3% are Christian network extensive. Our enhanced family leave package is for all everyone at the firm, regardless of background or role, Black/African/Caribbean/Black British. However, these eligible employees, whether they are taking maternity, to consider how they can actively promote an inclusive percentages are not reflected in senior levels of business, shared parental, surrogacy or adoption leave, to give environment through simple, every-day language politicians, academia and media across the UK. them time to spend with their families. We also provide DIVERSE – our social mobility and behaviours. The launch event in November 2019 coaching to employees taking a period of family leave, and ethnicity network featured a panel of speakers from across our employee We have been active in improving Black, Asian and and support before, during and on their return to work networks who shared their insights into how they are Minority Ethnic (BAME) inclusion in recruitment and the through a ‘new parent buddy scheme’. Our Family allies to colleagues who are different to themselves. workplace for a number of years and we have in place a Network brings together working parents and carers We have subsequently rolled out a firm-wide training number of initiatives to achieve this. We know that there Family network across the firm to provide support and guidance, such as programme and guidance document with information is more that we can do and it will take time to create through peer learning forums to help navigate the balance on how others can take this forward. that change, but we are fully committed to this goal. Our between work and family responsibilities. BAME action plan runs covers how we recruit, retain and Some of our people who have participated in our promote BAME talent. Gender Equality network Inclusion Allies workshops said: Engaging everyone to create a shared language and understanding Recruitment • We were the first law firm to engage Rare Recruitment, We have eight active internal diversity networks, run by J-Net – our Jewish network I found the session really useful. By becoming who specialise in sourcing BAME graduates and those our people and supported by partners. Each network from less advantaged backgrounds into some of the is designed to strengthen the spirit of inclusion at the more aware and open to having these world’s leading organisations. We helped to develop the firm and to encourage employees who share a similar conversations, we’re laying the groundwork Contextual Recruitment System, which uses big data to background, perspective or interest to come together. Muslim network to make the workplace somewhere we can help organisations identify candidates with the greatest They celebrate significant events such as Pride in London, be the most expressive, real versions of potential and have integrated this to help us with our International Women’s Day and religious festivals, and recruitment of trainees. ourselves and to be kinder to each other. support the implementation of the firm’s D&I strategy. • Our graduate recruitment team invite members of PRISM – our LGBT+ network Rebecca Newman, IP/IT associate African and Caribbean Societies to two annual events that we host in our London office, which offer students an insight into corporate law and the opportunity to meet Slaughter and May lawyers. We also sponsor the Thrive – our mental health and wellbeing network For me, what was really useful was the ability to Women in the City Afro-Caribbean Network, a studentdiscuss these issues with other people. It really led social enterprise for black women, which includes hosting events and mentoring students. made me take a step back and think about my actions and those of my team. • The 2019/20 cohort of our upReach programme (more details on page 30) has 69% BAME representation. Simon Agar, Senior Business Development Manager 22 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM OUR PEOPLE 23 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Retention and promotion Wider engagement Networking and sharing best practice • We worked with INvolve, a D&I membership • DIVERSE is our very active firm-wide network that In collaboration with our European Network of firms, The event provided a fantastic networking organisation, to set up the UK’s first cross-company celebrates and promotes social, ethnic and racial we deliver the ‘LGBT+ Workplace Initiative’, an annual opportunity, where I met some of the most mentoring programme for BAME employees four diversity. It promotes a dialogue on BAME issues years ago. This award-winning programme has now throughout the firm and we consult and work closely meeting in different European cities, supported and inspiring LGBT + and ethnic minority leaders attended by LGBT+ partners and employees. We hosted expanded to include many other companies and with the DIVERSE Committee on our BAME action plan. from a wide range of sectors and industries. the inaugural event in 2015 and work with PRISM, our includes female and LGBT+ mentors/mentees across LGBT+ employee network that provides an informal It instilled an important principle in me that I FTSE 100 companies. We also work with INvolve to • Matters of race, ethnicity and calling out discriminatory provide BAME, LGBT+ and female employees with the and racist behaviour are raised in our inclusion training support network for LGBT+ employees and allies, to don’t need to wait to be at the top of the ladder opportunity to attend executive level and ‘Emerging programmes. participate in this. to inspire change, it is equally important to have Leaders’ development programmes alongside other diverse leaders at all levels of the hierarchy City professionals. Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Trans inclusion Focus on trans inclusion We have provided detailed guidance documents and Sara, Compliance Officer • Through our internal mentoring programmes, all BAME The Stonewall riots that took place in New York City in employees can request a BAME partner, associate or the 1970s were the start of the modern campaign against policies around trans inclusion, including a project to business services mentor to help them navigate the firm discrimination of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and remove gendered language from all of our templates and and the profession for career development. related (LGBT+) community and the beginning of large processes. Our front of house staff are provided with trans inclusion training and we sponsored the launch of The mentoring program has provided a great • Following a successful pilot, we are rolling out a reverse scale public awareness for equal rights. Since then, LGBT+ communities and the beginning of large scale public ‘Trans in the City’, a new initiative to support trans people opportunity to take a step back from day-tomentoring scheme, and are aiming for half of our future mentors to be BAME, as they were in the pilot, so that awareness for equal rights. Since then, LGBT communities in business. day work and take the time to think proactively senior leadership can learn about the lived experience globally have campaigned, and in some countries won, about my career. It’s also encouraged me to of BAME employees. Our Senior Partner and Executive employment rights, parenting rights, partnership rights seek out a student mentee, which has also Partner participate. and an equal age of consent. Our work in this area relates to workplace culture and inclusion. We participate in the been very rewarding. • To encourage cross sector dialogue on BAME Stonewall Workplace Equality Index for employers annually, recruitment, belonging and promotion, we started a Adrien, Associate series of “Diversity in the City” events in 2019, bringing benchmarking ourselves against other organisations and together BAME lawyers and professionals from across have ranked in the top 100 employers, published externally, London to promote debate, discussion and access to for the past three years. Some of this year’s highlights of our wider networking for individuals. work are below. Career development We work with INvolve to provide professional and personal development opportunities for our LGBT+ people and allies as mentioned above. 24 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM OUR PEOPLE 25 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 3.3 Social mobility Social mobility is important to the firm and forms part A pipeline approach Laying the foundations of good literacy of how we work to reduce inequalities within the sector. Our aim is to create a pipeline approach, working with 1 Literacy is crucial to social mobility. We are a member There is a rich-poor divide in educational attainment and those without a decent education can become trapped in a students of all ages. This means starting with primary of the Vision for Literacy Business Pledge, which sets out cycle of poverty. Research by the OECD shows that social school interventions that lay the foundations of good our commitment to help tackle the UK’s unacceptably low mobility is declining in many western countries such as the literacy and careers and mentoring initiatives with levels of literacy. Our primary school literacy schemes UK and USA. young people at school, through to law-focused support involve around 30 employee volunteers and we also for undergraduates and our recruitment activities. sponsor programmes that provide books and reading As a sector, we recruit and progress disproportionately It also includes support for people once they join the support to primary school children. Much of this is in more people from affluent backgrounds than those from firm, ensuring that the principles of social equality are partnership with the National Literacy Trust, a charity low socio-economic backgrounds. In line with our values embedded in all our internal processes. that is dedicated to helping disadvantaged children and of fairness and equality, together with our constant strive young people gain the literacy skills they need to succeed to recruit the best talent from diverse backgrounds, We benchmark our activities annually to the Social in school, work and life. For 10 years we have funded the we are making significant investments to address this Mobility Employer Index and we are a founding member charity’s annual literacy survey, cited by government as gap within our own firm, as well as collaborating within of the PRIME Commitment, a sector-wide initiative to crucial supporting evidence for removing VAT on e-books the sector to support improvements in social mobility provide fair access to quality work experience. as it showed greater prevalence of digital reading amongst more widely. It’s not just the right thing to do – it makes those from less advantaged backgrounds and those who commercial sense and has brought people in the firm are traditionally less engaged with literacy. For 10 years closer together as we work towards this common aim. we have funded the charity’s annual literacy survey, cited by government as crucial supporting evidence for removing VAT on e-books as it showed greater prevalence of digital reading amongst those from less advantaged backgrounds. 26 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM OUR PEOPLE 27 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Schools outreach 2 We invest in initiatives that up-skill, inspire and equip Our partnership with The Carmel School Hong Kong young people for the world of work and use employee includes an annual half day programme and opportunity volunteers to share their advice and career experience. to gain a work placement for 16 to 18 year olds with the aim of introducing them to a career in law. Tailored group We provide two weeks’ work experience across legal exercises include discussions on civil law cases and group and business services roles to 20 students in Year 12 commercial negotiations. at London schools in our Excellerators programme. Following a week at the firm, students then go on to Co-founded by partner Clara Choi, our charity partner a further Insight Week provided by the Social Mobility Access HK aims to create equal opportunities in a region Business Partnership, of which we are a founding firm. that experiences a stark wealth disparity and education gap between children from rich and poor families. Working in partnership with Rare, we launched Lead in Programmes for children aged 6 to 12 have included a to Law in September 2019. This two year development summer programme, a weekend tuition and mentoring programme provides 20 16 to 18 year olds from less programme and a career insight programme. We also advantaged backgrounds who are interested in a legal support the charity by hosting talks for primary school career with work experience, insight opportunities, children from less advantaged backgrounds. mentoring and university visits. We support the Hong Kong Government-led youth Our partnership with Central Foundation Boys’ School mentoring scheme, Life Buddies, which provides job (CFBS) in London includes a variety of projects, including insight opportunities and mentoring support to young mentoring for 30 students each year, which aims to people from less advantaged backgrounds. In June 2019, support them in deciding their university and course a partner and a team of lawyers hosted two groups choice and complete their application. We also work with of secondary school students from Leung Shek Chee education charity The Access Project, which supports College and Salvation Army Yau Ma Tei Integrated students from less advantaged backgrounds to win places Service for Young People. at top universities. Around 80 students from CFBS are supported with one-to-one tutoring in GCSE and A level subjects from employee volunteers, university progression advice and enrichment activities. Since we launched the programme in 2012, five times more students from CFBS have gone to the top third most selective universities. 28 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM OUR PEOPLE 29 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Undergraduate support and outreach Recruitment 3 In April 2019, we launched the Law Springboard programme 4 We use software developed by Rare, called the Contextual in partnership with charity upReach. The programme is Recruitment System, which enables us to identify designed to improve access to the legal sector for high candidates who have the greatest potential. The system potential undergraduates from less advantaged backgrounds has built-in social mobility metrics to identify outstanding across all UK universities. 90 places are available each year talent that we may have missed through calculating their and in the first cohort, we paired 50 students with one of academic achievement in the context of their personal our partner or associate mentors, supported 25 students circumstances. We were the first law firm to start using through one week of paid work experience, and jointly the software and it is now used by many top employers ran insight days, CV and interview support and skills to find students to fill some of the most competitive and workshops with upReach. We are pleased to report strong prestigious graduate jobs in the UK. results from the first year and the programme is running for a second year in 2020 after being quickly transitioned to an online format. We sponsor Rare Discuss, an exclusive training programme for university students from less advantaged backgrounds who are interested in pursuing a career in law. Students get face-to-face time to talk to lawyers; are guided through the trainee application process and what to include in application forms/CVs, and mock interviews based on different formats used by law firms. We have made a commitment to provide bursaries for 18 students from less advantaged backgrounds at Cambridge University over the next five years. 5 Legal sector social mobility research We are contributing to a research report, conducted by social mobility organisation The Bridge Group, which investigates the impact of socio-economic background on progression to partnership within law firms. The findings are due to be published in July 2020. 30 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM OUR PEOPLE 31 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 3.4 Enhancing working lives and wellbeing The legal sector is demanding and, at times, the job can individuals’ career paths. Our in-house programme is open be highly pressurised we don’t shy away from that fact. to everyone and can facilitate matches from a range of Case study: Shifting the conversation Case study: Mental Health Awareness Week Our job is to ensure that our people are given what they different backgrounds, including BAME, LGBT+, gender under lockdown Thrive, our employee network, aims to create need to thrive, succeed and be supported professionally. specific, from state schools, or those who were the first a culture of openness around mental health and Each year we celebrate Mental Health Awareness The work we do for our clients is cutting edge and requires in their family to go to university. We also participate in wellbeing issues, as well as promote good mental Week. In May 2020, with our building closed as a our employees to be operating at their best. But we are the 30% Club cross-company mentoring programme for health and wellbeing both within and outside work. result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and to raise the determined that we give our people access to any support women and INvolve mentoring schemes, which pair up importance of helping our staff look after their mental necessary to help them succeed. ethnic minority and LGBT+ talent. We launched the network in May 2018 with an wellbeing, we shifted to a month-long campaign. internal event that saw a diverse panel of partners The theme was kindness and the aim was to celebrate Continuous learning Supporting mental health and employees talk openly about their mental the many acts of kindness that are so important to ill-health experiences. Building on the success of maintaining our mental health. Over the course of Continuous learning and development is a fundamental Aligned to SDG3, good health and wellbeing, a key focus those conversations, stories from colleagues across the month, we delivered: a firm-wide virtual event aspect of life at the firm. The multi-specialist nature of is supporting our employees’ mental health. We want to the firm have been shared on our intranet and in to discuss mental health during the pandemic; small our lawyers’ work means that there is an expectation normalise the conversations around mental health in the January 2019, we published an internal video featuring group sessions to explore strategies to build employee that they will develop broader skills in addition to typical workplace and develop a robust system of support and employees sharing personal and candid stories about wellbeing and find ways of overcoming loneliness legal skills: they are expected to understand the wider resources for our people. Our approach is reflected in the their mental health. during lockdown; one-to-one coaching; sessions to context in which a business operates. We provide our firm’s culture: we go to great lengths to support one another. employees with a range of market leading legal and help employees create healthier digital habits; and technical training as well as professional and personal We are signatories to the Time to Change Employer the promotion of our existing support available to development opportunities. The principle of lifelong Pledge, a commitment to change the way we all think and employees to help them manage their mental health. learning is embedded in our approach we recognise the act about mental health in the workplace. The pledge is need to continuously upskill our workforce to meet the underpinned by a 12-month Employer Action Plan founded business challenges of today as well as those we will face on the principles of the 2017 Thriving at Work Report in the near future. and built upon 5 years of evidence-based interventions researched by the Time to Change Employers Team. We have a strong mentoring culture, which we have built over a number of years. Our aim is to provide all our employees who want a mentor with access to a senior business leader to help navigate the profession or their career path. Mentors can provide impartial career advice at critical points in an employee’s career journey, and especially where we see a divergence in diverse 32 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM OUR PEOPLE 33 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT We work in collaboration with other organisations such as Wellbeing is also a strong area of focus and we provide the City Mental Health Alliance (CMHA) in the UK and Hong our employees with a range of benefits, including private Partnering with Unmind has enabled us to Kong. We are founding members and active participants medical healthcare, subsidised gym membership and add digital wellbeing support to our wellbeing in this collaborative membership organisation for senior bike ownership. Within our buildings we have in place leaders in large businesses. CMHA aims to create a workplace wellbeing initiatives to enhance productivity strategy. The platform complements our way culture of good mental health for City workers, share best such as nutritious staff restaurant food provision, of working and is proving to be a valuable tool practice and increase mental health understanding. This systems to monitor air quality, temperature and humidity, in helping people look after their mental health year we were achieved the highest level that is awarded by a designated parents’ room and yoga classes run by both at work and at home. CMHA’s Thriving at Work assessment, which is based on the employees for employees. evidence-based standards set out in the CMHA’s Thriving Jean Slater-Romp, Head of Reward & Benefits, at Work Guide. It has helped us to understand what we are HR Systems & Global Mobility doing well and where we can make improvements, as well as Case study: H&S and Wellbeing Awareness Week demonstrating our creativity in finding new ways of working to create a mentally healthy workplace. Every 18 months, we schedule a programme of talks, general information and a health roadshow to raise Support and resources awareness of various health, safety and wellbeing topics. The latest, in November 2019, featured a talk There are a number of ways we offer mental health support: on the science of fatigue, which was delivered by a • In 2019, we were proud to be the first law firm to Health & Wellbeing Practitioner and covered the partner with Unmind, a scientifically-backed mental different types of fatigue disorders and what we can health and wellbeing platform. Accessible from a do to prevent or manage the symptoms. We also smartphone or laptop, at home or in the workplace, heard from a representative from the British we saw more than 35% of employees sign up in the first Menopause Society who gave a talk that covered two weeks. With a breadth of functionality and userboth physical and psychological symptoms of the friendly audio, video, and interactive tools designed in menopause, together with advice about how to discuss conjunction with world-leading mental health experts, the menopause with family and in the workplace. content includes exercises, courses that cover common mental health problems, suggestions on ways you can support others, and the facility to monitor your mood. • We operate a ‘Be Supported’ Employee Assistance helpline for all employees, which is run externally, is entirely confidential and offers employees help, support and access to counselling. • We have a network of specially trained individuals who act as ‘mental health first aiders’ throughout the firm and offer confidential support and guidance to employees and signpost them to additional professional help if necessary. 34 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM OUR PEOPLE 35 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 4.0 CLIMATE ACTION 4.1 Science-based targets Climate change is no longer on the horizon it is here Having already made huge progress in reducing our Highlights environmental impact, we are now building on our strong and it is already affecting life as we know it. We have credentials by setting ourselves increasingly challenging to act now while we still have time to change course, carbon emission reduction targets. The stark reality is that We have committed to reduce our absolute and that means everyone – as individuals, as business Scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas emissions business as usual will not provide the reductions required by 50% by 2030 from a 2018 base year leaders and as legal advisors. to meet our ambitions, so we are significantly stepping up our efforts. In line with SDG13, climate action, we are working We have joined the Science Based Targets initiative, 100% of the electricity in our London office is procured on a green tariff hard to do our bit and are proud to be positioned becoming the first law firm to set approved targets. amongst sustainability leaders: we are committed This demonstrates our commitment to ‘doing our share’ to limit global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees centigrade, to minimising and, where possible, eliminating our During the last 10 years, we have reduced the and aligns us with current best practice. Over the last year, absolute carbon emissions associated with our environmental impact and supporting the transition we have undertaken a review of all of our scope 1, 2 and 3 energy use by 63% to a low-carbon economy. To help us achieve this, carbon emissions, and have now established the targets we we are signatories to a number of external carbon need to meet. We recycle, on average, 96% of the reduction commitments and our environment policy, Alongside direct emissions, such as those produced as a waste produced in our London office published on our website, sets out our framework result of the energy we use to run our offices, our other and aims. Our Environment Committee, made up significant environmental impacts are those we do not directly produce but have an opportunity to influence We hold both ISO 14001:2015 (environment) of partners and employees who challenge the status through our behaviours, supply chain and innovation. and ISO 50001:2011 (energy) management quo, work hard to implement best practice and act system certifications for our London office, as ambassadors, raising awareness of environmental Reducing our business travel footprint remains a clear demonstrating our commitment to continual focus. Having already made policy changes to address the issues amongst colleagues. improvement in our performance carbon intensity of different forms and class of travel, we will continue to look at ways to reduce this further. At a time when more is being achieved remotely, we will use these learnings to influence our ongoing behaviours. CLIMATE ACTION 37 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Another area of ongoing focus is the impact of goods we Our targets will see us strive to achieve a 50% reduction We are firm believers that alongside the environmental purchase and services we procure. Just as we turn to our in absolute scope 1,2 & 3 carbon emissions by 2030 from a benefits, this transition will provide much wider business supply chain to support us to achieve our goals, we are 2018 base year, and take us on a trajectory that could see opportunities and we are excited about the changes conscious that we form part of our clients’ supply chain us reach net-zero – without the use of offsets – by 2042. to come. and are pleased to be able to support them with their own environmental ambitions. Our 2018 base year carbon footprint Reduction targets Scope 1 20,000 Natural gas, diesel and refrigerants 5% Scope 2 Electricity 15,000 18% Scope 3 Purchased goods and services 37% 10,000 Business travel 23% Employee commuting 12% Fuel and energy-related activities 5% 5,000 Upstream leased assets 0.4% Upstream transportation and distribution 0.3% Waste generated in operations 0.1% 0 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2027 2029 2030 Emissions (tCO2e) Year Expected emissions with 1% growth 1.5 degree Target year emissions 38 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM CLIMATE ACTION 39 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 4.2 Our environmental strategy Our building and operations Employee behaviour One of our most significant environmental impacts is our Impacting employee behaviour is challenging for any can through community projects. We also encourage our reliance on energy to run our buildings. We procure all of business, but there are a number of ways we engage our people to use more sustainable modes of transport (or to the electricity in our London office from renewables and people in supporting our carbon reduction efforts. New use virtual meeting software rather than travel at all), not continue to find new ways to reduce energy use across joiners to the firm receive information about what we just for business purposes but also in their commute, and our estate. Our Energy Management System allows us to Our building expect of them, and we also run awareness and information participate in the Cycle to Work scheme in the UK. set targets and measure our progress in reducing energy and operations campaigns, deliver training and engage as many people as we consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. It is used to identify the effectiveness of innovations to improve energy efficiency and other adjustments, such as the installation of LED lighting and plant lifecycle replacement. Em Suppliers Waste reduction is a fundamental element of our strategy p l o y e e e h av i o u r b and we go to great lengths to reduce, reuse and recycle As a professional services business, many of our largest materials wherever possible. Over the past year, we have environmental impacts relate to our purchased goods used food waste reduction software to support us to S u p plie r s and services. We work alongside our service providers to manage our food waste and action changes, leading to a develop innovative ways to reduce our environmental impact Pa throughout the full lifecycle of our supply chain. For example, 50% waste reduction in some areas. Our focus remains on r tn es ersh ia tiv we review the frequency and travel distance of deliveries, moving resource use to a circular model. ips and e x t e r n al init minimise delivery packaging and optimise recovery, and We set high standards of our caterers, who endeavour ensure where possible that products are purchased with a to source all produce as locally as possible and work with recognised Chain of Custody (for example, MSC certification suppliers and farms practicing ethical and sustainable for seafood and FSC certification for paper) farming methods. For example, our meat comes from UK Assured farms, all eggs are free range, our fish supplier holds an MSC Chain of Custody Certificate and our chicken is from Red Tractor certified suppliers. Partnerships and external initiatives Printing large documents has been part and parcel of the solicitor role in the past but we have been making great We are signatories to RE100, a collaborative, global We are founding members of the Legal Sustainability strides to reduce our printing through new software and initiative led by the Climate Group in partnership with Alliance, an inclusive movement committed to systems. These include the introduction of digital signing CDP, and have committed to sourcing 100% of our future collaborative working across the legal profession to software for contracts, using AI software Luminance so global electricity requirements from renewables. take action on climate change. that we no longer require hard copy files for a number of As signatories to the Paris Pledge for Action, we have set We sit on the steering group for the Islington Sustainable processes required by regulators and we are reviewing our science-based targets in line with the reductions required Energy Partnership, a public and private sector body set future print requirements to identify efficiencies in our to keep global temperature rise below 1.5ºC. up to reduce Islington’s carbon footprint. printing estate. Our London office holds ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 50001:2011 certified Management Systems demonstrating our commitment to high standards and continual improvement. 40 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM CLIMATE ACTION 41 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Mapping a sustainable supply chain Case study: Cutting out single-use disposables Timber and pulp products We are proud to be the first law firm to set We have committed to significantly reduce our approved science-based targets. Although our reliance on single-use plastics and other disposables We aim to purchase consumable products with recognised and have an ongoing programme in place to review FSC certification or recycled content, such as cleaning and carbon reduction targets are exceptionally these throughout our operations. This has seen us catering consumables. ambitious, we have a vital role to play in already remove all of our single-use coffee cups, supporting the transition to a low carbon bottled water, cutlery and a large number of other Printing economy. Businesses have to act now, even catering containers, as well as a number of other single-use consumables diverting over 650,000 items Our printer paper carries both FSC and Ecolabels during these difficult times, and drive forward per year from our waste stream. For example, in and we have undertaken a review of our printing estate. change through their own operations and our London office we have a closed-loop system of value chain so that the momentum in tackling Recycling reusable food containers and coffee cups for staff to climate change is not lost. use and return to collection points. Alongside this, we Following the waste hierarchy, we firstly try to reduce and have also been educating our people on the plastics then recycle as much of our waste as possible. We currently Helen Clark, Head of Environmental Sustainability issue. For example, we organised a team plastic-fishing sort our waste on site to maximise recycling opportunities day to educate staff about the issue of plastics in our and our food waste is sent to Anaerobic Digestion. waterways and raise funds for educational trips for London schoolchildren. Minimising chemical use We eliminate use of harmful products in our operations where possible. A recent example includes substituting chemicals in our cleaning regime for a natural water-based commercial cleaning system. End-of-life use of equipment Much of our redundant equipment is sent to companies that attempt to reuse or recycle it or, if this is not possible, the equipment is broken down into component parts for material recycling. 42 CLIMATE ACTION 43 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 5.0 OUR PLACE IN SOCIETY 5.1 Pro bono The firm has a long history of supporting communities Our core capability as a law firm is our legal knowledge. Goal 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Pro bono is an integral part of our culture and enhances and directing our time, skills and funding to have a • We support Islington Law Centre and the Citizens our other responsible business areas. Our pro bono work positive social impact. In fact, one of our longest demonstrates a strong commitment to social mobility and Advice Bureau at the Royal Courts of Justice with donations and pro bono support. Our volunteer standing community partnerships, with the Legal Advice citizenship through our relationship with our immediate lawyers regularly attend legal clinics either face to face Centre in East London, goes back to the 1970’s and our communities, but it also spans the globe as we put our or over the phone to advise individuals in need, which Charitable Trust has been funding charities for 20 years. legal skills on the front line for our wider ecological has resulted in significant casework successes, leading environment and other charities making a tangible to a reduction in poverty, lower indebtedness and difference in the world around us. Using our legal skills to improvements in housing. At the heart of why we help is the desire to genuinely drive forward the UN’s Global Goals is one of the most make a difference and use our skills to benefit others, valuable ways we can contribute. • Set up as a project by Mencap, and now a fully-fledged charity in its own right, Access Social Care aims to and this is reflected in our approach. We are led by the improve the quality of life for people with a learning Our pro bono work is directed towards three main charities, schools and community groups we support areas: giving charities specialist legal advice, supporting disability and their families. Our volunteers work with and what they need from us. Underpinning all this is the community organisations that address access to justice Access to provide casework support to people with social care needs, ensuring they get the social care encouragement we give to our people so that they can and assist individuals in need; and delivering legal education support they need. support the causes that they care about. projects such as those that help charity professionals navigate common legal issues. Some examples across • Amicus is a small charity that conducts research and these three strands are in this section. provides representation to those facing the death This is not just the right thing to do – it is good for penalty in the United States. It aims to ensure better the firm, our people and part of our ingrained culture. The impacts from our pro bono programme particularly access to justice (in particular around injustice in centre on furthering SDG16 Peace, Justice and Strong capital cases in relation to mental illness, intellectual Institutions and SDG17 Partnerships for the Goals, disability, race and poverty) and to raise awareness of as well as increasing the reach and effectiveness of the the potential infringement of defendants’ rights. Our Highlights organisations we advise to make tangible achievements volunteers track and conduct case reviews of capital across the breadth of the SDGs. For example, last year cases on projects in Missouri and Florida. GivX Top 25 Award In 2019, we were recognised in we collaborated on projects positively impacting increased the GivX Top 25, which benchmarks corporate giving • We publish a Legal Toolkit for Charities and bring this to education and literacy, reducing plastic pollution and good life through practical workshops that aim to help charities through time and financial support to the community. health and wellbeing. Further examples are below. navigate legal issues, such as how to improve their Recognition in Hong Kong We received a Silver Award from governance and operations, deal with employment law, the Hong Kong Law Society’s 2019 Pro Bono and Community understand IP and embed good data protection practices. Work Recognition Programme. More than 80% of lawyers in our • Firm Futures, a joint project with St Luke’s Community Hong Kong office gave their time to pro bono and community Centre in Islington, helps local residents, many of whom volunteering initiatives in 2019. In addition, partners Natalie Yeung have struggled with long term unemployment, to set up and Benita Yu won individual Bronze and Silver awards respectively their own businesses. We deliver workshops on legal as part of the programme. topics such as company structures, data protection, contracts and intellectual property. OUR PLACE IN SOCIETY 45 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Goal 17 Partnerships for the Goals 2019 in numbers • We give pro bono support to The Chancery Lane • We partner with other legal service providers and Project, a collaborative platform to develop new model contracts and laws to help fight climate change. experts across joint projects, such as a research project for Barnardo’s on the draft Domestic Violence Bill. 75 the number of charities we provided with pro bono legal advice • The Drink Without Waste initiative aims to reduce • The Federation of Women Lawyers was established single-use beverage plastic pollution in Hong Kong. more than 40 years ago by a group of female lawyers the number of individuals reached Made up of a broad coalition of drink producers, bottlers, retailers, recyclers and NGOs, we have been whose vision was to pool together resources to support female lawyers in Hong Kong and the causes of women 522 through the community advice projects we support providing pro bono advice in relation to competition and children. We provide pro bono support to the law, preparations of NDAs and general commercial law organisation including company law matters, data privacy advice and support. and other legal issues. the number of recipients of our Legal • We have been giving pro bono research and advisory • The FlipFlopi Project is a circular economy project 146 Essentials Toolkit and attendees to our Legal Masterclasses for Charities support to Sustainability First, a charity working to based in East Africa and the team have built a sailing increase sustainability solutions in the energy and water dhow (boat) from eight tonnes of waste plastic sectors. Led by our competition team, we have been collected from the beaches and roadsides in Kenya and assisting with the charity’s analysis of the interaction covered in discarded flipflops. Working with UNEP’s between sustainability, law and regulation applicable Clean Seas initiative, in February 2019 the Flipflopi to utility industries. dhow set sail from Kenya to Zanzibar, covering 500km, to raise awareness about marine plastic pollution. We • We advise the British Red Cross on a number of areas, have been supporting with pro bono advice for the including partnership agreements for access to food and project’s legal structuring, operational and expansion food banks during the COVID-19 crisis. We have also needs, including advising on the privacy policy and data advised them on the implementation of pre-paid banking protection. cards for a disaster relief urgent response scheme. • We partner with clients to provide pro bono support to • The Royal Marsden Cancer Charity funds groundtheir charity partners, as well as working collaboratively breaking cancer research, state-of-the-art equipment, to deliver charity training sessions and build internal modern patient environments, and world-leading legal capacity within charities and social enterprises. treatment and care. As a long-term pro bono client of the firm, our lawyers have advised the charity on • We are members of LawWorks and TrustLaw, which structuring, tax and data protection. match the legal needs of charities and not-for profits to the capacity and expertise of law firms. Through • The National Literacy Trust helps disadvantaged children collaborating in this way law firms can meet the needs and young people in the UK gain the literacy skills they of the third sector in the most effective way possible. need to succeed, improving outcomes in education and life. A charity partner of the firm for more than 10 years, our pro bono support has centred on intellectual property advice, data protection and real estate matters. 46 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM OUR PLACE IN SOCIETY 47 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 5.2 Citizenship Poverty is not just an issue for developing countries it is CoRe programme We also fund the Margins Project in London, which helps the also on our office doorsteps and we believe that no one homeless and those at risk of homelessness, directing our Case study: Connected to our community of Islington The CoRe programme, which we have delivered with should be left behind. We believe it is important to help funds to the training programme to help participants gain our client Macquarie since 2013, uses the time and skills Our London office is situated in Islington, where communities to thrive and to make a valuable contribution work in the catering industry, and for the provision of advice of around 40 volunteers to help 10 Islington charities we focus a lot of our support. The borough is often to issues where there is most need. Whether it be giving in the crisis drop-in service. each year to become more sustainable. Over a period of mistaken for an affluent area but, in reality, has the our time to help charities at an organisational level or six months, small teams work with local not-for-profits third highest level of child poverty in the country working in the community with those who are trapped Raising funds for Hong Kong charities to tackle strategic projects such as writing business 47.5% live below the poverty line. Similarly, older in a cycle of poverty, taking on fundraising challenges or plans, building communication strategies and scoping out Our Colour Fundraising Day has supported a number people experience the fourth worst levels of income directing financial support to international crises, we take opportunities to diversify their income. This year, we are of charities in Hong Kong that span a range of causes. deprivation in England. our role as a business and global citizen seriously. running the programme virtually for the very first time, These include everything from Think Pink’s breast cancer something we have not considered before, but which awareness work, to environmental charity Redress that We support a number of charities that are tackling made sense given the lockdown restrictions as a result aims to prevent and transform textile waste. We have the biggest social issues in the area. These include a 2019 in numbers of COVID-19. also raised money through the City Chamber Orchestra mentoring scheme for vulnerable children, befriending of Hong Kong’s Charity Ticket Scheme in aid of The Hong projects to reduce social isolation in older people and 350 the number of staff in London involved in community projects From the 2019 programme, the charities reported: Kong Society for the Blind and the Tung Wah Group of Hospitals. Capitalising on our Funds for Fundraisers support of the Job Club service at our local community centre. We began working with many of our local • 10/10 improvements to their capability, most community partners 20 years ago. significantly their ability to provide better services matched giving scheme provides matched funding on top of what is raised by our employees. 2,680 the number of hours in volunteering time they gave for their beneficiaries From our support in Islington in the past year, we have seen tangible outcomes for the individuals and • 7/10 improvements to their capacity, most significantly Internews their ability to better engage more beneficiaries and organisations we have helped: provide new or additional services As in international law firm, we also have an international Project highlights focus to our citizenship strategy. One of the ways we do • 7/10 improvements to their future sustainability, most significantly their ability to identify opportunities and to that is to partner with Internews, an international NGO 171 people got into work, self-employment or training Firm Futures that works to improve communication flows between minimise threats humanitarian organisations, local media and the people First launched in 2013, we run Firm Futures, which helps individuals not in permanent, full time employment, to A focus on homelessness affected by natural and man-made crises. Through funding and pro bono support, we are proud to support their 700 people experienced an improved quality of life set up their own businesses. Together with St Luke’s humanitarian crisis work. Our employees in Brussels support Serve the City, a Community Centre in Islington and enterprise experts B volunteer initiative that started in Brussels but is now Consultancy, we aim to build participants’ confidence and the skills needed to set up a business through a series of active globally. Amongst its activities, it supports the homeless by distributing food and other essential support, 13 organisations improved their capability, capacity or sustainability monthly workshops. We also provide bursaries, mentoring particularly when homeless shelters are largely closed and a subsidised workspace at St Luke’s. In the last cohort, during the spring and summer. Our employees help which came to an end in January 2020, 49 people accessed prepare sandwiches and food packs, and distribute these workshops and support, 20 went on to access the higher as part of the Serve the City team. level workshops, of which 15 were paired with a mentor from the firm and 10 received a bursary of up to £2,000. Within 24 months of starting the programme, 85% of participants have started to trade or are close to trading. 48 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM OUR PLACE IN SOCIETY 49 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 6.0 EXXPEDITION ROUND THE WORLD One of our stand-out partnerships is our sponsorship of Our pro bono efforts have also been used to support eXXpedition Round the World 2019-2021, a pioneering a variety of other non-profit organisations working to sailing voyage and scientific research mission. tackle the plastic problem. As you will have seen from the previous chapter, we have given significant pro eXXpedition Round the World is an all-female sailing bono support to projects aimed at reducing the use of voyage that is travelling over 38,000 nautical miles over 30 single-use plastics and plastic pollution, which led to voyage legs starting and ending in the UK. Its crews are us being shortlisted for The Lawyer Pro Bono Award exploring the devastating effects of plastics and toxics in our in 2019. Our advice has helped entities both in the UK, oceans via four of the five oceanic gyres and the Arctic. such as A Plastic Free Planet, whose mission includes Led by Emily Penn, the eXXpedition crews are made up empowering consumers to choose plastic free, as well as of 300 women from diverse multidisciplinary and cultural internationally, such as The FlipFlopi Project, a circular backgrounds. As an all-female voyage it is also celebrating economy project based in East Africa, whose team have women in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering built a boat from 100% waste plastic collected from the and Mathematics) roles and female leadership, raising beaches and roadsides in Kenya, and the Drink Without awareness of the disproportionately negative effects of Waste campaign, which is aimed at reducing plastic waste toxics on women’s health. from beverage consumption in Hong Kong. The initiative touches on so many of the UN’s Global Goals, primarily around health and wellbeing for SDG3, gender equality for SDG5, responsible consumption for SDG12, life below water for SDG14 and crucially, partnerships for the Goals for SDG17. The purpose of the voyage reflects our broad responsible business agenda and is bringing together key areas of our work in an effort to contribute to its long-term impact. It reflects our values and aspirations and we see this 30 nationalities represented on the crew so far inspiring long-term project as complementary to our responsible business strategy, which cuts across so many areas of our work. 31 voyage legs Our pro bono legal support to eXXpedition has evolved into an inspiring platform to demonstrate the positive impact 300 multidisciplinary women on the voyage crew of pro bono support to the wider project and beyond, with support across a number of areas including asset ownership, insurance, complex contracting arrangements and governance, all brought to life as eXXpedition launched. 38K nautical miles EXXPEDITION ROUND THE WORLD 51 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT We also commissioned the charity Young Citizens to create a unique set of resources for schools, with the eXXpedition is a radical mix of adventure, science, aim of inspiring the next generation to be active citizens advocacy and action to help understand the nature and play their part in looking after our oceans. Working of a complex problem; the contamination of our with the team at eXXpedition, we designed a series of bodies and our seas. Each voyage is designed to Key Stage 2 classroom-based resources that help pupils be a platform for ambassadors to take forward understand the impact of plastic pollution in our oceans, projects tackling plastics and toxics, and raise the how it happens and why the ocean is so important. Crucially the programme challenges pupils to think about profile of the issues to create change at a personal what they can do to address the issue. We also will roll and organisational level, and influence national and out an adapted version of the resources as part of our international policy makers. employee volunteering programme. We hope our journey around the world, taking in Within the firm, the partnership has provided us with a four ocean gyres and the Arctic, will contribute to platform to bring to life and talk about our environmental important scientific studies while inspiring action commitments, particularly around plastic reduction and to protect our ocean. Our partners are key to the circular economy in line with SDG12, responsible spreading the word and educating people about consumption. We have made considerable progress in what we are doing. eradicating single-use plastics from our offices, such as through the replacement of disposable coffee cups with a © NikkeyDawn Emily Penn, eXXpedition co-Founder and ocean advocate system of reusable cups, alongside substituting other singleuse consumables across our catering and cleaning operations, which combined, has made a significant difference. One of our aims was to use the sponsorship as a convening tool in which to evolve the conversation on issues affecting women today and stories about female empowerment and leadership through focussed client and staff events. On International Women’s Day in March 2020, we launched a short film of Sally Earthrowl, Mission Leader at eXXpedition, talking about what the day meant to her and why initiatives like eXXpedition Around the World are so important to further the conversation around gender equality, in line with SDG5. Throughout our history, we are proud to have taken decisions with a long term view. Our support for an important endeavour such as eXXpedition is in recognition of our responsibility to contribute to solving © AnaJarc long-term challenges facing society and our planet. © eXXpedition & Nomad Mneumonics 52 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM EXXPEDITION ROUND THE WORLD 53 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 7.0 ALIGNMENT TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS How our activities are mapped to the Goals Goal Our activities Page No Poverty • Community outreach and charity support 48-49 Zero Hunger • Responsible sourcing of food 40 Good Health • Promoting mental health and wellbeing 32-33 and Wellbeing • Support and resources for mental health and wellbeing 34 Quality Education • Literacy and schools outreach 27-28 • Cambridge University bursaries 30 • eXXpedition school resource 52 Gender Equality • Gender balance strategy 21 & 52 • Female leadership and development 21 • Support for working familie 22 Clean Water • Natural water-based cleaning 42 and sanitation Affordable and • Commitment to RE100 and use of renewable energy 37, 40 Clean Energy & 41 ALIGNMENT TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 55 SLAUGHTER AND MAY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Decent Work and • Supplier Code of Business Conduct 14 Life on Land • Reducing printing 40 Economic Growth • Approach to addressing modern slavery 14 • Chain of Custody for paper 41 • Approach to innovation 16 • Living Wage commitment 18 • Undergraduate support and outreach 30 • Firm Futures community initiative 48 Peace, Justice and Strong • Cybercrime prevention strategy 13 Institutions • In-Houser campaign 15 • Pro bono to promote the rule of law and ensure access to justice 45 Industry, Innovation and • Slaughter and May Collaborate 17 Infrastructure • An innovative approach to our Africa practice 17 Partnerships for the Goals • Pro bono for effective partnerships 46 & 51 Much of our impact on the other 16 SDGs is delivered through Reduced Inequalities • Approach to diversity and inclusion 20 partnerships with clients, suppliers, other stakeholders and community • Gender and ethnicity pay gap report 21 partners. We think there are many more opportunities to establish • Employee networks 22 new partnerships with others in our community, to leverage the skills • Inclusion Allies 23 of both partners to increase our impact. • BAME and LGBT+ inclusion 23-24 • Social mobility strategy 26 • Mentoring culture 32 Sustainable Cities and • Islington Sustainable Energy Partnership 41 Case study: Responsible Business Week 2019 Communities • Employee travel 41 The firm’s first Responsible Business Week brought We also published our Responsible Business video and together events and activities that centre around the delivered a firm-wide training session on ‘Sustainability Responsible Consumption • Waste and recycling 37 what, why and how of responsible business. The aim and climate change: developments and legal obligations’. and Production • Food waste reductions 40 was to inspire and engage our staff in exploring how we might integrate responsible business into ‘business Wanting to give people tangible things they could do • Cutting out single-use disposables 42 & 52 as usual’ and the strategic and operational decisions as a result of the week, we ran a pop-up in our staff • End-of-life use of equipment 42 we make every day. restaurant that featured apps to help spot and report modern slavery in daily life, information on how to give Climate Action • Science-based targets 37-39 Sessions included a panel chaired by our General Counsel money and time most effectively, top tips from employee • Impacting employee behaviour 41 & 42 entitled: ‘Do our clients have a future?’ featuring experts network members on inclusive behaviours and guidance on at Standard Chartered Bank and think-tank Sustainability how to calculate and reduce your personal carbon footprint. First, with corporate partner Rob Innes giving an adviser Life Below Water • Chain of Custody for seafood 41 perspective. The discussion explored what it will take To bring the week to a close, a group of volunteers • Sponsorship of eXXpedition Around the World 51 for businesses to be prosperous in the future with the headed to our local primary school to deliver a workshop backdrop of social and environmental upheaval, and that aimed to help pupils understand what the UN’s what it means to look to purpose beyond profit. Global Goals are and why they are important. 56 RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM 57 Responsible Business Committee Paul Stacey Executive Partner Dominic Robertson Partner Ewan Brown Partner Holly Ware Partner Jeff Twentyman Partner Lisa Wright Partner Robert Byk Partner Sarah de Gay General Counsel Uzma Hamid-Dizier Head of Inclusion and Responsible Business RESPONSIBLEBUSINESS@SLAUGHTERANDMAY.COM
