SCIENCE INSIDE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FOR HUMAN LIFE AND HEALTH Non-financial report 2019 Sustainable development “Farmak” presents to your attention its first non-financial report. We have prepared this document in accordance with our commitments to the UN Global Compact Network, which the Company joined in 2019. We make the treatment with modern effective It is symbolic that this report was published this The industry leader must exemplify and lead. That medicinal products year. As in June the UN Global Compact Network is why we decided to systematize the work in the celebrated its 20th anniversary. And in December, direction of sustainable development and become possible our Company celebrates 95 years since its founding. part of the world’s conscious business, of course, the Historically, we have been and remain pioneers in first among Ukrainian pharmaceutical companies. the pharmaceutical industry of Ukraine. Suffice it to say that “Farmak” is the country’s first enterprise for Out of 17 Goals of Sustainable Development, the production of synthetic medications. We began “Farmak” has selected 10, which our Company will Filya ZHEBROVSKA, to prove the bioequivalence of medications, ie their help to achieve. As people say, one drop and another Chairman of the Supervisory Board effectiveness, almost 10 years before it became a mandrop – will make the river. I hope that our example at Farmak JSC datory requirement in the industry. Standardization will inspire other companies to do business not only of production according to GMP, projects in the field for profit, but also to solve global problems and preof energy efficiency and economical use of natural reserve for future generations a clean planet, suitable sources, introduction of innovations and investments for a happy life. in science. All of these are the priorities of “Farmak’s” activities in our recent history, which resonate with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 3 Sustainable development Contents Sustainable development RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP A guide for the Company 6 Farmak’s strategy 7 Personnel UN Global Compact 8 People are the company’s most valuable asset 24 OF FARMAK Mission and Values at JSC Farmak JSC Farmak policy 10 11 Employees’ safety. Decent working conditions guarantee 26 Comprehensive support 28 Continuous growth 30 Education for young people 32 Being the leader of the Ukrainian pharmaceutical industry, “Farmak” was the first among domestic companies to join the UN Global Compact Network, as the Company’s policy fully complies with the guidelines aimed at solving the most pressing problems of our time Manufacturing Good health is our ultimate goal 12 and caring for future generations. Investments in the health of present Environment and future generations 14 Environmental care 36 Preservation policy 38 Marketing Care about the atmosphere 40 We are for everyone who needs Preserving water resources 42 Leadership positions oblige us to keep pace with international As we care about people, we do not forget that we all live in quality medicinal products 16 Smart strategy 44 practices and be an example in implementing the principles the same home, on the same planet. Therefore, by increasing of sustainable development. Our most important contribution our manufacturing capacity, we simultaneously minimize Quality to the present and future is the provision of qualitative and the negative impact on the environment. This is not an exMaintaining high quality 18 affordable pharmaceutical products to our people and citihaustive list of our environmental activities, as numerous Volodymyr KOSTIUK, Logistics zens of many other countries. In our commitment to health, educational projects initiated by the Company form a new Executive Director at Farmak JSC we put just as much effort into enhancing other aspects of eco-consciousness. From the selection of supplier to release 22 human well-being. This includes providing decent working Projects conditions, transparent business and investing in scientific We realize what a huge role socially responsible business Eco-school: let’s save the planet together 34 and practical research. Each of the Global Compact’s universal can play in solving global problems, and we will do our best Clean city, green city 46 principles – from ensuring human rights to dealing with any to become a driving force for positive change! Corporate volunteering 48 form of corruption – is clearly set out in our policies and Donation of blood 49 supported by practical actions. Science for Future 50 Sport available to everyone 51 Sharing experience with colleagues and partners 52 4 5 Sustainable development Sustainable development A GUIDE FOR THE COMPANY FARMAK’S STRATEGY OF SUSTAINABLE 1 Providing people with modern, quality and affordable pharmaceutical products How the UN’s global goals on balancing the interests of present and future generations are implemented DEVELOPMENT into specific projects and actions in JSC Farmak. The principles of sustainable development are implemented Today, the world’s respected business institutions, when considering possible cooperation, are the first to ask about a contribution a company makes to social existence and ways of implementing the goals of the UN Global Compact. in all activities of Farmak JSC 2 Increasing manufacturing capabilities and at the same time eliminating environmental impact 5 Quality and affordability equipment at our plant in Shostka is so perfect that 99% of Creating conditions for “We provide affordable treatment with modern, effective all effluents from pharmaceutical (!) manufacture are prodevelopment of scientific 3 Increasing the ecological medicinal products, helping people to be healthy and happy duced by the boiler plant. That is the modern treatment fadue to the European quality standards, innovations, concilities do not allow harmful substances to be released into potential of Ukraine stant development, professionalism and a solid reputation the air or into the water. awareness of the population of the responsible business and reliable partner” – this is the Eco-projects principle specified in the Mission of JSC Farmak. It is the The Company’s world view Olena ZUBARIEVA, constant development that has distinguished the Company We can say that JSC Farmak creates a special corporate Head of Corporate for 95 years! Today, JSC Farmak reinvests a fair share of its culture. You can ask any of the employees what they work 4 Communication and profits in the expansion of manufacturing opportunities and for. Probably his or her answer will be – for health reasons. 6 Sustainable Development scientific research. This is the highest goal. Healthy lifestyle – engaging Supporting domestic medicine Department workers of the Company, and promoting professional Today JSC Farmak reinvests great share of its profits The Company’s employees are also involved in social, in expanding production opportunities and research. charitable and environmental activities – annual traditional central and regional residents development of doctors Activities carried out with This gives us the opportunity to remain a leader of UA cleaning of parks and squares, blood donation, volunteering, in healthy initiatives the vision of the future are pharmaceutical market for many years and to be one of the charity and fundraising, participation in the “green office”. an integral part of socially largest exporters of medicines to more than 25 countries. Significant attention is paid to the promotion of a healthy lifestyle. For three consecutive years, Farmak has organized responsible business today. Eco-conscious choice 7 the “Run For Your Health” race in Shostka. In 2019, We expand our manufacturing and at the same time – we almost 200 employees of the Company took part in six allCorporate volunteering: reduce our impact on the environment. So, the purification Ukrainian races at different distances. engaging 70% of employees 6 7 Sustainable development Sustainable development UN GLOBAL COMPACT Decent work and economic growth. JSC Farmak has been recognized Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. JSC “Farmak” implements modern Responsible consumption and production. JSC Farmak promotes a rational as one of the largest taxpayers solutions that improve people’s lives. and economical approach to power in the region and one of the best employers resources and production process. in the country. ll API production was established on the basis Good health and well-being. of the industrial park in Shostka. ll Consumption of power resources per unit of JSC “Farmak” is the leader of the pharmaceutical market of Ukraine, ll The company conducts transparent busill The number of employees increased from output reduced by 3% in 2019 export to 28 countries worldwide and has medications in all theraness, thanks to which the national and local budapproximately 2,500 in 2018 to 2,733 in 2019. ll Gas consumption was reduced by more than gets are replenished. ll Investments in the development of scientific 22.74 % per hryvnia of the output. peutic groups. Mission of the Company follows the Goal №3 – to make ll JSC “Farmak” operates and annually revispotential are $ 15 million per year. treatment affordable with modern, effective medicinal products. es the collective agreement. Employees receive competitive wages, which was increased by 14% ll 20 new products were launched into manufacturing in 2019. ll 16 new products were developed, investigated in the clinical trials and registered ll DMF was created for three active substances ll Extended presence in therapeutic groups Climate action. Life on Land. Partnerships. The company is taking urgent action In its activity JSC “Farmak” adheres Quality education.  Clean water and sanitation. Affordable and clean to combat climate change and its to Ukrainian and European environJSC Farmak takes care of employee JSC Farmak increases manufacturing caenergy. consequences. mental legislation. training. There are internship propabilities and at the same time eliminates Energy efficiency is implegrams, training during work, training environmental impact. mented in the activities of ll JSC Farmak increases manufacturing capall Company projects “Clean City” and “Green ll JSC Farmak, as a member of the UN Globfor managers: “Young Leader’s School”, “ManagJSC “Farmak”. In 2019 electricity conbilities and at the same time eliminates environCity” contribute to the development of cities Kyiv al Compact Network, strengthens its means of er’s Development School”, “Leadership School”. ll Harmful substances do not get into the water sumption was reduced by 9.69% for each mental impact. Emissions to the atmosphere deand Shostka. implementation and intensifies its work in the during production due to multi-stage purification. In 2019 hryvnia of output JSC Farmak has implecreased by 12.42% compared to 2018 in Kyiv ll The all-Ukrainian project “Eco-school” in framework of the global partnership for sustainll The Company implements educational pro­ the enterprise’s treatment facilities were reconstructed. mented an eco-solution and by 22.99% in Shostka. 2019 involved 10 schools in Kyiv and 9 schools able development and strives to be an example jects for young people and cooperates with schools The use of flocculants allows to accelerate the process ll The “Green Office” project operates on a in Shostka. A textbook with current issues facing of socially responsible business. and 7 universities. Projects: “Eco-School”, “School of water settling, improve the treatment procedure, ll Installation of a heat recovery syspermanent basis in JSC Farmak the world today has been developed for schoolof young scientist”, Farmak_Lab. Students regularly significantly reduce the concentration of pollutants in tem in the boiler plant children. undertake an intership. the effluent. ll Use of condensate energy for feed ll JSC Farmak implements the “Level” project ll Workers are provided with working clothes, special water heating for ukrainian doctors footwear and necessary personal protective equipment. ll The first steps in the use of solar enSanitary and living conditions are observed, occupational ergy and cold power have been taken. safety trainings are conducted. 8 9 Mission Policy MISSION AND VALUES AT JSC FARMAK JSC Farmak is a leader in the pharmaceutical industry of JSC FARMAK POLICY JSC Farmak is a Ukrainian pharmaceutical company, the market leader Ukraine in the development, regarding quality and safety, pharmacovigilance, with European quality standards. manufacturing and supply power management, occupational health of high-quality, effective and safe medicinal products, and safety and environmental protection. medical devices and dietary VISION supplements. The key to success and recognition of the Company at the national and international levels is the JSC Farmak is a successful international pharmaceutical company, a leader of the Ukrainian pharmaceutical industry, implementation, support and continuous improvement of the integrated business management system with constantly growing market share and solid reputation of a responsible business and a reliable partner. Most of the based on Good Practices (GxP) in the pharmaceutical industry, international standards ISO 9001, ISO profit of JSC Farmak is annually reinvested into its growth and development, which makes it possible to expand the 13485, ISO 14001, ISO 22000, ISO 45001, ISO 50001, the current regulatory documents applicable to the business in Ukraine that complies with the European quality standards and strengthen the positions in the global market. Company’s activities and the UN Global Compact Goals. VALUES QUALITY. The senior management of JSC Farmak, being aware of ll to apply a risk-oriented approach to all systems, ll to introduce measures to prevent pollution and mitigate Ensuring compliance with the highest its responsibility for the Company’s activities, products processes, products and services of the Company; negative impact on the environment, promote and develop standards and requirements both and services and their impact on consumers, customers, environmental responsibility and conscious consumption of with regard to the products and the employees of the Company and other interested parties; ll to ensure a continuous process of evaluating the natural resources; individual and team work as well as on the environment and use of power resources, information on safe use (benefit/risk ratio) of all medicinal GROWTH. undertakes obligations which are the basis for setting goals products and medical devices of JSC Farmak throughout ll to create safe working conditions, eliminate hazards Development of a person within in all areas of the integrated business management system: their life cycle; and mitigate risks to human health and life, and prevent the the Company and development occurrence of incidents, accidents and occupational diseases; of the Company in Ukraine and PROFESSIONALISM. ll to meet the legislative and regulatory requirements ll to ensure traceability and data integrity through the throughout the world High qualification of each employee applicable to all Company’s activities, products and services; use of modern information technologies; ll to continuously improve power performance by and the Company as a whole as the improving technological processes, introducing powerbasis for success and quality guarantee ll to meet the needs and expectations of consumers, ll to maintain clear and transparent external and internal efficient technologies and using power-efficient equipment. customers, Company’s personnel and other stakeholders; communication processes; ENGAGEMENT. Understanding, support and implementation of the Policy MISSION The employees’ engagement ll to ensure continuous improvement of the integrated ll to ensure the necessary competence, awareness and by all personnel will ensure the Company’s sustainable in the Company and their INNOVATIVENESS. business management system, using clear performance and involvement of personnel at all levels of the Company; development, reputation of a responsible business and desire to do their best will help Application of best manufacturing efficiency indicators; a reliable partner for the main goal – human health. We make treatment affordable with modern, effective the Company to accomplish its and management practices, finding ll to ensure the availability of resources necessary for medicinal products, helping people to be healthy Mission solutions through innovative ll to implement innovations in all activities; business support and development; and happy. approaches 10 11 Manufacturing GOOD HEALTH IS OUR ULTIMATE GOAL In 2019, JSC Farmak confirmed its leadership The Company’s strong belief is that the medicinal products in the pharmaceutical market of Ukraine, holding of JSC Farmak should be available to every patient in Ukraine. its position No. 1 in sales for 10 years in a row The medicinal products of own manufacturing form a main JSC Farmak plays an important role in state programs portion of Farmak products. Also the Company has biologically for prevention and treatment of diabetes and arterial 401 active additives and medical products in its range and provides hypertension, which are implemented in Ukraine. The This is the product portfolio of JSC Farmak Manufacturing (million pcs.): services of contract manufacturing of medicinal products for Company has been engaged in the “Affordable medicinal domestic and foreign partners. The main activities of JSC products” program since its launch in 2017. Out of 23 at the end of 2019. During 2012-2019 JSC Farmak are focused on the development, manufacturing and molecules present in the program, 8 molecules are supplied nomenclature items on Farmak has been one of the most active sale of prescribed and over-the-counter medicinal products by JSC Farmak. the price list local pharmaceutical manufacturers in the of a wide range, in particular, generic medicinal products 177 Ukrainian market in terms of development, and products of well studied medicinal use, sales of which constitute 90.5% of the total sales of the Company for 2019. registration and launching of new products in the market, taking into account INN (International a number of new unique product items launched in the Ukrainian market. 2 410 200 190 160 140 115 Tablets Capsules API Glass vials Ampoules The product portfolio of JSC Farmak covers a wide range of therapeutic groups, but the Company focuses nonproprietary name) Pellets Tetiana Cherevychna, on six main groups of medicinal products, namely: Head of Manufacturing Department at JSC Farmak 20 are launched into the market annually by the Today, more than ever, Company – these are complex, modern medicinal products, which are essential for millions of people in 66 55 30 12 7 5 ll Products that are used to treat the ll Products that are used to treat ll Products that are used to treat Plastic bottles Sachets SGC Syringes Tubes Suppositories the competitiveness of digestive system and metabolism the musculoskeletal system the respiratory system products our country, as well as abroad and vials manufacturing is determined ll Products that are used to ll Products that are used to treat ll Products that are used to by the use of key digital treat the nervous system the cardiovascular system treat hematosis and blood management systems and innovative planning, organization and control technologies. JSC Farmak has several specialized portfolios, such as ophthalmology portfolio, contrast media, and carries out manufacturing of pharmaceutical products under contract for its partners, Ukrainian market and export. 20 new products were launched into manufacturing 16 new medicinal products were developed and submitted for clinical trials and registration 3 DMF were created for three active substances. ~110 medicinal products are currently being developed. Therefore, the pace of the Company’s innovative development remains unchanged! During 2019 year: *According to LLC “Proxima Research” 12 Manufacturing INVESTMENTS IN THE HEALTH OF Development of innovations in PRESENT AND FUTURE GENERATIONS numbers Sustainable development and goals cannot be achieved without investment and support from science. 95 % of income is reinvested annually By 35 % manufacturing expansion allowed to Achievements of 2019 systems, water supply systems have been modernized, in the development increase the volume of manufactured The Company directs funds for the expansion of modern laboratory furniture and equipment have been products over the last 5 years manufacturing and modernization of research laboratories installed, and profile laboratories for chromatographic that will contribute to the development of innovations, analysis have been created. Significant investments in 714 UAH mln 15 EUR mln 72 EUR mln implementation of industry best practices and the modernization of laboratories are determined by the competition stimulation among domestic pharmaceutical Company’s significant plans to develop new pharmaceutical manufacturers. products. is the sum of the capital investments provided the EBRD to JSC acquired the Company in total ll In 2019, the Company launched a project for new ll A new site for manufacturing of suppositories was of JSC Farmak in 2019 Farmak for a five-year term from the EBRD in 2006 manufacturing of liquid medicinal products, which will created, equipped and commissioned. increase manufacturing capacity and create new jobs. ll The engineering and technical infrastructure is being 3,4 UAH bln 30 USD mln ll The manufacturing shops were modernized. Modern actively renovated. One of such facilities in 2019 was a technological and service equipment, devices and others compressor room, which was equipped with a new air were purchased and installed. compressor and an absorption dryer, and commissioned. have been invested in the scientific and annually is the sum of investments in technological complex, manufacturing equipment, development and research ll The project on manufacturing of solid medicinal ll The second major object of the engineering products is in its final stage and a number of tests and infrastructure modernization was a chemical sewage research activities over the last 5 years retrofitting have already been carried out. regulator, for which the existing tanks were dismantled, earthworks and sheet piling were performed in 2019. According to the magazine 150 500 ll Modernization of quality control laboratories, development laboratories, biotechnology and technology ll Reconstruction of existing facilities for the construction transfer laboratories was carried out. The laboratories were of a new office and laboratory building with built-in parking scientists, Over thousand euros retrofitted with new modern laboratory equipment in order began. As part of this project, design and preparation work 40 of whom are candidates of received JSC Farmak, having won two JSC Farmak became the to bring them in line with FDA requirements. was carried out, including the dismantling of existing facilities and the transfer of utilities. sciences and 5 are doctors of grants from the European project of basic leader of the «Innovation ll The premises of the laboratories have been re-planned, sciences, working at JSC Farmak researches, as a result of participation in the leaders of the industry» the power networks, ventilation and air conditioning “Horizon-2020” program rating in 2019. 14 Marketing WE ARE FOR EVERYONE WHO NEEDS In the foreign markets QUALITY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS JSC Farmak has its own offices in Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Belarus and Kyrgyzstan and the marketing company NordFarm in Poland. Besides CIS export markets, important target markets are European ones, in particular, Poland and Germany. Sales volumes are increasing to the markets of other countries – Iraq and Australia. Starting with 2019 JSC Farmak has been expanding into new markets and started sales to the UK, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Thailand. JSC Farmak is a Ukrainian manufacturer of medicinal products Following the results of 2019, the main export markets of JSC Farmak were Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan and Iraq. The total share of sales to these countries is 60% of total export sales. of European level, which holds a leading position in the domestic pharmaceutical market and is one of the leading Ukrainian exporters. In Ukraine, the Company is the leader in the pharmaceutiSupplies by tender are made through distributors, specialcal market with the share of 5.9%. The Ukrainian pharmaizing in tender sales or, in the case of large procurements, ceutical industry is gaining popularity in the world every directly from the manufacturer. As part of its distribution year. JSC Farmak contributed to it as well – its medicinal strategy, JSC Farmak is developing traditional channels in products were bought in 28 countries in 2019. The task of the retail and hospital sectors. The largest distributors in marketing experts is to find out the needs for necessary the market are selected for cooperation. pharmaceutical products and provide quality information to doctors about product novelties and their benefits. Mykhailo VANAT, Trusted internal partnership Marketing and Sales Director Medicinal products are mainly distributed via indirect TOP 5 countries of channels in the pharmaceutical market. The most common sales channel is manufacturer-distributor-pharmacy-­ The main Mission of the Company is to make treatment consumer. On average, the channels of one distributor cover up to 70-80% of the total number of pharmacy export in 2019 with modern, effective chains and 60-80% of medical institutions. In order to increase market coverage, a manufacturer sometimes sells Country % medicinal products affordable. 24,3 its products directly to both pharmacy chains and healthOur products remain available Uzbekistan 37,1 to consumers both in our care institutions on its own (the share of such sales may vary from 2-20% for different manufacturers). Kazakhstan Iraq 11,4 11,1 % country and abroad. Belarus 7,5 Kyrgyzstan 4,8 sales beyond Ukraine 16 Quality MAINTAINING HIGH QUALITY Farmak is convinced: Compliance with high quality standards is the basis of the worldmanufacturing of quality medicinal products is the merit view of each Farmak employee and the Company as a whole. of every single Farmak employee. The Company has an integrated quality management system practices of pharmaceutical activities (GxP), international and pays considerable attention to quality control at all standards ISO 9001, ISO 13485, ISO 14001, ISO 22000, stages of manufacturing. This system is constantly being ISO 45001, ISO 50001, current regulations applicable to the improved. JSC «Farmak» has implemented a comprehensive Company and the Goals of the UN Global Compact. integrated business management system based on good 249 RESPONSIBILITY Quality Service staff is regularly trained people work for the Quality on quality issues both in Ukraine The key responsibility for the quality in the Company and finished products to confirm quality for use in and abroad. Director Service is imposed on the Quality Director Service and manufacturing and for releasing to the market. 40 provides for the regulatory compliance of all quality At the same time, the division monitors clean systems, independent control at all manufacturing environments, controls validation samples for specialists work in the Quality stages, and release of finished products by the stability study to ensure regulatory requirements. Management Department Authorized person. 172 The main task of the Certification and Release 12 The Quality Management Department ensures Department is to ensure and guarantee the release employees work in the Quality the functioning, continuous improvement and of safe, effective and quality medicinal products to Control Department auditors have development of the Pharmaceutical Quality the market. ECA certificates 17 System and Quality Management System to people, including three authorized, highly Olha OLEKSIICHUK, Quality Director at ensure their regulatory compliance with current GxPs API Quality Department ensures the functioning qualified persons work in the Certification 2 (GMP, GDP, GSP, GEP, etc.) and ISO requirements and continuous improvement of the processes of and Release Department JSC Farmak (ISO 9001, ISO 13485, ISO 22000, etc.). the Pharmaceutical Quality System (PQS), as well of them are also certified 19 as quality control of raw materials, intermediate in accordance with the We have built a European The Quality Control Department ensures control and finished products at the API manufacturing employees work in API requirements of the APIC quality system in a Ukrainian of incoming raw materials, intermediate products in Shostka. Quality Department (Active Pharmaceutical company Ingredients Committee). 18 Licenses and certificates of JSC Farmak Quality – foundation of all processes The quality system functions according to the Good Practices of the pharmaceutical industry and ISO 100 % of production lines are licensed in accordance with the requirements of GMP UA In 2019 the Company completed: for 5 years standards. GxP and ISO compliance is regularly confirmed by the national and European GMP 74 % of production lines are EU GMP certified EU GMP recertification by the General Inspectorate of Poland for two sites, additional certificate was 75 certificates, including: obtained for warehouse site 4 l Ukraine l Croatia l Poland and international ISO certificates: 90 % of medicines are manufactured at EU GMP certified production lines UA GMP recertification of PO of Ukraine of 20 sites (in Kyiv – March 2019, in Shostka – September 2019) ISO 9001; ISO 13485; ISO 14000; ISO 22000; 14 ISO 45001; ISO 50001 production lines have inspections and audits EU GMP certificate by regulatory authorities (Ukraine, Croatia, Poland, Belarus, Kazakhstan, 13 production lines Kyrgyzstan, Libya) and partner companies from UK, Switzerland, Germany, 2 production lines Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Israel, Georgia Logistics FROM THE SELECTION OF SUPPLIER TO RELEASE The specialists of JSC Farmak perform regular audits of API manufacturers, excipients, packages and in general of all outsourcing companies involved in the manufacturing or control to ensure that suppliers provide the proper level of quality. At every stage the Company performs careful control – to ensure product quality and optimize resource costs. JSC “Farmak” uses the following types of raw materials in are manufactured in insufficient quantities. Therefore, The Transportation Logistics Department Warehouse logistics department: Customs service, customs department: the manufacturing of its finished products: substances, exJSC “Farmak” imports almost 63 % of the total need for ensures timely delivery know everything about each product we strive to keep borders open for us cipients, packaging materials. raw materials and supplies for the manufacturing of pharMotor-, air-, railand sea transport is used in transportaFor each type of products there are specific conditions JSC Farmak exports its products to 28 countries worldmaceutical products from a number of countries, including tion of raw materials, materials and finished products in of storage. API and auxiliary raw materials are stored in wide and imports raw materials and products in bulk, The procurement of substances is strategically important Germany, China, the USA, India, by concluding direct conUkraine and abroad. Transportation within Ukraine is carwarehouse No. 1; specific raw materials such as alkalies compliance with customs regulations, timely processing of for the Company, since the cost of substances has a direct tracts or contracts with distributors. The main suppliers of ried out by own cars, while abroad outsourcing companies and acids are stored in warehouse No. 2; materials and fi­ documents and observance of procedures are under strict impact on the prime cost of finished products. JSC “Farmak” substances and packaging materials for the manufacturing are involved. nished products are stored in warehouse No. 3. control. procures substances and other raw materials from a variof pharmaceutical products are such companies: Eli Lilly, ety of external entities, including manufacturers, licensees Aptar Radolfzell GmbH, Becton Dickinson France S.A.S., Each car undergoes validation one time every three Control automation of microclimatic parameters and equipElectronic Declaration – JSC Farmak was one of the first Maryna Strihanova, and traders. Certain types of raw materials are not manu­ System-Invest, LLC, Polymed, LLC. years. ping storage facilities with ventilation and air conditioning companies to adopt this transparent reporting form. Director for Logistics and factured in Ukraine with the required level of quality, or systems ensures compliance with the necessary storage conProcurement at JSC Farmak The sensors in each car record the required temditions. perature level. JSC Farmak provides Procurement: analytical approach ll They simplify the system of own control, if during 2-3 The program of accounting and management of warehouse GMP standards not only In order to prevent disruptions in the supply of raw mateaudits there were no critical remarks to the manufacturer Cars with two temperature zones allow for simulcomplexes helps in performance of warehouse tasks and rials, experts develop effective mechanisms: and it has the necessary quality certificates. This reduces taneous delivery of various products. provides fixing and transparency of warehouse processes. in manufacturing, but also the time spent in the procurement process. during transportation and ll They make orders in advance, try to get the appropriThe project continues with GPS-monitoring of all Capacity of warehouses is 31 794 procurements. The use of ate confirmation so that there is no refusal; vehicles. modern technologies ensures 10 22 841 perfect planning and control of ll They look for alternative manufacturers and include indicators at least are used Routes are planned in such a way that transportathem in the registration documents when there is only one in the evaluation of each tion in the opposite direction is also carried out, pallet places all logistic processes. supplier; By which makes it possible to save resources and type of raw material by the funds. Company. sq. m. – the area of warehouses 22 Personnel PEOPLE ARE THE COMPANY’S MOST VALUABLE ASSET Noble work. Professional approach. Fair remuneration. The Company’s HR policy is based on such principles as transparency, consistency and comprehensiveness of work methods, observance of fairness, social responsibility and labour legislation requirements. 2 733 persons comprise the number of employees of JSC Farmak as of 14 The Company attract highly qualified employees, continull recognition of talented employees and creation of 31/12/2019 Due to manufacturing ously improve their professional skills and create favourable working conditions to ensure the Company’s comconditions for their professional and career growth; expansion and increased capacity, new jobs are constantly being By % average salary petitiveness and sustainable development through the ll formation of a personnel reserve and provision of created. has increased during 2019. following measures: appropriate training to perform functions at a new position 2019 Today Farmak JSC compete with European in the future; 2018 companies in terms of salary level in comparison ll search, selection and recruitment of employees in with the average check of a certain country. 7 accordance with the applications of structural divisions. ll continuous training of personnel and maintenance of Candidates are searched according to the profile of positions, which contain the main search criteria (main tasks, the necessary qualification in the business environment, which is rapidly changing; % comprise the Company’s staff turnover (whereas in the industry this rate reaches 13%). 2,5 competencies, social guarantees, compensation package, work schedule, etc.) ll involvement of internal experts in training processes and 2019 By the salary has gone up over development of the internal coaching system, with the help 2014 8 ll engagement of the best graduates of higher educational of the “SOFT SKILLS TRAINING FARMAK” program; the last 5 years years is the average length establishments, who have proven themselves during their manufacturing practices; ll development of mentoring culture and knowledge of service in JSC Farmak. Viktoriia KONDRASHIKHINA, ll conducting adaptation measures to create favourable exchange among employees; Remuneration 39 HR Director at JSC Farmak conditions for organizational and socio-psychological ll expanding motivation programs based on the results of Employees’ salaries consist of basic (permanent), additional (variable), KPI and other incentive and compensation adaptation and accelerate the process of mastering functional the employee engagement and satisfaction survey. years is the average age payments. The following principles are observed: responsibilities of the employee; of employees of JSC Farmak ll survey of the condition of corporate culture and eNPS External and internal remuneration equity – a grading system is applied to the basic salary according It is the potential of every to the Hay gradation system. ll assessment of corporate and managerial competencies; involvement. The survey helped to identify priority areas employee of the Company that for improving the efficiency of activities and improving the  ompliance of remuneration with invested efforts – additional (variable) salary provides for additional C makes Farmak the market leader. ll goal setting and evaluation of their readiness (KPI); motivational climate of the Company. payments and supplements to the salary/rate according to the legislation and the Collective Our Company is our people! Agreement. ll development of managerial competencies of the I ncentives – the system of material incentives for employees provides for the payment of certain types Company’s managers; of bonuses to employees for the increase of efficiency based on the received performance indicators following the evaluation results. 24 Personnel EMPLOYEES’ SAFETY. DECENT ll The employees of the enterprise are provided with sanitary and living conditions that meet the established norms. WORKING CONDITIONS GUARANTEE ll During 2019, no accidents related to manufacturing, no accidents of categories 1 and 2 were recorded, and no emergencies related to the use of hazardous substances occurred. levels of control The main tasks of occupational safety and health are: The enterprise has introduced ll creation of safe working conditions, preservation of life, health and ability ll A number of organizational and technical measures have been taken and successfully operates a three-stage to work; to improve working and living conditions of the enterprise’s employees, to control of labor protection. improve the level of occupational safety and industrial sanitation ll development of a stable motivational mechanism of safe behaviour at work for employees of the manufacturing site; In order to create safe working conditions at workplaces, the following meall development of skills to anticipate and prevent incidents at sures are periodically taken: 1 manufacturing site. Control at the level of supervisor, certification of workplaces according to working conditions, foreman and shift master. Before the In order to perform these tasks, the enterprise has introduced and operates analysis is performed and work on bringing workplaces into shift starts, they have to make sure that a certified Occupational Health and Safety Management System JSC Farmak, compliance with established norms is planned; working conditions meet the established norms: which meets the requirements of DSTU OHSAS 18001:2010. The certificasafe state of equipment, ventilation systems tion body of SE “Ukrmetrteststandart” performed a supervisory audit of the reduction of the percentage of manual labour through mechafunctioning, proper condition of manufacturing Occupational Health and Safety Management System for compliance with the nization of loading and unloading operations, transportation of facilities. requirements of DSTU OHSAS 18001:2010. Based on the audit results, no auxiliary materials involved during manufacturing; nonconformities were detected. A certificate UA.O.020-19 was obtained and 2 registered in the Certification Body’s Register on 26/11/2019, certifying the reduction of noise levels at manufacturing sites; Weekly control is carried compliance of the Occupational Health and Safety Management System with out at the workshop the specified standard. management level During 2019, a number of organizational and technical measures to improve working and living conditions of the enterprise’s employees, increase the level control over the condition of the manufacturing environment at 3 of occupational safety, fire safety and industrial sanitation were implemented. the manufacturing site (content of harmful substances in the air The control takes place at the enterprise management JSC Farmak makes every possible effort to improve of the working zone, noise, microclimate, lighting, etc.). level. Under the management of the executive director, ll All employees of the enterprise are provided with overalls, special footwear a committee, which includes specialists from the working conditions of its employees – from the and other personal protective equipment. occupational safety department, specialists from technical implementation of advanced technologies to the services such as the major construction department, chief ll Periodical labour safety trainings in various aspects have been organized mechanic’s department and chief power engineering department, provision of individual protective equipment. and held for managers and specialists, as well as special training of workers who was appointed. Such committee performs monthly complex perform high-risk work. There have been no recorded cases of personnel being inspections of occupational safety, industrial sanitation and fire allowed to manage or perform high-risk work without training, instructions or safety in main, auxiliary shops and laboratories at the enterprise in testing their knowledge on occupational safety issues accordance with the approved schedule. 26 Personnel COMPREHENSIVE SUPPORT of Ukraine, on the basis of obligations and joint arrangements that guarantee the protection of rights and interests of the enterprise’s employees, their material well-being, with the Competitive and official salary KPI-based bonus system effective management of the enterprise and the performance of manufacturing tasks and job duties by employees. Collective agreement is concluded to regulate industrial, Medical insurance and Convenient and labour, social and economic relations and to coordinate the interests of employees and the employer. The scope health centre working comfortable diner on of the collective agreement are additional, in comparison round-the-clock the Company’s territory with legislation, provisions on working conditions and remuneration, improvement of manufacturing and creative activity of employees, enhancing labour discipline, guarantees and benefits. New Year presents for the Summer camps JSC Farmak guarantees employees’ rights in social and labour Company’s employees and their for children of the relations. They may be both intangible (job preservation, children Company’s employees position, provision of other work) and tangible (preservation of average salary for the period of annual leave, leave due to training, business trip, stay in a medical institution for examination, payment for the first five days of temporary disability due to illness or injury not related to an accident at Sports competitions for the Weekend excursions the manufacturing site, etc.). Company’s employees and to picturesque and historical members of their families places of our country OVERCOMING INEQUALITY External corporate training, The employment of physically challenged persons is 4% of the total number of full-time participation in conferences and employees, which is compliant with legal exhibitions JSC Farmak creates a complex A collective agreement is concluded annually at JSC Farmak. requirements. The “Cafeteria of motivation” program consists This is a document that was drafted in accordance with system of social protection to current legislation and the Industry Agreement for 2017-2020 of three aspects with partial reimbursement: ensure the respect for human between the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Associations of Employers’ Organizations of Medical and Microbiological rights and provision of adequate Industry of Ukraine and the Central Council of the Trade development (attending recreation (recreation facility sports (attending swimming living conditions. Union of Workers of Chemical and Petrochemical Industries courses or trainings) “Smuhlianka” on the Black Sea shore) pool or gym) 28 Personnel Personnel CONTINUOUS GROWTH JSC Farmak has created conditions where everyone can ll “ Manager’s Development School” is aimed at the development and training of middle management. These are usually heads of departments and shops. Over 9 000 publications comprise the corporate library of JSC Farmak. Every employee of the Company can order any ll “ Leadership School “ is aimed at developing staff inbook, and the enterprise will definitely buy it realize their professional potential. We do not ignore the cluded in the personnel reserve for the position of directors. desire for development and career growth and we value Transformation of corporate culture people’s initiative, competence and responsibility! of JSC Farmak volved in the process of working on culture. Each of them More than professionalism. As part of this project: has its own direction of work on the development of culture Workshops were held as part of the Soft Skills Training Farmak program: ll diagnostics of the condition of the existing corporate ll the rules and tools for providing feedback by the manculture ager were defined and workshops were started for the Comll “Mentoring workshop” Training and development Adaptation pany’s managers; JSC “Farmak” conducts internal training in variThe Company has developed and implemented a ll vector of development of renewed corporate culture was ll “Finance for non-financiers” ous areas of activity. We continue to work with process of employee adaptation, the purpose of chosen. This vector will base on trust, mutual respect and ll “Rules for effective meetings” were developed and the best European companies that provide trainwhich is to help as quickly as possible to adapt involvement and will increase the efficiency of employees agreed upon; ll “Preventing emotional burnout” ing and implement best pharmaceutical practices. to a new job and become part of the team. Each in achieving their own goals and the goals of the Company. Specialists also regularly attend external training employee is given goals for the adaptation perill the rules for communication and interaction were dell “Excel for Business” events seminars, courses, conferences, trainings, od, according to which the adaptation can be conll roadmap “ Farmak Culture 2020+” was developed and scribed on the basis of updated values; both in Ukraine and abroad. sidered complete. During the first working days work on 5 directions of culture development was started. ll “Quality feedback” of each employee, a mentor is assigned to a new ll Training on “Formation of Key Performance Indicators The Company pays great attention to continuous position, who helps to adapt to the Company and ll a team of “Leaders of Change” from different director(KPI)” for employees and managers was started. Trainings ll “Recruitment and management onboarding” training and development of employees, including undergo mandatory initial training. ates was formed. Leaders of Changes (20 persons) are infor newly hired and transferred managers were conducted. through participation in the Company’s projects, ll “The Way to the West” business game. mentoring and other planned activities. Training for managers: ll the draft of the “Farmak Code of Corporate Culture” To implement the system of development of manwas prepared 1100 agers of different levels of management, modular programs based on the Model of managerial competencies have been introduced: employees received training in 2019 80 % ll “ Young Leader’s School “ created for Junior Management. Covers newly admitted and transferred Over been filled by young people managers: foremen, heads of production its own reserve 58 departments, sectors, small laboratories. over the past two years specialists received training in 2019 in the Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Austria and Spain 30 31 Personnel EDUCATION FOR YOUNG PEOPLE Cooperation Young scientist school ties also took part: National University of Pharmacy, Nawith universities The project aimed at supporting the scientific ambitions of tional University of Food Technologies, Igor Sikorsky Kyiv young employees was launched 12 years ago. It was based Polytechnic Institute, National University of Kyiv-Mohyla 11 on scientific groups, sites where knowledge and experience Academy, National Aviation University, Lviv Polytechnic were exchanged between different structural divisions of National University, Oles Honchar Dnipro National Unitrainees were JSC Farmak. Over time, the management decided to expand versity, Kremenchuk Mykhailo Ostrohradskyi National employed the circle of like-minded people and invite young scientists University and Kyiv International University. from specialized Ukrainian universities to participate in dis71 cussions. Thus, the first scientific and practical conference students undertook an internship in JSC Farmak in 2019 (The Taft School, Department “Science and Modern Pharmaceutical Manufacturing” was “Young scientist school” is a modern platform for of Chemistry, University of Wrocław, National Aviation University, Igor Sikorsky held within the premises of the Company in 2013. professional development and exchange of exKyiv Polytechnic Institute, Kyiv National University of Trade and Economics, perience, which gives: Private Institution of Higher Education “International Institute of Business”, Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv, National University of Pharmacy, National Discussion of important issues. ll The opportunity to present his/her scientific University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy) The conferences that have become regular, addressed developments. the most pressing issues of our time: development of mell Growth in the scientific field. 69 dicinal products and biologic pharmaceutical products ll A chance for professional realization. students took part in the educational project #Farmak_Lab, where they learned about modern according to IGH standards, scientific research of new achievements of pharmaceutical industry: took part in master classes, listened to lectures, received pharmaceutical and biologic molecules, review of changFarmak_Lab is an educational project for stuanswers to questions from specialists and visited manufacturing sites of JSC Farmak. In 2019 students of Igor Sikorsky Kyiv Polytechnic Institute, Kyiv National University of Technologies and es in the regulation of medicinal products circulation, dents and teachers of universities, within which Design, National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy, National University of Food Technologies carrying out research on bioequivalence and other issues the best experts of our Company cover current joined the project related to pharmaceutical manufacturing, quality control topics in the pharmaceutical industry. This is a and marketing and finance. Year after year, the new platunique opportunity to learn first-hand about the 5 form attracted an increasing number of participants. latest advances in the pharmaceutical industry. universities which Farmak JSC work on a permanent basis with: National University of Food Providing quality education In 2019, the project took place for the fifth time Technologies, Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv, Igor Sikorsky Kyiv Polytechnic is one of the goals set by Expanding the frontiers and is becoming increasingly popular among students and teachers. Institute, National University of Pharmacy, Kyiv National University of Technologies and Design Olympiad sponsorship, Now the project has reached the international level. On the UN Global Compact. April 2019: 4 November 21-22, 2019, JSC Farmak hosted the VII Annustudents-Company’s ambassadors were selected from four JSC Farmak is convinced that al Conference of the School of Young Scientists, which was “Ambassador.” The essence of the program is in universities: National University of Food Technologies, National attended by almost 100 guests and employees of the Comcooperation with students from specialized uniUniversity of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy, Taras Shevchenko National National University of Pharmacy – supporting students and young pany. A total of 21 reports by renowned foreign scientists, versities who are committed to the Company, University of Kyiv, Igor Sikorsky Kyiv Polytechnic Institute All-Ukrainian Student Olympiad in Pharmacy Specialty scientists is an extremely medical specialists of the Company, as well as post-graduthey should involve their peers in work at Far14 ates and students of leading universities of Ukraine were mak JSC. The project helps to attract young talimportant contribution to future presented. 13 foreign specialists from the USA, Great ents, promote the HR brand of the Company, excursions to JSC Farmak, in which 191 students took part Kyiv National University of Technologies and Design, National University of Food Technologies, Igor Sikorsky National University of Food Technologies – All-Ukrainian Student Biotechnology Olympiad development Britain, Austria, Ireland, Italy, Germany and Hungary and establish strong ties with universities. Kyiv Polytechnic Institute, National University of Pharmacy, National University of were invited. The students from the following universiKyiv-Mohyla Academy, Kremenchuk Mykhailo Ostrohradskyi National University, Kyiv International University, and participants of the Biotechnology Olympiad 32 Projects ECO-SCHOOL: LET’S SAVE THE PLANET TOGETHER Implemented projects: Following the goals of sustainable development, JSC Farmak contributes to combating climate change by creating environmental education projects. 200 children from 20 school in Kyiv The second life of organic waste A system of fermentation of organic waste in the form of a mini-dairy factory has been installed on the territory of the and Shostka received full-time school. training in Eco-School in 2019 lot of relevant information on environmental issues of our the scope of the project. At the Company’s initiative, time: deforestation, reduction of drinking water reserves, Eco-School educational online platform was created so Biohumus Switch to the increase of greenhouse gases. Considerable attention was that schoolchildren anywhere in Ukraine could join the Thermocomposter for processing “green” side! of organic garbage and receiving 135 000 UAH paid to the presentation of the real environmental situation environmental initiative, acquire new knowledge, unite in Ukraine and in the world, as well as possible forecasts with like-minded people, create their own eco-projects in biohumus which is fertilizer for plants. for the next 10 years. The audience was highly interested their schools and win grants to implement them. in power efficiency and power saving issues in educational Drop by drop the river flows Strategic mission institutions. Special attention in Eco-School was paid to In the circle of like-minded people was spent on the implementation Water saving thanks to installation of Eco-School is an indication of the Company’s sustainable project management, as modern schoolchildren should For the successful implementation of Eco-School it was the economizer-aerator on the mixer development, which is in line with the goals of the UN not only see the problem, but also be able to find solutions important to involve a team of environmental protection of children’s projects in Shostka unit. The device allows to reduce water Global Compact. The Company’s management has a clear themselves. professionals who could share their enthusiasm with and Kyiv in 2019 consumption by 50%. understanding that socially responsible business cannot the participants to move together towards an ecological stand aside from important environmental issues. The The final stage of Eco-School was a contest of projects, society. For example, in Shostka and in Kyiv it was done Bright school Company believes that today’s schoolchildren should be each of which was evaluated by a committee, which together with the “Ukrainian Ecological Club “Green 7 Regular lamps are replaced by energyenvironmentally educated, aware of the threats that humanity included representatives of Farmak, non-governmental Wave”. Together with the non-governmental organization, children’s projects received saving LED lamps. Due to this, electricity faces and be able to find effective solutions to them. environmental organizations and teachers. Thus, among all a textbook was created, which at the end of 2018 was grants for implementation consumption can be reduced by 7 times the projects in Shostka, three winners, who received grants approved by the Ministry of Education and Science as a in 2019 in the school. Start of Eco-School for their implementation in schools, were selected. These study guide for 11th form teachers. The project was launched in 2018 in Shostka, where the were the installation of sensor faucets to minimize water Optimization and efficient use API Manufacturing Unit is located. 7-11th form students consumption, drinking water fountains, and a bicycle for of heat in the room from all city schools joined the project. From the first days charging mobile phones. The successful implementation of schoolchildren showed an incredible interest. The teachers, the projects added to the children’s confidence that they The unique educational program Eco-school 2019 who accompanied the children in lectures and projects, also performed well and that their ideas would be of use. launched by JSC Farmak, recognized as one Creation of educational and participated actively. A year later, Kyiv schoolchildren were of the best social projects of Ukraine, in 2019 research eco-garden-beds able to join Eco-School. Online Studying became a finalist in the «Planet» category at In near the school Following the results of the project in Shostka and Kyiv, the International Partnership for Sustainability In a few months, the students mastered a program the organizers concluded that they were ready to take Award. an online platform was created so that consisting of 4 thematic sections: “Me and Nature”, “Nature minor steps, which in the future would have significant schoolchildren from all over Ukraine School without plastic and I”, “Me and Energy”, “Project Management”. They got a consequences. That’s why JSC Farmak decided to expand could be educated in Eco-School. 34 Environment ENVIRONMENTAL CARE Sustainable development is one of the main concepts by which Over 55 UAH mln have been invested by JSC Farmak in the implementation of projects over the past 5 years the world’s leading companies work today. JSC Farmak provides 3 the world’s population with quality medicinal products, increases manufacturing volumes, and at the same time minimizes the % By power resource consumption per unit of output impact on the environment. was reduced in 2019 JSC Farmak consistently complies with the requirements Equalization, accumulation and neutralization (pH of water of Ukrainian legislation, which regulates environmental is equalized within the range of 6-9); mechanical purification aspects. Moreover, JSC Farmak has been cooperating (mechanical impurities are removed); biological purificafruitfully with the European Bank for Reconstruction and tion (microorganisms that absorb impurities are used) and 19,5 % Development for many years, including in environmental ultrafiltration.. Liudmyla SAYCHENKO, issues. A cooperation programme, which the Company 6 ISO certificates Head of Occupational complies strictly with, has been developed. Annual audits Waste – training of personnel in waste per hryvnia of output, gas consumption By more than Health and Safety and are performed by the EBRD. The plan provides for orgamanagement is compulsory. Considering decreased as compared to the same period Environmental Protection Department nization of work at the enterprise to protect the environment in a number of aspects: the specifics of manufacturing, all waste is divided into categories for further processin 2018 regulate the Effluents. Specialists thoroughly control all ing, disposal or recycling. According to the plan with the EBRD new items are added annually to the list of waste Company’s activities Work to reduce the negative 9,32 % emissions specified in the air pollution perthat can be recycled or reused. impact on the environment is mit conditions, which are released to the ongoing and gives a significant atmosphere as a result of the enterprise’s Personnel. The environmental protection By more than power consumption was reduced These include the environmental result. We consistently comply activity. Under the terms of cooperation with the EBRD, management system provides for a numin 2019 management system (ISO 14001 additional control over new substances, in particular alcohols, ber of instructions that are binding on the with Ukrainian and European certification, obtained in 2005) and has been established. Company in minimizing the impact of its regulations in terms of environactivities. Systematic staff training is provided to comply the power management system mental issues and plan activiWater. In order to ensure that no harmful with all requirements. (ISO 50001 certification, obtained in 2019). A very small number of 12,42 22,99 substances are released into the environties aimed at further significant reduction of any possible consement, a new process line of the Slovak % % domestic enterprises were able to company AQUAFLOT was installed back obtain ISO 50001 certification, while quences of the activities. in 2015 – the water undergoes several stages of treatment: By and by among pharmaceutical enterprises in comparison with 2018 in Kyiv effluents of API manufacturing department only a few were able to obtain it. in Shostka were reduced in 2019 36 Environment POWER CONSUMPTION PER HRYVNIA OF OUTPUT PRESERVATION POLICY Kyiv 0,177 Shostka Careful attitude to natural resources is one of the integral principles in Electricity the organization of activities of JSC Farmak. Water Gas In search of power sources ll Switching off or limiting the work of air conditioning JSC Farmak is a large enterprise that is bound to consystems and refrigeration systems is applied; the temperasume a significant amount of power resources. At the ture mode of heating systems is adjusted, etc. same time, the enterprise is in constant search of alterna0,057 tive power sources and their efficient use, but so far the Solar energy is also used: solar collectors, which will prouse of currently available technologies under the strict vide hot water to the dining room and residential buildings, 0,036 0,036 Oleh SUPRUNOVYCH, requirements of pharmaceutical manufacturing is either were installed at the corporate recreation centre “SmuhlChief Power Engineer 0,008 impossible or economically inexpedient. Therefore, the ianka” in late 2019. 0,006 0,0047 0,0046 0,0042 Company is confidently following the chosen approach of rational reuse of power resources and has achieved conWe have already implemented siderable success in it. IN DEVELOPMENT 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 everything that allows us to use power resources rationally. Important steps Install solar collectors on the roof of JSC Farmak consistently implements the policy of reducthe design and engineering building, 0,0012 0,029 Despite the fact that we are ing power consumption and annually implements new which is 650 square meters. Accorda pharmaceutical company, measures aimed at its rational use. Among many others, ing to estimates, such a power plant can proit is very important for us to we can distinguish the following: duce up to 50,000 kWh of electricity per year. maintain a balance – to work in ll A heat recovery unit is installed in the boiler plant. Modernization of the existed out-ofsuch a way as to reduce power date refrigeration equipment. consumption costs, but at the ll Condensate energy is used to heat process water. same time ensure the highest quality of our products. After ll The fluorescent lamps at the plant have been replaced by LED lamps. all, the quality and safety of our 0,0004 0,009 products always comes first! 0,00028 0,00027 0,006 0,006 0,00007 0,00005 0,00004 0,00004 0,000036 0,001 0,0008 0,0006 0,0005 0,00045 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 38 Environment CARE ABOUT THE ATMOSPHERE As early as at the planning stage for manufacturing facilities, sites’ expansion, and use of new technologies, specialists carefully consider the possible impacts and promptly offer effective solutions By 95-99 modern equipment used by % JSC Farmak allows to purify the air to minimize the potential consequences. In low-emission facilities, special laminar boxes are according to the instructions for ventilation systems and installed, i.e. purification filters in places where effluents gas treatment plants. 3stages can be released into the atmosphere. The possible negative environmental impacts from the manufacturing, Gas scrubbers systems produced by the Czech company and during the design and launch of site No. 1, workshop MVB OPAVA GZ s.r.o. are used to clean the vapours No. 4 were considered: special filter systems that capture from the technological equipment of workshop No. 6. There are all effluents are installed here. The Finished Medicinal This equipment is designed for absorption and separation by which air purification in filtration at first stage, F7 pocket filters at the second and third stages activated carbon Products Unit was also designed and built according to of contaminated exhaust gases, condensation of harmful (gas purification) units is performed: capture solid particles with adsorbs gaseous emissions on its surface with all necessary requirements. The newest equipment, which vapours and capture of solid particles in gases. allows to reduce emissions of harmful substances into the no less efficiency efficiency of 70-90%, depending on the composition atmosphere, was also installed at the Shostka plant. What about inside premises? and content of substances in the gas mixture The requirements for air quality in pharmaceutical Purification at the API manufacturing plant manufacturing are very strict. It has to meet the norms Organic synthesis is at the heart of manufacturing of such and standards prescribed in GMP, so it has to undergo a pharmaceutical manufacturing, therefore it is impossible special purification procedure. The air is taken from the to manage without the newest and modern systems of outside, it is filtered at the primary filters and then treated environmental protection from harmful influence of in the air conditioning: it is heated or cooled, humidified chemical substances. The enterprise has systems for air or dehumidified as required. Depending on the clean purification of such well-known European brands as room grade, there may be a second, third or sometimes In 2019 air emissions decreased by 12.42% compared to 2018 in Kyiv and by MVB and GEA. These are filtration systems designed to fourth degree of purification. In some rooms air is taken Kyiv 22.99% in the API manufacturing department in Shostka, which is due to the remove solid and gaseous air emissions that are released from the inner premises, a small amount is added from the operation of the boiler plant in a relatively warm winter period, as well as the into the environment from the premises. outside and the purification process is performed. Shostka commissioning of two new Viessmann boilers Filtering units from GEA and DencoHappel (Germany), Klima-Service (Czech Republic) complete the exhaust ventilation systems. They are operated and maintained 40 Environment PRESERVING WATER RESOURCES Pharmaceutical companies need the cleanest water to manufacture In 2019 reconstruction of the purification facilities of the enterprise was carried out, within the scope of which a new regulator of chemical waste was built, and to speed medicinal products. Also, at the stage of discharge into the up the process of settling special excipients – flocculants – municipal sewerage system, the enterprise’s water must meet the are used, which will improve the purification procedure and significantly reduce the levels of pollutants in the discharges. established requirements. Water for medicinal products and for Purification in Shostka household use Industrial waste-water produced during the API manuNatalia SYMONETS, 86 250–280 The Company uses usual drinking water for technological facture contains high concentrations of substances of orsite manager for industrial waste-water purification processes of manufacturing, which is supplied by and the quality of which is the responsibility of PJSC “AK “Kyivganic and inorganic nature, therefore requires special attention. But before reaching the Shostka sewer system % g/l vodokanal”, but before using it should be completely puand from there to the Desna and Dnieper basins, the warified from salts and other substances. This is a complex ter is purified and becomes safe for the environment. is the effect of waste-water purification this is an indicator that characterizes the process, it is carried out in several stages, the enterprise’s (which fully meets the requirements), but content of organic substances in waste-water, Our water purification tanks workshop of clean environment is responsible for it. The waste-water purification processing line was developed and installed by the Slovak company AQUAFLOT. even this result is also constantly being and it is significantly below the norm are closed and equipped with improved by the Company Step by step With the latest equipment, such procedures are performed special domes. This ensures At first, waste-water from all workshops and laboratories quickly and efficiently: that contaminated water does is discharged into a special tank (a regulator), where it is not evaporate into the environment. Unlike traditional purificamixed. The next step is neutralization, which regulates the pH process: if the environment is acidic, alkalis are ll Equalization, accumulation and neutralization – polluted water from different discharges is collected, mixed Kyiv Shostka added, if it is alkaline, acid is added. Then, after settling in together and equalized with alkalis and acids; tion systems, our tanks do not 2018 2018 large metal containers (“settling tanks”) and separation of have settling tanks. As a result, the resulting sludge, purified water is mixed with domesll mechanical purification – water is purified from meFarmak performs the necessary tic waste-water and only then discharged into the sewer chanical impurities; 2019 2019 purification procedures very system. ll biological purification is carried out with biologically quickly. Several times a day, the sanitary laboratory takes used active sludge. The water is in contact with micro-organisms and purified water for tests to make sure that water that that absorb the impurities; gets into the municipal sewer system meets all hygiene requirements. ll ultrafiltration. Water consumption Water discharge COD Water consumption Water discharge COD 42 Environment Kyiv Waste, t/year 3401,954 SMART STRATEGY 2943,98 For each type of waste JSC Farmak uses the optimal method 2336,339 of processing or recycling. 2341,952 2023,762 Industrial waste is divided into 4 main categories: are processed, diluted with water by 10-20 times and discharged into the industrial sewer system. ll household and construction waste; On Farmak’s request, L. I. Medved’s Research Centre of ll waste to be recycled (waste paper, plastic, glassware, Preventive Toxicology, Food and Chemical Safety develops wood, rubber); explicit recommendations on how to neutralize liquid technological waste that is produced during manufacturing. 108,6 123,8 166,5 51,5 ll pharmaceutical waste to be disposed of (contains hazardous chemicals); Rational calculation Shostka Farmak disposes of and recycles waste in accordance with ll liquid process waste. all regulations and systematically reduces its amount. This is due to rationing, inventorying of manufacturing waste The Company has developed a Waste Management Proand recording its manufacturing in each manufacturing cedure, which explicitly regulates waste sorting, labelling, unit. Press containers are installed on the territory of the storage and disposal processes depending on waste types. enterprise: waste materials are removed from them only During 2019 year it was transferred Waste, 2019 for recycling Construction waste is sent to a landfill, and a significant when they are as full as possible. This helps to use transpart of household waste is sent to Privately owned enterport more efficiently, without wasting extra fuel and re280,9т 61 % 41 % prise Obukhovgorvtorresursy, where it is sorted and furducing the amount of exhaust gases. ther transferred for recycling. Separately collected waste of polyethylene, wood and waste paper is transferred to Obukhovgorvtorresursy as recyclable materials.PolyethIn addition, the enterprise uses polyethylene 37 4 waste paper ylene, wood and paper wastes collected separately are sent to Obukhovgorvtorresursy for recycling. reasonably. During a year of work about 260270 tons of waste of this material is generated % % at the bottlepack sites – it is transferred to a 323,7т Special attention specialized organization, which recycles it into 159,3т 2 % 55 % Wastes containing chemicals are disposed of on special bottle caps. equipment by pyrolysis, neutralization at high temperatures (1,000-1,200 °С). Aqueous solutions of medicinal products, which are formed at the stage of manufacturing, polymer waste and plastic scrap metal Kyiv Shostka 44 Projects Green office Ecological habits of CLEAN CITY, GREEN CITY The Company actively implements eco-principles not only in manufacturing, but also among office employees. Anyone can join in the preservation of the employees of JSC Farmak environment. Reducing the use of paper flower production. Thujas and young plane trees were also We keep accounts and payment systems in planted in the park. JSC Farmak has a “Green Office” project on a permanent basis, one of electronic format with digital signatures. We use online services for information storage. the areas of which is the collection and recycling of waste materials. This Farmak employees also joined the improvement of other contributes to the environmental culture of each employee. favourite places of rest of Kyiv citizens and visitors of the We switch off electrical appliances capital: Before leaving the office, Farmak employees turn ll collected and removed fallen leaves from the territory off all electrical appliances to prevent phantom 66,6kg of Syretskyi Hai Park, an area of 0.5 hectares; power to the devices. ll cleaned up the forest area along the Alley of Artists on Andriivskyi Descent; ll in the park at 8 Zavodska Street, planted young maples of waste batteries and other power collected and Re-using, whenever possible We make maximum use of materials and products handed over and ornamental bushes; before they reach the dump site. We give ll made flowerbeds at the transport interchange along components preference to things that can be used repeatedly – Novokostiantynivska street, planted fir trees and juniper for processing 10 355kg porcelain cups have been replaced with paper or bushes. plastic cups. In Shostka, the Company’s employees clean the 1.5 km in 2019 long coastal zone around the lake formed at the quarry of office waste paper Alternative dehumidifiers site every year: collect household rubbish, fallen branches We use microfibre cloths instead of paper towels Following the goals of sustainable trees) in Kyiv and Shostka. Their goal is to promote a careand leaves. ful attitude towards nature and the ecosystem of their city development and taking care of not only among the Company’s employees, but also among We use daylight 200kg the environment, JSC Farmak Ukrainians. It is nice to see that every year the number of This way we reduce our negative impact on the environment and financial losses. participants in environmental events of JSC Farholds such campaigns twice a Over the years of implementation of these projects, the mak is increasing. Employees share the Compayear – and not only the Company’s Company’s employees have repeatedly participated in the ny’s important values supporting environmental Almost employees, but also their relatives improvement of green areas in the capital’s Podol district: activities and show their own initiatives to imof batteries were collected for It has helped to save We regularly defrost and clean office refrigerators and friends join them. Farmak employees together with employees of the communal enterprise for maintenance of greenery cleaned parks, prove the environment in their home towns. The implementation of social projects is a trend for processing by employees for the period between 2016 and 2018. more than 320 trees This helps to extend service life and efficiency. squares and recreation areas from fallen leaves, dry branchmany companies. JSC Farmak is setting an exand get 640 litres 20t es and household rubbish. For example, the territory of ample for other representatives of socially reWe decorate the office with plants JSC Farmak implements ecological projects “Green City” (cleaning of park zones, planting of trees and bushes) and the park of 2.5 hectares near T.H. Shevchenko cinema was improved: 4 trailers of gathered leaves were handed over sponsible business. Over of oxygen Plants in the office help reduce carbon emissions as well as purify the air in the workplace. “Clean City” (improvement of green zones and planting of for processing for fertilizer, which is used in greenhouses in of paper were saved for the period between 2010 and 2018. 46 Projects Projects CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING DONATION OF BLOOD The employees of JSC Farmak, for the purpose of personal The active life position of Farmak employees, their desire to participate in positive involvement in the implementation of the principles of sustainable changes in society and the country, to do good and set an example to show that being development, are constantly engaged in various activities aimed at active is not only important, but also useful – all this has been united by the “Corporate providing assistance to those who need it. Volunteering” social project of JSC Farmak and has become an integral part of the Company’s corporate culture. Fairs – for good purposes Helping animals Giving joy to the children JSC Farmak regularly organizes activities aimed at supportAs part of the project “I am a Farmak volunteer” employIn 2011, the Farmak Charity Fund presented the children The willingness of the employees of JSC Farmak to perform a socially important 300 ing socially unprotected population groups. Active particiees collect charitable assistance for the Sirius animal shelof Shostka with a new playground so that they could enjoy function of mutual assistance enables the Company to join the global blood dopation in charity fairs organized on the enterprise’s territoter twice a year. The pets were given medicinal and veterlife and play in the open air. However, after 8 years of daily nation movement for many years in a row. Hundreds of employees have taken Over volunteers-Farmak ry allows the Company’s employees to prove themselves in inary products, diet food for kittens and puppies, groats, use, the playground was out of order and looked outdated. part in these specific events since the idea was implemented. And these are only employees donate blood regularly mutual assistance and social responsibility. Mostly money is toys, leashes, as well as insulating materials for cages and those who have donated blood at JSC Farmak; there are also many others who raised at the traditional charity fair in Kyiv and Shostka. Afopen-air cages. The Department of Education of the Shostka City Coundonate blood outside the Company and even have the certificate “Honorary Doter different necessary objects procure to the Children’s Hoscil of Sumy Region appealed to the Farmak Charity Fund nor of Ukraine”. pital and other places. Throughout November, the workers were raising charitable aswith a request for charitable assistance for the repair of the sistance for the pets. In general, they managed to gather 200 kg playground. The Fund responded to the request, found a Children in need of support of “help” – medicinal and veterinary products, medical devices, contracting organization and made renovations. JSC Farmak cooperated with the Charity Fund “Tableinsulating materials, feed and household items. Besides “gifts” 70 tochky”, which is approached by almost 400 children every for pets, the volunteers helped personally: they carried water, Children will now be able to play in the renovated playmonth for help. The money raised through fundraising by laid warm hay, cleaned the territory for new open-air cages. ground located in the Svobody Park. About 200 thousand Company’s employees donated Over 20 litres of blood for Kyiv regional the Company’s runners was spent not only on procurement hryvnias were spent on the major overhaul. blood centre and about 10 litres of of medicinal products, but also on palliative care. Sometimes plasma for Sumy regional blood it is also needed to procure special equipment for treatment. service centre during 2019. As part of the World Day of People with Down Syndrome on March 21, funds were raised for the All-Ukrainian charitable organization “Down Syndrome”. A total of UAH 16,692 was 20 % raised. of employees of JSC Farmak take part in volunteer projects on a At least regular basis; and the Company is convinced that the idea of helping neighbours is appealing to the vast majority of employees, so the number of volunteers is growing rapidly. 48 49 Projects Projects SCIENCE FOR FUTURE SPORT AVAILABLE TO EVERYONE Knowledge has no boundaries contemporaries, who have to become role models, so In a comprehensive approach to caring for present and future Our contemporaries should know that Ukrainian that young people who are just beginning their journey generations, the promotion of healthy lifestyle plays an extremely scientists have achieved world recognition and their in science are aware of the opportunities that are opening discoveries are used by the whole world. This is a good up to them, and are willing to work hard despite the important role and Farmak employees, as always, set a good incentive for young researchers. They should understand possible difficulties. example. that a lot can be achieved on a global scale – there are no boundaries in science. Being a country with huge “Farmak: Run for Your Health” 1 500 intellectual potential, we should appreciate what we have. To show respect for researchers who are worthy Since 2017, the race under this name has been held in participants joined the 2019 of representing different sectors, Farmak has prepared a Shostka. We also organize runs to draw attention to the Shostka Run. book “Here is your science” dedicated to the stories of 30 fact that health is a choice available to everyone. The people who live in our country. sporting events taking place in Shostka are available not only for professional athletes, they are not exhausting Contribution of Ukrainian scientists semi-marathons or marathons. The distance of 2 km can The development of scientific 10 93 All project participants come from Ukraine and work be overcome by elderly people, the main thing is that potential in Ukraine is a strategic for the benefit of the planet: This is a perfect example of everything happens with joy, interest and enthusiasm. how boundaries are being erased and there is one world From to task for the government on the one science left that is concerned about the fate of humanity hand and for business on the other. and is called upon to work relentlessly for its benefit. The Twice a year there are competitions years – this is the age of runners who, together with JSC discoveries made by these people are evident today and Farmak decided to overcome the distance. Farmak employs 150 researchers, will go down in history. These 30 researchers are our “We are the Champions!” for children aged 6 to 13 years. Children of including 40 candidates of sciences, Farmak’s employees demonstrate their skills in various sports tasks. Running and more! and 5 doctors of sciences. There are professional marathon runners among Farmak 6 Farmak invests approximately employees who take part in Ukrainian and international competitions. In general, JSC Farmak is an active 95% of its profits in innovation participant of city and all-Ukrainian competitions, sports and development annually. This In 2019, runners of the Company from different regions and athletic contests and tournaments in various sports: took part in 6 city and all-Ukrainian races at distances swimming, football, volleyball, basketball, rowing, chess, amount also includes a share Farmak has sent copies of the book to libraries and of 4.2 km, 10, 21 and 42 km as well as tourism, fishing. The Company has teams and universities in Ukraine so that a wide range of people of investments in the scientific groups of reserve participants in each of these sports. could have access to it. development of the Company. In 2019, JSC Farmak received a certificate of responsible business from UN Global Compact Green Business Ukraine. Among other projects, the project “Farmak: Run for Your Health” was highly evaluated. 50 51 Projects SHARING EXPERIENCE WITH COLLEAGUES AND PARTNERS Achievements of JSC Farmak in the implementation of sustainable development values have repeatedly become the focus of attention of the leading Ukrainian media. In order to convey the most important principles to its colleagues and external partners, the Company actively uses its own communication tools. awards were granted to JSC Farmak in 7 the contest “The Best Corporate Media of Ukraine 2019” held by the Association of Corporate Media of Ukraine. Farmak Life corporate newspaper won the Grand Prix. The Company’s website was awarded the title of “Best Corpmedia 3 The updated Farmak Life corporate newspaper has been published for Ukraine 2019”. In addition, the magazine “SCIENSE INSIDE”, three years and between 2018 and Facebook Farmak page, films “60 years of Corvalol. The history” and 2019 it won the Grand Prix among “Farmak’s Orchestra” and the corporate calendar were praised. other corporate publications. SCIENSE INSIDE is the third issue of the “Sustainable development” popular scientific magazine focused on take any key corporate “Quality” the partners of JSC Farmak, specialists of newspaper topic, each time “Ecology” it refers to the Global Goals pharmaceutical and medical industries and all “Innovations” those who are concerned about the creation defined by the UN of an effective health care system, dedicated “Performance” to sustainable development. 52 2020
