CSR Report 2020 A New Journey Begins 3 A New Journey Begins 4 GUBI Company Profile 7 Our Mission Since GUBI was founded in Copenhagen in 1967, In the pages that follow, we have outlined a new our company has always been guided by a vision strategy for how we believe we can reach our 8 GUBI + The UN Global Compact to push boundaries, challenge the status quo, and sustainability goals. At the heart of this strategy be a different kind of design Danish brand. Today, are two measurable standards that support the 11 Our Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) though we are still very much a family business UN Global Compact: (1) a redefined GUBI Code rooted in the Scandinavian tradition, the GUBI of Conduct that enhances our ability to be a more 12 GUBI: A Great Business Partner and a Great Place to Work name has earned the respect of customers around responsible business partner and an even better the world and our products are sold in more than 75 place to work, and (2) an elevated emphasis on 15 GUBI’s Current Code of Conduct countries. We are proud to say that we have come refining all of our processes, so that more and a long way in the last 53 years. And yet, we believe more of our products are created in a responsible, 16 GUBI: An Innovative Company Investing in a Circular Economy that we still have a long way to go. circular fashion. 19 Materials Matter In order for GUBI to integrate sustainability as a core As we look to the future, we know that we have value, we have committed to revisiting every stage much to learn, but we are committed to growing 20 GUBI: A Responsible and Respectful Company of our production process–from the concept phase as individuals, as a company, and as a member of to material sourcing to shipping and sales. We the global design community. This is the beginning 22 Beetle For Life believe that now is the time to become more holistic of a new journey here at GUBI, but, striving to do in our thinking, more strategic in our processes, more good for people and for the planet is a value 25 Progress Report and more intentional in how we dialogue with our that has long been at the heart of GUBI’s mission suppliers, partners, and customers. In short, we to not only craft great products, but to tell great 26 Moving Forward believe that it is once again time to challenge the stories as well. status quo. This is a journey that will certainly lead us into challenging and exciting new territory, but it is a journey that we believe is absolutely essential. GUBI CEO Kenni Riise 3 GUBI Company Profile GUBI is a design house renowned for designing, Based in Copenhagen’s docklands, GUBI HQ developing, and marketing a daring and elegant spans a 2,000-square-metre space in a former collection of furniture, lighting and interior objects tobacco factory, renovated into an expansive, that resonates across the globe. Its signature modern loft showroom. The GUBI Flagship Store is pieces evoke emotion and tell meaningful stories a 400-square-meter visual design universe located that make them both timeless and enduring. in the heart of Copenhagen’s shopping district. GUBI brings forgotten icons of the past together Both locations are carefully curated and provide with tomorrow’s classics. The result is a visionary an atypical, colourful and evocative backdrop for collection that spans almost 100 years of history the mainstay of GUBI’s Collection. Robert Dudley and is sold all over the world. Best’s Bauhaus-inspired Bestlite Lamp, originally designed in 1930, sits comfortably alongside Founded by his parents in 1967 – the year current GamFratesi’s iconic 2013 Beetle Chair. owner and creative director, Jacob Gubi, was born – GUBI originally focused on producing the The GUBI Chair – designed in collaboration with family’s own furniture designs and trading textiles Komplot Design in 2003, the first of its kind to within the retail sector. Over the years, Jacob use three-dimensional veneering technology, Gubi’s creative vision and courageous intuition and now part of MOMA’s permanent collection has led GUBI to its current position in the global – complements future design icons such as design scene with a handpicked edit of high quality GamFratesi’s Epic Collection and Space furniture from all over the world, and collaborations Copenhagen’s Stay Collection. with both esteemed designers and archives and contemporary emerging talents. 4 Our Mission At GUBI, we aspire to challenge the status quo in everything we do. By nurturing a company-wide culture of respect, inclusion, and excellence, we are creating thoughtful, iconic design objects imbued with meaningful stories and crafted to last a lifetime. 7 GUBI + The UN Global Compact Since 2019, GUBI has been a part of the UN Global Compact and is committed to Compact’s 10 principles for responsible business operations. Focus areas of the Global Compact are: human rights, labour rights, the environment, and anti-corruption. THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights The Environment Principles 1 – 2: Businesses should support and Principles 7 – 9: Businesses should support respect the protection of internationally proclaimed a precautionary approach to environmental human rights; and make sure that they are not challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater complicit in human rights abuses. environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Labour friendly technologies. Principles 3 – 6: Businesses should uphold the Anti-Corruption freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination Principle 10: Businesses should work against of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; the corruption in all its forms, including extortion and effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination bribery. of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 8 Our Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) GUBI is committed to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). As a tool for improving global business practices at every level, these practical goals are a blueprint to achieve a better GUBI + AXCEL and more sustainable future for all. GUBI is owned, in part, by the CopenhagenAt GUBI, we have selected three focus areas for based private equity firm Axcel, who has been a our SDG strategy: member of the UN Global Compact since 2010. In addition, Axcel is aligned with the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). With Axel as our primary owner, GUBI complies with their Decent Work and Economic Growth CSR policies. Sustainable Cities and Communities Responsible Consumption and Production Moving forward, these three goals will act as a guide for GUBI’s CSR strategy and all corporate sustainability initiatives. For each of the three prioritized goals, we have laid out a 3-year timeline and established specific, measurable initiatives to support each goal. Each year, GUBI will report progress on each of our sustainable goals and projects and update our sustainability initiatives accordingly. 11 GUBI: A Great Business Partner and a Great Place to Work In support of SDG 08: Decent Work and Economic Growth Making a Positive Impact Our Employees GUBI products are produced and sold throughout We want GUBI to be a great place to work, a place the world. Because of this, we are deeply committed where our employees’ skills and creativity can thrive to making a positive impact wherever we can: in in a safe, stable, fair, and inclusive work environment. our own offices, in the local communities where Our employees have pledged to uphold the COC our products are manufactured, and in the general standards detailed in our employee handbook and environmental footprint that our processes create. which are aligned with Danish workers’ rights. Our Suppliers and Partners Our Next Step Guided by the UNGC, the GUBI Code of Conduct An Improved Code of Conduct: In 2020, GUBI (COC) promotes Human Rights , transparency, will revise our Code of Conduct, to make it both and anti-corruption laws within our supply chain. more comprehensive and more effective in As of 2020, all of our OEM suppliers have signed promoting fair and ethical standards for all of our this document, pledging to uphold the standards for business initiatives, both internally and externally. fair and ethical practices that GUBI demands. Over The new version of this COC will more closely the next two years, we have made plans to further follow the UN Global Compact principles and will increase our supply chain transparency with each incorporate other frameworks like SGD and ESG of our partners and sub-suppliers. Goals into our overall CSR strategy. The new GUBI Code of Conduct will further elevate our standards for transparency among partners, raw material sourcing, OEM suppliers, and will award employees, suppliers, and stakeholders that comply accordingly. 12 GUBI’s Current Code of Conduct In support of SDG 08: Decent Work and Economic Growth Best Practices Compliance With Environment GUBI always pursues a fair competition policy and Our business is committed in undertaking sales strategy, ought to be worth with suppliers, any precaution to preserve the environment, customers and competitors. It is strictly forbidden implementing risk assessment and risk management to entertain relationships with them by GUBI to tackle its challenges. Furthermore, GUBI pursues employees with the sake of an economic reward. a strategy aimed at promoting environmental Any gift exceeding a reasonably low value shall then responsibility to a higher extent, supporting the be always rejected. Cash payments to suppliers are development of friendlier technologies eventually prohibited unless agreed in advance. Regarding fulfilling society expectations. public administration, no corruption, briberies, making procedures faster. Confidential Data Critical information and confidential data are to be Employees Care treated with awareness and minding any mandatory Employees are expected to interact with anyone agreement. Avoidance of disclosure of intellectual linked to the company in a fair and respectful and industrial properties or rights with whatsoever manner, considering as despicable whatever aim, no matter to which company’s function discrimination based on, for instance, race, gender is related. or religion, together with sexual harassments. Respecting each colleague’s dignity must be a fundamental feature in professional relationships, avoiding any offense by person or online. Compliance With Human Rights GUBI convincedly complies with principles stated in the UN Global Compact. Our business actively respect and promote the set of internationally proclaimed human rights, standing against any kind of their abuse such as the exploitation of forced, compulsory or child labor. Employees own freedom of association and recognition of collective bargaining, with organizations allowed to carry out tasks without neither pressure nor interferences. 15 GUBI: An Innovative Company Investing in a Circular Economy In support of SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities Designed For Life Our Next Steps At GUBI, we carefully consider the entire life cycle 1. Increased Circularity: At GUBI, we are committed of the products we make; from the raw materials we to the idea of design and production circularity. source, to the production methods being used, to This means incorporating more recycled materials how products are packaged, shipped, and sold, and into our collections and making it easier to recycle how our products will be disposed of or recycled at our products (or parts of our products) when the end of their useful life. they reach the end of their useful life. “Thinking circular” also means finding new ways of thinking In order to minimize the amount of waste being about our relationships with customers by offering added to the global waste stream, we strive to make them sustainable options for how to repair / reuse quality products that can be disassembled into their our products when they are no longer new. For individual material parts, and, thus, disposed of example, we are beta testing an initiative that will responsibly. This way, metals, plastics, and glass allow customers to easily replace the upholstery can easily be recycled by customers. of our most popular chair, the “Beetle Chair,” thus extending the product’s useful life and Currently, about 30% of GUBI’s products can be reducing waste. disassembled and disposed of in this way. Moving forward, our internal product development team 2. Reduce Single-Use Plastics: In the future, we (in partnership with our CSR team) has committed are committed to eliminating the use of all single to increasing this percentage over the next three use plastics from our production and packaging. By years while, at the same time, finding creative new 2021, we aim for all new projects to be launched ways to create more sustainable products, reducing with responsible and recyclable packaging. waste throughout the process, and becoming more circular in everything we do. Additionally, GUBI has strategically designed all of our products to be “flat packed,” as much as possible, to reduce the use of packing materials and space (and therefore energy). Most of GUBI’s packaging is cardboard–a material that is easy to sort and recycle–though we also use a small amount of single-use plastics and polystyrene to ensure safe delivery of the product (in the future, we plan to phase out the use of these and replace with greener solutions). 16 In support of SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities Materials Matter The primary materials used in our production recycled. These products represent 30% of the are: wood, steel, aluminum, textiles, leather, total volume of GUBI products in the market in polypropylene, and polyurethane foam. We 2020. As Polypropylene-made products allow for prioritize high quality materials and require the use the use of “dead waste” materials in new products, of sustainable best practices from our suppliers we have recently initiated several new projects that and their sub-suppliers. GUBI’s in-house CSR will incorporate this green production technique team works continuously to set new goals related (expected to launch in 2022). to materials sourcing. Foam and Upholstery Wood and Veneers We use various layers and densities of foam for our As part of our ongoing sustainability strategy, GUBI upholstery for greater comfort. These materials are continuously increases its standards in the sourcing, treated with fire retardant chemicals, in line with processing, and finishing of wood components. As strict fire regulations, to comply with the laws and part of our ongoing CSR strategy, we want our guidelines of the countries we operate in. Although production of wood and veneers to be FSC, TSCA they are a vital measure in preventing fires, these and CARB II certified. We aim to accomplish that retardants can be harmful to the environment, so by the end of 2021. Currently, more than 80% of we are actively exploring more environmentally our solid wood and veneer products are made friendly alternatives, while ensuring high levels of of sustainable and traceable FSC certified Oak fire-safety are maintained. and Ash wood. 100% of our wood products are manufactured to comply with EUTR. Our veneered All foams used in our Beetle and Bat collection products comply with strict regulations regarding are REACH compliant. This implies that the formaldehyde emission standards. Production of composition of the foam is strictly monitored, along many pieces in our classic furniture collection– with its related environmental impact, to align with including Beetle, Masculo, Gascoin and Gent–has EU Laws. We use a mix of foam and feathers in been updated to comply with FSC standards. our pillow upholstery and always ask for RDS certified feathers (Responsible Down Standards) Steel & Aluminum to ensure best practices in animal welfare and ensure down feathers are sourced responsibly. As Steel and aluminum are 100% recyclable materials, for the upholstery glues and activators, we primarily which means they can be reused over and over use water-based products that have little or no with negligible loss of integrity. We make sure our toxicity. We aim to switch entirely to water-based suppliers proceed in the manufacturing and sourcing compounds by 2021. of these materials under regulated conditions. Textiles and Leather More than 30% of our steel and aluminum components can be disassembled and disposed We work in partnerships with many different textile for recycling. We aim to increase this percentage and leather suppliers located around the world. Our with new developments and revisiting our current main fabric suppliers have very strong CSR values catalog aiming to reach at least 70% of our products and have worked towards developing a great by 2022. series of materials for us to choose from. Among our fabric options, our customers can choose from Polypropylene sustainably-certified textiles and leathers with labels such as: Chrome-Free, Cradle to Cradle, OekoPolypropylene is a thermoplastic polymer that Tex Standard, the EU Ecolabel, GREENGUARD, offers a material-efficient way to create durable among others. Many of our fabrics are single yarn forms. GUBI uses virgin polypropylene to optimise textiles that are 100% recyclable. strength, durability, and product lifespan. 100% of the plastic shell chairs, barstools, and stools from our Beetle, Bat and GUBI 3D collections are recyclable; they can be easily disassembled and 19 GUBI: A Responsible and Respectful Company In support of SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production Carefully Considered CSR Our Next Steps: At GUBI, we have a dedicated, internal CSR team 1. Further Waste Reduction: We will monitor waste tasked with helping us to improve our sustainability creation throughout our value chain and take policies throughout every aspect of the company. corrective actions where needed. In addition, we This team approaches each of GUBI’s business will explore opportunities to reuse “dead waste” practices with a critical, three-fold CSR philosophy materials in the production of new products, that carefully considers the social, environmental, increase the recyclability of our products, and and economic impact of what we are doing today encourage customers to replace, or “upgrade,” vs. ways we can improve, change, and grow the GUBI products they already own by replacing moving forward. simple elements such as upholstery or cushions. We believe that making decisions based on this 2. More Supply Chain Transparency: We will CSR philosophy is the key to reaching our valuerequire the use of certified and regulated material based goals of increased sustainability, greater and processes to manufacture our products as well transparency, and continued positive growth in as full transparency from our suppliers regarding the global market. Additionally, by considering all their sub-suppliers, raw materials sources, and the three factors in our decision making processes, working conditions of their employees. we are better able to take positive steps toward reducing our carbon footprint, decreasing waste, 3. A Greater Focus on Local: Moving forward, we and sourcing materials more responsibly, while aim to further expand our global supply chain with continuing to innovate and create timeless a mindset of valuing local and regional industries, design products. including local materials sourcing, manufacturing, warehousing, and upholstery operations. Focusing on local suppliers and supply chains will help to greatly reduce the practice of air-shipments, extra transport, and their related environmental impacts. We expect to have measurable results of this locally-focused strategy within the next two years. 4. Communicate Changes and Progress: In order to keep our in-house team, as well as our network of global partners and suppliers, abreast of our latest CSR-related strategies and initiatives, we will regularly publish and share updates about changes, news, and communication of progress (COP) reports. 20 Beetle For Life A SDG Case Study by GUBI About The Beetle How It Works: The Beetle Dining Chair has since its introduction 1 Customers can disassemble each individual in 2013 is well received by end-consumers as well chair into its three constituent parts: the as interior architects. Due to its appealing design, legs, the polypropylene (plastic) shell, and outstanding comfort and unique customisation upholstery insert. possibilities, the dining chair can be seen in many of the most renown restaurants around the world. 2 Then, each part can be cleaned or replaced as needed. The fully upholstered dining chair carries strong references to the design duo GamFratesi’s A chair’s old / original upholstery insert can 3 inspirational source; the insect world, more specific now be replaced with a new one (available the world of beetles. Not just the name indicates exclusively from GUBI) thus refreshing the their inspiration, but also the characteristic elements look and feel of the chair, extending its lifespan. of the beetles’ sections have been interpreted shape, shells, sutures, rigid outside and soft inside. 4 When the chair finally does reach the end of The wide range of upholstery options and different its useful life, the same disassembly system bases make it possible to put your personal touch enables each element to be separated and to the Beetle Dining Chair and create one of its kind. efficiently recycled. We carefully design and develop all of our products with a view to their entire life cycle, from the production of the initial parts to their end of life and recyclability. The Beetle and Bat Chairs–two of our best selling furniture products–exemplify this thoughtful approach because they both have the ability to be re-imagined, or “upgraded,” by replacing old upholstery with new. This practical, flexible system not only allows for customization by customers, but also extends the useful life of these two iconic chairs. 22 Progress Report Over the past year, our internal CSR team–guided by the United Nations Global Compact principles– has taken several steps toward enhancing our CSR strategy and clarifying our SDG goals for the future. Since 2019, the leadership of GUBI has executed the following initiatives: • Updated the GUBI employee handbook • Conducted a company-wide internal work environment study • Created a GUBI Code of Conduct agreement for employees and partners • Joined the UN Global Compact • Established an internal CSR team • Created GUBI’s first ever CSR strategy and actionable timeline • Initiated several new sustainably-minded product developments • Launched C-Chair Collection with FSC and EU Timber Regulation 25 Moving Forward During 2019 and 2020, GUBI has worked to develop CSR TARGETS FOR 2021: a detailed timeline for how to reach each of our SDG goals for the future. Along with the timeline, 1. Establish comprehensive CSR team, we have created a clear, actionable, step by step governance, and protocols plan for how to move forward down the path toward a. Begin monitoring / measuring for progress greener thinking and more sustainable business 2. Develop a comprehensive GUBI Code of practices. Conduct (COC) based on our new CSR goals and the UNGC principles: By the end of 2020, GUBI will have established a detailed CSR management framework to use for 3. Require supply chain transparency compliance governance and accountability. Afterwards, a CSR from our top 10 suppliers (globally), to take policy for each link in our value chain will be put effect by 2022 into place. These department-specific policies–in 4. Continue focus on developing local supply conjunction with GUBI’s new code of conduct–will chains wherever possible provide guidance, help with the implementation of new strategies, and allow for progress to be measured. TARGETS FOR 2022: Below are some of GUBI’s key CSR targets for the 1. Local supply chain strategy to be fully next three years, as defined by our CSR team and operational and monitored our SDG goals: 2. A minimum of 3 fully “circular” product in development at all times CSR TARGETS FOR 2020: 3. Ensure supply chain transparency compliance 1. Revisit / Revise the GUBI Code of Conduct from our top 10 suppliers (globally) (COC) a. Implement new COC internally b. Distribute new COC to all partners / suppliers worldwide 2. Establish new internal CSR Team, goals, and timeline 3. Gather data related to sustainability of all materials sourcing practices 4. Gather data related to sustainability of all supplier / sub-supplier processes 5. Evaluate carbon footprint of global and local / regional supply chains a. Review data and use to develop a plan for reducing carbon footprint 6. Implement improvements for the GUBI workplace culture (based on internal work environment study) 7. Submit GUBI’s first UNGC Report (July 2020) 26 GUBI Klubiensvej 7-9 2150 Copenhagen, Denmark gubi@gubi.com +45 3332 6368 CVR: 17940384 GUBI.COM
