CEO Statement of Continued Support for the UN Global Compact and Its Ten Principles Communication on Progress 1 . COP Numberly 2019 To our stakeholders: 1000mercis (doing business as Numberly) works every day to ensure that the digital sector sets an example in CSR. Preserving the environment, acting in favor of sustainable development, contributing to the education and helping our employees to be actors of change for the common good, is at the heart of Numberly's concerns. I am pleased to confirm that Numberly reaffirms its support for the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact concerning human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption policies. This annual communication form concerns actions taken to improve the integration of these ten principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. In addition, we are committed to communicating this information to our stakeholders. Paris, February 18 2020 Yseulys Costes Numberly CEO 2. COP Numberly 2019 Description of Actions or Relevant Policies Related to Human Rights IEvaluation and objectives Numberly has been growing continuously for almost 20 years. This growth could not have been achieved without the active support and strong involvement of the employees of the group. Each person embodies our values with his or her own influence, and contributes, each on the subjects that are most dear to him or her, to maintaining, developing and improving coherence in all our actions, whether internal or external. These values of freedom of opinion, non-discrimination, education and respect for the individual reflect features of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and are not exhaustive of what we implement within the company. IIImplementation We register our politics linked to Human Rights in our company rules and regulations. Every employee receive these rules upon arrival into the company. Our hiring criteria are driven by the adherence to our corporate culture in addition to the highest level of technical skills. Numberly has implemented an ethical alert process that enables every employee to report a violation in the fields of accounting, finance, banking, or on matters relating to the fight against corruption or competition, but also acts of discrimination, harassment or serious breaches of health and safety legislation, endangering the physical or mental health of employees. It aims at strengthening the means of expression of each person so that everyone is an actor in risk prevention. 3 . COP Numberly 2019 IIIMeasurement of outcomes The group currently employs 27 different nationalities in our offices (Paris, London, New York, Palo Alto, Dubai, Amsterdam, Tel Aviv, Milan, Montreal ), and we ensure that our values and commitment regarding Human Rights are applied in the same way everywhere in the world. Numberly has entered into a partnership with Fondation des Femmes, reference foundation for women's rights and violence against women. Numberly employees of the group and the group itself offer their support to help Fondation des Femmes to fundraise and finance their effective actions for women’s rights. Numberly also supports the initiatives of Doctors of the World regarding women’s health. Doctors of the World advocates for the right of women to take informed decisions about their own bodies, to bear children, to decide how many and the space between births. Doctors of the World organises advocacy initiatives in all those countries where these rights do not exist. To reduce maternal mortality, they strive for quality care during pregnancy and childbirth. To achieve this, they train local health workers and set up mobile clinics to deliver medical care to patients living in remote areas. 4. COP Numberly 2019 Description of Actions or Relevant Policies Related to Labor IEvaluation and objectives Since its creation, Numberly has never resorted to slavery or child labor, pledges never to resort to it, and applies a “Zero Tolerance” policy on these subjects where its suppliers and clients are concerned. We act with integrity and ethical standards in dealing with our customers, suppliers and employees. We ensure that no stakeholder with whom we have a relationship (of any kind) is complicit in human rights abuses. IIImplementation Numberly selects its suppliers on the basis of their adherence to the rules laid down by the International Labor Organization, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD and the Global Compact. Aware of the rapid evolution of the tools and techniques inherent to our field of activity, Numberly regularly organizes conferences at its Paris offices, and encourages employees to register for specific training courses provided by external institutes. To enable each employee to meet their personal aspirations and needs in terms of social action for the common good, we have signed a sponsorship agreement with the Latitude association, in order to mobilize engineers, developers and project managers and enable them to use their skills on projects of general interest. Numberly pays special attention to gender equity gender equity at work. Numberly has calculated its gender equality index, shared indicator measuring the maturity of the organisations regarding gender equity. IIIMeasurements of outcomes We are convinced that a balanced representation of men and women in positions of responsibility is the pledge of better performance makes it a point of honor to encourage 5 . COP Numberly 2019 parity. With regard to the representation of women on the Board of Directors as an example, they have represented 50% of the members for more than 5 years. Half of the Group's managers are women, and women account for 52% of the members of the Management Committee. The company is in full compliance with the legislation regarding parity in hiring, at the level of remuneration and promotion. The progression objectives are the same for both men and women. The group strongly encourages its employees to develop within the company's business lines without discrimination nor gender differentiation. Promotions are awarded to both women and men, women may retain their functions during maternity leave, and maternity leave does not in any way prevent the possibility of a salary increase. Men are encouraged to take paternity leave. Numberly adheres to the Galion gender agreement. Our gender equality index equals 96/100. It takes into account: gender pay gap distribution of individual salary increases men/women promotion spread number of employees increased after return from maternity leave gender equality among the 10 highest paid employees The objective is to reach the nearest to a score of 100 for the index. Pursuing our policy of diversity in all areas, we are happy to have more than 25 different nationalities in our teams around the world. 6. COP Numberly 2019 Description of Actions or Relevant Policies Related to the Environment IEvaluation and objectives Numberly is committed to preventing and controlling the environmental risks inherent in its activities. Moreover, the group wishes to contribute to reducing the causes of pollution and climate warning. IIImplementation Numberly is continuing its recycling efforts, encouraging its employees to use The company is committed to and conducts promotional actions with customers to encourage them to adopt the sustainable consumption patterns applied by Numberly. In addition, the group has set up a number of procedures for recycling equipment and consumables used in the course of its business: Obsolete computer equipment is donated to associations for reuse or recycling. Empty ink cartridges are stored and taken back for recycling. Collectors for used batteries are available in the company for the professional and personal needs of the employees. Paper consumption is optimized through the use of recyclable scrap paper. Plastic consumables have been reduced to the strict minimum (no more plastic bottles and cups...) to be replaced by durable crockery. Cardboard and paper waste is sorted selectively. The staff is attentive and responsible with regard to energy consumption. Each employee ensures that his computer is switched off when he leaves the office. Travel, especially air traffic, has a high carbon footprint. The Numberly Group with offices in Paris, London, Amsterdam, Tel Aviv, Dubai, New York and Palo Alto has implemented advanced video conferencing systems to minimize the need to travel. The group also promotes the implementation of VPN devices to facilitate the work-life balance of its employees. 7 . COP Numberly 2019 IIIMeasurement of outcomes Two partnerships have been implemented: Recycling – Les Joyeux Recycleurs Les Joyeux Recycleurs collect certain types of company waste such as cardboard, paper, plastic cups and bottles, cans, cartridges, batteries, lamps, pens, caps, cigarette butts, batteries, light bulbs...etc. With the waste statistics, we pay 5 centimes per kilo collected to a center for adaptation to working life. Reforestation Resforest’action is an association that enables individuals and companies to take concrete action in favour of reforestation in France and throughout the world. Numberly is committed to planting more than 5,000 trees a year with its employees. Many benefits have already been created by the trees planted: Climate: nearly 2 million kilometres by car compensated Biodiversity: more than 10,000 animal shelters created Health: nearly 15,000 months of oxygen created Employment: nearly 4,000 hours of work created 8. COP Numberly 2019 Description of Actions or Relevant Policies Related to the Fight Against Corruption IEvaluation and objectives Our company rejects bribery and influence peddling in its relations with all of its stakeholders whether they consist of offering or receiving any improper advantage. IIImplementation The Management Board has drawn up a charter, which defines and illustrates the different types of behavior to be prohibited (corruption, influence peddling, gifts and invitations, travel). It lists the disciplinary procedures to be applied in each case and describes an alert system for reporting possible situations of corruption. IIIMeasurement of outcomes The company has received six claims relating to corruption risks and conflict of interest. To date, no cases of corruption have been reported. 9 . COP Numberly 2019
