HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Unilog actively respects and supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The respect of human rights is integrated in both internal and external Unilog’s operations. On 2019 February Unilog reviewed the company’s Code of Conduct that is accessible from all employees. This Code is created based on the Unilog principles and policy and in accordance with relevant legislative framework. Unilog has an Anti-Harassment and Anti-Bullying Policy and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly. Unilog will not tolerate any type of harassment or discrimination. Unilog is sensitive to issues related to human rights and ensures that it is transmitted to employees. Implementation Employees are encouraged to report to the upper management any behavior within the company they believe is not in compliance with the Code of Conduct. All reports are kept confidential and are given the necessary attention to the issue and a satisfactory solution. If requested, there is also the option to have face to face a meeting with representative of the Human Resources Department. Unilog participates in actions in accordance with the human rights universal declaration. Unilog supports economically NGO organizations when is necessary. Unilog, where organizational changes are being implemented, informs the staff and ensures the participation of it to the new procedures. Measurement of outcomes In the past year, Unilog has not received from employees, suppliers, and business partners or customers cases of violations of human rights. Communication on Progress 2019 In accordance with the specific Code of Conduct, have not been recorded cases of improper behavior. In 2019 Unilog continued to support people with the migration problems, collected and distributed clothes and goods. Unilog also supports financially weak people through organizations. Every year Unilog provides financial support to the institutions “HARA”http://www.kea-hara.gr/ and to the “Friends of child” http://filoitoupediou.gr/. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6:the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Unilog recommends all its employees to feel free to participate to associations of their choice. Unilog proclaims the commitment to the protection of the rights of employees. Unilog is commited to equal employment opportunities. Unilog does not accept, support or encourage any type of child labor. Unilog’s policy supports that employees should not be discriminated or be tolerated against gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, national origin with respect to or any other characteristic protected under law. All employees shall be aware of their working conditions. Unilog complies with national law and for every employee is issued a contract of employment which clearly defines the terms and conditions of their job. It also provides the new employees with a handbook, named “new comers guide” explaining the conditions of employment, the company’s rules and procedures. Unilog complies with all relevant health and safety regulations and provides the appropriate training for the employees. Communication on Progress 2019 In respect of employment occupation, Unilog applies career management for the top evaluation employees. Unilog promotes work and life balance through employees. Implementation Weekly and monthly meetings are scheduled in between managers/supervisors/employees. The intention of these meetings is to ensure the  participation of employees to the procedures of Unilog  expression of the opinions in health and safety technical issues  problem solving through consultation On issues related on Health and Safety at work the QA-QP communicates with the Safety Engineer in order to express its opinion. In 2015 a work regulation were composed for the protection of rights of employees and the avoidance of misunderstanding of company’s rules. All the payments of Unilog include taxes and social security deductions according to the law. All Unilog employees are over 18years old. The average age of our employees is about 35 years old. Prior to any recruitment, are given all the required all the documents in order to be ensured the legitimacy of the procedure. Unilog supports the effective abolition of child labor and it is reflected to its contracts with suppliers and contractors. Human Resources policies support the best practices in terms of labor and employment and ensure the transparency of recruitments, dismissals and resignations. Following the recruitment, in each employee has been given a job description which clearly defines the responsibilities, the terms and conditions of the contract. By recruiting a new employee, a training program relating to the requirements of its position is taken place, the “induction training”. It lasts one week and it is an important tool for the new staff in order to become familiarized with its new duties. In Communication on Progress 2019 addition all employees encouraged to attend seminars relating to their jobs in order to advance their career and knowledge. In 2017 was entered internal procedure for the career management of employees. The management team is consisted from 12 managers which 5 of them belongs to women. In 2019 two women were promoted to managerial positions. Unilog supports work-life balance through extra maternity leaves and seminars through psychologist. Unilog inform personnel on various emergencies such as earthquakes, fire, first aids. Several audits with emphasis to health and safety are run in Unilog during the year in order to be certified for its procedures. Unilog strengthens the multicultural environment for the recruitment of personel. Outcomes In 2019, 17 meetings have taken place for Safety and Health reasons. In 2017 concerning the company regulation not created any misunderstanding. In 2019 Unilog gave medical benefits to the employees. A working doctor examined all employees according to the health national rules. In 2019 all employees participated in a number of training programs including health and safety at the workplace. An annual performance appraisal run every year in order to be determined the degree of personal development and to be observed the training needs. Unilog has not been involved in any investigations or legal cases related to the UN Global Compact Labor principles and has not been received any health and safety warnings from the law. In Unilog 5 seminars took place seminars such as first aids, safe driving, earthquakes in 2019. In 2019 2 employees were promoted to responsibilities positions through the internal career management policy and the annual performance appraisal. Communication on Progress 2019 Unilog’s annual turnover of employees is 0,8% and the duration of employment at Unilog over 9 years. This is regarded as a clear sign of workforce stability and of mutual trust. Unilog employs workers from other countries and religions. In 2019 two employees were promoted to responsibilities positions through the internal career management policy and the annual performance appraisal. Unilog permitted extra maternity leaves for three mothers in order to help them adjusting to their new role. Furthermore Unilog held two seminars for all the staff with subject “life with children in the early years” and “ life with children in adolescence. As a result many employees benefited from this action. In cooperation with suppliers and contractors, has not been observed cases regarding any form of child labor. Unilog continues to support and encourage the effective abolition of child labor. The account department of the company controls and maintains all the relevant procedures in accordance with national and international law. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Unilog is committed to develop its activities in relation to the protection of the environment and human health. This commitment is depicted by the Company having and conforming to ISO Standards (EN ISO 9001:2008 and OHSAS 18001:2007). Unilog in 2019 got two certificates. The ISO 14001 2015 for environmental and management systems as well as the ISO 45000 for health and safety in work. Communication on Progress 2019 Unilog has an environmental policy which communicates it to staff, customers and suppliers and operates its core business with emphasis on environmental protection ensuring full compliance to National and European legislation. Unilog encourages the use of friendly environmental technologies. For this purpose it has target to increase the amount of recycling waste and to decrease the amount of waste going directly to damp. In addition it has target for reducing fuel for vehicles and regularlyit replaces older vehicles, using more fuel efficient vehicles. Unilog designs an environmental management system that as a plan has to train all staff in environmental matter. Implementation Unilog’s staff has participated in various groups and seminars to be up to date about new developments in the logistics market. Unilog designs and operates its facilities, based on regulations that protect the health and safety of our workers and of the local community in which it operates. Aditionally, it communicates with the local authorities for cooperation on issues relating to the environment, such as recycling. Unilog tries for the maximum limitation of vehicle usage or their replacement by hybrid technology therefore limiting emissions. Unilog creates a work environment where employees are educated on environmental issues. Unilog periodically reviews regulations and adoption of more environmentally friendly practices. Unilog set targets for reduction of electricity, for reduction of consumption of potable water and water recycling. Unilog helps students in Logistics to do their Masters Thesis. Because of its geographical position, Unilog recruits employees from the surroundings in order to reduce the pollution from the vehicles and simultaneously to strengthen the local communities. Communication on Progress 2019 Outcomes Unilog uses licensed waste companies for the disposal of the waste. Unilog in cooperation with RECYCOM collects and recycle clothes in order to offer them free to poor people in Greece or in countries where there is an urgent need such as natural disaster, war and so on. Unilog has set targets for recycling all types of recyclables such as paper, toners, batteries, electrical lamps with a success of 100%. In addition encourages the employees to consider the environment and not to print paper whether it is not necessary. Unilog monitors water and electricity consumption on annual basis. For the 2019, electricity consumption has reduced as well as the water consumption. Unilog developed a theory model in order to reduce the delivery time of its products through the logistics. This scenario apart from the financial benefits due to quicker delivery time, turned out to be the less fuel consuming. Unilog has not been registered any reportable environmental incidents within the last year and has not subjected to statutory notices or prosecutions. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals Unilog has a total commitment to comply with anti-corruption, especially in the form of extortion and bribery. For this reason follows and applies to its transparency system all the National and European regulation and legislation and it strictly rejects any illegal transactions. Unilog’sCode of Conduct has a clear statement: We trust that the excellence of our services is the key to our business success. Therefore we will deal with all our customers, suppliers and government agencies in a straightforward Communication on Progress 2019 manner and in compliance with international anti-bribery standards as stated in the Global Compact and local anti-corruption and bribery laws. This includes any transaction that might appear to be arranged for granting concessions or benefits. It addresses detailed guidelines on the following topics: conflicts of interest, gifts and benefits, fair competition, facilitating payments. Implementation The Financial Director has the responsibility for anti-corruption within Unilog and the Code of Conduct sets out clearly what bribery means in the terms of business operation. During holiday’s period such as Christmas whenare sending gifts to a specific department, the manager collects and distributes these gifts to the employees. The code of conduct has been distributed to every employee. The human resources department encourages the employees to ask for advices, whether they have questions they cannot answer and doubts about their action such as:  Is my action or decision legal?  Does it comply with our values and our policies?  Is it right and free of any personal conflicts of interest?  Will my action or decision protect Unilog’s reputation as company with high ethical standards? Outcomes The upper management and the financial department control for cases of corruption and bribery. Unilog has not been involved in any legal cases, or investigations related to corruption and bribery. Every year,Unilog’s financial statements are controlled from external auditors. Communication on Progress 2019
