COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | PWT GROUP PWT GROUP | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 DURING 2019, PWT GROUP CONTINUED TO STRENGTHEN ITS FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY. The principles of the UN Global Compact, the UN Guiding Principles and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises are important guidelines for us, acting in a complex and ever-changing textile industry. We want to be able to provide our customers with quality garments produced considering both people and the environment. That means that we continuously work to ensure safe and responsible working conditions, and at the same time prioritize to implement more sustainable materials and production processes. We believe that the best way to create long-lasting changes is through international multi-stakeholder partnerships, and in 2019 we increased our engagements, by joining forces with the Better Cotton Initiative, as well as with Plastic Change, a Danish environmental organization. We look forward to continuing this informative and meaningful journey towards becoming a more sustainable business. Ole Koch Hansen CEO 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | PWT GROUP PWT GROUP | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONCEPT MUST WIN DESCRIPTIONS BATTLES CSR AREAS PRODUCTS • Sustainable materials and design Human & Labour The • Responsible buying processes Rights Environment • Proper working conditions CSR • Environmental responsibility Animal Welfare Anticorruption MISSION THE FRAMEWORK We dress men POLICIES with care for PWT Group’s sustainability work is based on the PROCESS REQUIREMENTS people and the planet UN Global Compact’s ten principles and follows the approach set forth in the OECD Guidelines • Policy CUSTOMERS for Multinational Enterprises and the UN Guiding • Due Diligence Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP’s).  Identify The Group’s CSR Policy refers to international • Products without harmful chemicals endorsed principles for sustainable development,  Prevent & mitigate such as The International Bill of Human Rights, VISION  Remediate • Sustainable use of products including core ILO labour rights, the Rio Declaration • Accounting • CSR into the brands’ storytelling and the UN Convention against Corruption. • Decent work & economic growth VALUE CHAIN • Responsible consumption PWT Group develops and markets its seven brands and production PARTNERSHIPS that are sold by more than 900 independent retailers and the Group’s own retail chains Tøjeksperten, Wagner and Brandstad (around 200 stores in Denmark, Norway, Sweden and China). The production takes place in several countries GROWTH across the globe. PWT Group does not own any factories but cooperate with a range of suppliers, both directly with production facilities and via sourcing • Good moral and ethics houses. The top-50 factories represent 90% of all • CSR as part of the DNA orders. • National and international partnerships PARTNERSHIPS PWT Group collaborates with several organizations and initiatives in order to create as much positive impact as possible. 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | PWT GROUP PWT GROUP | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 SOURCING COUNTRIES PORTUGAL TURKEY CHINA PAKISTAN BANGLADESH The top-50 factories account for MYANMAR 90% of the annual orders CAMBODIA BANGLADESH CHINA PAKISTAN TURKEY PORTUGAL CAMBODIA MYANMAR OTHER COUNTRIES 34% 31% 10% 7% 6% 4% 4% 4% 14 FACTORIES 40 FACTORIES 4 FACTORIES 8 FACTORIES 5 FACTORIES 2 FACTORIES 2 FACTORIES 25 FACTORIES 8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | PWT GROUP PWT GROUP | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 BELOW ARE THE IDENTIFIED CHALLENGES AND LINKED ACTION PLANS IN REGARD TO HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS INTERNALLY IN PWT GROUP: HUMAN AND RISKS ACTION PLANS LABOUR RIGHTS Risk of occupational A working environment committee continuously assesses the working environment and makes recommendations for improvements. In the recent APV-report, a few numbers of hazards and occupational accidents were reported, and measures have been taken to prevent such injuries accidents from reoccurring. Risk of overtime Regular overtime is a common challenge for the industry, but the Group is continuously work on a regular working to prevent excessive overtime. The team managers are constantly improving basis working processes in order to ensure a more efficient flow and hence avoid excessive overtime. No female Notes on section 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act members on the Women are underrepresented on both the Board of Directors and in Management. Earlier management set target of 20% women serving on the Board of Directors has not been met. However, the board Board strives to find suitable female candidates when recruiting board members and a new target of 20% has been set with deadline 1 April 2022. The gender diversity policy for the Management Team emphasizes diversity in the broadest sense and lays out the principle always to hire the most qualified person, regardless of Quite a lot of people are involved throughout the gender, age, nationality, sexual orientation or religious beliefs. entire value chain, from the cotton farmer, to the workers in the sewing factory, to the sales assistants, etc. PWT Group has a substantial impact on many people’s lives and the Group continuously works to ensure that the respect for humanand labour rights is upheld throughout its activities. Risk of harmful In order to ensure safe products for the customers, the Group has implemented chemical chemicals restrictions and a test program. PWT Group does not accept any products that contain PWT GROUP The Group is continuously assessing its own working harmful chemicals. All suppliers are required to sign PWT Group’s Restricted Substances conditions and culture in order to ensure a safe and List (RSL), which is based on the Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006 of the European Parliasatisfying working environment for all its employees. ment, also known as the REACH regulation. The RSL has been developed in collaboration PWT Group generally promotes health and wellwith Bureau Veritas and is updated on a regular basis. The Group has set up a thorough test being at work, and all employees are offered a program to ensure that styles from every collection is selected to undergo testing, based complimentary health insurance scheme. The on a risk analysis. Group’s staff association organizes events, seminars and workshops for social and educational purposes and employees are offered relevant courses. 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | PWT GROUP PWT GROUP | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS IN 96% of top-50 factories are at an acceptable BSCI THE SUPPLY CHAIN level , 2% at a non-acceptable level (one factory), and It is of great importance to ensure that human and 2% has not yet started working with the BSCI (one labour rights are respected throughout the Group’s factory). The Group’s CSR Manager maintains regular supply chain. PWT Group dedicates significant dialogue with these factories on how to improve from resources to support suppliers in handling their due their current level of compliance. diligence work. It is a long road, and the Group does not expect suppliers to improve all issues over night, but it is expected that they make an effort to identify, prevent, remediate and mitigate negative impacts. All suppliers are required to sign and comply with the Group’s Code of Conduct. The content and structure of the Code is based on the UNGPs and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. The Group focuses its efforts on the top-50 factories (90 % of the annual orders) and requests that they provide annual self-assessments, enable factory visits, and participate in amfori BSCI (or Sedex or SA8000) and, if in Bangladesh, the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh. SELF-ASSESSMENTS & FACTORY VISITS 2% During 2019, the Group conducted a self-assessment 2% survey with more than 120 participants (factories and agents). The response rate was relatively high and so was the average score. Individual reports for each factory and agent show highlighted good examples and challenges, and the Group uses these 32% 64% in the dialogues with suppliers. The focus for 2020 will be to develop corrective action plans (CAPs) for strategic factories in the Factlines platform and build up a structured approach to this area. The CSR manager conducted two rounds of factory visits, one in Bangladesh and one in China. During 2019, the Group developed an audit program with the aim to ensure a systematic approach on how to assess the suppliers’ performances on the different sustainability parameters. The audit program follows Good (A+B+SA8000) a step-by-step approach, allowing the visitor to focus its attention and dialogues with the factory management on specific challenges during each audit. Acceptable (C + SEDEX) AMFORI BSCI PWT Group has been a member of the amfori since 2013, and the amfori BSCI platform is actively used as Non-acceptable (D+E) the main social certification system. BSCI suppliers are audited annually by third party auditors, and the Group uses the audit reports to promote dialogue on necessary improvements. NO BSCI 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | PWT GROUP PWT GROUP | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 BELOW ARE THE IDENTIFIED CHALLENGES AND LINKED ACTION PLANS IN REGARD TO HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS IN SUPPLY CHAIN: RISKS ACTION PLANS Unsafe working PWT Group’s suppliers must provide safe working conditions. Being a signatory member of conditions the Accord, the Group is supporting to ensure safer production buildings in a country, where it is a fact that building, electrical and fire safety is a major concern. It is a requirement to all suppliers that they can provide valid permits of building safety. Excessive PWT Group works to ensure that its own buying practices does not contribute to excessive working hours working hours. Orders are placed well in advance, and the Group ensures that changes are not made shortly before deadlines. The Group assesses suppliers’ practices; overtime should be voluntary and limited, management should develop a contingency plan and is encouraged to set up electronic time systems, etc. Lack of ensurSuppliers’ ability to ensure the health of their employees is assessed on an ongoing ing the health of basis. Indicators include proper sanitary facilities, clean drinking water, full-time medical workers staff, regular health check-ups, free or low-cost medicine, proper conditions for pregnant employees, etc. Whenever possible, the Group promotes and invites suppliers to relevant trainings, such as the OSH course in Dhaka, facilitated by the Danish Embassy, where participating factories were instructed by Danish OSH experts. Unfair PWT Group does not own factories and cannot manage salaries paid to suppliers’ workremuneration ers. However, the Group does negotiate realistic prices in order not to contribute to unfair remuneration. PWT Group requires that all suppliers comply with national regulation, and the Group assesses suppliers’ ability to support workers financially in other ways, e.g. by providing free transportation, low-cost canteens, and kiosks with low-cost provisions. Discrimination Suppliers’ ability to provide equal rights and payment for everyone is assessed on an ongoing basis. Indicators include recruitment and salary procedures, respectful behavior from managers towards workers, etc. BANGLADESH ACCORD PWT Group has been a signatory member of the Precarious Production facilities should keep proper records of contracts and employee ID, and have Accord since 2013. PWT Group is committed to employment and proper notice and leave procedures in place in order to avoid precarious employment. PWT require all active Bangladeshi suppliers to work bonded labour Group focuses on questioning the use of piece-rated employees and probation workers, with the Accord Inspection Programme, help sewhich can be a method to keep wages down. cure remediation and support worker participation and training programmes on the factories. Accord engineers continuously conduct inspections Freedom of PWT Group assesses suppliers’ respect for worker associations and trade unions as well covering fire, building and electricity safety at the association as their ability to include workers in decision-making. The Group stresses to suppliers that participating factories. Currently, the Group has 14 and collective safety or WP committees can be very valuable and support suppliers in establishing good active Bangladeshi factories in the initiative with an bargaining committee practices. Through the Accord, WP committees learn about their rights and average progress rate of 90%. 12 out of 14 active responsibilities, which is of great value. PWT Group continuously stresses to suppliers that factories are participating in the Accord’s safety dismissal of workers due to rightful activi-ties connected to worker association is unacceptcommittee training. able. As the Accord is to leave Bangladesh as per May 31, Child labour In general, this issue has improved among suppliers. However, the Group still considers 2020, there is a lot of uncertainty towards how the and the lack of child labour as a substantial risk within the entire supply chain. The Group became a meminspection and training programme will continue. The protection of ber of BCI in 2019, an initiative that in addition to reducing the environmental footprint, Group follows the developments closely, and will take young workers works to improve working conditions and abolish child labour. Among other things, the BCI a decision on how to proceed once a final agreement trains participating farmers in the importance of education. is decided. 14 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | PWT GROUP PWT GROUP | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 BELOW ARE THE IDENTIFIED CHALLENGES AND LINKED ACTION PLANS IN REGARD TO ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE RISKS ACTION PLANS ENVIRONMENT AND Production It is a well-known fact that production facilities have a substantial negative impact on CLIMATE local environment and climate. Many risks exist: discharge of contaminated water and air, poor waste management, extensive water consumption, etc. Regulatory regimes and enforcement of regulation vary across the production countries, but PWT Group supports suppliers in building up capacity and knowledge on how to reduce their environmental footprint. The Group’s RSL aims to ensure that suppliers avoid specific harmful chemicals. The RSL includes guidance on implementation and request that suppliers communicate the RSL to sub-suppliers, only purchase compliant chemicals, request MSDS from chemical suppliers, train staff, and conduct in-ternal inspections. In the coming years, the Group will focus on embedding top-suppliers into the amfori environmental program, BEPI. Through BEPI, the factories’ environmental performances are assessed, targets are set, and management and workers receive training. PWT Group requires all leather suppliers only to use tanneries that are member of the Leather Working Group; an initiative focusing on reducing the consumption of water, energy and chemicals. PWT Group requires all relevant supplier to sign and comply with the Group’s Animal Welfare Policy, which is based on the Five Freedoms. The Group is considering setting certification Being a textile company with over 200 shops, two largest cotton sustainability programme in the requirements to suppliers of down and wool. offices, and production in many countries, PWT world and tackles the environmental and societal Group has a substantial environmental footprint. challenges at field level by training farmers to care The Group is committed to reduce its impact for the environment and respect workers’ rights on the environment and climate by continuously and wellbeing. Further to the BCI membership, the Transport PWT Group specifies to suppliers that the Group prefers sea freight, and that train freight improving its own routines and processes, Group has scaled up its use of organic cotton, and is preferred over airfreight, reducing airfreight to an absolute minimum. Furthermore, all and by supporting suppliers to produce more the aim is to continue this priority. shipments from central inventories are continuously optimized. PWT Group aims to environmental friendly. develop an overview of GHG emissions and energy consumption from transport activities The Group has intensified its collaboration, the in collaboration with the shipping supplier, which will enable an improved assessment and Focus on more sustainable products Sustainable Wash, with its denim supplier in Turprogress within the area. An obvious place to start changing old routines key. The Sustainable Wash is achieved through is in the design process. Within recent years, the a use of the innovative Wiser Wash © treatment, Packaging In order to protect the quality of the products, different kind of packaging material surrounds Group has put a lot of focus on implementing in which laser and ozone technology replaces the products during the different stages of the value chain. Such packaging includes more sustainable materials and products. The appumice stones and toxic chemicals. This washing polybags, tissue paper, carton boxes, plastic bags, etc. proach is to cooperate with suppliers on finding process reduces water consumption by at least During 2019, PWT Group replaced all packaging materials in the shops (physical and online) the best solution that makes sense on all parame90% to only a cup of water. with ones made of recycled plastic and recycled carton. Furthermore, the Group took the ters. This intensified focus has resulted in several decision that in order to reduce plastic usage, plastic bags will no longer be provided for initiatives. Polyester, being the second most used fiber, is also free, starting from Jan 1 2020. All surplus made from this initiative is donated to the Danish of concern, and the Group is continuously looking environmental organisation, Plastic Change. First of all, the Group is committed to reduce the to replace virgin polyester with recycled polyester. In all parts of the organisation, The Group is looking into how to reduce and/or replace number of styles produced every year. Since 2017, In recent years, the buying team has experienced existing packaging materials with more sustainable materials. In general, this is about the number of styles have been reduced with a substantial increase in suppliers able to provide revalidating old routines and processes, and the Group is committed to go with smarter 28%, and the aim is to reduce with 47% in total. this, and the range of products containing recycled and greener solutions, when such makes sense on all parameters. By doing so, the Group wants to strengthen the polyester will continue to expand. quality of the products and at the same reduce its environmental footprint. Energy and water With around 200 stores and 2 offices, it makes sense to look at the locations’ usage of use, waste manenergy, waste management systems, cleaning products, etc. The Group will look more into The predominant material used in the Group’s agement, etc. this area in the coming years. The Group ensures that only cut up development samples products is cotton. Therefore, PWT Group decided to join the Better Cotton Initiative in 2019. are being disposed as waste, whereas everything else is sold or donated to third parties. The aim is to source minimum 50 % of the Group’s cotton as Better Cotton within 2025. BCI is the 16 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | PWT GROUP PWT GROUP | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 ANTI-CORRUPTION PWT Group wishes to combat corruption and bribery and seeks to promote openness and transparency. The company is very much aware that being present in countries like China and Bangladesh, it needs to be very attentive to the risk of corruption. BELOW ARE THE IDENTIFIED CHALLENGES AND LINKED ACTION PLANS: RISKS ACTION PLANS Sourcing from PWT Group has established an Anticountries with Corruption Policy, which is based on high corruption the UN Convention against Corruption risks and signed by the top management. It is included in the Employee Handbook and Supplier Manual. Together with the policy, a ‘Facilitation and Hospitality Register’ has been set up where employees register gift. The policy and procedure is communicating internally on an annual basis. Through the BSCI system, suppliers are audited on their anticorruption policies and procedures. PWT GROUP G ø t e b o r g v e j 15 9200 Aalborg SV (+45) 7245 4545
