GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COP 2019 WENZEL Elektronik GmbH Company name WENZEL Elektronik GmbH Date 2020-04-07 Address Gehrstücken 7 Membership date 2007-09-19 25421 Pinneberg No. of employees 59 Country Germany Sector Telecommunications Contact name Mrs. Brigitte Ritscher Tel./Fax +49 4101 69699-0 /-18 Position Communication E-mail mail@wenzel-elektronik.de Internet www.wenzel-elektronik.de Brief description of nature of business Wenzel Elektronik GmbH develops, manufactures and markets telecommunications and information systems that are characterized by high reliability and availability. Our solutions are tailored especially for the use in public local and mainline transport, in train control centres as in public and commercial buildings (e.g., airports, schools, retail outlets). We support our customers in the assembly, modification and re-equipment of their systems by innovative high-tech solutions and facilitate the migration to new technologies and procedures. The extensive experiences of the complete process chain, from concept to commissioning of the product to service, are incorporated into product ideas that will be applicable outside the traditional business area. Our technical expertise continues to grow steadily, towards safe software solutions that combines classical electrical engineering with powerful processors. Our business actions are guided by the sustainable use of natural resources. The company is certified according to DIN EN ISO 9001 for quality management and DIN EN ISO 14001 for environmental management. We are proud of references from over 15 countries. © 2020 WENZEL Elektronik GmbH Page 1 / 10 Statement of support By joining the United Nations Global Compact in September 2007, we particularly want to show SMEs in our market sector that business operations of an IT enterprise allow to recognize these important principles of UN Global Compact, and that putting concrete measures into action is worthwhile. Due to our membership, we affirm that we not only comply with the required social, ethical and environmental standards, but that we are committed beyond the minimum and achieve ongoing progress. Environmental protection is an important task for our company. We are fully aware that all activities involved in the design, development and manufacture of our products have a direct or indirect influence on the environment. We commit ourselves to achieve our commercial objectives with due regard to the need for environmental protection. Details are communicated to employees, customers and stakeholders in our annual reports. Signature Thomas Zwick Position Executive Director © 2020 WENZEL Elektronik GmbH Page 2 / 10 Human Rights (Principles 1 2) We respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and support their compliance within our sphere of influence. We ensure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. Wenzel Elektronik GmbH is a medium-sized company in Germany, a member state of the UNO with the obligation to bring the human rights in its national legal system to their full advantage. Therefore, we regard the compliance of civil, political and social human rights in connection with our business processes as a matter of course. © 2020 WENZEL Elektronik GmbH Page 3 / 10 Labour (Principles 3 6) We respect the rights of our employees to engage in union activity and recognize their right to collective bargaining effectively. Our company currently employs 59 employees who are represented by the works council towards the management. The legal basis is the German Works Constitution Act. The works council have a say in matters of corporate management, work organization and working time. For this, among other things, monthly briefings with the management and up to four employees meetings per year are provided. We support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour as well as child labour. Self-declaration In connection with the German tendering legislation, we explain within our bids that the contractually agreed delivery of the goods have been produced according to the minimum social standards of the ILO core labour standards (International Labour Organisation). Of course, we meet the set requirements to collective labour agreements, minimum wages and social security payments. We put a value on suppliers and partner companies that also keep the working conditions granted by us. Our main suppliers are based in the region and certified according to DIN EN ISO 9001 and DIN EN ISO 14001. Statutory accident insurance We are a registered member of the BG ETEM (Employers Liability Insurance Association for Energy, Textile, Electrical and Media Products) Cologne, the statutory accident insurance. This association supports us in matters of industrial safety and health at work. In addition, the BG trains our employees on site. In case of work and commute-related accidents as well as occupational diseases the BG provides for rehabilitation and compensation. Company with high safety level To increase the safety of our employees, we have established a working group for evaluating the safety in our company. The working group shall meet periodically in the group security committee. Analysis of working places and work processes as well as site inspections serve to identify and remove potential hazards. All this leads to a company that is accident-free for several years. © 2020 WENZEL Elektronik GmbH Page 4 / 10 Reconciliation of family and work life In our society, the need to reconcile family and work life for women and men grows. Taking this into account we offer tolerant, flexible working time arrangements to our employees. In addition to flexible working hours and statutory parental leave, employees may choose to work part-time or/and at home. Thus, we show consideration for the family situation as much as possible. Commitment to vocational education As a medium sized company we take responsibility in the vocational education of young people. We are a certified member of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry (IHK) and train according to IHK guidelines. In our company trainees can learn the entire process chain, from product concept, development and manufacturing to installation and commissioning at the customer. We also give them an insight into the domestic and international sales of our products. Moreover, apprentices can apply for cooperative study programs at two private universities. Studying at the university and practice time in our company alternate. In this case we take the tuition fee and pay a training allowance. In the context of practical semesters and support of diploma thesis we cooperate with further study institutions. We maintain our contacts with schools and offer internships to students. Also, we participate in the yearly Girls'Day event since 2007. Ongoing training and qualification measures We encourage internal and external training programs for our employees to enhance their expertise and to impart new knowledge: for our ERP system SAP 6.0, for compliance with technical guidelines regarding safety and environmental protection, for quality assurance, etc. Staff members of the R&D department regularly attend conferences and fairs to find out more about new products and methods. We support the elimination of any discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We highly value our most important resource, our employees, regardless of gender, race, colour, language, religion, political or other opinion or disability. Science, crafts, technology and IT provide a vision for girls. On the annual Girls'Day (Girls' Future Day) companies and businesses throughout Germany invite schoolgirls to explore future professions. The aim is to provide equal opportunities and to overcome the scarcity of qualified employees in technical industries. We support this initiative by giving five girls information about the attractive career opportunities in a modern communications company. The Girls'Day is communicated on our corporate website. © 2020 WENZEL Elektronik GmbH Page 5 / 10 Environment (Principles 7 9) We take a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Certified eco management Environmental protection is one of the main objectives of our company. Since 2006 we are certified according to the environmental management system DIN EN ISO 14001. All employees integrate the measurements and defined objectives in the daily business actively. By regularly reviewing our objectives in internal audits, we ensure compliance with the legal system and achieve continuous improvement. The last external surveillance audit by the BSi Deutschland was in December 2019. The current certificate is attached. Producer responsibility As a manufacturer of electronic products Wenzel Elektronik is responsible to ensure the product generation according to the strict observance of legal and further guidelines. This responsibility applies not only internal but also external components and processes with suppliers. The WEEE directive (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) serves the reduction of the growing amount of electronic waste from disused electrical and electronic equipment. The aim is to avoid, reduce and environmentally dispose of increasing amounts of electronic waste by an extended producer responsibility. Wenzel Elektronik GmbH is registered under the WEEE no. DE88634999. The RoHS directive (Restriction of (the use of certain) Hazardous Substances) regulates and restricts the use of hazardous substances already during the manufacture of electronics products, so that the risk of future damages of health and ecology is reduced. As a consequence, we started in 2003 to manufacture our product portfolio RoHS-compliant. REACH is a chemical regulation for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals. In accordance with this regulation we respect that own products, or e.g. the shipping package comprises not more than 0.1% of a potentially harmful substance of the REACH substance list. Suppliers must provide REACH-compliant products. Involvement of our suppliers We emphasizes quality and environmental aspects taking the choice of suppliers who provide their products and services to the company. Here, environmental management according to DIN EN ISO 14001, compliance with legal standards, also corresponding manuals and action plans as well as environmentally friendly packaging systems are important aspects. Audits and surveys of suppliers are used methods to review the engagement of suppliers concerning environmental protection. © 2020 WENZEL Elektronik GmbH Page 6 / 10 We undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Strict waste separation The employees collect and separate the waste as a self-responsible activity, depending on the type and reusability, and dispose of them according to the legal provisions and regional institutions. Reduction of power consumption As a manufacturer of telecommunications equipment we use modern components with lower operating voltage for device production. This method is one of our development principles. For new purchases of computers and peripherals we pay attention to processors with low power consumption. In general network printers are used, printing in ECO mode and quickly switching into standby mode. The daylightand presence-controlled lighting system helps to reduce more power. Reduction of fresh water consumption On our premises a rainwater harvesting system has been installed in order to reduce the fresh water consumption. The rain water is collected in an underground cistern and used as service water where the use of fresh water is not required, for hygienic reasons. In 2019, more than 60% of the water consumption could be covered by this resource. Tree park on the premises In Q4 2015, we have started planning the tree park project assisted by a landscaper. For this purpose, a part of the site will be cultivated to create good conditions, e.g., for attracting bee colonies. Our staff assume the tree sponsorship, that means, they will plant and take care of the trees. Each sponsor has selected a tree species, mainly fruit trees of “old varieties”. The first part of the park was created in spring 2016. Further trees were planted in spring 2017. We encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. New premises with ecological energy concept At the new premises we pursue a comprehensive ecological energy concept with a focus on low primary energy demand, e.g. using a photovoltaic system and a pellet heating system. The current energy balance of 2019 affirms that our value of primary energy (kWh per square meter) corresponds to the best efficiency class A. Fuel-efficient company cars For years we opt for new company cars that achieve lowest fuel consumption and lowest CO2 / nitrogen oxides emissions. Furthermore, we strive for the earliest possible switch to emission-free commercial vehicles. For this reason, two electric vehicles were purchased in 2019. The appropriate charging stations were installed in the company parking lots. © 2020 WENZEL Elektronik GmbH Page 7 / 10 Green electricity We obtain our electric energy from a supplier exclusively offering electricity from renewable sources. By switching to this renewable green electricity and due to more measures reducing current, our company causes more than 50 tonnes less of harmful CO2 per year compared to the national average (supplied by conventional power generators). This has been certified by the supplier. © 2020 WENZEL Elektronik GmbH Page 8 / 10 Anti-Corruption (Principle 10) We stand against corruption, extortion and bribery. In addition, we are not involved in price-fixing. Wenzel Elektronik GmbH is a medium-sized company based in the Federal Republic of Germany. Its sole shareholder is Mattig-Schauer GmbH, Vienna, which is represented internationally with other subsidiaries. Wenzel Elektronik GmbH does not hold any shares in other companies. We are a registered member of the Commerce and Industry Chamber of Kiel, Schleswig-Holstein. We act according to strict tendering and procurement laws. Within our bid, we declare in a bidder statement and confirm by our authorized signature that we meet the high requirements and there are no legally established violations. © 2020 WENZEL Elektronik GmbH Page 9 / 10 Enclosure © 2020 WENZEL Elektronik GmbH Page 10 / 10
